Skip to main content Visit Temple.edu Toggle Utility Menu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Search Site Search Temple Now Navigation - Go To - News by topic - Arts & Culture - Athletics - Campus News - Community Engagement - Global Temple - Research - Staff & Faculty - Student Success - Sustainability - Return to Campus - Visualize TempleAnnouncementsNewsletters - Temple Now subscriptionPublicationsTemple in the newsSocial MediaSpecial SeriesTemple MagazineAboutAccolades News by topic Announcements Newsletters Special Series About Arts & Culture What to read, listen to and watch to learn more about AAPI communities Athletics Introducing a new head coach of women’s basketball Campus News New General Education course to focus on AAPI identity and experiences Community Engagement President Wingard highlights Center City Business Association’s “Lunch with the City's Leaders” Global Temple Serving the American media from the Far East Research Temple-headquartered STARS Computing Corps receives a $3 million National Science Foundation grant Return to Campus Student community health ambassadors look out for their fellow Owls Staff & Faculty Temple thought leaders lend their voices to national conversation surrounding Roe v. Wade Student Success Temple Made for … building community Sustainability Charles Library earns LEED Gold certification Visualize Temple Charles Library shapes the future at Temple and beyond View Archives Home / Announcements announcement Campus Safety Posted Nov 17, 2021 Dear Temple community, During the past 20 months, you have received numerous communications from the university aimed at keeping the entire university community safe during the COVID-19 pandemic. We have asked for everyone’s help and attention during a very challenging time. I am reaching out today regarding another public health crisis that has been exacerbated by COVID-19 and also affects our entire community. Earlier this week, an 18-year-old member of the Philadelphia community was fatally shot near campus while walking with his girlfriend. Gun violence is all too common, both here in Philadelphia and across the United States. I want you to know that President Wingard and our leadership team are focused on this issue and how it impacts the city and our university. Groups committed to the safety of our students, faculty, staff and neighbors are convening. We’re engaging our community partners as well as state and local government officials. We are determined to help find solutions. The city of Philadelphia is also engaging in broad-based community action. Just last week, it announced the third round of the Anti-Violence Community Expansion Grant Program awardees, bringing the total amount distributed through this program to more than $6.4 million. These awardees and their programs have the potential to be difference-makers for the North Philadelphia and Temple communities. But we also know long-term, durable solutions will take time. Under the guidance of Amy Goldberg, interim dean of the Lewis Katz School of Medicine, and Scott Charles, trauma outreach manager, Temple University Hospital is using a different lens to address this. Cradle to the Grave, Fighting Chance, Safe Bet and the Trauma Victim Support Program are all proven difference-makers, and the team there continues to explore new, innovative solutions. To help address immediate concerns, Campus Safety Services is taking the following steps. Increasing Temple police and bike security patrols in key areas. Working with the Philadelphia Police to deploy additional supplemental directed patrols. Placing barriers along Cecil B. Moore and Park Avenue to deter drag racing. Working closely with the Philadelphia Police Intelligence Unit to monitor social media accounts with increased frequency, so that we’re aware of any planned activity in the area. Increasing camera monitoring of key areas where questionable activity has occurred. Temple’s Walking Escort Program is available for students, faculty or staff to get to destinations near campus. Walking escorts—in which security officers on bicycles accompany those who are walking—can be requested by calling 8-WALK from a campus phone or 215-777-WALK (9255) from a cell phone. These escorts are available from 4 p.m. to 6 a.m. seven days a week. We encourage students to use Flight, our on-demand shuttle service. This free service allows Temple community members to request rides between Main Campus and nearby residential addresses between 6 p.m. and 3 a.m. seven nights a week during the academic year. To request a ride from Flight, download the TapRide app and select Temple University. log in with your AccessNet username and password. select where you are and where you want to go. Attending a university in a vibrant, dynamic city like Philadelphia comes with advantages and opportunities, but also some challenges. The health and safety of our community is a top priority. As we continue to work together on these issues, thank you for carefully reviewing this message and passing it on to your friends and neighbors. Our Campus Safety Team wishes everyone a happy and safe holiday season. Sincerely, Charlie Leone Executive Director, Public Safety Temple University Strategic Marketing & Communications Bell Building 1101 W. Montgomery Avenue Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Directory Maps and Directions Contact RSS Facebook Twitter Pinterest LinkedIn.com YouTube Flickr TUPortal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Temple Now: The official source for Temple news. Copyright 2015, Temple University. All rights reserved.