Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade Steven Greene, political science professor in the School of Public and International Affairs at North Carolina State University, is an expert on public opinion on abortion, the partisan and electoral politics of abortion, and abortion politics in North Carolina. He can be reached at shgreene@ncsu.edu. Jordan Carr Peterson, assistant professor of political science in the School of Public and International Affairs at North Carolina State University, can speak on various Roe v. Wade topics ranging from the judiciary’s role in the construction of rights related to intimate human relationships (including reproductive rights, consensual sexual intimacy, marriage, etc.) to the drivers of judicial decision-making (e.g., the role of ideology, partisanship, etc. in the choices made by judges). Peterson can be reached at jcpeter7@ncsu.edu. Jim Zink, assistant professor of political science in the School of Public and International Affairs at North Carolina State University, can discuss the general fallout of Roe v. Wade as it pertains to perceptions of judicial legitimacy. Zink can be reached at jrzink@ncsu.edu. Amanda Ross Edwards, assistant teaching professor of political science in the School of Public and International Affairs at North Carolina State University, can speak on political, institutional and Supreme Court processes and how they have impacted the development of Roe v. Wade. “As the country works through the more recent developments regarding Roe v. Wade, it is important to understand how process impacts outcome, including, how and why Roe v. Wade has developed the way it has over time,” Edwards said. She can be reached at aredwar2@ncsu.edu. Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.