Skip to Content (Press Enter) CSUF News lock Portal Login Give Search search Menu Topics Campus and Community Arts Business and Economics Communications Education Engineering and Computer Science Health and Human Development Humanities and Social Sciences Natural Sciences and Mathematics Athletics Topics A-Z CSUF In the News Titan Spotlight People & Voices Faculty and Staff Students Alumni Titans of Academia Titans of Promise Titan Voices Titans of Tassel Events Resources E-Newsletter Subscription RSS Feeds Photos For Journalists Publications Donation to Support Research on Artificial Intelligence in Medical Field, Diversity in STEM March 14, 2022 Share This: Yu Bai and his students conduct artificial intelligence research in the Intelligent Computing Lab on campus. In the not-so-distant future, Cal State Fullerton’s Yu Bai predicts that humanoid robots equipped with artificial intelligence will be processing medical information and making important decisions for patients. The associate professor of computer engineering focuses on medical applications of AI and has received support from the medical company Pac-Dent Inc. to conduct faculty/student research on this new avenue for machines that think like humans. Part of the funds also will be used to recruit and retain more underrepresented students in STEM (science, technology, engineering and math). Yu Bai, associate professor of computer engineering While AI has had success in various other fields, Bai notes that its application in the medical field is more complicated. “Current AI systems rely on large amounts of data to produce accurate AI models,” explained Bai, who runs the Intelligent Computing Lab on campus. “However, data size in the medical field is limited. My lab is working toward developing an accurate, faster AI model given this lack of data.” Computer science graduate student Shiyi Luo is investigating this issue. Her efforts have afforded her confidence in a major that continues to be male dominated. Computer science graduate student Shiyi Luo “The missing data in medical applications limits the performance of AI models,” explained Luo. “My research is aimed at developing a new algorithm to train an accurate, high-performance AI model that does not require a large data set. “From the lab, I’ve learned how to solve specific machine learning problems step-by-step. As a female first-generation college student in an engineering major, I questioned my abilities,” Luo continued. “But now I know that I can succeed in the field. “I hope to join a company where I can work on applying the model of machine learning to practical applications, such as medical treatment for cancer recognition, autonomous driving for target detection and other visual applications,” she shared. Bai, whose goal as a computer engineer is to improve life and equity for humans, is collaborating with other faculty members on campus to research an important facet of AI: ethics. “Intelligent robots will one day become members of our community, sharing our jobs, taking care of our elderly, and serving us at restaurants and hotels. The question is whether to equip these robots with a moral code to teach them right from wrong,” he said. While this reality is still in the distant future, Bai and his students are helping to prepare for when that day does come. The donation from Pac-Dent Inc. will support building state-of-the-art lab equipment; offering paid research positions to underrepresented students; inviting industry leaders to give seminars to students on campus; demonstrating lab projects through community outreach activities; and connecting students with the community and local companies. Bai notes that some students have already received internship offers from Pac-Dent Inc. “When I read stories about AI potentially helping with hearing loss or promoting faster drug discovery, it gets me very excited for the future of AI in medical care,” shared Bai. To learn more about the computer engineering and computer science offerings at CSUF, visit the College of Engineering and Computer Science website. Related Stories Can Artificial Intelligence Help Increase Diversity in STEM? Artificial Intelligence Research to Improve Academic Performance in STEM Tags Diversity Equity and Inclusion Empowerment Engineering and Computer Science It Takes a Titan Campaign Research and Creative Activities Additional Intelligent Computing Lab Projects In the Intelligent Computing Lab, Bai’s students work on projects outside of the medical field as well. Computer science senior Anthony Sanchez focuses on computer vision, a field of AI that trains computers to interpret and understand the visual world. “My teammates were building a self-driving delivery cart that used an object recognition model, but this model was draining the battery, which caused the cart to die quickly,” said Sanchez. “My goal was to develop a more efficient model that could easily detect similar images and skip over them, saving energy and leading to improved battery life.” Sanchez plans to pursue machine learning after earning his bachelor’s degree in December. “All of the skills I developed while doing my research were exactly what I needed to gain a better understanding of the field and how I can meaningfully contribute professionally or academically.” Advance STEM Learning To support STEM education and hands-on student learning opportunities in the College of Engineering and Computer Science, visit the “It Takes a Titan” campaign website. Written by: Zak Minert Contact: Karen Lindell klindell@fullerton.edu Browse All News Topics A-Z Athletics Follow Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube About CSUF Facts Contact Media Relations Find an Expert Privacy Policy Subscribe / Download Subscribe to our eNewsletters Submit a Story Do you have news you’d like to share with the campus? Submit Your Story This site is maintained by Strategic Communications. To report problems or comments, please contact strategiccomm@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility Learn about web accessibility Report a web accessbility problem Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Microsoft Viewers Some page features may require javascript to run.