Skip to main content University of Wisconsin–Madison News Search Submit search News Search Menu Site navigation Explore Topics Expand Collapse Science & Technology State & Global Society & Culture Health & Wellness COVID-19 Response Campus News UW in the News For Media More Expand Collapse Search Search Submit search Faculty Experts Events Calendar Photo gallery Spring takes its own sweet time May 18, 2022 Nature seems to be taking a halting approach this year to unfurling the highly anticipated and deeply appreciated splendor of late spring — which makes even the slightest glimmer all the more glorious. Here is some of what University Communications director of photography Jeff Miller saw on a recent quest for seasonal scenery. 1 Taking what she called a “brain break before final exams,” first-year student Olivia Hill of Appleton, Wis., relaxes on a blanket spread out on Bascom Hill on May 5. Photo by: Jeff Miller 2 Blossoming fuchsia flowers of a magnolia tree near the Carillon Tower on May 5. Photo by: Jeff Miller 3 A red-winged blackbird takes flight from a perch atop a decaying tree in a marshy area near University Bay and the Howard Temin Lakeshore Path on May 5. Photo by: Jeff Miller 4 Amber Bianco, a vet tech with the School of Veterinary Medicine, walks her German Shepherd, Axl, past willow trees lining a path near University Bay and the Howard Temin Lakeshore Path on May 5. Photo by: Jeff Miller 5 Undergraduates Lauren Belz, left, and Maggie Afshar pause on a bridge overlooking the pond garden at Allen Centennial Garden on May 5. Photo by: Jeff Miller 6 Flowering crabapple trees frame a view of food-cart vendors at the intersection of State Street Mall and Library Mall on May 4. Photo by: Jeff Miller 7 A pair of runners jog along a path near University Bay and the Howard Temin Lakeshore Path on May 5. Photo by: Jeff Miller 8 A brilliant yellow forsythia shrub graces the Education Building plaza on May 5, with Helen C. White Hall, left, and Science Hall just beyond. Photo by: Jeff Miller 9 Tulips decorate a traffic circle at the intersection of Walnut Street and Observatory Drive on the west end of campus on May 5. Photo by: Jeff Miller See more photo stories Share via Facebook Share via Twitter Share via Linked In Share via email Tags: recent sightings For Campus Communicators Communicator Groups Photo Library Editorial Style Guide Policies & Guidelines Brand & Visual Identity Guidelines University logo that links to main university website #UWSocial Facebook Twitter YouTube Linked In Instagram University Communications 27 Bascom Hall View on campus map 500 Lincoln Drive Madison, WI 53706-1380 Email: contact-us@uc.wisc.edu Ph: 608-262-3571 Fax: 608-262-2331 Feedback or questions? contact-us@uc.wisc.edu © 2022 Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System