Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: Campus & Community Syracuse University Food Services Receives A+ Score from PETA for Fourth Consecutive Year Thursday, January 2, 2020, By Keone Weigl Share diningFood Services For the fourth consecutive year, Syracuse University’s dining centers have received an A+ rating from PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals), placing the University on the Dean’s List in PETA’s college rankings. According to VeganReportCard.com, “The Dean’s List includes an elite group of institutions that have accrued enough Vegan Report Card points to rank among the highest tier of A-rated schools. They are the vanguard when it comes to vegan cuisine on campus.” Criteria for grading include: Offers at least one vegan entrée at every meal Promotes vegan options Labels vegan entrees and desserts Offers nondairy milk Participates in Meatless Monday Offers an all-vegan station Offers egg/mayonnaise replacements Ruth Sullivan, a registered dietitian with Food Services, explains that they go above and beyond these guidelines. “Each dining center has an area dedicated to vegan foods that includes a wide variety of choices at each meal. We have seen an increase in the number of vegan students, as well as those who want to include more plant-forward menu items in their diet. Food Services is committed to providing delicious vegan options that meet the needs of these students.” The Food Services menu committee is always looking to enhance their vegan options. If you have a vegan recipe that you would like to see offered in the dining centers, fill out the Share Your Recipe form for menu consideration. To see the vegan options offered daily in the dining centers, visit the daily menu page of the Food Services website. Author Keone Weigl Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi More In Campus & Community Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59 was only 5 years old when he developed a work ethic that would last a lifetime. The Syracuse University graduate and longtime member of the Board of Trustees first demonstrated his entrepreneurial spirit as a… COVID-19 Update: Effective Wednesday, June 1, Masking Level Returns to Yellow Dear Students, Families, Faculty and Staff: Recently the Onondaga County Health Department has reported a notable decline in new COVID infections and hospitalizations across the Central New York region. This positive trend, combined with significantly reduced population density on our… Preparing Students for a Life of Success Selecting a major and choosing a career path don’t have to be daunting experiences. While some students come to Syracuse University’s College of Arts and Sciences (A&S) or the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs (Maxwell) ready to declare… Eugene ‘Gene’ Anderson to Depart Syracuse, Tapped to Lead University of Pittsburgh’s Business School Eugene “Gene” Anderson, dean of the Martin J. Whitman School of Management since 2017, today announced he will conclude his time at Syracuse University next month. After more than five years at the Whitman School, Anderson will return home to… Digital Badges at Syracuse University: Recognizing and Authenticating Microcredential Moments in Higher Education As higher education continues to anticipate and react to the needs of an evolving workforce, new programs and various modalities have been introduced to provide just-in-time learning opportunities that meet the needs of hard and soft skills sought by employers…. Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.