Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Wins and Losses facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Athletics Mar 31, 2022 Wes Is More Though his ninth season at NC State ended in a heartbreaking loss in the NCAA East Region final, women’s basketball coach Wes Moore has established a tradition of success. Recent Stories New Studies Shed Light on Election-Related Stress Wicked Problems, Wolfpack Solutions Focuses on Future of Food Bob Franks Tapped to Lead Applied Ecology Mar 24, 2022 A Community Effort The record-breaking Wolfpack women's basketball team heads to Bridgeport, Connecticut, this weekend to face ACC foe Notre Dame in the NCAA Tournament's Sweet Sixteen. Mar 8, 2022 A History of Women’s Success For 50 years, NC State’s allegiance to and support of women’s athletics has enriched the experience of all who support equal access and opportunities on campus. Mar 7, 2022 Achieving New Heights The Wolfpack women's basketball team won its third straight ACC championship Sunday, completing the first back-to-back-to-back sweep in program history. Mar 7, 2022 Ms. Adventure Since she burst on the scene in a spirit of gleeful independence nearly five decades ago, Ms. Wuf has thrived as part of NC State's ultimate power couple. Feb 10, 2022 ‘Bengals Raised by Wolves’ Two former Wolfpack football teammates take the NFL's biggest stage Sunday when their Cincinnati Bengals step on the field for Super Bowl LVI. Feb 3, 2022 The Tournament A new ESPN series — co-produced by former Wolfpack guard Dereck Whittenburg — explores the history of the ACC men's basketball tournament and highlights NC State's role in its creation. Dec 15, 2021 Former UCLA Chancellor Began Academic Career at NC State As the Wolfpack prepares to face UCLA in the Holiday Bowl, it's unlikely most Bruins fans know how much the California university owes to NC State. Dec 9, 2021 Race to the Top The Wolfpack women's cross country team makes history, bringing home the university's first national title in any sport since 1983. Nov 18, 2021 Field of Honor Eddie Berlinski was a Wolfpack superstar for his exploits on the football field. But his daring escape from a Nazi POW camp during World War II is the stuff of legend. Sep 21, 2021 The 100-Year Pack This week marks a century since NC State first adopted its beloved "Wolfpack" nickname. Relive the history. Aug 19, 2021 Football Hall of Fame Honors Wolfpack’s Cowher Alumnus Bill Cowher, a former NC State linebacker, is inducted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame in honor of his outstanding coaching career — a first for the Wolfpack. Jul 21, 2021 12 Wolfpack Student-Athletes Compete in Tokyo Olympics A record number of NC State student-athletes vie for a place on the podium at the 2020 Olympic Games in Japan. Jul 8, 2021 Alums Turner, Rodon Named MLB All-Stars Former Wolfpack players Trea Turner and Carlos Rodon will participate in Major League Baseball’s Mid-Summer Classic. Jun 23, 2021 Wins and Losses Wolfpack baseball head coach Elliott Avent started the season with personal heartbreak and a string of losses, then led the team to the College World Series. It's how he plays the game. Posts navigation 1 2 … 13 Next Page Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.