Skip to main content Search Close Search Search this site Search Search News and Media All of Oklahoma State University Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Headlines News and Media Main Menu In this section News News Archive Topics College News In the Media Magazines Experts Directory Submit News Contact Us Home Articles Regents for Higher Education visit OSU Vet Med The Oklahoma State University College of Veterinary Medicine recently hosted the Oklahoma State Regents for Higher Education. Present at the tour was Chair Jeff Hickman, along with regents Dennis Casey, Jay Hem, Ann Holloway, Joseph L. Parker, Jack Sherry, Steven Taylor, Courtney Warmington and Chancellor Allison Garrett. Accompanying the regents was Dr. Jeanette Mendez, interim provost and senior vice president at OSU. Regents for Higher Education visit OSU Vet Med Monday, May 2, 2022 Media Contact: Kaylie Wehr | College of Veterinary Medicine | 4057446740 | kaylie.wehr@okstate.edu Share Facebook Twitter Pinterest The Oklahoma State University College of Veterinary Medicine recently hosted the Oklahoma State Regents for Higher Education. Present at the tour was Chair Jeff Hickman, along with regents Dennis Casey, Jay Hem, Ann Holloway, Joseph L. Parker, Jack Sherry, Steven Taylor, Courtney Warmington and Chancellor Allison Garrett. Accompanying the regents was Dr. Jeanette Mendez, interim provost and senior vice president at OSU. As part of a two-day visit to the OSU-Stillwater campus, the regents visited the veterinary college to learn more about the outstanding education, research and essential services the college provides to the state and beyond. Dr. Carlos Risco, dean, gave a brief presentation about the CVM and the state of veterinary medicine in United States. He shared the college’s mission, goals and successes, as well as its challenges. Dr. Jerry Malayer, associate dean of research at the CVM, then spoke about the first-rate research that takes place in the college and the global impact it has. “The CVM will continue to graduate career-ready veterinarians and perform cutting-edge research,” Risco said. “We will continue to advocate for our students, faculty, staff and the future of veterinary medicine.” Following the presentation, the group took a tour of the OSU Veterinary Teaching Hospital, led by Dr. Dan Burba, head of the Department of Veterinary Clinical Sciences. “We enjoyed hosting the regents,” Risco said. “We appreciate their time and interest in the CVM and hope to host them again in the future.” Share Facebook Twitter Pinterest Animal Health and SciencesCollege of Veterinary MedicineOklahoma State Regents for Higher EducationRegents Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©