Skip to main content Search Close Search Search this site Search Search News and Media All of Oklahoma State University Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Headlines News and Media Main Menu In this section News News Archive Topics College News In the Media Magazines Experts Directory Submit News Contact Us Home Magazines State Magazine State Magazine The official magazine of Oklahoma State University Energizing the Future Visionary donations establish Hamm Institute for American Energy at Oklahoma State University In this issue OSU Academic Medical District to serve veterans, improve mental health care OSU Emergency Operations Center the key to crisis response OSU-Tulsa alumnus, US Army corporal donates Purple Heart to alma mater OSU researchers develop innovative method to battle invasive aquatic plants Library's Creative Studios offer patrons access to new and emerging technologies Full Archive Featured Articles Take Flight Ray and Linda Booker Flight Center marks new chapter for OSU Aviation Honoring Heritage through Food and Advocacy OSU alumna’s professional career focuses on nutrition and leads to scholarship A Green Thumb with Orange Roots OSU alumnus receives top honor for storied career in landscape architecture Hole in One OSU alumnus works his way up to PGA Championship Director Featured Images Dr. Claud Evans accepted the Justin Smith Morrill Memorial Lecture Award last fall.Todd Johnson Dr. Jason Kirksey, vice president for institutional diversity, views a monitor of security cameras during a tour of the Emerceny Operations Center.Gary Lawson OSU alumnus Barrett Kays has had a long career in landscape architecture and was honored for his work on many prominent projects with the LaGasse Medals.Courtesy of Barrett Kays Muwanika Jdiobe and his research team testing MANUEL, an autonomous boat that monitors water quality including dissolved oxygen, pH, turbidity and nutrients,Dr. Jamey Jacob A student explores a skeleton using virtual reality at the Creative Studios. The studios currently have four Oculus Quest VR systems available to students.Phil Shockley OSU Aviation students pose for a photo with Pistol Pete at the grand opening of the Ray and Linda Booker OSU Flight Center.Benton Rudd OSU-Tulsa alumnus Shannon Matthews’ Purple Heart is on display now in the OSU-Tulsa Student Union after he donated it to the school earlier this year.Provided Little WANDA, a plush doll concept from OSU alumna Tambra Raye Stevenson, received patent approval last fall.Badr El Hardag OSU President Kayse Shrum celebrates alongside Harold Hamm at the opening of the Hamm Institute for American Energy at Oklahoma State University. OSU alumnus Bryan Karns and wife Ashlie, an OSU alumna, with Bob Tway's PGA Championship trophy at a Cowboy football game.Courtesy of Bryan Karns OSU Alumna Dana Kuehn is the first woman on both the Oklahoma Criminal Court of Appeals and the Oklahoma State Supreme Court.Phil Shockley About STATE Magazine STATE, The Official Magazine of Oklahoma State University, is published three times per year in Fall; Winter; and Spring. All members of the OSU Alumni Association and friends of the OSU Foundation receive a printed subscription. Packed with 120 pages of compelling features and stunning photography, each issue of STATE covers current research, campus events, alumni achievements and historic moments from OSU’s proud history. Contact State Advertiser Information Thanks to our partners! Brand Management Alumni Association KOSU Public Radio OSU Foundation Inside OSU State Magazine Spring 2022 Edition. View print version on issuu View previous issues Join the Alumni Association Join the Alumni Association to begin recieving a printed copy of our award winning full-color publication three times a year at your home or office. Update your info Have you recently changed your name? Do you have a different email address? Let us know so we can keep you informed. Share class notes The Alumni Association accepts class notes for birth wedding announcements, career changes, award recognitions and obituaries. Magazines Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©