Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Tactical Navigation - New Wave Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Close Search Tulane Search form Search this site Search search tulane.edu search news only Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Tulane News Primary Navigation - New Wave News Tulanian Magazine Events Experts Press Releases On Good Authority Podcast Tactical Navigation - New Wave Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Public Relations Team: tel 504-865-5210, @tulanenews, pr@tulane.edu Health, News Releases, Research in Real Time, Science Study examines why the memory of fear is seared into our brains May 27, 2022 A team of Tulane neuroscientists have been studying the formation of fear memories in the emotional hub of the brain – the amygdala — and think they have a mechanism. News Releases, Research in Real Time, Science Tulane scientists develop powerful family of two-dimensional materials May 05, 2022 A team of Tulane scientists has developed a new family of two-dimensional materials that researchers say has promising applications in everything from advanced electronics to high-capacity batteries. News Releases, Research in Real Time Study finds training ‘village doctors’ can improve blood-pressure control in rural areas May 02, 2022 High blood pressure is a leading cause of heart disease and early death, but many across the globe live in areas with limited access to high-quality healthcare. The problem is especially serious in rural China where little more than 5% of hypertension patients have their blood pressure under control. News Releases, NOLA, On Campus Tulane researchers awarded grant to develop environmental humanities minor April 29, 2022 Two Tulane University School of Liberal Arts professors have received a grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) to develop an environmental humanities minor. COVID-19, News Releases, Research in Real Time Tulane researchers receive American Heart Association grant to study COVID’s vascular effects April 25, 2022 The American Heart Association has awarded Tulane University researchers $940,000 to study how COVID-19 spurs vascular inflammation that may increase risks for blood clots and lingering symptoms of long COVID. New Hires, News Releases Veteran leader to head Tulane’s new Innovation Institute April 20, 2022 Tulane University has named Kimberly Gramm as the inaugural David and Marion Mussafer Chief Innovation and Entrepreneurship Officer to lead the newly announced Tulane Innovation Institute. Culture, News Releases, NOLA, World Newcomb Dance Company presents "Cassandra Machine" April 18, 2022 The Newcomb Dance Company presents the premiere of Cassandra Machine, a contemporary dance work, beginning April 26 at Tulane. News Releases Study finds college becomes cheaper for some students, despite rising tuition at public universities April 15, 2022 While tuition at public universities across the nation has risen dramatically in recent years, increases in financial aid have kept pace to keep college more affordable for students from lower-income families, according to a new Tulane University study. Culture, News Releases, Research in Real Time, World Tulane study explores academic success among Jewish girls April 14, 2022 A Tulane study concludes that girls raised by at least one Jewish parent acquire a particular way of viewing the world that influences their education choices, career aspirations and various other experiences. News Releases Tulane Innovation Institute to transform university’s tech and entrepreneurial enterprises — and the regional economy April 13, 2022 The Tulane Innovation Institute will launch operations from its downtown headquarters later this year, thanks to several generous lead gifts from forward-thinking philanthropists. Like the nascent technologies and startups it seeks to invigorate, the multi-million-dollar, long-term project to transform the university’s entrepreneurial capabilities is attracting interest from expert investors who recognize its powerful potential. News Releases, On Campus Tulane University opens Anne Rice’s complete archive for research April 11, 2022 The complete archival collection of famed bestselling New Orleans author Anne Rice is now open by appointment to the general public and campus community for research through the Tulane University Special Collections (TUSC), a division of Tulane University Libraries. Commencement, News Releases Baseball legend, AI pioneer, Marine Corps commandant and comedian/actor to be honored at Tulane Commencement April 08, 2022 Four individuals who have made major contributions in fields ranging from sports and entertainment to national defense and artificial intelligence will receive honorary degrees at Tulane University’s 2022 Commencement. Henry “Hank” Aaron, one of baseball’s greatest players; Gen. David H. Berger, a Tulane graduate and commandant of the United States Marine Corps; Ken Jeong, a medical doctor who became one of the country’s most sought-after comedic actors and Dr. Rosalind Picard, an inventor, engineer, scientist and pioneer in artificial intelligence, will receive honorary degrees at the May 21 ceremony. Aaron will receive Tulane’s first-ever posthumous honorary degree. News Releases, Research in Real Time, Retirements, Science Tulane study shows COVID-19’s lingering impacts on the brain April 01, 2022 COVID-19 patients commonly report having headaches, confusion and other neurological symptoms, but doctors don’t fully understand how the disease targets the brain during infection. Now, researchers at Tulane University have shown in detail how COVID-19 affects the central nervous system, according to a new study published in Nature Communications. News Releases, Research in Real Time, Science Tulane researcher wins NSF award to study Earth’s ‘explosive’ tectonic reactions March 31, 2022 Tulane researcher Colin Jackson has won a National Science Foundation Early Career Award to further his research on the chemistry of planets. News Releases, Research in Real Time Researchers to evaluate program to recruit more women for civic boards and commissions March 15, 2022 Researchers from Tulane and University of Notre Dame will be working on a five-year research program with United WE to assess the efficacy of the Appointments Project®, which works to empower women and strengthen communities by increasing gender parity on civic boards and commissions. Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next › last » Subscribe to Tulane Today Tulane Today Archive News Archive Submit Your News Submission Guidelines Tulane in the News On Good Authority Podcast Statements Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane Home Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University