Skip to main content Visit Temple.edu Toggle Utility Menu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Search Site Search Temple Now Navigation - Go To - News by topic - Arts & Culture - Athletics - Campus News - Community Engagement - Global Temple - Research - Staff & Faculty - Student Success - Sustainability - Return to Campus - Visualize TempleAnnouncementsNewsletters - Temple Now subscriptionPublicationsTemple in the newsSocial MediaSpecial SeriesTemple MagazineAboutAccolades News by topic Announcements Newsletters Special Series About Arts & Culture What to read, listen to and watch to learn more about AAPI communities Athletics Introducing a new head coach of women’s basketball Campus News New General Education course to focus on AAPI identity and experiences Community Engagement President Wingard highlights Center City Business Association’s “Lunch with the City's Leaders” Global Temple Serving the American media from the Far East Research Temple-headquartered STARS Computing Corps receives a $3 million National Science Foundation grant Return to Campus Student community health ambassadors look out for their fellow Owls Staff & Faculty Temple thought leaders lend their voices to national conversation surrounding Roe v. Wade Student Success Temple Made for … building community Sustainability Charles Library earns LEED Gold certification Visualize Temple Charles Library shapes the future at Temple and beyond View Archives Home / News by topic Posted February 16, 2022 news, student-athletes, Athletics Owl athletes break record for academic success Carrying on a long-standing trend of academic achievement, Temple’s student-athletes post a record-setting graduation success rate. Photography By: Joseph V. Labolito A recent release of data by the NCAA shows that Temple student-athletes have earned a record-setting 93% graduation success rate (GSR), a score that tops the previous high mark set last year by two percentage points. It also marks the seventh straight year of an overall GSR of 85 or greater. “One of the most important things a university and athletic department does is to graduate its students, so we take great pride in being among the best in the nation in this area,” said Vice President/Director of Athletics Arthur Johnson. “I would like to commend and thank Justin Miller and his talented staff at the Nancy and Donald Resnick Academic Support Center for Student-athletes as well as our student-athletes for their hard work and our coaches for their commitment to winning in the classroom as well as on the field.” Read the full story. Anonymous Related Stories Arthur Johnson named vice president and director of athletics at Temple University Owls in the NFL are carrying on Temple’s mission and spirit How Temple’s only two female student-athlete Army ROTC cadets balance college life Temple University Strategic Marketing & Communications Bell Building 1101 W. Montgomery Avenue Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Directory Maps and Directions Contact RSS Facebook Twitter Pinterest LinkedIn.com YouTube Flickr TUPortal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Temple Now: The official source for Temple news. Copyright 2015, Temple University. All rights reserved.