Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: Campus & Community Daniel ’68, H’20 and Gayle D’Aniello Donate $10M to Invigorate Syracuse Abroad Florence Program, Expand Access for Students Monday, May 16, 2022, By Kathleen Haley Share alumniD’Aniello Institute for Veterans and Military FamiliesFlorenceForever OrangeNational Veterans Resource CenterPhilanthropySyracuse Abroad In support of academic excellence and the University’s expansion as a global institution, Life Trustee Daniel D’Aniello ’68, H’20 and his wife, Gayle, are gifting $10 million toward significantly enhancing the Syracuse Abroad Florence program. The transformational nature of this gift will expand opportunities for students, attract exceptional faculty and improve facilities in Florence, Italy. In honor of the couple’s gift, the program will be renamed the Daniel and Gayle D’Aniello Syracuse University Program in Florence. Daniel D’Aniello “Syracuse University’s study abroad program is second to none. Dan and Gayle’s gift will invigorate the Florence program by funding necessary updates to its facilities and strengthening the curriculum. It will also provide support to retain and attract an exceptional cadre of faculty members, and, most importantly, increase access to international experiences to more students,” says Chancellor Kent Syverud. “Dan and Gayle’s leadership, generosity and vision are paving the way for Syracuse University’s future. I am grateful for their continued support for the University’s most important academic priorities.” The Daniel and Gayle D’Aniello Florence Program is located on Piazza Savanarola, at the historic Villa Rossa, with additional spaces for studio art and architecture on nearby Donatello Square. The crown jewel of the Syracuse Abroad portfolio, the Syracuse program in Florence is the oldest and one of the most coveted international learning experiences in the city and the country. This new gift will support upgrades and enhancements in the programs facilities to ensure they meet the increasing needs of students. The gift will dramatically expand scholarship funding to students for whom study abroad programs have been out of reach, including lower-income students, post-traditional students and student veterans. For student veterans, Syracuse Abroad will work closely with the Office of Veteran and Military Affairs and the D’Aniello Institute for Veterans and Military Families to expand support for military-connected students in navigating the complexities of using GI Bill benefits for study abroad, covering gaps in funding and providing specialized support services unique to the needs of veterans. “The Syracuse Abroad program is an essential element of the academic experience for so many students. My time abroad in Florence was some of the most memorable of my college career, and I am delighted to be able to support that experience for today’s students—especially students with need, veterans and others for whom a semester abroad seems out of reach,” says Daniel D’Aniello, a Syracuse University Life Trustee and co-founder and chair emeritus of The Carlyle Group, who was recognized during the Class of 2020 Commencement with an honorary doctor of humane letters degree. “Gayle and I are so pleased to provide this support to the University and its faculty and students, who will gain illuminating global perspectives during their time in Italy and bring those insights to their professional lives.” The D’Aniellos are deeply committed to Syracuse University and its community through their time and resources. They have been especially supportive of Forever Orange: The Campaign for Syracuse University, a $1.5 billion fundraising initiative focused on enhancing academic excellence, transforming the student experience and expanding unique opportunities for learning and growth. In November, the couple announced a $30 million gift to secure the future and long-term success of the D’Aniello Institute for Veterans and Military Families (IVMF). In addition, the D’Aniellos’ 2018 gift of $20 million provided for the construction of the Daniel and Gayle D’Aniello building that houses the National Veterans Resource Center (NVRC). These gifts ensure it remains the nation’s leading academic institute focused on the concerns of America’s more than 20 million veterans and their families. Their latest gift to the Syracuse Abroad program further strengthens their commitment to student excellence and the importance of a Syracuse University education. “With this tremendous support from Dan and Gayle D’Aniello, the University can take the Syracuse Abroad Florence program to a new level. Along with upgrades to our facilities, this funding will allow our faculty to further innovate the curriculum, coursework and immersion experiences, focusing on project-based learning, allowing students to learn by investigating real-world issues,” says Vice Chancellor, Provost and Chief Academic Officer Gretchen Ritter. “Through the D’Aniellos’ generosity, an abroad experience in Florence, Italy, will be attainable for more students, putting talented and deserving students in the heart of a dynamic European city, immersed in its language, arts, culture and people.” “This is an exciting announcement for the Syracuse Florence program and the University. Syracuse Abroad students grow each day through their experiences in Florence. Enhancing their experience, the coursework they take and the immersion opportunities throughout their time here will enable them to further learn, grow and gain a greater self-confidence that they will take with them for the rest of their lives. We see it every semester,” says Erika Wilkens, executive director of Syracuse Abroad. “The D’Aniellos’ gift will increase the possibilities for students to engage with the culture in Florence and throughout Europe. It will be extraordinarily impactful in all that Syracuse University does to create a distinctly global learning experience.” Syracuse Florence Director Sasha Perugini echoed the Provost and Wilken’s comments. “I am grateful and excited to see such a powerful recognition made to acknowledge the outstanding work done through the decades by the Florence team in building an extraordinarily high-quality program.” About Syracuse University Syracuse University is a private research university that advances knowledge across disciplines to drive breakthrough discoveries and breakout leadership. Our collection of 13 schools and colleges with over 200 customizable majors closes the gap between education and action, so students can take on the world. In and beyond the classroom, we connect people, perspectives and practices to solve interconnected challenges with interdisciplinary approaches. Together, we’re a powerful community that moves ideas, individuals and impact beyond what’s possible. About Forever Orange: The Campaign for Syracuse University Orange isn’t just our color. It’s our promise to leave the world better than we found it. Forever Orange: The Campaign for Syracuse University is poised to do just that. Fueled by 150 years of fearless firsts, together we can enhance academic excellence, transform the student experience and expand unique opportunities for learning and growth. Forever Orange endeavors to raise $1.5 billion in philanthropic support, inspire 125,000 individual donors to participate in the campaign, and actively engage one in five alumni in the life of the University. Now is the time to show the world what Orange can do. Visit foreverorange.syr.edu to learn more. Author Kathleen Haley Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi More In Campus & Community Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59 was only 5 years old when he developed a work ethic that would last a lifetime. The Syracuse University graduate and longtime member of the Board of Trustees first demonstrated his entrepreneurial spirit as a… COVID-19 Update: Effective Wednesday, June 1, Masking Level Returns to Yellow Dear Students, Families, Faculty and Staff: Recently the Onondaga County Health Department has reported a notable decline in new COVID infections and hospitalizations across the Central New York region. This positive trend, combined with significantly reduced population density on our… Preparing Students for a Life of Success Selecting a major and choosing a career path don’t have to be daunting experiences. While some students come to Syracuse University’s College of Arts and Sciences (A&S) or the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs (Maxwell) ready to declare… Eugene ‘Gene’ Anderson to Depart Syracuse, Tapped to Lead University of Pittsburgh’s Business School Eugene “Gene” Anderson, dean of the Martin J. Whitman School of Management since 2017, today announced he will conclude his time at Syracuse University next month. After more than five years at the Whitman School, Anderson will return home to… Digital Badges at Syracuse University: Recognizing and Authenticating Microcredential Moments in Higher Education As higher education continues to anticipate and react to the needs of an evolving workforce, new programs and various modalities have been introduced to provide just-in-time learning opportunities that meet the needs of hard and soft skills sought by employers…. Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.