Academic and Student Affairs New Student Programs MAIN MENU Primary Menu Skip to content About NSP About NSP Our Team COVID-19 Response Assessment Campus Partner Resources First-Year Students Welcome First-Year Students New Student Checklist Fall First Year Student Orientation Spring New Student Orientation Placement Testing Summer Start Pre-Semester Programs Welcome Weeks Common Experience: CliftonStrengths Email Archive Transfer Students Welcome Transfer Students New Student Checklist Fall Transfer Student Orientation Spring New Student Orientation Transfer Placement Testing Advising and Course Registration Summer Start Pre-Semester Programs Welcome Weeks Email Archive Families Welcome Families New Student Checklist Fall First-Year Family Orientation Fall Transfer Family Orientation Spring Family Orientation Parents & Families Services Family Access to Student Records International Welcome International Students and Families New Student Checklist Fall International Student Orientation Fall International Family Orientation Spring New Student Orientation Spring Family Orientation Summer Start Welcome Weeks Office of International Services Email Archive Student Leaders Student Leadership and Employment Summer Leader Recruitment Meet the Orientation Student Staff Meet the Summer Start Student Staff Welcome, Class of 2026! We can’t wait for you to join the Wolfpack. Learn about the opportunities that lie ahead! Get started New Student Programs addresses the holistic needs of each new NC State student to create a foundation of success. COVID-19 Response New Student Checklist Orientation Summer Start Welcome Weeks Upcoming Events | View more... Jun 14 Tuesday First-Year Orientation Session #1 Jun 15 Wednesday First Year Orientation Session #2 Jun 16 Thursday First Year Orientation Session #3 Jun 21 Tuesday First Year Orientation Session #4 Recent News | Read more... Wicked Problems, Wolfpack Solutions Returns for Third Year with Focus on The Future of Food May 25, 2022 This year’s iteration of Wicked Problems, Wolfpack Solutions will surround the Future of Food — specifically, the complex and interwoven problems which contribute to a worldwide issue. Many members of DELTA’s staff have worked tirelessly to make the course a success for incoming first-year […] Leaving a Legacy: Dylan Inman ’22 Makes a Lasting Impression May 3, 2022 The political science and sociology double major is graduating this weekend and then off to Indianapolis to work for his fraternity, Theta Chi, as a growth specialist. But as an enthusiastic member of the Wolfpack, Inman says his long-term goal is to find a road that leads back to NC State. Forming Connections Through Spring Connect April 5, 2022 NC State College of Education junior London Tolson provides an insider look at getting involved on campus as a Spring Connect student. Search for: New Student Programs 3219 Broughton Hall 2601 Katharine Stinson Drive Campus Box 7525 Raleigh, NC 27695-7525 Open 8:00am-5:00pm Monday - Friday new-students@ncsu.edu Call 919.515.1234 or Text 833.712.1255 Twitter Instagram Email About New Student Programs Accessibility Compliments & Complaints Student Email Archive Website Feedback Division of Academic and Student Affairs About Services and Resources Departments Giving Search for: © 2022 New Student Programs | Log in