Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Relaunching the NC State Website facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Service and Community Dig deeper into NC State’s commitment to creating economic, societal and intellectual prosperity across North Carolina and beyond. From upcoming service opportunities to stories of alumni success and startup impact, find out what we’re doing in the wider world. May 25, 2022 NC State Names 42 Students to Park Scholarships Program Students in the university's 27th class of Park Scholars represent nine states and 20 North Carolina counties. Recent Stories New Studies Shed Light on Election-Related Stress Wicked Problems, Wolfpack Solutions Focuses on Future of Food Bob Franks Tapped to Lead Applied Ecology May 16, 2022 ‘Whatever You Need, I’m There’ — Meet #NCState22 Best Friends Emily and Alyssa Brought together by the saxophone section, best friends reminisce on their time in Carter-Finley Stadium. May 16, 2022 ‘We’re Stuck’ — Meet #NCState22 Best Friends Niambé and Kourtni Best friends say 'goodbye' to NC State in the field where they first said 'hello' and started a lifelong friendship. May 16, 2022 ‘I Feel So Blessed’ — Meet #NCState22 Best Friends Parker and Noah As part of our graduation video series, these elementary school friends reflect on how NC State brought them closer together. May 9, 2022 Krispy Kreme Challenge Meets $2 Million Commitment Park Scholars celebrate an achievement nearly two decades in the making. The funds directly impact North Carolina children and families at UNC Children's Hospital and NC State Park Scholars Children's Specialty Clinic. May 5, 2022 Wake STEM Early College High School Hosts May 9 Open House Take a tour of the school's new campus and learn about the innovative program that allows students to earn a high school diploma and college credit. May 4, 2022 The Hard Times and Good Life of Mohamed Mansour As an undergraduate in the 1960s, Mohamed Mansour struggled academically and financially. With the help of family, friends and supportive faculty, the young man went on to build one of Egypt's most successful businesses. Mansour shares his story at NC State's spring commencement ceremony. May 3, 2022 National Inventors Hall of Fame Honors 3 With Ties to NC State Three innovators who have served on NC State's faculty are inducted into the prestigious organization at a two-day event in Washington, D.C. Apr 29, 2022 NC State Announces Next in Series of NC Licensed Wines The second wine in the NC State University Hallowed Places Collection features The Court of North Carolina on its label. The collection is part of the university’s ongoing partnership with North Carolina wineries. Apr 27, 2022 Retiring From ‘Dream Job,’ Boney Eyes Future After reimagining the Emerging Issues Forum and leading NC State's outreach and engagement efforts, Leslie Boney contemplates a retirement crowded with possibilities. Apr 12, 2022 How a Wolf Became a Titan Samantha Fischer, the stadium experience manager for the Tennesee Titans NFL team, reflects on her experiences as a master's student at NC State. Apr 7, 2022 Healthy Kids: No Batteries Required In a journey of discovery spanning six decades, Robin Moore has explored the connections between human development and the natural world. His ideas may hold the key to raising healthy children in the digital age. Apr 7, 2022 MFA Poetry Alum Wins Prestigious Writing Prize Poet Ina Cariño, who earned their Master of Fine Arts in creative writing from NC State, is one of 10 recipients of a 2022 Whiting Award. Mar 1, 2022 ‘Everything Had to Have a Purpose’: Remembering Journalism Visionary Richard Curtis NC State alumnus Richard Curtis revolutionized print journalism as the founding managing editor for design at USA Today. He died Sunday at 75. Feb 24, 2022 Relaunching the NC State Website Learn about the latest version of the NC State core website — ncsu.edu — and how to navigate its new menus and layout. Posts navigation 1 2 … 47 Next Page Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.