Skip to content News Menu Search form Search term Home Find Stories For Journalists Contact For Journalists The Stanford News Service offers assistance to print, broadcast and online media. Subscribe to Stanford News Releases Call or email the Stanford News service to receive Stanford news releases or update your existing subscription. Phone (650) 723-2558 (main) Email news-service@stanford.edu News Stories and Releases Stanford News All the latest news from Stanford University. Press Releases The Stanford News Service also distributes press releases to journalists via email. Stanford Report A daily email roundup of news for and about the Stanford community. Stanford Experts Find an Expert Search our database of faculty experts who are available to comment on news stories and speak to the media. Media Contacts Media Contacts Consult our list of media offices at Stanford when covering a story or event that involves the professional schools, the Department of Athletics, Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, or various centers and institutes. Photos, Videos and Broadcast Photography and Filming Request photographs of Stanford individuals and events, obtain B-roll video and find information about our broadcast facilities. Policies Communication policies University Communications has oversight of policies regarding a variety of media-related topics, including privacy, filming and photography on campus, and use of the university name, seal, and logos. Archival Materials News Service Library The News Service librarians can help you find archived news articles, press releases and photographs. About Stanford Looking for details about Stanford? Consult these online resources. About Stanford Enrollment Statistics Stanford Fact Book Stanford History University Governance Event Calendar Stanford’s global activities A-Z index of websites Stanford Report To receive Stanford news daily, subscribe to Stanford Report. For Journalists Press Releases Media Contacts Stanford Experts See Also Contact Stanford News Faculty / Staff Resources Events Events calendar Stanford News is a publication of Stanford University Communications Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.