Skip to main content Toggle navigation Search Cornell University Cornell.edu Media Relations Search Cornell University Cornell Chronicle Topics Architecture & Design Arts & Humanities Business, Economics & Entrepreneurship Computing & Information Sciences Energy, Environment & Sustainability Food & Agriculture Global Reach Health, Nutrition & Medicine Law, Government & Public Policy Life Sciences & Veterinary Medicine Physical Sciences & Engineering Social & Behavioral Sciences Coronavirus Campus & Community News & Events Public Engagement New York City Staff News Photos of the Day Big Red Sports Diversity In Memory Features NYS Impact Student Life Around Cornell All Stories In the News Expert Quotes Cornellians In the News After forming a union, negotiating a contract can be an uphill battle Kate Bronfenbrenner, senior lecturer in the ILR School, says for employers who've never had a contract before, every issue is a fight. “You're having to negotiate every word.” May 24, 2022 Priceless sculptures are ‘literally being chipped away’ Gilmore D. Clarke and Michael Rapuano’s “impact on American space, primarily the New York metro area but by example, cities throughout the United States, was every bit as profound as the impact of Frederick Law Olmsted and Calvert Vaux, if not more so,” says Thomas J. Campanella, professor of city & regional planning who is writing a book about the pair. May 20, 2022 A face search engine anyone can use is alarmingly accurate “If it’s a useful thing to do, to see where our own faces are, we have to imagine that a company offering only that service is going to be transparent and audited,” says Helen Nissenbaum, professor of information science. May 26, 2022 Facebook and Apple are at war, with the biggest battle still on the horizon ”Apple recognizes there is a market for privacy, and consumers’ growing concern,” says Steve Wicker, professor of electrical and computer engineering. “Facebook represents the free-for-all mentality.” May 25, 2022 Amber Heard, Johnny Depp and who we choose to believe "When you're presented with information that goes contrary to what you believe, then you actually start thinking more deeply about it in order to counter argue,” says David Pizarro, professor of psychology, who studies how biases affect moral judgment. May 23, 2022 Amazon's first warehouse union marked the true turning point towards 'real change' for workers, says a labor-history professor Ileen DeVault, professor of labor history, says it's Amazon Labor Union's win that could be the tipping point for organized workers. "I've said over and over again that the real change would come when the first Amazon warehouse unionized.” May 22, 2022 As Musk buyout looms, Twitter searches for its soul “So there’s this really interesting flow of information that’s not just top-down, mainstream media communicating to subcultures, but allowing various groups, in this case Black Twitter, to have really important, impactful conversations that the media took up and got disseminated to the wider public,” says Brooke Erin Duffy, associate professor of communication. May 14, 2022 A powerful ISS instrument will hunt for minerals in dusty lands Natalie Mahowald, professor in engineering, discusses her collaboration with NASA on the Earth Surface Mineral Dust Source Investigation. May 13, 2022 I used to take cassava for granted – but it could help to wean the world off wheat Chiedozie Egesi, adjunct professor of plant breeding and genetics, writes this piece about how cassava could help the world wean off wheat. May 12, 2022 Moderna vaccine provokes strong immune response in children “We really can’t do it this way in the future — we can’t leave children to the very last,” says Dr. Sallie Permar, chair of pediatrics at Weill Cornell Medicine. May 11, 2022 Will Brown v. Board of Education be next to fall? “People are parsing the opinion for clues about exactly what its logical implications are,” says Michael Dorf, a Cornell Law School constitutional law expert who has predicted that the court’s abortion ruling has more profound disruptions in store. May 9, 2022 If Roe falls, is same-sex marriage next? There are limits to analyzing the reasoning of published Supreme Court opinions, to say nothing of drafts, says Michael C. Dorf, professor of law. “Logic and syllogisms don’t carry us very far in the law." May 8, 2022 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 Next page ›› Last page Last » Gallery Heading × Previous Next Links About the Chronicle Media Relations Office Copyright Web Accessibility Assistance Contact Cornell Chronicle 312 College Ave Ithaca, NY 14850 607-255-4206 cunews@cornell.edu SUBSCRIBE Daily and weekly newsletters Feeds - RSS & JSON