Skip to main content Visit Temple.edu Toggle Utility Menu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Search Site Search Temple Now Navigation - Go To - News by topic - Arts & Culture - Athletics - Campus News - Community Engagement - Global Temple - Research - Staff & Faculty - Student Success - Sustainability - Return to Campus - Visualize TempleAnnouncementsNewsletters - Temple Now subscriptionPublicationsTemple in the newsSocial MediaSpecial SeriesTemple MagazineAboutAccolades News by topic Announcements Newsletters Special Series About Arts & Culture What to read, listen to and watch to learn more about AAPI communities Athletics Introducing a new head coach of women’s basketball Campus News New General Education course to focus on AAPI identity and experiences Community Engagement President Wingard highlights Center City Business Association’s “Lunch with the City's Leaders” Global Temple Serving the American media from the Far East Research Temple-headquartered STARS Computing Corps receives a $3 million National Science Foundation grant Return to Campus Student community health ambassadors look out for their fellow Owls Staff & Faculty Temple thought leaders lend their voices to national conversation surrounding Roe v. Wade Student Success Temple Made for … building community Sustainability Charles Library earns LEED Gold certification Visualize Temple Charles Library shapes the future at Temple and beyond View Archives Home / News by topic Posted March 13, 2018 Alumni, Charles Library, news, Visualize Temple, Campus News In recognition of $10M gift, Temple’s new library to be named for Steve Charles Charles Library, to open next year, will carry the name of the trustee and philanthropist. Video Production: Gina Benigno and Louis Peluyera Temple’s new library—which will become the stunning centerpiece of Main Campus—will be named Charles Library in recognition of a $10 million gift from entrepreneur and university trustee Steve Charles, KLN '80. Charles’s gift—one of the largest individual contributions in Temple history—will be invested into an endowment to provide perpetual funding for Temple Libraries to attract and retain high-quality faculty and staff; maintain and enhance Charles Library; promote community outreach, partnerships and public programs; purchase and preserve materials and collections; and support technology and innovation. “Steve’s gift is transformational in supporting Temple’s goal of building a 21st century library that will redefine campus life, sustain Charles Library at its optimal level and care for all of the valuable resources it will provide,” said Board of Trustees Chair Patrick J. O’Connor, who led the board in formally accepting the gift Tuesday. A rendering of the Charles Library There are natural alignments between Charles Library, a strikingly original structure designed by the world-class architectural firm Snøhetta, and the alumnus whose name it will carry. Upon transferring to Temple from Lancaster County, Charles graduated with a degree in advertising and co-founded immixGroup, Inc., which helps technology companies do business with the federal government. He sold the firm in 2015 but still serves as a consultant. Charles Library, set to open in May 2019, will feature technology such as high-performance computation that supports advanced research. It will also include a space-saving automated book retrieval system that will store most of the library’s volumes and create more space for collaboration. Located at the intersection of Temple’s two primary pedestrian pathways, Liacouras and Polett walks, the building will be the academic and social core of campus life. “Charles Library will amplify our scholarly mission by attracting various intellectual communities to a bold new building full of flexible learning spaces that can respond to the needs of the moment,” President Richard M. Englert said. “We are proud that this catalyst for collaboration will be named for Steve Charles.” Steve Charles (Photo: Joseph V. Labolito) In 2011, Charles established the Stephen G. Charles Scholarship Fund in the Klein College of Media and Communication. Four years later, he joined Klein College’s Board of Visitors and committed $2 million to establish the Steve Charles Chair in Media, Cities and Solutions, a position held by prominent scholar and social commentator Marc Lamont Hill. It was the college’s first academic chair endowed by an individual donor and, at the time, the largest one-time gift in college history. In 2016, he joined Temple’s Board of Trustees and helped lead the fundraising effort to name Klein College (then the School of Media and Communication) for broadcast pioneer Lew Klein. Most recently, he committed funding for various prizes for the next three years of the Be Your Own Boss Bowl business plan competition in the Fox School of Business. “Opportunity and innovation occur at the intersection of disciplines,” Charles said. “I live by this idea, and the vision for the library embodies it as the place where students can collaborate in the latest ways. I hope alumni and friends will join me in supporting this project in the months ahead.” Charles added that he is excited about the various ways in which the building will promote sustainability, such as stormwater management systems and a green roof that will be one of the largest in the state. Charles’s gift to Temple Libraries follows a $1 million gift to name The Albert M. Greenfield Special Collections Research Center Reading Room on the first floor of the new library and to provide long-term funding to maintain that space. Dean of Libraries Joseph Lucia said Charles Library will inspire Temple students and “provide a rich context” to connect them more deeply to one another for learning, conversation and creative work. “Charles Library is a unique architectural presence on campus that will require continued investment to operate at its highest potential,” Lucia said. “Steve’s gift provides the financial capacity over the long term to achieve an endowment level that is liberating, exciting and a huge vote of confidence in Temple’s future. We couldn’t be more grateful.” - Brandon Lausch Related Stories The Albert M. Greenfield Foundation makes historic $1M gift to Temple Libraries A peek at the inside School of Media and Communication establishes chair in media, cities and solutions Temple University Strategic Marketing & Communications Bell Building 1101 W. Montgomery Avenue Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Directory Maps and Directions Contact RSS Facebook Twitter Pinterest LinkedIn.com YouTube Flickr TUPortal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Temple Now: The official source for Temple news. Copyright 2015, Temple University. All rights reserved.