UT Wordmark Primary UT Wordmark Formal Shield Texas UT News Camera Chevron Close Search Copy Link Download File Hamburger Menu Time Stamp Open in browser Load More Pull quote Cloudy and windy Cloudy Partly Cloudy Rain and snow Rain Showers Snow Sunny Thunderstorms Wind and Rain Windy Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Twitter email alert map calendar bullhorn Skip to content ↓ Information and resources related to COVID-19 Protect Texas Together Close Banner The University of Texas at Austin May 31, 2022 UT News Navigation Search Close Navigation UT News News Opinions Series UT Stories: COVID-19 What Starts Here Campaign Stories UT Research Science & Technology Health & Wellness Arts & Humanities Education & Leadership Business & Economy Campus & Community Policy & Law For Journalists Press Releases Media Contacts Experts Guide Pitch Form Archive UT Austin on Twitter UT Austin on Instagram UT Austin on Facebook UT Austin on LinkedIn Search for content on UT News Search Button Education & Leadership Oct 15, 2020 Donation Will Establish School of Nursing’s First Distinguished Professorship AUSTIN, Texas — Efforts to provide exceptional education for future nurses have been greatly enhanced at The University of Texas at Austin by a gift from School of Nursing supporters Maureen and Robert Decherd. The Decherds’ gift will be added to a previous gift given by daughter Audrey Decherd in 2019 to establish the Maureen Healy Decherd ’73 Distinguished Professorship in Nursing, the first-ever distinguished professorship for the School of Nursing. “Great teachers define exemplary educational institutions. Professors at this rank will help establish the school’s importance as the United States increasingly embraces the idea of making quality health care available to everyone,” Maureen Decherd said. The gift from the Decherds is based on their belief in the importance of the role nurses play in recovery from illness or injury, both from personal experience and from the enormously positive impact great nurses have had on family and friends in serious medical situations. Their daughter’s decision to pursue a career in nursing has been especially uplifting for them. The Decherd Family. Credit: University of Texas at Austin. “Maureen and I, along with Audrey, are truly pleased to establish the first distinguished professorship at the UT Austin School of Nursing,” Robert Decherd said. “We continue to be greatly impressed by Dean Alexa Stuifbergen’s leadership of the school, most recently in steering a steady course through the COVID-19 crisis. Audrey and we have a strong conviction about the importance of nursing care across all dimensions of our society, as exemplified by the School of Nursing.” Caring for others is important to the entire Decherd family, and they are deeply committed to supporting education. In 1993, they created The Decherd Foundation to support secondary and higher education as well as improve parks and urban centers in Dallas. Their gifts to the School of Nursing have supported facilities upgrades, including the recent space-planning process and the renovation of a large, theater-style classroom. “As the primary providers of bedside care, it’s absolutely critical to provide world-class training by exceptional nursing faculty to best prepare and inspire our future nurses,” Audrey Decherd said. “Today’s nursing students will be uniquely trained for a range of global health problems — particularly in the areas of infection control and crisis management — to a degree that previous generations of nurses simply were not. My hope is that this distinguished professorship will help support outstanding nursing faculty at the School of Nursing.” Maureen and Audrey are UT Austin alumni: Maureen received an undergraduate degree in English in 1973 and Audrey a master’s in nursing in 2012. After graduating, Audrey has worked as a staff nurse in the Neuroscience Department medical surgical and intensive care units at Baylor University Medical Center in Dallas and is now a staff nurse in the Neonatal ICU at Baylor University Medical Center. “This generous legacy-making gift from Audrey, Maureen and Robert Decherd will forever enrich nurse education and research in Central Texas and beyond by enhancing our recruitment and retention of senior research faculty. We are grateful to the Decherds for their belief in and strong support for Texas Nursing,” said Dean Stuifbergen. Copy link Email Share Link Twitter Share Link Facebook Share Link LinkedIn Share Link Tags: School of Nursing, What Starts Here Campaign Stories Copy link Email Share Link Twitter Share Link Facebook Share Link LinkedIn Share Link Media Contact Kathryn Wiley School of Nursing e: kathryn.wiley@austin.utexas.edu The University of Texas at Austin Explore Latest Articles May 25, 2022 Roger Bonnecaze Named Dean of the Cockrell School of Engineering Read More Roger Bonnecaze Named Dean of the Cockrell School of Engineering May 23, 2022 Low-Cost Gel Film Can Pluck Drinking Water From Desert Air Read More Low-Cost Gel Film Can Pluck Drinking Water From Desert Air May 23, 2022 Instability Can Benefit Teams with Different Expertise Read More Instability Can Benefit Teams with Different Expertise Subscribe to the TEXAS Newsletter UT Austin on Twitter UT Austin on Instagram UT Austin on Facebook UT Austin on LinkedIn UT News Home For Journalists Press Releases Media Contacts Experts Guide News Archive Pitch Form UT Austin Home Site Policies Web Privacy Policy Emergency Information Web Accessibility Policy Disability Resources © The University of Texas at Austin 2022