Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program OIS Goes Virtual to Keep Students Connected facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Author: Suzanne Wardle May 19, 2022 The Gift of a Student’s Trust Monica Osburn is executive director of the Counseling Center, where thousands of students turn each year to find help with anxiety, depression and other problems. Dec 2, 2021 20 Years of Extending the Reach of Education Kay Zimmerman, the associate vice provost for marketing and partnership development at DELTA, is retiring after two decades dedicated to online and distance learning. Sep 30, 2021 New Training Program Aids Effort to Reduce Overdoses An NC State specialist certificate program is helping paraprofessionals around the state tackle opioid-use disorder in their communities. Aug 26, 2021 Friday Institute Puts Equity at the Forefront An annual conference for teachers, held last month, is just one tool the institute is using to help students thrive in the classroom. Jul 6, 2021 NC State’s 4th Churchill Scholar Prepares for Deep Dive Into Genetics Nikhil Milind, who graduated this year, is going to Cambridge University to continue his studies into links between human genetics and diseases. Jun 9, 2021 Computer Scientist Wins UNC System Award Veronica Catete is the first NC State staff member to win the award that recognizes exemplary service to both campus and community. Apr 21, 2021 Winging His Way to Success Andrew Mistele, an aerospace engineering student — and now Goldwater Scholar — is conducting research that could lead to improvements in fields such as energy efficiency and drone design. Nov 18, 2020 Summit Frames Dialogue on Race, Equity Dozens of people gathered last month to discuss ideas for advancing diversity and equity at NC State. Now the goal is to turn those thoughts into action. Oct 8, 2020 In the Name of Freedom Professor Victoria Gallagher and student diversity coordinator Joe Johnson are on the board of directors for the new Freedom Park planned for downtown Raleigh. Aug 10, 2020 Juntos Connects With Students Through Virtual Academy A program that usually brings middle school and high school students onto campus saw success online this summer. Jul 22, 2020 Proactive Protection NC State implements a number of safety measures for employees returning to campus, including a constant supply of face coverings so faculty and staff always have them on hand. Jun 25, 2020 Same Campus, New Look Capital improvement projects are making progress, and employees will see some changes when they return to work. May 21, 2020 Keeping North Carolina Fed Allen Boyette, a senior director in Facilities, leads a group striving to improve the state’s food supply chain. May 6, 2020 Lasting Impact in (and Outside) the Classroom The Kenan Fellows Program for Teacher Leadership aims to boost performance in classrooms and strengthen communities around North Carolina. Apr 29, 2020 OIS Goes Virtual to Keep Students Connected The Office of International Services offers daily online gatherings to help people from overseas socialize and practice their English. Posts navigation 1 2 … 4 Next Page Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.