Skip to main content UCLA Newsroom Toggle menu UCLA Newsroom Categories All content Arts + culture Environment + climate Faculty + staff Health + behavior Nation, world + society Science + technology Students + campus University news UCLA in the community UCLA Magazine Campus statements Public outreach For news media Media contacts at UCLA Media advisories News releases Images About UCLA: Fast facts Media guide to faculty experts Journalist guide to UCLA UCLA on Twitter Media Relations staff UCLA Broadcast Studio Newsletter sign-up Toggle search Search Newsroom Submit search Close search UCLA The campus recorded its lowest-ever rate of commutes by solo drivers in 2021, helping to keep UCLA’s greenhouse gas emissions at historically low levels. Faculty + Staff Hybrid, remote work arrangements benefited campus commuters in 2021 State of the Commute report finds UCLA had lowest-ever rate of commutes by solo drivers Faculty + Staff Hybrid, remote work arrangements benefited campus commuters in 2021 State of the Commute report finds UCLA had lowest-ever rate of commutes by solo drivers UCLA The campus recorded its lowest-ever rate of commutes by solo drivers in 2021, helping to keep UCLA’s greenhouse gas emissions at historically low levels. Andy Pei | May 5, 2022 Hybrid and telework schedules had a positive impact on Bruins’ commutes and the overall campus environment in 2021, according to the annual State of the Commute report, published by UCLA Transportation. Even accounting for the return to in-person instruction in the fall, UCLA recorded its lowest-ever rate of commutes by solo drivers — just 28%. That helped keep greenhouse gas emission levels at UCLA at historically low levels, supporting a cleaner, healthier campus and community. “While a 28% drive-alone rate is a significant achievement, that figure will undoubtedly increase as the daily campus population recovers,” said Lisa Koerbling, interim executive director of UCLA Events and Transportation. “But we feel confident it will remain below pre-pandemic levels as Bruins embrace telework and hybrid schedules, and continue taking advantage of sustainable transportation options.” During the first 18 months of the COVID-19 pandemic, the telework rate among UCLA employees reached a high of 79%. That figure dropped below 50% after the start of fall quarter 2021, with most remote employees splitting time between working remotely and coming to campus. But more students, staff and faculty than ever became “multimodal commuters” in 2021, as UCLA Transportation made it easier for Bruins to combine telework with driving and occasional carpools or bus rides when they needed to work on campus. There were 14,000 multimodal commuters in 2021, up from just over 4,000 prior to the pandemic. UCLA Although the number of daily vehicle trips to and from campus rebounded in 2021, it remained well below pre-pandemic levels. According to the report, research suggests that those who have a commute choice wind up driving less. At UCLA, those commuters drive 70% less than their colleagues who have long-term parking permits. “UCLA Transportation worked diligently to meet the evolving needs of the campus community, including those of frontline employees working on campus and hybrid employees needing more flexibility in their commute options,” Koerbling said. For example, recognizing that many Bruins no longer wanted or needed to be tied to a full-time parking permit, UCLA offered discounted daily parking through the Bruin ePermit system. That enabled commuters to make decisions on a daily basis, instead of committing financially to permits they might only need on occasion, Koerbling said. Among those who most benefit from the trend toward hybrid and telework arrangements are UCLA’s so-called extreme commuters. As of fall quarter 2021, there were 910 students and employees who held a UCLA parking permit and who either lived 50 to 120 miles away or who drove at least 90 minutes each way, to and from the campus. The 2021 report is the first State of the Commute to be published as a 100% digital document. Besides enhancing UCLA’s ongoing sustainability efforts, the fully online report includes more compelling and easily understandable graphics and charts, and more current information than previous editions. Tags: transportation | UCLA campus Share Related Links UCLA Newsroom coverage of the 2020 State of the Commute report Top UCLA News Students + Campus COVID-19 and vaccine information for the UCLA community Health + Behavior Yes, COVID vaccine boosters for children are safe Nation, World + Society ‘A book can save a life’: Alumna starts library at Los Angeles County jail Faculty + Staff Six professors receive UCLA Public Impact Research Awards Stay Connected Sign up for a daily briefing Get top research & news headlines four days a week. (Check your inbox or spam filter for confirmation.) Email Subscribe to a UCLA Newsroom RSS feed and our story headlines will be automatically delivered to your news reader. All RSS Feeds UCLA on Twitter UCLA on Facebook UCLA on LinkedIn @UCLA on Instagram UCLA on YouTube UCLA Newsroom UCLA on Twitter UCLA on Facebook UCLA on LinkedIn @UCLA on Instagram UCLA on YouTube Categories All content Arts + culture Environment + climate Faculty + staff Health + behavior Nation, world + society Science + technology Students + campus University news UCLA in the community UCLA Magazine Campus statements Public outreach For news media Media contacts at UCLA Media advisories News releases Images About UCLA: Fast facts Media guide to faculty experts Journalist guide to UCLA UCLA on Twitter Media Relations staff UCLA Broadcast Studio Newsletter sign-up UCLA Sites Happenings Athletics Extension Health Giving UCLA Directory Calendar Maps Parking Careers Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube © 2022 Regents of University of California Terms of Use Accessibility Emergency Close menu Search Newsroom Submit search Categories All content Arts + culture Environment + climate Faculty + staff Health + behavior Nation, world + society Science + technology Students + campus University news UCLA in the community UCLA Magazine Campus statements Public outreach For news media Media contacts at UCLA Media advisories News releases Images About UCLA: Fast facts Media guide to faculty experts Journalist guide to UCLA UCLA on Twitter Media Relations staff UCLA Broadcast Studio Newsletter sign-up