Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Watch a Robot Shaped Like Pasta Escape a Maze facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program In the News NC State news is shared far and wide. Below are just some of our recent appearances in local, regional, national and international media publications. May 31, 2022 Arab News Winners of Prince Faisal bin Fahad Award for Sports Research announced Also chosen was Dr. Deepti Adlakha from North Carolina State University, whose project explores the correlation between physical activity, sedentary behavior, and weight status in adolescents, and neighborhood environments in Saudi Arabia; and Dr. Ahmed Alanezi from Alfaisal University, whose project explores the governance and the gender equality agenda of professional football clubs in Saudi… May 31, 2022 WFLA Sugary bug killer might breed cockroaches that won’t take the bait, study says Now, a study released by North Carolina State University shows our pesticidal habits may be changing how cockroaches breed, literally changing which males female roaches interact with, but not necessarily hurting reproductive chances. Dr. Ayako Wada-Katsumata, principal research scholar at NC State, has studied insects for years and co-authored the study on cockroach mating habits. Wada-Katsumata… May 31, 2022 E&E News Southwest megadrought pushes hydropower to the brink Western states that have long dealt with drought conditions are used to the short-term impacts of water scarcity, said Jordan Kern, a North Carolina State University College of Natural Resources professor who studies hydroelectricity. Providers can turn to coal plants to ensure reliability in the hot months or can import electricity from the Northwest, where… May 31, 2022 The Good Men Project 4 Ways You Can Stop Wasting Food Up to 40% of the food grown, prepared, or sold in the United States is wasted. April 28 is Stop Food Waste day. Here are some steps you can take to reduce how much food you waste at home…This is a guest post by Ellen Shumaker, food safety expert and an extension associate at North… May 27, 2022 The Engineer Twisted soft robots self-navigate mazes The soft robots, developed by researchers at North Carolina State University and the University of Pennsylvania, are made of liquid crystal elastometers in the shape of a twisted ribbon resembling translucent rotini. Jie Yin, associate professor of mechanical and aerospace engineering at NC State and corresponding author of a paper on the work, said that the… May 27, 2022 WAVY Expert: Proposed bills — like Florida’s ‘Don’t Say Gay’ — could have big affect on state taxes A study by Nathan Goldman, a professor of accounting at North Carolina State University’s Poole College of Management, and colleague Christina Lewellen examined the massive tax implications for Florida because of the state’s with Disney over the law that its critics call “Don’t Say Gay.” “Governments need to be very careful about the general business… May 27, 2022 NPR's Marketplace With helium in short supply, scientists are worried Sandra Yuter, a professor of atmospheric science at North Carolina State University, said the result is gaps in data that’s needed to understand and predict climate change. “We can’t go back and get that data later, right? If you don’t launch the balloon then you don’t have the data,” Yuter said. “And there’s a lot… May 27, 2022 New York Times Cockroach Reproduction Has Taken a Strange Turn “When we think of evolution, we usually imagine wild animals, but actually, it’s also happening with small animals living in our kitchens,” said Ayako Wada-Katsumata, an entomologist at North Carolina State University. Dr. Wada-Katsumata and her colleagues have just introduced yet another wrinkle to the cockroach’s story: According to a study published this month in… May 26, 2022 Raleigh Magazine Howl Back Now holding court in your wine cabinet is just-released Court of North Carolina, the second installment in the uberpopular NC State University Hallowed Places Collection of primo vintage vinos. May 26, 2022 WGHP NC rolls out ‘armada’ of high-tech flood devices as forecasters predict ‘above-average’ hurricane season Hurricane season is set to begin on June 1, and “researchers at N.C. State University and the National Hurricane Center are predicting an above-average hurricane season,” according to a news release. To prepare, the state has installed a network of 400 river and stream gauges — what they referred to as an “armada of flood… May 26, 2022 CBS-17 NC State to welcome largest freshman class in history Applications from students pursuing future careers in engineering, sciences and business fields have seen dramatic increases over the last several years, and the demand for a North Carolina State University degree is now at an all-time high, the school said Tuesday. May 26, 2022 Washington Post Republicans seized on a study as proof of Google’s bias. Its authors say it’s being misrepresented. In an op-ed for the Hill last week, Sen. Steve Daines (R-Mont.) said that the peer-reviewed paper from a group of researchers at North Carolina State University has “unmistakably exposed Big Tech’s most egregious attempt to tilt the scale toward left-wing candidates.” The researchers behind the study say the findings have been cherry-picked and misrepresented… May 25, 2022 ACM TechNews New Approach for Faster Ransomware Detection Engineering researchers at North Carolina State University and Hewlett Packard Enterprise have come up with a new technique that can detect ransomware faster than previous systems. May 25, 2022 WRAL Tech Wire Can we make hydrogen fuel cheaper? Yes – NCSU researchers find a way Researchers from North Carolina State University have developed a new technique for extracting hydrogen gas from liquid carriers which is faster, less expensive and more energy efficient than previous approaches. May 25, 2022 CNET Watch a Robot Shaped Like Pasta Escape a Maze Researchers from North Carolina State University and the University of Pennsylvania developed these “soft robots” that can find their way around complex environments and detailed their findings in a paper published Monday in the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. Posts navigation 1 2 … 1,199 Next Page Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.