Skip to main content Toggle navigation Search Cornell University Cornell.edu Media Relations Search Cornell University Cornell Chronicle Topics Architecture & Design Arts & Humanities Business, Economics & Entrepreneurship Computing & Information Sciences Energy, Environment & Sustainability Food & Agriculture Global Reach Health, Nutrition & Medicine Law, Government & Public Policy Life Sciences & Veterinary Medicine Physical Sciences & Engineering Social & Behavioral Sciences Coronavirus Campus & Community News & Events Public Engagement New York City Staff News Photos of the Day Big Red Sports Diversity In Memory Features NYS Impact Student Life Around Cornell All Stories In the News Expert Quotes Cornellians Staff News Jayawardhana reappointed A&S dean, named Bethe professor May 26, 2022 Ray Jayawardhana, the Harold Tanner Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences, has been appointed to a second five-year term, beginning July 1, 2023, and named the Hans A. Bethe Professor, an appointment that begins July 1, 2022. Staff News Third annual Inclusive Excellence Summit provides learning opportunities for staff and faculty May 25, 2022 The third annual Inclusive Excellence Summit summit, sponsored by The Department of Inclusion and Belonging, The Presidential Advisors on Diversity and Equity (PADE), and the Division of Human Resources took place over three days, April 25, 27, and 29, 2022. Around Cornell Self-fulfilling rankings boost agencies’ power, influence May 17, 2022 Rankings of nations, corporations and colleges trigger behavior that makes them appear more accurate in hindsight, building rating agencies’ power, Cornell economist Kaushik Basu and doctoral student Haokun Sun argue in new research. Pump heralds a fossil fuel-free future at child care center May 16, 2022 So long, natural gas heat: Let the Earth warm little fingers and toes. Building a new, environmentally friendly heating and cooling system at the Cornell Child Care Center will start in late summer. Staff, faculty win SUNY Chancellor’s Awards for Excellence May 12, 2022 Sixteen faculty and professional staff members in Cornell’s four state contract colleges have been selected for the 2021-22 State University of New York Chancellor’s Awards for Excellence. Team reveals first image of the black hole at our galaxy’s heart May 12, 2022 An international team of more than 300 scientists has created the first image of the supermassive black hole at the center of our Milky Way Galaxy. Cornell contributors included Shami Chatterjee and James Cordes from the Department of Astronomy. CUPD’s K-9 units protect and connect May 10, 2022 Luna and Axel sweep large events on campus, assist with bomb threats or detection needs, and help make their handlers more accessible to the general public. Four elected to National Academy of Sciences May 5, 2022 An agricultural economist, a theoretical physicist, a plant biologist and a physiologist have each been elected to the National Academy of Sciences, the academy announced May 3. New building to create ‘unified complex’ for Bowers CIS May 4, 2022 Construction is scheduled to begin in early 2023 on a state-of-the-art academic building for the Cornell Ann S. Bowers College of Computing and Information Science, to be built adjacent to Bill and Melinda Gates Hall on Hoy Road. Staff News Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 Next page » Last page Last » Gallery Heading × Previous Next Links About the Chronicle Media Relations Office Copyright Web Accessibility Assistance Contact Cornell Chronicle 312 College Ave Ithaca, NY 14850 607-255-4206 cunews@cornell.edu SUBSCRIBE Daily and weekly newsletters Feeds - RSS & JSON