Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: Arts & Culture Arts & Culture Syracuse University Art Museum Piloting Object-Based Teaching and Research Faculty Fellows Program Tuesday, May 10, 2022, By Diane Stirling Faculty from all disciplines are invited to apply for a pilot Faculty Fellows Program being hosted this summer by the Syracuse University Art Museum. The program focuses on object-based teaching and research. It is both a way for the art… Arts & Culture Innovator Lorrie Vogel ’88 to Deliver 2022 VPA Convocation Address Monday, May 9, 2022, By Erica Blust Innovator Lorrie Vogel ’88 will deliver the 2022 convocation address to bachelor’s and master’s degree candidates of the College of Visual and Performing Arts (VPA) at the college’s convocation ceremony on Saturday, May 14, at 7:30 p.m. in the stadium…. Arts & Culture M.F.A. Exhibition ‘Steady/Retcon’ to be Exhibited on New York City’s Governors Island Tuesday, May 3, 2022, By Erica Blust Master of fine arts (M.F.A.) candidates in the College of Visual and Performing Arts (VPA) are presenting the thesis exhibition “Steady/Retcon” over two weekends in May at the Syracuse University Governors Island House, 407A Colonels Row, Governors Island, New… Arts & Culture Department of Drama Presents ‘As You Like It’ Friday, April 29, 2022, By Joanna Penalva The Department of Drama presents the final show of the 2021/2022 season with “As You Like It,” a ravishing new musical adaptation of Shakespeare’s classic story by Shaina Taub and Laurie Woolery. The production, directed by Rodney Hudson, will perform… Arts & Culture Movie Based on SU Press Book ‘Harry Haft: Survivor of Auschwitz, Challenger of Rocky Marciano’ Debuts Monday, April 25, 2022, By Cristina Hatem “The Survivor,” a movie based on the Alan Scott Haft book, “Harry Haft: Survivor of Auschwitz, Challenger of Rocky Marciano,” debuted on HBO and HBO Max on Wednesday, April 27. It is being released on Holocaust Remembrance Day, commemorating the… Arts & Culture New Biblio Gallery Exhibition Features Work of Manya Gadhok Monday, April 11, 2022, By Cristina Hatem Syracuse University Libraries’ new Biblio Gallery exhibition on the 4th floor of Bird Library features the work of artist Manya Gadhok, a third-year master of fine arts in film student in the College of Visual and Performing Arts. The exhibit… Arts & Culture Syracuse Stage Announces 2022-23 Season Tuesday, April 5, 2022, By Joanna Penalva Two world premieres, two musicals, cutting edge contemporary drama, a beloved American classic and a mystery/comedy make 2022/2023 a season to reconnect with great theater at Syracuse Stage. It is a season filled with enjoyment and opportunities to experience an… Arts & Culture Syracuse University Art Museum Presents ‘Steady/Retcon’ Monday, April 4, 2022, By News Staff The Syracuse University Art Museum is pleased to announce “Steady/ Retcon,” featuring the work of studio arts, film and media arts, and design master of fine arts thesis candidates enrolled in the College of Visual and Performing Arts. Curated by… Arts & Culture Professor Silvio Torres-Saillant Helps Advance Latino History and Culture in the United States Friday, April 1, 2022, By Dan Bernardi Silvio Torres-Saillant, professor of English and Dean’s Professor of the Humanities in the College of Arts and Sciences, is one of 18 members selected for the Smithsonian Institution’s National Museum of the American Latino (NMAL) Scholarly Advisory Committee. The committee, which… Arts & Culture Mona Eikel-Pohen Wins Outstanding German Program Development and Advocacy Award Tuesday, March 29, 2022, By News Staff Mona Eikel-Pohen, assistant teaching professor of German in the Department of Languages, Literatures and Linguistics (LLL), has been selected as the recipient of the Outstanding German Program Development and Advocacy award by the 2021 American Council on the Teaching of… 12345 Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.