Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today The University of Kansas Search form Search this site Home About KU Academics Admission Research Libraries» Outreach News KU Today News archive Media Resources » News Staff » Alerts » Events Menu Home About KU Academics Admission Research Libraries» Outreach News KU Today News archive Media Resources » News Staff » Alerts » Events Search Search form Search this site Home Hometown news Student news KU News Service shares names of University of Kansas candidates for degree and honor roll recipients so Jayhawks can get recognition from friends and neighbors. Fall 2021 Honor Roll LAWRENCE — More than 6,400 undergraduate students at the University of Kansas earned honor roll distinction for the fall 2021 semester. The honor roll comprises undergraduates who meet requirements in the College of Liberal Arts & Sciences and in the schools of Architecture & Design, Business, Education & Human Sciences, Engineering, Health Professions, Journalism & Mass Communications, Music, Nursing, Pharmacy, Professional Studies and Social Welfare. Requirements vary by school. Students should contact their academic adviser if they have questions about inclusion on the list. The fall 2021 honor roll includes names of students whose academic status was finalized by Jan. 31, 2022. Not all students choose to have their names published. KU News Service will publish lists of students sorted by geographic distribution on or after Feb. 16 for use by hometown newspaper editors. Spring 2021 and Fall 2020 Graduates LAWRENCE — The names of more than 5,700 graduates at the University of Kansas for fall 2020 and spring 2021 have been announced by the University Registrar. A ceremony for 2020 and 2021 graduates took place May 23. Names of summer 2020 graduates were previously published. Not all students elect to have their names shared through KU News Service, but they may contact kunews@ku.edu if they would like to be included. Summer 2021 graduates will be announced at a later date. More information about Commencement is available at the KU Commencement website. FAQs for students and families Why am I not listed on the graduate list/honor roll? The most common reason that a student’s name does not appear with other candidates for degree or honor roll recipients is that a hold has been placed on your directory information, which means we can’t release your name, graduation and/or award status or hometown. This can be updated in Enroll & Pay, and then you can contact us at kunews@ku.edu. I am a proud parent/grandparent of a KU student and have questions about if or when their information will be published. Can KU News Service help me? To protect their privacy, we need to talk directly with our students about their academic accomplishments and hometown news preferences. Students should contact us at kunews@ku.edu if we can post and share their information. When will the next list of KU graduates be released? Names of summer and fall 2021 and spring 2022 graduates will be published around July 10 once degrees are posted by the Registrar’s Office. Is the Commencement program listing the same as the KU News Service listing? No, these are processed separately, in part because KU News Service publishes names by term. Please make sure your name is designated as releasable and that your name and hometown city preferences are updated in Enroll & Pay. When are the spring and fall dean’s list/honor rolls published? KU News Service publishes the honor roll each shortly after receipt from the Registrar’s Office, usually during the second week of February (fall) and July (spring). The spring 2022 honor roll will be published on or after July 10. Some students will be notified of their school honors a few weeks before the full university list is available for KU News Service to publish. Hometown news Graduation and honor rolls KU News Service podcast KU researchers share their expertise on today's most pressing topics, including COVID-19. Search all KU News Search All KU News Search options » Subscribe to KU Today KU in the news The Washington Post — Tue, 05/24/2022 Americans aren’t asking for transgender sports bans. So why pass them? The Economist — Mon, 05/23/2022 Politicians have long told the poor that they’re not doing poverty right “There are as many coaching cues as there are coaches, but there is a lack of scientific literature focused on exam… https://t.co/28dm2j2i0W «» Follow us on Twitter » Why KU Apply » One of 34 U.S. public institutions in the prestigious Association of American Universities 44 nationally ranked graduate programs. —U.S. News & World Report Top 50 nationwide for size of library collection. —ALA 5th nationwide for service to veterans —"Best for Vets: Colleges," Military Times Give to KU » KU Today Contact The University of Kansas 785-864-2700 1450 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 785-864-2700 Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Foursquare Pintrest All social media at KU » Academics Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Contacts CMS Login Giving Jobs Maps