Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia News Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Featured News Topics Video Books Podcasts All News Media Resources Awards & Milestones Arts & Humanities Politics & Social Justice Research & Discovery Photo of the Week Commencement 2022 Columbia News You are here: Home Columbia Podcasts Columbia Podcasts FEATURED PODCASTS Image Carousel with 4 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1 Slide 2 Slide 3 Slide 4 A new podcast from Columbia Engineering Episode 1 Listen now Check Out Season Two Listen Now Previous Next All Podcasts ABROADcast The Journal of International Affairs' podcast series takes you beyond the headlines into long-lasting issues that will shape the 21st century order. Ask the Expert World-renowned mental health leaders from the Columbia University Department of Psychiatry answer the most common real-life questions patients ask. Beyond “Unprecedented”: The Post-Pandemic Economy Leading experts from Columbia Law School chart a course for economic recovery in the wake of the pandemic and suggest new ways of approaching law, policy, and governance. The Big Switch Dr. Melissa Lott of Columbia University brings together historical examples, current events, and incisive analysis to give listeners a deep understanding of the solutions to climate change. Black Lives: In the Era of COVID-19 African American and African Diaspora Studies Department and the Institute for Research in African American Studies Book Club with Jeffrey Sachs Join Columbia University Professor Jeffrey Sachs for monthly interviews with renowned authors about their groundbreaking work in history, social justice, sustainable development, and more. Capital for Good Corporate and civic leaders discuss how to build a more just, inclusive, and sustainable society, hosted by Georgia Levenson Keohane and presented by the Tamer Center for Social Enterprise at Columbia Business School. C'est ça l’Amérique An American election podcast series from the Columbia Alliance Program. Columbia Bizcast Hear what drives the innovators, leaders, and thinkers of Columbia Business School in this podcast hosted by Fahad Ahmed (BUS'17). Columbia Energy Exchange Hosted by Jason Bordoff and Bill Loveless, this podcast features in-depth conversations with the world’s top energy and climate leaders from government, business, academia and civil society. Columbia Invents Hosted by Orin Herskowitz, Executive Director of Columbia Technology Ventures, the series explores breakthrough innovations being developed in Columbia’s scientific laboratories, the process of spinning these technologies out of the lab and into the market via industry or startups, and the challenges early-stage technologies must overcome in order to realize their full potential. Columbia Public Health Now Mailman School of Public Health faculty share their thoughts on the COVID-19 virus' impacts to individuals and communities both local and global. Columbia Roarcast Updates and discussion from across the world of Columbia Athletics Columbia University Bio Bytes Students in Systems Biology interviews prominent scientists at the intersection of computer science, medicine, biology, and mathematics. The CUSP Show Sports Management Program, School for Professional Studies Dead Ideas in Teaching and Learning Hosted by the CTL's Executive Director, Catherine Ross. The Dean's Table Fredrick Harris, Professor of Political Science and Dean of Social Science Defending the Planet A Columbia Law podcast on combating the climate crisis using legal means. Expert Opinions - Russia, Eurasia A podcast from the Harriman Institute and eurasianet.org featuring interviews with experts about political and cultural developments in Russia and Eurasia. Ebony Tower Ebony Tower is a podcast dedicated to examining race and racism across academic disciplines, from data science to ethnic studies and environmental science. Each episode, your hosts will be speaking with a Columbia professor and community leaders about the nexus between power and the production of knowledge in their discipline. Global Thought Podcast Carol Gluck and Vishakha N. Desaim, Columbia Global Thought GSAPP Conversations Graduate School of Architecture, Planning, and Preservation How It Got Here: The Jab Explore the extraordinary journey of the COVID-19 vaccines through the global supply chain as they travel from the lab to “the jab” in this limited-series podcast from Columbia Business School. How to Read A Student-Led Series How We Got Here A podcast for journalists about how history and identity shape the narrative, from the Columbia Graduate School of Journalism in partnership with Columbia Journalism Review. Intersectionality Matters! Kimberlé Crenshaw, Isidor and Seville Sulzbacher Professor of Law Invisible and On Stage From Columbia Health’s Counseling and Psychological Services, this limited podcast series was created to provide an open and informative conversation around racism-related stress and identity and the way they impact mental health. Available where you listen to podcasts. Ishtar Diaries A Columbia Global Centers | Istanbul podcast that revolves around Ishtar, a major ancient goddess of the region, who allows us to reimagine the arts of civilization as aspects of her all-encompassing nature and attributes. Just Three From the Center for the Study of Social Difference, hear artists, activists, and scholars discuss how their work intersects with social justice. The Kicker Columbia Journalism Review Lab in the Time of Coronavirus Zuckerman Institute Masaha: Climate Change in the Arab World: Masaha is a student association at GSAPP that investigates contemporary issues facing the Arab world. MASCLab Podcast From the Media and Social Change Lab at Teachers College Mission: Commission A podcast from Miller Theatre demystifying the process of how classical music gets made. New Books In the Arts and Sciences A podcast of panel discussions celebrating recent work of Columbia faculty in the Arts and Sciences On Assignment Some of the best conversations from the Columbia Journalism School, produced and hosted by the school's Alfred I. duPont-Columbia University Awards. Parenting for the Future Petal Modeste is an associate dean at Columbia Law School. In this podcast, she discusses the science and strategies for raising children to find their own voices. People Doing Interesting Stuff Samuel K. Roberts, Associate Professor of History, Sociomedical Sciences and African American and African Diaspora Studies Pod of the Planet Earth Institute Public Books: 101 Run by a Columbia-based online journal and housed/archived at the Libraries, this initial series focuses on the internet, its histories, uses, and futures. rAAdio rAADio is an investigation by Advanced Architectural Design students in the Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation at Columbia. (Re)Search for Solutions Creative research perspectives tackling real-world issues. Rise and Resilience of Populism in Eastern Europe From the European Institute, an interview series where host Dr. Tsveta Petrova and a guest speaker interrogate some of the main drivers and impacts of populist mobilization in Eastern Europe. Said & Done A podcast from the Columbia University Language Resource Center that explores languages at the intersection of culture and biography. In conversation with host Chris Kaiser, guests share how they have been shaped by the languages that they speak. Sandbox Digital Storytelling Lab, School of the Arts Shoe Leather Columbia University Libraries and Columbia School of Journalism present an investigative podcast series exploring forgotten stories from New York City’s past. Silver Linings A podcast about East Asia during the pandemic. Taking it to Heart A bi-monthly podcast discussing the latest treatments in valvular disease with host Dr. Isaac George and the Columbia University Hospital Valve Team. TED Business Every Monday, host Modupe Akinola of Columbia Business School presents the most powerful and surprising ideas that illuminate the business world. This Week in Virology Vincent Racaniello, Higgins Professor of Microbiology and Immunology 3 Takeaways Hosted by SIPA Professor Lynn Thoman, episodes feature short, memorable conversations with leaders in a variety of fields focusing on three takeaways they’ve learned over their lives and careers. Transforming India Podcast The podcast provides an analysis of contemporary economic policies in India and offers suggestions for reforms. Underreported Columbia Global Reports Unpacking Latin America Unpacking Latin America is a podcast hosted by the Director of the Institute of Latin America (ILAS), Vicky Murillo, on the exciting research produced by Columbia scholars about Latin American history, culture, and politics, which helps our understanding of the contemporary challenges of the region. Unsung Stories The stories of women who undertook significant work at the Columbia-Princeton Electronic Music Center and the Computer Music Center. Voices of Ukraine Since Russia invaded Ukraine, we’ve been hearing a lot of firsthand accounts of lives upended by the war. Listen to the Harriman Institute's new podcast featuring the voices of Harriman community members who are in Ukraine or deeply connected to it. We Be Imagining The American Assembly and the Interdisciplinary Center for Innovative Theory and Empirics (INCITE) What Do We Know? A program sharing stories at the intersection of science + society, hosted and by Ben Wolman and Kate Steiner and brought to you by the Columbia University Center for Science and Society (CSS) Zora's Daughters A society and culture podcast that uses Black feminist anthropology to think about race, politics, and popular culture. Have a podcast? Email Columbia News to tell us about it. Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close