Skip to content News Menu Search form Search term Home Find Stories For Journalists Contact September 15, 2020 Understanding devastating wildfires With California’s wildfire season already bringing evacuations, damage to communities and lasting health effects, Stanford faculty have been exploring ways of preventing fires and managing health risks. Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email By Stanford News Service California continues to be devastated by wildfires in a scenario that is becoming all the common throughout the West. Stanford faculty have been studying the health effects of breathing smoke and particulates in communities surrounding California’s wildfires as well as investigating policies and technologies for preventing fires. Other experts are thinking about the lasting financial effects of wildfires on the state. Learn more about ongoing wildfire research by Stanford scholars at wildfire.stanford.edu This page was last updated Oct. 5, 2020. Science & Technology Predicting wildfires with CAT scans Engineers at Stanford have used X-ray CT scans, more common in hospital labs, to study how wood catches fire. They’ve now turned that knowledge into a computer simulation to predict where fires will strike and spread. Social Sciences California wildfires shrink partisan differences about climate change New survey findings suggest that wildfires tearing through the state may bring Democrats and Republicans closer together in support of climate resilience measures. Social Sciences Traditional fire management could help revitalize American Indian cultures In collaboration with tribes in Northern California, researchers examined traditional fire management practices and found that these approaches, if expanded, could strengthen cultures and reduce the risk of catastrophic wildfires. Law & Policy Living with fires: Mitigating risks with law and environmental policy Stanford Law Professor Deborah Sivas discusses the effects of climate on fires in California and policy changes that might lessen their danger on residents. Science & Technology Wildfire weather Unusual lightning strikes sparked the massive wildfires burning across California. Stanford climate and wildfire experts discuss extreme weather’s role in current and future wildfires, as well as ways to combat the trend toward bigger, more intense conflagrations. Science & Technology Wildfires’ health impacts California’s massive wildfires bring a host of health concerns for vulnerable populations, firefighters and others. Kari Nadeau and Mary Prunicki of Stanford’s Sean N. Parker Center for Allergy and Asthma Research discuss related threats, preparedness and ongoing research. Science & Technology Mapping dry wildfire fuels with AI and new satellite data Researchers have developed a deep-learning model that maps fuel moisture levels in fine detail across 12 western states, opening a door for better fire predictions. Science & Technology Increasing risk of extreme wildfire weather The study finds that autumn days with extreme fire weather have more than doubled in California since the early 1980s due to climate change. The results could contribute to more effective risk mitigation, land management and resource allocation. Strategic investments for wildfire preparedness In the midst of a global pandemic, California is entering into wildfire season with reduced resources and higher risks, explained Michael Wara, director of Stanford’s Climate and Energy Program, at a recent event hosted by the Stanford Woods Institute for the Environment. Science & Technology Californians unwilling to subsidize wildfire prevention Despite statewide devastation from wildfires, a new poll conducted by the Bill Lane Center for the American West shows Californians are still reluctant to subsidize wildfire prevention or support relocating communities at risk. Science & Technology Wildfire’s impact on water quality Stanford hydrologist Newsha Ajami, an appointee to California’s regional water quality board, discusses how wildfires affect water quality, and how we can better prepare for and react to the challenges. Science & Technology Setting fires to avoid fires Despite having proven effective at reducing wildfire risks, prescribed burns have been stymied by perceived and real risks, regulations and resource shortages. A new analysis highlights ways of overcoming those barriers, offering solutions for wildfire-ravaged landscapes. Science & Technology New treatment prevents wildfires Scientists and engineers worked with state and local agencies to develop and test a long-lasting, environmentally benign fire-retarding material. If used on high-risk areas, the simple, affordable treatment could dramatically cut the number of fires that occur each year. Science & Technology Understanding and preparing for wildfire season The new normal for Western wildfires is abnormal, with increasingly bigger and more destructive blazes. Understanding the risks can help communities avert disaster. Medicine Wildfire smoke worse for kids’ health than smoke from controlled burns Immune markers and pollutant levels in the blood indicate wildfire smoke may be more harmful to children’s health than smoke from a controlled burn, Stanford researchers found. Social Sciences Reflections on the California wildfires The 2018 fire season in California gave Stanford experts much to think about, including how the state can develop better policies for preventing fires and new research to better understand the long-term effects of breathing smoky air. Science & Technology Wildfires destroying California bring questions about health and climate California’s wildfires have destroyed homes and communities, and even people hundreds of miles away are feeling the effects of smoke. Stanford faculty weigh in on the health effects and increasing frequency of fires. Science & Technology Living with air pollution Polluted air caused by drifting wildfire smoke is choking the Bay Area. It’s the norm for many people around the world. Globally, long-term exposure to outdoor air pollution is responsible for millions of deaths. How does poor air quality affect your health? Bad air quality is an issue for people that comes front and center when California suffers major wildfires. Stanford Medicine staff help humans, animals in wake of Camp Fire Health care providers and veterinary technicians from Stanford volunteered to help humans and animals affected by the most destructive fire in California’s history. Law & Policy Can utilities afford electric vehicle commitments? Energy policy expert Michael Wara comments on the decision to approve $768 million in transportation electrification projects and how it could affect utilities, the environment and California ratepayers. Science & Technology Ecology & Environment Health Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email What to read next: Science & Technology Small modular reactors produce high levels of nuclear waste Small modular reactors, long touted as the future of nuclear energy, will actually generate more radioactive waste than conventional nuclear power plants, according to research from Stanford and the University of British Columbia. Science & Technology Q&A: How the aging immune system impacts brain health Katrin Andreasson, professor of neurology and neurological sciences, talks about the role the aging immune system plays in the development of age-related brain diseases. Science & Technology What the humble planarian teaches us about the building blocks of life A bioengineer studies the flatworms' ability to regenerate nerves, muscle, and other tissue. “One of the big questions we want to answer is how it does this on a genetic level?” Stanford Report To receive Stanford news daily, subscribe to Stanford Report. For Journalists Press Releases Media Contacts Stanford Experts See Also Contact Stanford News Faculty / Staff Resources Events Events calendar Stanford News is a publication of Stanford University Communications Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.