Skip to main content Stanford University Stanford Report Search this site Submit Search Menu Students Faculty Staff About Search this site Submit Search Vice Provost for Student Affairs May 28, 2022 COVID-19 and packing your belongings Students with Stanford housing contracts ending in mid-June are advised to begin packing now or to make arrangements for others to help given the possibility of testing positive for COVID-19 between now and the end of the academic year. Read More May 27, 2022 Anti-hate website launches Newly launched by the Division of Student Affairs in collaboration with CAPS clinicians, the Office for Religious & Spiritual Life, campus community centers, and the Confidential Support Team, the Stanford Against Hate website is a resource for anti-hate education and empowerment. Read More May 18, 2022 Remembering JT Chipman In a message to the campus community, Vice Provost for Student Affairs Susie Brubaker-Cole provides information on a memorial service and encourages community members to reach out for support. Read More May 11, 2022 Spotlight On: Melissa Sumiko Keightley Through this continuing series, you'll get to know the dedicated staff members serving our student residential communities. Read More May 9, 2022 Message to the Stanford community regarding a noose discovered on campus Vice Provost for Student Affairs Susie Brubaker-Cole and Vice Provost for Institutional Equity, Access and Community Patrick Dunkley addressed the campus community regarding the discovery of a noose outside Branner Hall on Sunday, stating that this symbol of anti-Black racism and violence will not be tolerated on our campus, and outlining next steps and an outreach plan for all who are affected. Read More May 9, 2022 Spotlight On: Andrew Gray Through this continuing series, you'll get to know the dedicated staff members serving our student residential communities. Read More May 9, 2022 Stanford Career Education and SAA offer five years of post-grad career services Virtual programs connect early-career alumni with more experienced alums from specific industries while individual coaching helps recent grads navigate the complexities of job searches. Read More May 4, 2022 Narcan training offered to Stanford community as part of National Fentanyl Awareness Day Student-led education efforts seek to prevent opioid overdoses on campus by empowering community members with knowledge about the broader context of the opioid epidemic, substance use disorders, and the opioid antagonist naloxone. Read More April 29, 2022 New study sessions, tools and learning support What's new at the Stanford Learning Lab this month? A cool study tool, new student groups and study sessions, help revising your academic writing, and more. Read More April 27, 2022 Spotlight On: Racheal Yates The neighborhood program director shares her favorite hidden spots on campus and how working at Stanford has changed her. Read More « Older stories Stanford Report News and information for the Stanford community. COVID-19 info & resources Re-Approaching Stanford Contact Stanford News Subscribe to Stanford Report Stanford Report is sent automatically to all Stanford faculty, staff and students. Others are invited to subscribe to Stanford Report. Stanford University Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.