Skip to main content Search Close Search Search this site Search Search News and Media All of Oklahoma State University Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Headlines News and Media Main Menu In this section News News Archive Topics College News In the Media Magazines Experts Directory Submit News Contact Us Home Articles OSU School of Accounting ranks among nation’s top 50 accounting schools OSU School of Accounting ranks among nation’s top 50 accounting schools Thursday, July 15, 2021 Media Contact: Bailey Stacy | Communications Coordinator, Marketing & Communications | 405-744-2700 | bailey.stacy@okstate.edu Share Facebook Twitter Pinterest The Oklahoma State University School of Accounting was recognized among the nation’s best in the Big 4 Accounting Firms' 50 Best Accounting Schools in the USA rankings. The School of Accounting in the Spears School of Business is No. 41 in the 2021 rankings of 50 top accounting colleges and universities and is one of the two Big 12 Conference schools recognized. “Students in the OSU School of Accounting greatly benefit from a group of faculty who are focused on student success and academic excellence,” said Dr. Audrey Gramling, head of the OSU School of Accounting in the Spears School of Business. “This recognition is a reflection of the dedication of our faculty and staff to build the future of accounting by providing a rigorous and relevant educational experience for our students.” On this list of top 50 accounting schools in the U.S., the School of Accounting at OSU is one of only 30 public universities recognized, one of 14 land-grant universities and the only public Oklahoma university ranked. This ranking is based on accounting programs at both graduate and undergraduate levels. Rankings are based on a number of metrics including freshman retention, graduation rates, CPA exam pass rates, quality of teaching, median starting salary, and reputation and student feedback. These rankings also rely on the U.S. News and Businessweek World Report rankings, and subject-specific indicators such as the Public Accounting Report’s survey of accounting professors. Visit the OSU School of Accounting website to learn more about undergraduate, master’s and Ph.D. accounting programs. To see the Big 4 Accounting Firms' 50 Best Accounting Schools in the USA rankings, visit their website. $skip Share Facebook Twitter Pinterest BusinessSchool of AccoutingSpears School of Business Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©