Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Study: Let’s Replace ‘Ancestry’ in Forensics With Something More Accurate facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Enriching the Human Experience Apr 22, 2022 Research Through an Equitable Lens Recognizing the importance of a fair and just society, researchers at NC State prioritize equity in their diverse fields. Recent Stories New Studies Shed Light on Election-Related Stress Wicked Problems, Wolfpack Solutions Focuses on Future of Food Bob Franks Tapped to Lead Applied Ecology Feb 15, 2022 Envisioning Research: NC State Wants to Put Your Research on Display We know you are doing the work, now we want you to share it. Feb 7, 2022 Shifting Rainfall Patterns Will Affect Whether An Imperiled Butterfly Survives Climate Change The study highlights how changes in precipitation could affect the survival of some species. Jan 19, 2022 Scientists Find Previously Unknown Jumping Behavior in Insects There is evidence that this jumping behavior is occurring in a range of species – we just haven’t noticed it before. Jan 19, 2022 Study IDs Visual Characteristics That Make People ‘Like’ Images on Instagram The visual complexity of images has a significant effect on whether viewers engage with a social media post. Jan 18, 2022 The Future of History: How New Tools Tap Into Diverse Perspectives on the Past Digital tools and technologies are unlocking new ways of helping us explore and understand our past. Jan 4, 2022 Forensic Researchers Call for Proactive Efforts to Address Racism The call responds to issues of systemic racism highlighted by the BLM movement. Dec 8, 2021 Study Outlines Ways to Help Children Learn Forgiveness Teaching children to understand other people’s perspectives could make it easier for them to learn forgiveness. Dec 2, 2021 Studies of Children’s Stories Shows Differences in Russian, U.S. Approaches to Emotion Russian parents are more likely than U.S. parents to read stories to their children that feature negative emotions. Oct 5, 2021 Recreating the Sights and Sounds of 17th Century London The project helps us place the art, literature and history of the period into context. Aug 19, 2021 Envisioning Research Winners Capture the Beauty in Their Work Research shows us the beauty of our world – and helps us understand it. Aug 17, 2021 How Zoom Put Disabled Users in a Tough Spot (And What You Can Do About It) Editor’s Note: This is a guest post from Courtney Wade, a psychology doctoral student at NC State whose work focuses on cultural strategy, community engagement and digital design justice. Wade is also founder of the Disability, Autistic, Mad, & Neuroqueer (DAMN) Solidarity Project. In late June, Zoom unveiled a number of updates to its online meeting… Aug 6, 2021 4 low-cost ways to create safe public spaces where all kids can play Experts describe four ways for communities to create opportunities for more play for children. Jul 27, 2021 New Insights Into the Relationship Between How We Feel and Our Views On Aging The gap between how old we feel and how old we want to be can offer insights into our well-being. Jul 14, 2021 Study: Let’s Replace ‘Ancestry’ in Forensics With Something More Accurate The study highlights flaws in existing approaches to assessing and discussing ancestral origin. Posts navigation 1 2 3 Next Page Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.