Skip to content Skip to main menu Faculty Youth Program Undergrad MBA EMBA PhD Exec Ed Wharton Online Alumni Search Wharton Mobile menu toggle News Menu Press Releases Seminars for Business Journalists Resources Contact Us Wharton Newsroom Contact Media Relations For general media inquiries, call +1.215.898.8036 or email a media relations staff member. Press Releases Wharton Profs. to Present on Crypto Regulation, AI and Venture Capital at Wharton Seminars for Business Journalists Virtual Program, June 16 Applications now open, deadline to apply is June 8 What: The Wharton School is pleased to invite business journalists to apply for the next virtual Wharton Seminars for Business Journalists program. The June 2022 program will feature Wharton professors Kevin Werbach, Lynn Wu and Ethan Mollick who will present on “Crypto and Regulation: This Could Be the Beginning of ...Read More May 5, 2022 University of Pennsylvania Freshmen Win $50,000 Perlman Grand Prize for their Sustainable Biopharma & Drinking Water Testing Solution at Venture Lab Startup Challenge PHILADELPHIA, MAY 3, 2022 – The University of Pennsylvania’s Venture Lab is pleased to announce the winner of the sixth annual Startup Challenge, sponsored by Eric Aroesty, C’92: ToxiSense, co-founded by a team of four University of Pennsylvania freshmen, Aravind Krishnan, C'25, W'25; Udit Garg, ENG'25; Andrew Diep-Tran, W'25; and…Read More Read More May 3, 2022 CDD Society Wins $250,000 Lipman Family Prize Make A Difference and Yamba Malawi Win $100,000 Each PHILADELPHIA, April 22, 2022—CDD Society has been named as the winner of the 2022 Barry & Marie Lipman Family Prize. Chosen from approximately 100 applicants around the globe, CDD Society works to scale the availability of affordable and sustainable community-centered water and sanitation solutions, particularly through innovative ...Read More April 22, 2022 More press releases Wharton in the News Wharton in the News How Smart Leaders Connect Even the Grandest Company Missions With Each and Every Employee's Job May 31, 2022 Outlet: Inc. Online--Drew Carton's research on how leaders can create meaning at work. Coinbase is testing a real-time employee feedback system. It sounds rough. May 28, 2022 Outlet: TechCrunch--Samir Nurmohamed on radical transparency. Sigal Barsade and Getting Culture Right May 28, 2022 Outlet: Business Ethics--A tribute to Sigal Barsade's scholarship and passion for sharing knowledge. Why Amazon's board might pay attention to shareholder proposals — even ones that fail May 27, 2022 Outlet: Yahoo Finance--Mary-Hunter McDonnell on shareholder proposals. Welcome to your office in the metaverse May 25, 2022 Outlet: Financial Times--Lynn Wu on how companies will use the metaverse. Rising interest rates increase the appeal - and the risk - of ARMs May 24, 2022 Outlet: Marketplace Online - American Public Media--Susan Wachter on adjustable-rate mortgages. Carvana’s ‘Chaotic’ Zoom Firing Caps Company’s Struggles Amid Market Downturn May 21, 2022 Outlet: Forbes--Dan Taylor on Carvana's recent economic struggles. How socioeconomic status can literally shape your brain May 20, 2022 Outlet: Fast Company Online--Gideon Nave's research on how socioeconomic status can shape the brain's gray matter. Some Fed Officials Face Heat for Wading Into Hot-Button Issues May 19, 2022 Outlet: Wall Street Journal, The-Christina Skinner's research on activism in the Central Bank. The Biggest Challenges for a Hybrid Workplace—and How to Overcome Them May 17, 2022 Outlet: Wall Street Journal, The--Martine Haas writes about the difficulty of creating a level playing field for employees who work remotely and employees who work in the office. Wharton Business Daily Wharton Business Daily airs live from 10 a.m. to 12 noon ET from the Wharton School’s Philadelphia campus on SiriusXM Channel 132 featuring segments from top business leaders, innovators and renowned Wharton faculty. Subscribe to catch selected segments from Wharton Business Daily: iTunes – Google – Pocket Casts Media Highlights Welcome to Your Office in the Metaverse Prof. Lynn Wu on Financial Times The Biggest Challenges for a Hybrid Workplace—and How to Overcome Them Prof. Martine Haas on Wall Street Journal Is a Degree Worth the Student Debt? Prof. Peter Cappelli on CBS Sunday Morning Tweet Share Share Pin Additional Links News Press Releases Seminars for Business Journalists Resources Contact Us Programs Undergraduate MBA EMBA Doctorate Executive Education Wharton Online Locations Philadelphia San Francisco Beijing The Power of Wharton Global Influence Analytics Entrepreneurship & Innovation Featured Give to Wharton Alumni Knowledge@Wharton Recruiters & Corporations Wharton Faculty About Us Research Centers Departments Resources Contact Us News Faculty & Staff Twitter Facebook LinkedIn YouTubeSupport Wharton©2022 The Wharton School, The University of Pennsylvania | News | Privacy Policy | Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help