Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia News Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Featured News Topics Video Books Podcasts All News Media Resources Awards & Milestones Arts & Humanities Politics & Social Justice Research & Discovery Photo of the Week Commencement 2022 Columbia News You are here: Home All News When and Where to Capture the Empire State Building Lit Up Blue for Columbia Grads in 2022 Commencement 2022 When and Where to Capture the Empire State Building Lit Up Blue for Columbia Grads in 2022 The night of May 18, the Empire State Building will glow blue and white for Commencement. Here’s where to capture the best photos with it. May 10, 2022 Photo by Haoyang Yu (SEAS'20). The Empire State Building image ® is a registered trademark of ESRT Empire State Building, L.L.C. and is used with permission. It’s a Columbia Commencement tradition not to be missed: On the night of May 18, from sunset until 2:00 a.m. (EDT), the top of New York’s iconic Empire State Building will light up in blue and white to honor Columbia’s graduates. But where best to capture photos of and with the Empire State building? We asked the expert: University Photographer Eileen Barroso, who has been taking pictures of Columbia grads with the building for years and years. And don’t forget! If you aren’t able to get out and about to take your Empire State Building pictures, you can always observe the celebration of our grads on the Empire State Building Live Stream. Here are five great spots to take your photos the night of Commencement: 34th Street and 7th Avenue Photo by Eileen Barroso/Columbia University. The Empire State Building image ® is a registered trademark of ESRT Empire State Building, L.L.C. and is used with permission. Photo by Eileen Barroso/Columbia University. The Empire State Building image ® is a registered trademark of ESRT Empire State Building, L.L.C. and is used with permission. 36th Street and 5th Avenue Photo by Eileen Barroso/Columbia University. The Empire State Building image ® is a registered trademark of ESRT Empire State Building, L.L.C. and is used with permission. Weehawken, NJ Boulevard East Photo by Eileen Barroso/Columbia University. The Empire State Building image ® is a registered trademark of ESRT Empire State Building, L.L.C. and is used with permission. Rainbow Room at Rockefeller Center Photo by David Dini, SIPA'14. The Empire State Building image ® is a registered trademark of ESRT Empire State Building, L.L.C. and is used with permission. 26th Street and 5th Avenue Photo by Acacia O’Connor. The Empire State Building image ® is a registered trademark of ESRT Empire State Building, L.L.C. and is used with permission. The Empire State Building image ® is a registered trademark of ESRT Empire State Building, L.L.C. and is used with permission. Looking for more photo opportunities ahead of Commencement? Don't forget to check out these fantastic spots to grab photos on campus. Before you go, don't forget to check out these other stories in preparation for Commencement 2022: 6 Things to Know About Commencement 2022 and Graduation Season at Columbia How to Keep Your Parents Occupied When They Come to Campus for Your Graduation Here's Every Columbia 2022 Class Day Speaker We Know (So Far) Columbia's 2022 Honorary Degree Recipients Announced Meet 15 'Lions of Social Justice' From the Class of 2022 Words of Wisdom From Columbians Who Graduated in 2020 and 2021 at the Height of the Pandemic Meet Three Columbia Graduates From Our Surrounding Community Get More Commencement Stories In Your Inbox Tags Commencement News June 01, 2022 Eric Kandel, Nobel Prize Winner and University Professor, to Retire June 01, 2022 Faculty Named Fulbright U.S. Scholars, Other Institutional Milestones June 01, 2022 Columbia Physicist Tanya Zelevinsky Wins 2022 Brown Investigator Award June 01, 2022 Celebrating Pride Month 2022 at Columbia May 31, 2022 A Cultural Critic Publishes Her Second Memoir Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close