Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All Posts in #alumni Campus & Community Celebrating Mother’s Day, ’Cuse Style! Thursday, May 5, 2022, By Jen Maser Moms who work here, moms who went here, moms who support our students in pursuing their dreams…we celebrate all of them here at Syracuse! In honor of Mother’s Day, we asked members of the campus community to share some of… Campus & Community Syracuse University to Award 4 Honorary Degrees at 2022 Commencement Thursday, April 28, 2022, By News Staff A pioneering researcher in life sciences and biotechnology; a visionary leader in higher education and distinguished scholar; an innovative leader in health care and philanthropist; and an outstanding public administrator and a champion of democracy will be awarded honorary degrees… Campus & Community Architecture Alumni Selected to Design 10th Anniversary Ragdale Ring Monday, April 18, 2022, By Julie Sharkey A team of School of Architecture alumni made up of Ahnaf Chowdhury ’19, (B.Arch.), Anuradha Desai ’19 (B.Arch.), Amelia Gan ’19 (B.Arch.) and Marda Zenawi ’19 (B.Arch.), recently won the 2022 Ragdale Ring competition for their proposal, “Echo,” a design… Campus & Community In Memoriam: Life Trustee Anthony Y.C. Yeh G’49, an Innovator at the Intersection of Engineering and Business Thursday, April 14, 2022, By Eileen Korey After earning a master’s degree in mechanical engineering from the College of Engineering and Computer Science, Anthony Y.C. Yeh G’49 returned to his native country determined to help the throngs of refugees fleeing into Hong Kong from mainland China. He… STEM Life Trustee Nick Donofrio G’71, H’11 Receives 2022 International Peace Honors Award Wednesday, April 6, 2022, By Alex Dunbar Nicholas “Nick” Donofrio G’71, H’11, a Syracuse University Life Trustee, was one of the distinguished award recipients at the 2022 International Peace Honors on Feb. 27. The International Peace Honors celebrates the most outstanding global leaders and change agents of… Campus & Community Randi Bregman G’90, Co-Executive Director of Vera House, Is a Support and Advocate for Students Impacted by Sexual and Relationship Violence Thursday, March 31, 2022, By News Staff Upon graduating with a master of social work (M.S.W.) degree from Syracuse University in 1990, Randi Bregman joined the staff at Vera House, a Syracuse-based nonprofit that works to prevent, respond to and ultimately end domestic and sexual violence and… Campus & Community Additional Camera Installed Tracks SU-Sue and Otto’s New Nest on Bowne Hall Wednesday, March 30, 2022, By Dan Bernardi Viewers from around the world will once again have a bird’s-eye view of the red-tailed hawk pair, affectionately named SU-Sue and Otto, who have called the Syracuse University campus home since 2012. A 24/7 live feed hosted on the College… Campus & Community ‘I Am Home!’: Felisha Legette-Jack ’89 Excited to Lead Women’s Basketball Program Tuesday, March 29, 2022, By John Boccacino Syracuse University has always been home for Felisha Legette-Jack ’89. Growing up in a Syracuse Housing Authority building, Legette-Jack dreamed of taking her basketball talents to only one place—Syracuse University—following a decorated career at Nottingham High School. The University was… Media, Law & Policy Newhouse School Announces Winners of the 2022 Toner Prizes for Excellence in Political Reporting Tuesday, March 29, 2022, By Wendy S. Loughlin The S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications announced the winners of the 2022 Toner Prizes for Excellence in Political Reporting late Monday during a pre-recorded ceremony featuring House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. The Washington Post was the winner of the national… Campus & Community Felisha Legette-Jack ’89 Named 7th Head Coach in Women’s Basketball Program History Saturday, March 26, 2022, By News Staff Felisha Legette-Jack, a 1989 graduate of Syracuse University and Orange All-American, is coming home. The Syracuse native and 20-year collegiate head coach will take the reins of the Orange basketball program immediately. Legette-Jack is synonymous with Syracuse women’s basketball success…. 123456 Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.