Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program ‘Whatever You Need, I’m There’ — Meet #NCState22 Best Friends Emily and Alyssa facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Students ‘Whatever You Need, I’m There’ — Meet #NCState22 Best Friends Emily and Alyssa Brought together by the saxophone section, best friends reminisce on their time in Carter-Finley Stadium. May 16, 2022 Megan Ellisor Play Video Saturdays in the fall and third quarter hot chocolate are just two of the things Alyssa McInnis and Emily Southard will miss now that they’ve graduated. Most of all, they’ll miss the Power Sound of the South — and each other. “I like to say there’s never a time I’m with Emily when I’m not laughing,” Alyssa said. Brought together by the saxophone section, Alyssa and Emily took one last trip to Carter-Finley Stadium and the spot where they spent many game days standing side by side to reflect before turning their tassels. Alyssa and Emily graduated with degrees in biochemistry and middle grades mathematics education, respectively. “Since we’ve seen our lower moments of hangriness or exhaustion, we can really appreciate both the lows and the highs,” Emily said. More from Best of Friends #NCState22 In our graduation video series, we meet friends who helped one another through an unprecedented college career. ‘I Feel So Blessed’ — Meet #NCState22 Best Friends Parker and Noah As part of our graduation video series, these elementary school friends reflect on how NC State brought them closer together. ‘We’re Stuck’ — Meet #NCState22 Best Friends Niambé and Kourtni Best friends say ‘goodbye’ to NC State in the field where they first said ‘hello’ and started a lifelong friendship. See all in current issue Categories: Alumni Best of Friends Students Tags: biochemistry college of agriculture and life sciences college of education commencement graduation math education View Comments 0 total responses Leave a Response Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. All fields are required. Comment * Name * Email * More From NC State News The Gift of a Student’s Trust AnnE Ford's Final Student Chronicle: Graduation 'We're Stuck' — Meet #NCState22 Best Friends Niambé and Kourtni Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.