Skip to main content COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quicklinks Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop WSU Today Shocker Blast Campus Connection Submit a Newsletter Item Academic Calendar Apply Now! Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu AcademicsAdmissionsStudent LifeAthleticsAboutApply Now Home COVID-19 Updates Updated COVID-19 safety reminders WSU Today Shocker Blast Campus Connection Submit a Newsletter Item WSU News January 5, 2022 Updated COVID-19 safety reminders Please remember the following COVID-19 safety practices to protect you and your colleagues. Masks continue to be required for the entire campus, which includes students, faculty, staff and visitors. Vaccines and boosters are highly recommended as the best tool to fight COVID-19. You can get vaccinated through the weekly Wednesday mobile clinic at Charles Koch Arena or at any other vaccination site. See the Sedgwick County vaccine page for additional locations. Student Health Services has temporarily halted vaccines for the WSU community to prioritize medical care for the ill and reduce the risk of exposure to COVID-19. To help support and remind the Shocker community about masking, vaccines and other safety practices, a digital toolkit is available for print and download for any office or building use. If you’re interested in getting tested for COVID, there are multiple options. Students, faculty and staff can schedule a free COVID-19 testing appointment in Student Health Services through the myShockerHealth portal. Login with your Shocker ID and select “Appointments” from the menu. Wichita State’s Molecular Diagnostics Lab is open 6 a.m.-6 p.m. Monday-Friday, and offers free testing, along with multiple other locations throughout Sedgwick County, to the entire community. Please note that wait times to be tested have increased because of growing demand. The Hughes Metropolitan Complex Testing Site (5015 E. 29th St. North) no longer offers COVID-19 testing. Thank you for your continued flexibility as we work together during this pandemic. See Also This news item is in these publications: WSU Today: Monday, Jan. 10, 2022 WSU Today: Friday, Jan. 7, 2022 WSU Today: Thursday, Jan. 6, 2022 WSU Today: Wednesday, Jan. 5, 2022 Submit an item Have an event or information that will be of interest to the people of WSU? Use the form linked below to submit the item for consideration in WSU news publications. Submit an item View or submit events for WSU Calendar Stay on top of campus events or help get the word out about your event by visiting the WSU Calendar of featured events. View the Latest Events Submit an Event Search: Search 1845 Fairmount St. Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 987-3456 Request Info Visit Apply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions facebook twitter instagram youtube Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself. Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & Friends Give to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Policy Campus Safety Accessibility WSU Public Information site Website Support Settlement Info KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment.