        Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links University of Miami Division of University Communications Office of Media Relations Miller School of Medicine Communications Hurricane Sports UM Media Experts Emergency Preparedness Home Search Latest Headlines School Education and Human Development Educational and Psychological Studies Kinesiology and Sports Sciences Teaching and Learning Our Dean Diversity Events Social Publications SEHD Department of Educational and Psychological Studies Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Department of Teaching and Learning Latest Headlines Events Social Publications SEHD News@TheU Latest Headlines Life@theU Events Subscribe to News@TheU Newsletter Search Latest Headlines School Education and Human Development Educational and Psychological Studies Kinesiology and Sports Sciences Teaching and Learning Our Dean Diversity Events Social Publications SEHD Department of Educational and Psychological Studies Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Department of Teaching and Learning News@TheU Latest Headlines Life@theU Events Subscribe to News@TheU Newsletter UM NEWS HOME Home Stories 2020 November Alumni profile: Olympic Champion Lindsay Dare Shoop AAA Alumni profile: Olympic Champion Lindsay Dare Shoop By SEHD News Alumni profile: Olympic Champion Lindsay Dare Shoop By SEHD News An Olympic gold medalist, Lindsay Shoop, M.S.Ed. ‘18, is a coach, speaker and author of a new book, Better Great Than Never. Her inspirational work focuses on her lifelong experiences as an athlete. “I believe you need to embrace every step, good and bad, to find greatness,” she says. “As long as you learn throughout your journey, you can never lose.” In high school, Shoop was an All-State athlete in basketball, but by the time she was in her first year at the University of Virginia, having given up on sports by then, she weighed nearly 200 pounds, was self-conscious of her height, and frequently missed classes to grab fast food for breakfast with friends. That all changed when she joined the UVA rowing team as a junior; and her grades, health and happiness rebounded. In just one year, she became an NCAA Division-I All-American; and in four, she broke a world record and won her first World Championship. Steven Cadavid, Ph.D. ’11, president, KinaTrax, said, “It is our pleasure to donate to the U. The research being done in the Orovitz Laboratories can benefit from our markerless technology. Through this donation, researchers can collect new data, conduct validation studies and develop models that go well beyond baseball.” “By age 26, I stood alongside my teammates as Olympic Champion, gold medal hanging around my neck and tears streaming down my face as the National Anthem played, and the American flag raised,” said Shoop, who is also a three-time World Champion, and a National Rowing Hall of Fame inductee. After moving to Miami Beach a decade ago, Shoop worked for the city’s ocean rescue team, before returning to rowing as a coach for Pine Crest School in Fort Lauderdale, then for Barry University in Miami Shores, and finally for the University of Miami. “I rediscovered my love for rowing, this time as a coach,” said Shoop, whose teams at Barry won two Division II NCAA championships. Recognizing that a deeper understanding of human physiology would help her become a better coach, Shoop enrolled in the Exercise Physiology program at the UM School of Education and Human Development with an additional focus on strength and conditioning and nutrition. “That’s a rare combination, and it was ideal for me,” she said. “Rather than coaching from a conventional standpoint, I could learn and apply a holistic approach that could help young people move better and prevent injuries which allowed them to further excel and enjoy their sports.” Throughout 2020, Shoop has also been delivering presentations for USRowing. During her talks, she champions practicing self-care to address mental and physical stress in order to become a better athlete in sport and beyond. Reflecting on her coaching philosophy, she said, “When you are the best you can be for yourself, you can then be even better for other people.” School of Education & Human Development Visit Us School of Education & Human Development Programs All Degrees Apply Now Get Started Give Support SEHD Events 'Canes Calendar topics: People and Community School of Education & Human Development Visit Us School of Education & Human Development Programs All Degrees Apply Now Get Started Give Support SEHD Events 'Canes Calendar University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 School of Education and Human Development 5202 University Drive Merrick Bldg. Rm. 312 Coral Gables, FL 33124 305- 284-3711 305- 284-3711 UM Network About UM UM News and Events Admissions Alumni Association UHealth Hurricane Sports 'Cane Watch UM Culture Tools and Resources Academic Calendar People Search Department Search MyUM CaneLink Blackboard Workday Employment Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices Title IX & Gender Equity Website Feedback