Skip to main content Stanford University Stanford Report Search this site Submit Search Menu Students Faculty Staff About Search this site Submit Search Faculty University Communications Trailblazing marine botanist Isabella Abbott honored A lecture hall at Stanford’s Hopkins Marine Station will be named for Isabella Ainoa Abbott, a pioneering marine botanist and the university’s first Native Hawaiian faculty member and first female full professor in biological sciences. “Integrating Local Ecological Knowledge and Marine Conservation Science,” this year’s memorial lecture honoring her, will be delivered on Friday, May 27. 4 days ago Stanford News Service ‘What matters most to you and why?’ Zelenskyy asks Stanford students Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelenskyy spoke to the Stanford community in a video address about his country’s war against Russia for freedom and global democracy, which he said requires the continued support of all the people of the free world. 3 days ago University Communications Qualitative data released from 2021 DEI survey Findings include firsthand accounts of discriminatory, harassing, and other harmful behavior that are consistent with previously released quantitative data. Beginning this summer, a series of focus groups and community forums will be held to discuss the survey results and next steps. 5 days ago Vice Provost for Student Affairs Anti-hate website launches Newly launched by the Division of Student Affairs in collaboration with CAPS clinicians, the Office for Religious & Spiritual Life, campus community centers, and the Confidential Support Team, the Stanford Against Hate website is a resource for anti-hate education and empowerment. 3 days ago From the President & Provost President’s statement on discovery of noose 3 weeks ago Exciting news about our new school: A message from President Marc Tessier-Lavigne 4 weeks ago Welcome to spring quarter 2 months ago More Current Policies With certain exceptions, face coverings are no longer required but continue to be strongly recommended on-site, regardless of vaccination status. Face coverings are required in classrooms; however, individuals may remove face coverings while speaking. Weekly asymptomatic surveillance testing for vaccinated faculty, staff and postdoctoral scholars and for fully vaccinated and boosted students (undergraduates, graduate students and students enrolled in professional degree programs) has been suspended. Following international travel, all must comply with campus access restrictions and testing requirements. More Research Stanford Institute for Human-Centered Artificial Intelligence Can AI help humans achieve great, original writing? 4 days ago School of Engineering Sustainability on the horizon 6 days ago Graduate School of Education ‘Segregation Index’ of U.S. schools 6 days ago In the News There’s a name for the feeling that nothing you do mattersUSA Today Dr. Alok Patel on COVID-19 surge: ‘We’re seeing an unprecedented amount of cases.’ABC News How to manage the anxiety of giving negative feedbackFast Company Could life use a longer genetic code? Maybe, but it’s unlikelyWired Awards & Honors Stanford News Service Newest American Academy of Arts and Sciences members 1 month ago Stanford News Service Matteo Maggiori and Patrick Phillips named Andrew Carnegie Fellows 1 month ago Stanford News Service Five Stanford scholars awarded Guggenheim Fellowship 1 month ago More Stanford Research Arts & Creativity Business Education Health & Medicine Humanities Law & Policy Science & Technology Social Sciences Faculty Events More Faculty Events University Affairs University Communications Qualitative data released from 2021 DEI survey 5 days ago Stanford News Service Stanford provost presents 2022-23 budget plan to Faculty Senate 2 weeks ago Stanford News Service Progress on Stanford’s Long-Range Vision highlighted at Academic Council meeting 4 weeks ago Campus Resources Health Alerts Teach Anywhere Faculty Affairs Faculty Senate Faculty Handbook DoResearch Stanford Report News and information for the Stanford community. COVID-19 info & resources Re-Approaching Stanford Contact Stanford News Subscribe to Stanford Report Stanford Report is sent automatically to all Stanford faculty, staff and students. Others are invited to subscribe to Stanford Report. Stanford University Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.