Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Tactical Navigation - New Wave Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Close Search Tulane Search form Search this site Search search tulane.edu search news only Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Tulane News Primary Navigation - New Wave News Tulanian Magazine Events Experts Press Releases On Good Authority Podcast Tactical Navigation - New Wave Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Public Relations Team: tel 504-865-5210, @tulanenews, pr@tulane.edu Health, News Releases, Research in Real Time, Science Study examines why the memory of fear is seared into our brains May 27, 2022 A team of Tulane neuroscientists have been studying the formation of fear memories in the emotional hub of the brain – the amygdala — and think they have a mechanism. Research in Real Time, Science, World Tulane geologist honored by National Academies of Sciences May 13, 2022 Geologist Cynthia Ebinger has been named one of 14 Jefferson Science Fellows by the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine. Research in Real Time, Science, World Tulane math professor receives international research award May 12, 2022 Tulane University math professor Lisa Fauci has won a prestigious research grant from an international organization that funds basic research in life sciences. Health, Research in Real Time, Science Team Fleur FemTech wins annual Novel Tech Challenge May 11, 2022 Team Fleur FemTech, four students from the School of Science and Engiineering, won the annual Novel Tech Challenge for their at-home test kit for detection of endometriosis. News Releases, Research in Real Time, Science Tulane scientists develop powerful family of two-dimensional materials May 05, 2022 A team of Tulane scientists has developed a new family of two-dimensional materials that researchers say has promising applications in everything from advanced electronics to high-capacity batteries. News Releases, Research in Real Time Study finds training ‘village doctors’ can improve blood-pressure control in rural areas May 02, 2022 High blood pressure is a leading cause of heart disease and early death, but many across the globe live in areas with limited access to high-quality healthcare. The problem is especially serious in rural China where little more than 5% of hypertension patients have their blood pressure under control. Culture, Health, Research in Real Time, Science Researchers study impact of college personality course on personality understanding April 28, 2022 Tulane researchers conducted a study that looked at the connection between students taking an introductory personality course and their dispositional intelligence. COVID-19, News Releases, Research in Real Time Tulane researchers receive American Heart Association grant to study COVID’s vascular effects April 25, 2022 The American Heart Association has awarded Tulane University researchers $940,000 to study how COVID-19 spurs vascular inflammation that may increase risks for blood clots and lingering symptoms of long COVID. Culture, News Releases, Research in Real Time, World Tulane study explores academic success among Jewish girls April 14, 2022 A Tulane study concludes that girls raised by at least one Jewish parent acquire a particular way of viewing the world that influences their education choices, career aspirations and various other experiences. Research in Real Time, Science, World Tulane team a national semifinalist in energy technology competition April 12, 2022 A team of Earth and Environmental Sciences students has been named a national semifinalist in the U.S. Department of Energy's inaugural EnergyTech University Prize competition. Culture, Health, Research in Real Time, Science, World Tulane professor among international experts to produce landmark U.N. climate change report April 05, 2022 Tulane professor Jesse M. Keenan is among dozens of scholars and scientists involved in the writing and editing of a newly released United Nations report on the state of climate change. News Releases, Research in Real Time, Retirements, Science Tulane study shows COVID-19’s lingering impacts on the brain April 01, 2022 COVID-19 patients commonly report having headaches, confusion and other neurological symptoms, but doctors don’t fully understand how the disease targets the brain during infection. Now, researchers at Tulane University have shown in detail how COVID-19 affects the central nervous system, according to a new study published in Nature Communications. News Releases, Research in Real Time, Science Tulane researcher wins NSF award to study Earth’s ‘explosive’ tectonic reactions March 31, 2022 Tulane researcher Colin Jackson has won a National Science Foundation Early Career Award to further his research on the chemistry of planets. News Releases, Research in Real Time Researchers to evaluate program to recruit more women for civic boards and commissions March 15, 2022 Researchers from Tulane and University of Notre Dame will be working on a five-year research program with United WE to assess the efficacy of the Appointments Project®, which works to empower women and strengthen communities by increasing gender parity on civic boards and commissions. News Releases, Research in Real Time Could a common virus be a barrier to curing HIV? Tulane University awarded $4.1 million to find out March 09, 2022 Researchers at Tulane University will use a new $4.1 million NIH grant to investigate how a common virus may help HIV persist in viral reservoirs and out of reach of leading antiretroviral therapies. Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next › last » Subscribe to Tulane Today Tulane Today Archive News Archive Submit Your News Submission Guidelines Tulane in the News On Good Authority Podcast Statements Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane Home Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University