Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search University of Notre Dame Notre Dame News Latest News Experts ND in the News Subscribe About Us Home Contact Search Menu Mary Ellen O'Connell High Resolution Photo Notre Dame Law School Phone 574-631-7953 Email MaryEllenOConnell@nd.edu Website Robert and Marion Short Professor of Law, Research Professor of International Dispute Resolution, Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies International law International legal regulation of the use of force Conflict and dispute resolution Video Audio The Kroc Cast: Peace Studies Conversations Peace studies and the art of law O'Connell’s Latest News February 24, 2022 Notre Dame experts weigh in on Russian invasion of Ukraine February 01, 2022 Support international law in Russia-Ukraine crisis or risk losing the rules-based order, expert says February 26, 2021 Syria airstrikes a grave violation of international law, expert says May 27, 2020 Lawsuits against China, WHO are not the way forward, expert says October 15, 2019 Turkey’s military aggression in Syria is as unlawful as Russia’s in Ukraine, expert says February 20, 2019 US military action in Venezuela would violate international law, expert says November 14, 2018 Migrant caravan not an ‘invasion’ — US militarism partly to blame, says expert April 12, 2018 Missile strikes against Syria ‘as serious as triggering events,’ expert says O'Connell in the News Associated Press Russian sentenced to life in Ukraine's 1st war crimes trial May 23, 2022 Mary Ellen O’Connell, an expert on international law at the University of Notre Dame, said that putting Shishimarin on trial could prove “extremely detrimental to Ukrainian soldiers in the hands of Russia.” Catholic News Service Accountability for alleged war crimes in Ukraine likely a long way off April 22, 2022 Although inquiries are underway, Mary Ellen O’Connell, professor of law at the University of Notre Dame, called for a negotiated end to the war — the sooner the better. CNBC War crime charges may not be enough to deter Putin — even as evidence of Russian atrocities mounts April 08, 2022 “International condemnation or war crimes threats will have little effect on Russian behavior. This is nothing new for them,” said Bob Latiff, adjunct professor at the University of Notre Dame, citing previous offenses in Syria and Chechnya...“The crimes are increasing resolve among Ukraine’s existing supporters to continue and even step-up military assistance and economic pressure. But ending the war will require a bigger coalition of support — reaching China, India, and others,” Mary Ellen O’Connell, professor of law at the University of Notre Dame, said. Reuters Putin acting 'irrationally,' says analyst, but settlement possible March 17, 2022 Mary Ellen O’Connell, Professor of International Dispute Resolution at the University of Notre Dame, said that the conflict is at a critical juncture, and that Russia’s failure to attain its military objectives provides an opportunity. USA Today A 'cold-blooded' alliance? China could be a pivotal force in Russia's war against Ukraine March 14, 2022 “Russia would like China to step in to mitigate sanctions,” said Notre Dame Law School professor Mary Ellen O’Connell, author of "The Crisis in Ukraine.” WGN Ukraine and Russia from an international law perspective with Notre Dame professor February 26, 2022 Mary Ellen O’Connell, International Law specialist and Law and research professor at Notre Dame talks about previous conflicts with NATO countries. The two discuss Russia’s position in the United Nations and putting pressure on Putin. CNN How the world can make Putin pay for invading Ukraine February 24, 2022 Mary Ellen O’Connell is the Robert and Marion Short Professor of Law and research professor of international dispute resolution at the University of Notre Dame. WSBT TV Notre Dame professor explains history of Russia-Ukraine relations February 24, 2022 Professor Mary O'Connell says Ukraine became a fully independent member of the United Nations under a treaty with the Soviet Union in 1991. NPR Has Russia already invaded Ukraine? An expert clarifies 'invasion' February 23, 2022 We asked Mary Ellen O'Connell, professor of international dispute studies at Notre Dame Law School and the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, how do we know when we've passed the red line? Associated Press EXPLAINER: Ukraine shows how not all 'invasions' are equal February 22, 2022 Mary Ellen O’Connell, a Notre Dame law professor and an expert on international law and the use of force, says any crossing of a national border with military forces is unlawful, even if it’s called something other than an invasion. The Guardian Yemen: Saudi-led airstrike on rebel-run prison kills at least 60 and wounds 200 January 21, 2022 “News of the Saudi air strike on a prison – a protected civilian site – and knocking out Yemen’s internet is both tragic and no surprise,” said Mary Ellen O’Connell, a professor at Notre Dame law school in the US. Associated Press Family seeks to sue Lebanon over dead father’s captivity January 19, 2022 Mary Ellen O’Connell, a professor at the Notre Dame Law School, said it may be challenging for a case to be brought against Lebanon, which is not designated a “state sponsor of terrorism.” CNBC Biden didn’t accept Putin’s ‘red lines’ on Ukraine – here’s what that means December 08, 2021 “Putin has said again and again that Ukraine is culturally and historically part of Russia. Ukraine’s history is complicated, but for Putin and other Russians, Russia should by rights include Ukraine,” said Mary Ellen O’Connell, a professor at the University of Notre Dame, when asked why Russia opposed NATO’s expansion. Business Insider Biden risks killing more civilians with drone strikes in Afghanistan as part of his 'over-the-horizon' strategy, experts warn September 21, 2021 "Not only do remote pilots have only a vague idea in most cases who they are killing, now that the war is over in Afghanistan, it will be virtually impossible to use drone strikes legally," Mary Ellen O'Connell, Notre Dame Law School professor and expert on international law in relation to the use of force, told Insider. Politifact COVID-19 vaccination does not violate the Nuremberg Code August 20, 2021 The Nuremberg principles that Key alludes to are not part of U.S. law; they refer to a treaty agreed to after World War II to prosecute individuals for war crimes, and crimes against humanity, said Mary Ellen O’Connell, a law professor at the University of Notre Dame School of Law. ABC 57 Expert: Taliban takeover inevitable, a multi-administration failure August 16, 2021 Despite the poorly planned exit, Mary Ellen O’Connell says this was a multi-administration failure three presidents in the making. Xinhua Five militiamen killed in U.S. airstrikes in Iraq, Syria June 28, 2021 Mary Ellen O'Connell, a professor at Notre Dame Law School, has criticized the U.S. attacks as a violation of international law. Australian Broadcasting Corporation Planet America March 09, 2021 Mary Ellen O'Connell, law, speaks with Australian Broadcasting Corporation. (starting at 15:00) USA Today Rockets strike Iraqi base housing US troops ahead of Pope Francis visit March 03, 2021 Mary Ellen O’Connell, a professor of law at the University of Notre Dame and an expert on the use of military force, said in emailed comments that the attacks in Iraq "demonstrate the danger and illegality of deploying force for deterrence." Vox Why Democrats are blasting Biden’s attack against Iranian proxies in Syria February 26, 2021 Mary Ellen O’Connell, a professor at Notre Dame and co-author of Self-Defense Against Non-State Actors, told me she agrees that the president should come to Congress when there is time to seek authorization. Al Jazeera First US military action under Biden draws criticism February 26, 2021 Mary Ellen O’Connell, a professor at Notre Dame Law School, criticised the US attack as a violation of international law. National Catholic Reporter Unpacking the fine print of Biden's declaration about the war in Yemen February 26, 2021 I spoke about Biden's announcement on Yemen with Mary Ellen O'Connell, a professor at the University of Notre Dame Law School and a research professor of international dispute resolution at Notre Dame's Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. Financial Times US launches air strikes against Iran-linked militias in Syria February 26, 2021 Mary Ellen O’Connell, an expert in the lawful use of force at the University of Notre Dame, described the act as a “grave violation of international law”, saying the US had no right to target Syrian soil in reprisal for an act committed in Iraq. Associated Press US bombs facilities in Syria used by Iran-backed militia February 26, 2021 Mary Ellen O’Connell, a professor at Notre Dame Law School, criticized the U.S. attack as a violation of international law. Associated Press Militia official: US strike in Syria kills 1, wounds several February 26, 2021 Mary Ellen O’Connell, a professor at Notre Dame Law School, criticized the U.S. attack as a violation of international law. Home Latest News Experts ND in the News Subscribe About Us For the Media Contact Office of Public Affairs and Communications Notre Dame News 500 Grace Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Pinterest © 2022 University of Notre Dame Search Mobile App News Events Visit Accessibility Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn