Skip to main content Visit Temple.edu Toggle Utility Menu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Search Site Search Temple Now Navigation - Go To - News by topic - Arts & Culture - Athletics - Campus News - Community Engagement - Global Temple - Research - Staff & Faculty - Student Success - Sustainability - Return to Campus - Visualize TempleAnnouncementsNewsletters - Temple Now subscriptionPublicationsTemple in the newsSocial MediaSpecial SeriesTemple MagazineAboutAccolades News by topic Announcements Newsletters Special Series About Arts & Culture What to read, listen to and watch to learn more about AAPI communities Athletics Introducing a new head coach of women’s basketball Campus News New General Education course to focus on AAPI identity and experiences Community Engagement President Wingard highlights Center City Business Association’s “Lunch with the City's Leaders” Global Temple Serving the American media from the Far East Research Temple-headquartered STARS Computing Corps receives a $3 million National Science Foundation grant Return to Campus Student community health ambassadors look out for their fellow Owls Staff & Faculty Temple thought leaders lend their voices to national conversation surrounding Roe v. Wade Student Success Temple Made for … building community Sustainability Charles Library earns LEED Gold certification Visualize Temple Charles Library shapes the future at Temple and beyond View Archives Home / News by topic Posted May 11, 2022 12th President; Jason Wingard, Center City Business Association, Faculty & Staff, news, SBDC, Small Business Development Center, Union League, Community Engagement President Wingard highlights Center City Business Association’s “Lunch with the City's Leaders” Temple University President Jason Wingard joined Maura Shenker, director of Temple’s Small Business Development Center, for a candid conversation at Philadelphia’s Union League Photography By: Joseph V. Labolito Temple University President Jason Wingard joined Maura Shenker, director of Temple’s Small Business Development Center, for a candid conversation at Philadelphia’s Union League as part of the Center City Business Association's "Lunch with the City's Leaders" series. A sold out crowd of Philadelphia business leaders and executives looked on as Dr. Jason Wingard, president of Temple University, and Maura Shenker, director of Temple’s Small Business Development Center, took the stage at the The Union League of Philadelphia for a special one-on-one conversation. “When companies see a Temple student’s résumé, what do you want them to think of first?” Shenker asked Wingard early in the discussion. President Wingard’s response came without delay. “In a word: Excellence,” he said. “Excellence in terms of academic preparation and excellence in terms of career readiness.” The discussion between Wingard and Shenker was part of the Center City Business Association’s “Lunch with the City's Leaders” series. It was the association’s first in-person event since before the start of the COVID-19 pandemic in early 2020. Representatives from businesses and organizations spanning several industries attended the candid conversation. Comcast, J.P. Morgan, Jefferson Health and Univest Corporation were just some of the companies represented. Throughout the candid conversation, Wingard and Shenker discussed everything from the future of work to Temple’s engagement with the community. They even debated the value of a paid versus unpaid internship. “Historically, paid internships were readily available to students. But now, we’re seeing an increased number of students forced to take unpaid internships. While they often get a great experience, unpaid internships require students to rely on their parents to support and supplement them during that engagement--which can be a challenge,” Wingard said. “At Temple, this is something we want to look at. We can explore doing a special fundraising initiative to support our students, so they can have paid internships, and we can also use our influence with our corporate partners to offer more opportunities for pay.” The topic of curriculum was also brought up through the discussion. The future of work is one of President Wingard’s key research interests, but he is also equally focused on the future of learning. As the workplace adapts, higher education must do the same. Wingard assured audience members that this is something that Temple is already focusing on. “What we do at universities, in general, is adjust our curriculum every 10 to 15 years," Wingard said. "At Temple, we're focused on adapting our curriculum on a much more frequent basis. It doesn't have to be dramatic, but we need to constantly be asking that question of industries, of business leaders, of employers: ‘What skills are you looking for?’ This allows us to design curriculum and teaching experiences that prepare students for the jobs of the future.” - Stephen Orbanek Related Stories President Wingard discusses his top priorities for Temple President Wingard advocates for Temple in Harrisburg President Wingard shares vision for taking Temple to the next level Temple University Strategic Marketing & Communications Bell Building 1101 W. Montgomery Avenue Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Directory Maps and Directions Contact RSS Facebook Twitter Pinterest LinkedIn.com YouTube Flickr TUPortal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Temple Now: The official source for Temple news. Copyright 2015, Temple University. All rights reserved.