Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search University of Notre Dame Notre Dame News Latest News Experts ND in the News Subscribe About Us Home Contact Search Menu Home › News › Notre Dame statement on weekend shootings Notre Dame statement on weekend shootings Published: May 16, 2022 Author: Notre Dame News University Seal “The University of Notre Dame community mourns and prays for the families and friends of those killed and injured in senseless shootings this past weekend in Buffalo, New York, and Laguna Woods, California. “The racial animus that inspired the murders in Buffalo is the antithesis of all that we as a people stand for, as was the targeting of members of the Asian American community while at church. We pray for an end to the divisive rhetoric that has led to a growing and unacceptable environment of hate and violence that is tearing at the fabric of our nation. “Notre Dame is committed to scholarship and education related to issues of race and reconciliation through entities such as the Initiative on Race and Resilience and the Klau Center for Civil and Human Rights. “Faculty and staff are encouraged to contact the Notre Dame Wellness Center for emotional well-being services. Students may contact the University Counseling Center for counseling or Campus Ministry for pastoral support.” Rev. John I. Jenkins, C.S.C. President, University of Notre Dame The Rev. Canon Hugh R. Page Jr. Vice President for Institutional Transformation Posted In: University News Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Home Latest News Experts ND in the News Subscribe About Us Related May 26, 2022 Abigail Abikoye receives Wood Award from Community-Engaged Alliance May 06, 2022 Alumna Geraldine Mukumbi named 2022 Knight-Hennessy Scholar April 29, 2022 Condoleezza Rice shares thoughts on Russia, college athletics in campus talk April 27, 2022 The Rev. Canon Hugh Page appointed inaugural VP for institutional transformation and advisor to the president April 26, 2022 Former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice to speak at Notre Dame For the Media Contact Office of Public Affairs and Communications Notre Dame News 500 Grace Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Pinterest © 2022 University of Notre Dame Search Mobile App News Events Visit Accessibility Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn