Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia News Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Featured News Topics Video Books Podcasts All News Media Resources Awards & Milestones Arts & Humanities Politics & Social Justice Research & Discovery Photo of the Week Commencement 2022 Columbia News You are here: Home Awards & Milestones Awards & Milestones Awards & Milestones Columbia faculty, students, and staff are on the cutting edge of advancements in all fields and their work is thus justly awarded and recognized. Below, find recent accomplishments and milestones as well as bi-monthly lists of recent awards. Want your accomplishment to be included? Email [email protected]. Want these announcements in your inbox? Subscribe to Columbia News newsletters. SPOTLIGHT Four Columbians Win Guggenheim Fellowships Columbia’s 2022 Truman Scholars 14 Columbia University Affiliates Awarded Fulbright U.S. Student Grants Recent Awards & Milestones Left to right: Kaiama Glover, Jennifer Lee, José L. McFaline-Figueroa, William B. F. Ryan. Awards & Milestones Columbians Receive Prestigious Awards, Fellowships, and Promotions March 09, 2022 From science to engineering, writing to social sciences, here are the Columbians who received awards recently. Farah Jasmine Griffin, Damonta Morgan, and Daphna Shohamy. Awards & Milestones Sloan Research Fellowships, CAREER Awards, and PROSE Awards Go to Columbians February 23, 2022 From science to engineering, writing to social sciences, here are the Columbians who received awards recently. Columbia faculty to receive 2022 Sloan Fellowships (clockwise from top left): J. Colin Hill, Georgia Karagiorgi, Karen Kasza, Shuran Song, and Henry Yuen. Awards & Milestones Five Columbia Researchers Named 2022 Sloan Research Fellows February 15, 2022 Five scientists spanning the fields of cosmology, physics, AI, and quantum science are recognized for outstanding contributions to their field with Johan de Jong, Nikita Manjuluri, and Samuel Sia. Awards & Milestones A Steele Prize, Moonshot Award, and Student Honors February 09, 2022 Here are all the recent awards for Columbia students, faculty, and staff. Dr. Ashwin Vasan has been appointed New York City Health Commissioner effective March 2022. Awards & Milestones Columbians Named AAAS Fellows, Influential Appointees January 26, 2022 Five Columbia professors have been selected as AAAS Fellows; a Mailman professor is to become NYC Health Commissioner; and student scholars were r Columbia's new AAAS Fellows, clockwise from upper left: Nicholas Christie-Blick, Gary Miller, Gerard Parkin, Michael Shen, and Dustin Rubenstein. Awards & Milestones Five Columbia Faculty Named AAAS Fellows January 26, 2022 Columbia's 2021 AAAS Fellows are recognized for their contributions to teaching and research. David Blei is a professor of computer science and statistics at Columbia University. (Photo: Jeffrey-Schifman) Awards & Milestones They Found a Way to Thematically Sort All of Wikipedia on a Laptop January 20, 2022 Computer scientist David Blei, with co-authors Matthew Hoffman and Francis Bach, is recognized with a Test of Time Award at NeurIPS, the world’s to Awards & Milestones General Studies Alumna Bérénice Sylverain Named Marshall Scholar December 13, 2021 Bérénice Sylverain (GS'20) was one of 41 scholars from across the U.S. awarded the 2022 Marshall Scholarship. Awards & Milestones Columbia Students Shine as 2022 Rhodes Scholars December 08, 2021 Four Columbia students were selected as Rhodes Scholars, plus more awards and grants for faculty and students. Awards & Milestones Important Fellowships, Prizes, and Appointments Go to Columbians November 10, 2021 Here are the Awards & Milestones that went to Columbians from Oct. 28 to Nov. 11, 2021. Kimberlé Williams Crenshaw, Sanat Kumar, and Rachel Cummings. Awards & Milestones The Highest Awards in Physics, Broadcast, and Law Go to Columbians October 27, 2021 From arts and humanities to engineering and medicine, here are the latest awards and milestones achieved by Columbians. Columbia theoretical physicist Ana Asenjo-Garcia (Photo: Eileen Barroso/Columbia University) Awards & Milestones Theoretical Physicist Ana Asenjo-Garcia Named a 2021 Packard Fellow October 14, 2021 One of 20 early-career researchers selected for the fellowship, Asenjo-Garcia is exploring how light and matter interact at the quantum level. Pagination First page« First Previous page‹ Previous Page 1 Current page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 Next pageNext › Last pageLast » Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close