Skip to main content Stanford University Stanford Report Search this site Submit Search Menu Students Faculty Staff About Search this site Submit Search About Stanford Report We’re the university’s internal communications portal Stanford Report is where you’ll find messages from the president, provost and other university leaders; notices of policy changes, announcements, deadlines, health and safety updates, events and more. It’s the home of the news and information that faculty, staff, postdocs, graduate and undergraduate students need to thrive at Stanford. We work with more than 80 partners and communicators university-wide to publish the news you need to know, every day. We’re also a newsletter The Stanford Report email newsletter is delivered to faculty, postdocs and staff each weekday morning and contains research news, campus announcements and event listings, with extensive links to Stanford News and other outlets across campus. A daily Stanford Report email is also delivered to our extended community, including parents, prospective students, members of the media and opinion leaders outside the university who are interested in the discoveries made here. Advertise in Stanford Report The Stanford community, including schools, departments and related programs, can advertise in the daily Stanford Report newsletter to faculty, staff and postdocs. Spots are available for purchase with a PTA on a first-come, first-served basis. The editors reserve the right to determine each ad’s placement. Learn more about advertising. A twice-weekly email for graduate and undergraduate students contains announcements, important dates and campus news related to the graduate and undergraduate student experience at Stanford. Subscribe to the Stanford Report newsletter. Have a question, comment or story idea? We want to hear from you. Other Stanford news sources Stanford News Part of the Office of University Communications, Stanford News Service assists reporters and disseminates much of the university’s research and scholarship news, helps publicize and handle media relations for major events, provides media training for key faculty and administrators, and serves as a liaison between scholars and media outlets. Events Calendar Explore lectures, performances and exhibitions taking place on campus. Campus organizations can request an account to post events. Stanford Mobile App The official mobile app of Stanford University has dining options, events, news, maps, transit information and more for students, staff, faculty, alumni, parents and friends. Stanford on social media Instagram Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Stanford Report News and information for the Stanford community. COVID-19 info & resources Re-Approaching Stanford Contact Stanford News Subscribe to Stanford Report Stanford Report is sent automatically to all Stanford faculty, staff and students. Others are invited to subscribe to Stanford Report. Stanford University Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.