skip to menu skip to content University of Southern California USC News Menu Search Search search Menu Search search Sections Arts Athletics Business Health Humanities Policy/Law Science/Technology Social Impact Student Life University Featured Topics Alzheimer’s Disease Research Sustainability more topics Subscribe to receive USC News via email Email address subscribe University A return to normal and a proper sendoff: Class of 2022 is urged to live ‘a life of purpose’ COMMENCEMENT 2022: A class tempered by the uncertainty of COVID-19 crosses a finish line during USC’s 139th commencement ceremony — where a new passage awaits. Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email Print BY Grayson Schmidt May 13, 2022 Graduates celebrate during the 139th USC commencement. (USC Photo/Gus Ruelas) As doves soared across the sky above Alumni Park on Friday morning, thousands of new USC graduates tossed their caps in the air and a roar of applause arose from the new alumni, their friends and family gathered for USC’s 139th commencement. “We’re here in this glorious place, taking part in a university’s most historic pageant of celebration — graduation,” USC President Carol L. Folt had said earlier in the ceremony. “And we’re fully in person and we’re proudly wearing our colors and marks of distinction. The Goldfarb family poses around their latest grad. (Photo/Courtesy of David Goldfarb) A FAMILY AFFAIR USC alumni return to their alma mater to watch their children receive degrees of their own. Join in the family affair — Trojan Family, that is. “And most of all, we’re all together after times none of us ever imagined.” The 8:30 a.m. ceremony kicked off a day of celebrations for USC’s Class of 2022, including more than 20 events for the university’s individual schools. About 70,000 people attended Friday’s ceremonies to watch more than 19,000 degrees be conferred. At USC 2022 commencement, a call to be stewards of ‘our natural world’ After hosting a virtual commencement in 2020 and a socially distanced ceremony at the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum in 2021 because of the COVID-19 pandemic, Folt led USC’s traditional commencement. Tapping into her background as a biologist, she encouraged graduates to be stewards of “our natural world” and create a more sustainable future. “Sustainability is all about our collective passage through this world,” Folt said. “These days, I see it even more about our collective will, our will to sustain the wonders of our planet, for our children, our children’s children and those who are yet to come.” She also told students that whatever their next steps are — whether they involve work with sustainability issues, social justice, educational inequality or health care access — they should always define their truth north and choose a path defined by purpose. Trojan Olympian Allyson Felix delivers the commencement address at the USC 2020 commencement. (USC Photo/Gus Ruelas) “Your USC education and the wonderful relationships you have formed here are very precious and will serve you brilliantly,” Folt said. “You’re not afraid of facing society’s challenges — I have seen you embrace them with confidence and with optimism. And your faculty, staff, family and your friends … know you have the tools, the passion. You have the ability and the commitment to dive in and make a difference.” USC’s commencement ceremonies are held each May. (Photo/iStock) 2022 COMMENCEMENT BY THE NUMBERS Some figures about USC’s 139th commencement: 19,771 Number of degrees conferred 50,000+ Number of rented chairs set up 22 minutes Time it generally takes for graduates to fill their seats 70,000 Approximate number of people attending Olympian tells USC 2022 commencement about finding her voice Olympian and USC alumna Allyson Felix delivered the commencement address, speaking about growing up as the daughter of a Trojan, the trials of her first few days as a student and how she felt at her commencement. “When I was sitting in the seats where you guys are today, I was excited to pursue my passion — I wanted to win gold medals and to be the best,” Felix said. “But what that led to was finding my purpose.” The most decorated women’s track and field athlete in Olympic history also talked about her own experiences with sponsorships and how those sparked her mission to support women athletes. After going to four Olympic Games and racking up medals and records, Felix said the one thing she still wanted was a family. She married her longtime boyfriend and started a family. But she worried about her sponsorships. “In track and field, getting pregnant has been called the kiss of death,” Felix said. Her contract with Nike was renegotiated to 60% less than she previously received. Felix then fought for maternity protection, which Nike gave her, but she wondered whether that was a deal that every athlete would be given. “I was staring at a contract that provided me with exactly what I was asking for, but in a way that would only benefit me and not all of the women who came after me,” Felix said. “I thought about my daughter and the world I wanted her to live in.” Felix eventually wrote an op-ed for The New York Times detailing her experience, and weeks later, Nike announced it would change its maternity policy. Felix went on to be sponsored by the female-led and female-focused Athleta, and eventually she and her brother started Saysh, a lifestyle brand for women. Valedictorian Adam Karelin, who is of Ukrainian ancestry, shares a poem he composed — a touching piece recalling the first day of the Russia-Ukraine war in February. (USC Photo/Gus Ruelas) “There are times when you’ll ask for change, and there are times when you’ll have to create it,” Felix said. “Each one of us can create change. You don’t have to be an Olympian to do so or have life all figured out. We all can start exactly where we are.” A moving reminder of events overseas Each of the day’s addresses commented on courage, including that of valedictorian Adam Karelin. Born in Israel to a Ukrainian-Jewish family, Karelin used his platform to call attention to the war in Ukraine. Rather than lecturing about what must be done, Karelin left his classmates and the Trojan Family with a poem about the day Russia invaded Ukraine. After reciting the last line, he gave his classmates a small yet powerful piece of advice: “May we all find the strength to face evil with light.” Raivyn Hearne delivers a stirring rendition of the national anthem. (USC Photo/Gus Ruelas) President Folt presents actor/director Ron Howard with his honorary degree. (USC Photo/Gus Ruelas) A graduate’s cap shares words of wisdom from an unlikely source. (USC Photo/Gus Ruelas) Selfies are the order of the day for celebrating graduates. (USC Photo/Gus Ruelas) A graduate shares a special moment with a family member. (USC Photo/Gus Ruelas) President Carol L. Folt addresses the graduates. (USC Photo/Gus Ruelas) The platform party exits as a memorable morning draws to a close. (USC Photo/Gus Ruelas) More stories about: Commencement 2022, Students Related stories University USC’s 2022 commencement speaker, Trojan Olympian Allyson Felix, talks about discovering her voice. (USC Photo/David Medzerian) Allyson Felix: ‘Your voice has power, and you have to use your voice — even if it shakes’ COMMENCEMENT 2022: The USC Rossier alum — winner of seven Olympic gold medals and the most decorated U.S. track and field athlete in history — shares words of wisdom with USC’s Class of 2022. Video May 13 University President Carol L. Folt addresses the graduates. (USC Photo/Gus Ruelas) Carol L. Folt: ‘Challenges, and how you face them, are essential parts of who you are’ COMMENCEMENT 2022: USC’s president shares a message of hope and encouragement with the university’s newest graduates. Video May 13 University Valedictorian Adam Karelin, who is of Ukrainian ancestry, shares a poem he composed — a touching piece recalling the first day of the Russia-Ukraine war in February. (USC Photo/Gus Ruelas) Adam Karelin: ‘May we all find the strength to face evil with light’ COMMENCEMENT 2022: USC’s valedictorian speaks for a resilient Class of 2022, and shares a poignant message on the war in Ukraine. Video May 13 University Nico Fife received his bachelor’s degree on Friday; his mother, Ana Maria Fife, received her USC degree 33 years earlier. (USC Photo/Greg Hernandez) For these Trojans, commencement is a family affair COMMENCEMENT 2022: USC alumni return to their alma mater to watch their children receive degrees of their own. May 13 Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email Print A return to normal and a proper sendoff: Class of 2022 is urged to live ‘a life of purpose’ Top stories on USC News Social Impact (Photo/Courtesy of the U.S. WWI Centennial Commission) ‘We were young, they say. We have died. Remember us.’ USC Dornsife alumnus and retired Navy Capt. Chris Isleib helped create the first national memorial for World War I veterans, part of a long career spent telling the stories of America’s military. May 27 Social ImpactUniversity Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Queer (LGBTQ) Pride Month is celebrated each June to honor the 1969 Stonewall uprising in Manhattan, a tipping point for the gay liberation movement in the United States. (USC illustration) USC Pride Month to celebrate ‘The Power of Community’ Kickoff on June 1 includes virtual event sharing personal stories and Keck Hospital of USC flag-raising ceremony. May 27 Health USC researchers have linked air pollution to everything from increased risk of autism to asthma and cardiovascular disease. (Photo/Alfred Palmer/Public Domain) Exposure to air pollution can worsen patient outcomes from COVID-19 A study by researchers of the Keck School of Medicine of USC and Kaiser Permanente finds a link between exposure to airborne particulate matter and increased risk of serious coronavirus complications. May 26 Subscribe to receive USC News via email Email address subscribe About This Site Contact Us Privacy Notice Notice of Non-Discrimination