Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: Campus & Community Preparing Students for a Life of Success Friday, May 27, 2022, By Caroline K. Reff Share College of Arts and SciencesMaxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairsstudent successStudents Selecting a major and choosing a career path don’t have to be daunting experiences. While some students come to Syracuse University’s College of Arts and Sciences (A&S) or the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs (Maxwell) ready to declare a major or choose a career path, many are still considering the many options available to them. Either way, most are eager to take advantage of the wide array of classes, experiential learning, alumni networking and other support that are certain to lead them down the path to success—and that’s where the Office of Undergraduate Academic and Career Advising is ready to help. The advising office works with more than 5,000 students each year from A&S | Maxwell. The staff of 30 guides undergraduates through everything from making sure they’ve completed academic requirements to encouraging them to explore unique options both on and off campus that can help them better prepare for the challenges of the professional world. Steven Schaffling, assistant dean of student success, received the Chancellor’s Award for outstanding contributions to the student experience. Leading the success of these efforts is Steven Schaffling, assistant dean of student success, who recently received the hancellor’s Award for outstanding contributions to the student experience and University initiatives. “Dr. Schaffling has brought significant enhancement in academic advising and career preparation to the University’s single largest undergraduate cohort by responding creatively to student needs and expectations and striving to ensure a vibrant and practical academic experience,” says A&S Dean Karin Ruhlandt. By strategically integrating academic and career advising, A&S | Maxwell has ensured that students have four years of access to an advisor who can help them plan and follow an academic path that leads from the classroom to experiential learning, as well as career options or graduate school. An important part of this process is The Edge program at A&S | Maxwell. Launched in 2021, it is a certification that encourages students to turn experiential learning into career or graduate school readiness. To earn this certification and digital badge, students must complete at least two of the available opportunities: research, internships, study abroad or community engagement. The advising office also has initiated an ambitious alumni-student mentoring program, where a student is paired with an alum who works in a particular field of interest. Within the past two years, this program has seen five times more interactions with University alumni mentors. Other career preparation options include immersions programs in places like New York City and Atlanta, resume and interview workshops, and opportunities to attend panel discussions featuring alumni from a variety of industries. Students at the 2022 A&S | Maxwell Convocation. Another enhancement to the advising process is the recent implementation of Signal Vine, a two-way text-messaging system that allows students to contact their advisors quickly. Since the initiative started, the office has received more than 10,000 student queries via text on a variety of topics—from basics like registration deadlines to more complex inquiries on how to find an internship. The advising office at A&S | Maxwell was the first at the University to adopt such technology—something that has since begun to catch on at other colleges and schools on campus. International students comprise approximately 30 percent of the enrollment at A&S | Maxwell. As these students often face unique challenges, A&S | Maxwell recently welcomed Ling LeBeau, associate director of international student success, to ease their transition to campus. This position is the first of its kind at the University. In addition, the advising office has also worked to streamline the registration process and provide language instruction to international students during their first year at the University. These efforts to help them feel at home have proven successful, resulting in more international students completing their degrees. Through the work of the Office of Undergraduate Academic and Career Advising, every student at A&S | Maxwell can navigate the academic experience with confidence and leave Syracuse University not only with a diploma in hand, but the tools and experience needed to successfully enter the job market or graduate school. Author Caroline K. Reff Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi More In Campus & Community Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59 was only 5 years old when he developed a work ethic that would last a lifetime. The Syracuse University graduate and longtime member of the Board of Trustees first demonstrated his entrepreneurial spirit as a… COVID-19 Update: Effective Wednesday, June 1, Masking Level Returns to Yellow Dear Students, Families, Faculty and Staff: Recently the Onondaga County Health Department has reported a notable decline in new COVID infections and hospitalizations across the Central New York region. This positive trend, combined with significantly reduced population density on our… Eugene ‘Gene’ Anderson to Depart Syracuse, Tapped to Lead University of Pittsburgh’s Business School Eugene “Gene” Anderson, dean of the Martin J. Whitman School of Management since 2017, today announced he will conclude his time at Syracuse University next month. After more than five years at the Whitman School, Anderson will return home to… Digital Badges at Syracuse University: Recognizing and Authenticating Microcredential Moments in Higher Education As higher education continues to anticipate and react to the needs of an evolving workforce, new programs and various modalities have been introduced to provide just-in-time learning opportunities that meet the needs of hard and soft skills sought by employers…. 5 Things to Know About the JMA Wireless Dome Home to countless athletic competitions, five Orange teams, some of the most memorable moments in collegiate sports history and cherished University traditions. Host to Commencement, iconic performers, family-friendly entertainment, high school athletic events and graduations for local districts, and even… Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.