Skip to main content Toggle navigation Search Cornell University Cornell.edu Media Relations Search Cornell University Cornell Chronicle Topics Architecture & Design Arts & Humanities Business, Economics & Entrepreneurship Computing & Information Sciences Energy, Environment & Sustainability Food & Agriculture Global Reach Health, Nutrition & Medicine Law, Government & Public Policy Life Sciences & Veterinary Medicine Physical Sciences & Engineering Social & Behavioral Sciences Coronavirus Campus & Community News & Events Public Engagement New York City Staff News Photos of the Day Big Red Sports Diversity In Memory Features NYS Impact Student Life Around Cornell All Stories In the News Expert Quotes Cornellians NYS Impact Community Work Study Program Student Employee Awards May 26, 2022 Joy Davis ’22 and Grace Choi ’22 were named Community Work Study Program Student Employees of the Year for their leadership, professionalism and teamwork in jobs that help improve the lives of community residents. Around Cornell Partnerships fuel COVID testing lab’s success May 19, 2022 Robust collaboration between community partners and Cornell has resulted in more than 2 million COVID-19 tests, saving lives throughout the Finger Lakes region. Wildlife team treats songbird injured in glue trap May 19, 2022 Found in a glue trap meant to capture insects, the small bird was taken to Cornell’s Janet L. Swanson Wildlife Hospital after its rescuers attempted to free the creature from the powerful adhesive. Vine removal technique foils devastating grape disease May 17, 2022 Removing not only a diseased grapevine but the two vines on either side of it can reduce the incidence of leafroll disease, a long-standing bane of vineyards around the world, Cornell researchers have found. Tiny red fox gets Big Red care May 9, 2022 A red fox kit found in Cortland County with its paw caught in a plastic rat trap is on the mend at Cornell’s Janet L. Swanson Wildlife Hospital, where veterinarians, licensed veterinary technicians and students are helping get the fox back to full health. Underserved high schoolers now thriving in college credit Cornell program April 28, 2022 "I saw what I am capable of when I am challenged" - that's what University of Buffalo freshman Donovan Blount says about a course developed at Cornell by two professors in the Jeb E. Brooks School of Public Policy. The leader of a national education equity organization says professors Maria Fitzpatrick and Matthew Hall are "academic heroes." Around Cornell Cornell expands LVT preceptorship program April 26, 2022 After over 15 years of preparing future veterinary technicians to enter the workforce, Cornell's preceptorship program remains one of the few of its kind based in a New York referral animal hospital. Around Cornell Costs, volunteer demands strain rural ambulance services April 25, 2022 Research by Cornell Institute for Public Affairs students highlights unsustainable cost increases challenging rural ambulance services in upstate New York and beyond, and offers solutions. Cheers to an ‘approachable’ Big Red Cranberry Sour beer April 19, 2022 Cornell’s fingerprints are all over the tasty Big Red Cranberry Sour ale. It uses a Cornell-bred barley, alum-grown hops, and made by Big Red Brewing students with an alum-owned brewery. Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 Next page » Last page Last » Gallery Heading × Previous Next Links About the Chronicle Media Relations Office Copyright Web Accessibility Assistance Contact Cornell Chronicle 312 College Ave Ithaca, NY 14850 607-255-4206 cunews@cornell.edu SUBSCRIBE Daily and weekly newsletters Feeds - RSS & JSON