Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: Campus & Community Syracuse University to Rename On-Campus Stadium, Readies Next Phase of Transformation Wednesday, April 20, 2022, By News Staff Share athleticsCarrier Domerenovationsstadium For more than 40 years, the Carrier Dome has been synonymous with Syracuse University and Orange Athletics. Carrier’s historic 1979 gift represented the first naming agreement for a major stadium in college sports, and one of the first in all of sports. More than four decades later, Carrier, whose support was instrumental in creating one of the most iconic and electric sports and events venues, has agreed to allow Syracuse to rename its stadium, effective May 1. “With Carrier’s cooperation, we will seek to rename our stadium while we continue our work to transform the experience for our students, faculty, staff, fans and Central New York community,” says John Wildhack, director of athletics. “Without Carrier’s generosity and longstanding support, completion of the Carrier Dome would not have been possible, nor would the decades of iconic sports moments and Central New York memories. We are eternally grateful for the tremendous impact Carrier has had on Orange Athletics, the Syracuse University community and the Orange fan base.” While Syracuse University considers the future identity of the stadium, it will also embark on the next phase of its work to enhance, elevate and expand the stadium experience. This includes a complete reseating, a new publicly accessible event facility and an upgrade of the entire digital infrastructure. The University will begin work later this spring with some of it scheduled to be complete as early as September 2022. The University continues to work closely with the appropriate state and local agencies to ensure enhancements to the stadium align with and support the state and county’s economic development priorities and processes. “Syracuse University is proud of the important role the Dome plays in the Central New York community and grateful for its longstanding relationship with Carrier,” says Chancellor Kent Syverud. “The Dome has been an iconic sports and entertainment venue for more than 40 years. These new enhancements will generate new and additional economic activity in Central New York and continue the Dome’s reputation as one of the top collegiate venues for generations to come.” The latest phase of renovations builds on the recently completed $118 million transformation of the Dome funded entirely by the University and private philanthropy without state or federal funding. Upcoming renovations include: Reseating the entire venue: The University will transition all seating from bench to individual/fixed seating. The new seating, a longtime request of area fans, will not only improve comfort, but will also enhance accessibility for patrons with disabilities. The Dome’s existing bench-style seating will be salvaged and made freely available to high school stadiums and venues across New York state. Build an on-site and publicly accessible event facility: The University will design and construct a roughly 25,000-square-foot addition on the east end of the Dome to infill the space between the Dome and the Barnes Center at The Arch. This new space will provide an improved fan experience, expanded event and gathering space, and upgraded accessibility. This addition will make the Dome more competitive with other peer venues across the United States. Upgrading the Dome’s digital infrastructure: The University will elevate the fan experience in the Dome by establishing the most modern connectivity offerings for fans and other users of the Dome. The Dome is a year-round venue that hosts some of the world’s top performers, college and professional athletic competitions, and the very best in family entertainment. It welcomes more than 935,000 visitors each year, contributes more than $240 million in income to the Central New York economy and supports more than 5,000 local jobs. Once complete, these enhancements are projected to generate nearly $217 million in new travel and tourism spending across Central New York between 2022-25. “Syracuse University and the Dome are central to the economic, cultural and social well-being of Central New York,” says Vice Chancellor for Strategic Initiatives and Innovation J. Michael Haynie. “Combined with the University’s $118 million transformation, the Dome will be poised to be the go-to destination for athletic, entertainment, academic and other community events and activities. Accelerating this project will not only expedite these exciting enhancements, but also elevate and increase economic opportunity in Central New York.” Pete Sala, vice president and chief campus facilities officer, says he and his team are looking forward to getting started on this next phase. He adds that he has received positive feedback from patrons on the work to date, who have expressed equal excitement for what’s to come. “We have the best fans and patrons who constantly go out of their way to share feedback, both positive and constructive,” says Sala. “We love providing them with the best experience possible and are confident this next round of renovations will have a significant impact on the fan experience. We are eager to get started and even more excited to get this work complete.” To further cultivate a vibrant, prosperous and economically thriving community, as part of this next phase, Syracuse University will also: introduce a local apprenticeship program, in partnership with trade unions, to provide career skills training in the trades, including electrical, mechanical, plumbing and fabrication; provide cost-free use of the facility to law enforcement, firefighter and disaster response training conducted by New York State or any local jurisdiction/agency for a period of 10 years; implement a procurement and construction process that prioritizes local and New York state underrepresented businesses at a level that meets or exceeds the state’s own procurement goals; ensure that events at the Dome remain affordable and accessible to members of our Central New York community; and make the bench seating removed from the Dome freely available to school districts throughout the state, as an opportunity to reduce costs associated with ongoing or planned renovations of school facilities or stadiums. About Syracuse University Syracuse University is a private research university that advances knowledge across disciplines to drive breakthrough discoveries and breakout leadership. Our collection of 13 schools and colleges with over 200 customizable majors closes the gap between education and action, so students can take on the world. In and beyond the classroom, we connect people, perspectives and practices to solve interconnected challenges with interdisciplinary approaches. Together, we’re a powerful community that moves ideas, individuals and impact beyond what’s possible. Author News Staff Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi More In Campus & Community Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59 was only 5 years old when he developed a work ethic that would last a lifetime. The Syracuse University graduate and longtime member of the Board of Trustees first demonstrated his entrepreneurial spirit as a… COVID-19 Update: Effective Wednesday, June 1, Masking Level Returns to Yellow Dear Students, Families, Faculty and Staff: Recently the Onondaga County Health Department has reported a notable decline in new COVID infections and hospitalizations across the Central New York region. This positive trend, combined with significantly reduced population density on our… Preparing Students for a Life of Success Selecting a major and choosing a career path don’t have to be daunting experiences. While some students come to Syracuse University’s College of Arts and Sciences (A&S) or the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs (Maxwell) ready to declare… Eugene ‘Gene’ Anderson to Depart Syracuse, Tapped to Lead University of Pittsburgh’s Business School Eugene “Gene” Anderson, dean of the Martin J. Whitman School of Management since 2017, today announced he will conclude his time at Syracuse University next month. After more than five years at the Whitman School, Anderson will return home to… Digital Badges at Syracuse University: Recognizing and Authenticating Microcredential Moments in Higher Education As higher education continues to anticipate and react to the needs of an evolving workforce, new programs and various modalities have been introduced to provide just-in-time learning opportunities that meet the needs of hard and soft skills sought by employers…. Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.