Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Close Search Tulane Search form Search this site Search search tulane.edu search news only Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Tulane News News Tulanian Magazine Events Experts Press Releases On Good Authority Podcast Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... News HomeHome Inline CSS for Tulane News Articles Latin language revived through course on Roman satire July 02, 2018 2:30 PM | Robin Boch newwave@tulane.edu Print to PDF 070218-latin-edu800-caterine-4887.jpg Tulane students work with students at Lafayette Academy Charter School in order to spread knowledge of and passion for Latin studies. (Photograph by Sarena Matriano Lim) This spring, a group of Tulane students worked to revive a Latin club at a local elementary school as part of their Roman Satire service-learning course. The club, originally established at the Lafayette Academy Charter School by a previous service-learning Latin class, had a goal “to introduce Latin and Roman history to young students who would otherwise not have the opportunity to be exposed to it,” said Tulane classical studies professor Mallory Monaco Caterine, who instructs the course. The club is based on the Paideia Institute’s Aequora curriculum, which teaches fourth- through sixth-graders Latin language, Roman mythology and Roman culture. Monaco Caterine was inspired to start an Aequora site as part of a service-learning program by Samantha (Sami) Morris, a 2018 Tulane School of Liberal Arts graduate and Latin major. “Six Tulane students participated in the project this spring and they were responsible for determining what material they would present each session, which activities they would lead and the preparation of any necessary classroom materials,” said Monaco Caterine. Tulane students from these service-learning courses have gone on to assist at another Aequora Latin site at the Nyansa Classical Community, an after-school and summer program for children ages 4 to 12. Here, children participate in age-appropriate programming about Roman culture. Monaco Caterine encourages any students or faculty interested in working with an Aequora site, but unable to take an associated service-learning course, to volunteer here. The program attempts to get the school-age students “excited about learning for its own sake,” said Monaco Caterine. “On top of that, it builds Tulane students’ confidence in their own Latin training, and it gives them the opportunity to run a classroom.” Related Articles Other Related Articles Idea exchange Alumna takes the director’s chair Walter Isaacson becomes contributor on ‘Amanpour & Company’ English professor leads prison-based creative writing class The writers' pen Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane Home Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University