Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Close Search Tulane Search form Search this site Search search tulane.edu search news only Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Tulane News News Tulanian Magazine Events Experts Press Releases On Good Authority Podcast Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... News HomeHome Inline CSS for Tulane News Articles Students get up close with the Dalai Lama July 19, 2018 3:45 PM | New Wave staff newwave@tulane.edu Print to PDF Dalai Lama.jpg Tulane students meet with His Holiness the Dalai Lama during their visit to India this summer as part of the Tulane Himalayan Experience India Program. (Photo from the Center for Public Service) Sixteen undergraduate students in the Tulane Himalayan Experience India Program spent 33 days this summer studying in northern India as part of a service-learning course organized through the Tulane Center for Public Service. The course, Philosophies of Non-Violence and Ecology, is led by Michael D. Smith, an adjunct lecturer in the Tulane Department of Philosophy in the School of Liberal Arts. Smith has traveled, studied and worked in South Asia since 2003. “The course was inspired by advice given to the Tulane community by His Holiness the Dalai Lama during his public talks and 2013 Tulane Unified Commencement speech in New Orleans,” said Smith. “The advice was to utilize logic and analysis to overcome the social divisions that prevent humanity from solving the problems of violence, militarism, inequality, poverty, environmental degradation and global warming.” This year's students attended three days of public teachings by the Dalai Lama in Dharamsala, and met him in a more intimate setting, during which he emphasized the importance of relying upon reason to investigate one’s mind, to remain free from anger, hatred and bias. The students heard many guest lecturers from scholars and professionals on subjects such as Indian law and social activism, traditional Indian medicine (Ayurveda), Buddhist and Hindu philosophies, the Tibetan political situation, permaculture, public health, development and gender issues. Daily yoga and meditation sessions were offered by program staff. The program concluded with a three-day Himalayan trek where the group camped below the Dhauladhar range of the Himalayas. Visit Facebook for more pictures from their journey. 071918-himalayan-experience800.jpg From left, Tulane students Julia Rallo, Sahiti Pottlapelli and Julianna Heron study at Norbulingka Institute for the Preservation of Tibetan Arts near Dharamsala India. 071918-himalayan-experience800b-101141.jpg Tulane students take class in India. Related Articles Other Related Articles On the surface Reimagining Alumna fuses fashion and function in swimwear line The act of art Branching out Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane Home Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University