Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: Faculty Experts Back To All Experts Pramod K. Varshney Distinguished Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; Director of CASE: Center for Advanced Systems and Engineering 315.443.4013 varshney@syr.edu Visit Website Field Engineering Expertise data fusion detection and estimation theory Drones physical layer security radar sensor networks wireless communications Pramod K. Varshney is a Distinguished Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science in the College of Engineering & Computer Science. Professor Varshney also serves as the Director of CASE: Center for Advanced Systems and Engineering. He has expertise in distributed sensor networks and data fusion, detection and estimation theory, wireless communications, physical layer security, image processing, and radar. Professor Varshney has two broad areas of current research. The first deals with fusion of information from a variety of heterogeneous sources, and the second area deals with cognitive networks where network throughput is to be maximized via active sensing and control under a number of system constraints. Professor Varshney also leads the Sensor Fusion Lab in the College of Engineering and Computer Science, where he is currently working with a group of students on drone use research. Varshney also serves as an Adjunct Professor for the Department of Radiology at Upstate Universiry. He received his Ph.D. in electrical engineering from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Read Full Bio Related Stories and Coverage Campus & Community Professor Pramod K. Varshney Honored With 2021 IEEE Aerospace and Electronic Systems Society Pioneer Award Wednesday, March 9, 2022, By Alex Dunbar sUAS News “Professor Pramod Varshney and Students Are Working with Industry Leaders on Drone Use Research.” Monday, June 1, 2020, By Lily Datz sUASnews “Professor Pramod Varshney and Students Are Working with Industry Leaders on Drone Use Research.” Monday, June 1, 2020, By Lily Datz Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.