Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: Business & Economy A $1.25 Million Gift Ensures Whitman Students Stand Ready to IMPRESS in the Business World Monday, October 25, 2021, By Eileen Korey Share Goodman IMPRESS ProgramWhitman School of Management Kenneth “Kenny” Goodman ’70 knows what it takes to be successful in the business world and he has committed himself to ensuring that Syracuse University graduates are a step ahead and better prepared to compete in a fast-changing world. That’s why the retired director, president and chief operating officer of the international pharmaceutical giant Forest Laboratories has committed an additional $1.25 million to the Forever Orange Campaign and the Whitman School of Management to significantly expand its Goodman IMPRESS program, a professional and personal development program he helped launch in 2014. Kenneth “Kenny” Goodman ’70 “When we launched IMPRESS, we targeted first-year students who had dreams of pursuing careers in business,” says Goodman. “I knew they would acquire important skills in the classroom—but not all the skills they would need for success. I had seen a lot of really smart people come into the business world who were not successful. They had all the academic skills but they didn’t have the right means of connecting to people within an organization that would make them successful.” Lindsay Quilty, Whitman School assistant dean for undergraduate programs, says that IMPRESS has achieved notable results—it is a magnet that attracts prospective students to Syracuse University. In addition, it has contributed to better job placement rates in higher paying positions for graduates of the program. “IMPRESS is giving our students an edge,” says Quilty. “It’s a co-curricular program that offers the soft skills necessary for career success—how to work within teams, develop better listening skills, have difficult conversations in the workplace, read someone’s body language, even greet someone during a job interview.” IMPRESS stands for Initiating Meaningful Partnerships and Responsibilities to Encourage Student Success. “This program is helping our students be prepared for an ever-changing future by enhancing professional and personal skills,” says Alex McKelvie, Whitman School associate dean for undergraduate and master’s education and professor of entrepreneurship. “The new Goodman gift essentially creates IMPRESS 2.0. Just as we are preparing our students to be adaptable to rapidly changing circumstances in our world, we are adapting and customizing the program to make it more accessible to more students and for a digital work environment.” Every new student admitted to Whitman becomes part of one of four IMPRESS houses. Each house is led by a faculty “house mentor” who guides students through their first business course and helps them engage in extracurricular activities for which they are rewarded with points. These activities include community engagement, the exploration of career possibilities and certifications. Through their involvement in these activities, students collect points toward a personal point total and a group point total–with the gamification acting as an additional motivator to get involved. Each year, the group with the greatest number of points is awarded the Goodman Cup at a celebratory event. The points accumulated and the experiences pursued are reflected on student co-curricular transcripts. The enhanced IMPRESS program will have components that are personalized for upper division students with a focus on leadership development, says Goodman. “We want to create a leadership development plan for those students who demonstrate capabilities,” he says. “We know we can positively impact their futures.” Goodman says the plan to expand IMPRESS includes increased access to experiential learning opportunities, soft-skills training and certifications, and an emphasis on diversity, inclusion and equity. “I know that a lot of students figure things out on their own, but it is my sense that we could do a much better job helping develop the next generation of leaders. If we ensure our students are better trained in the non-academic side of things, more of them will be hired into great jobs at better pay, improving the university’s overall ranking and reputation.” Goodman, who serves on the Whitman Advisory Council, was formerly vice chair of the University Board of Trustees and is now a Life Trustee. Though he started his academic pursuits at Syracuse University in engineering, he switched to accounting. Graduating in 1970, he quickly recognized that a career in public accounting would not satisfy his spirit to innovate, create and drive new products to market. He decided to “take a risk” and join a start-up that grew to become an international leader in pharmaceutical manufacturing and marketing. “When you end up managing many thousands of people, you realize that it takes much more than an education to make a real difference in business,” says Goodman. With his continued generosity and support of IMPRESS, Goodman is ensuring Whitman graduates are well-prepared to make that difference. About Forever Orange: The Campaign for Syracuse University Orange isn’t just our color. It’s our promise to leave the world better than we found it. Forever Orange: The Campaign for Syracuse University is poised to do just that. Fueled by 150 years of fearless firsts, together we can enhance academic excellence, transform the student experience and expand unique opportunities for learning and growth. Forever Orange endeavors to raise $1.5 billion in philanthropic support, inspire 125,000 individual donors to participate in the campaign, and actively engage one in five alumni in the life of the University. Now is the time to show the world what Orange can do. Visit foreverorange.syr.edu to learn more. Author Eileen Korey Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi More In Business & Economy Rabia Razzaq G’23 Wins 2022 Intelligence++ Inclusive Design Competition Rabia Razzaq G’23, a multidisciplinary designer and graduate student in the College of Visual and Performing Arts, won the 2022 Intelligence++ Showcase Competition, held in the Whitman School of Management on April 26. The interdisciplinary competition—which encourages design and business… Whitman School Receives STEM-Designation for Master’s in Professional Accounting Program The Martin J. Whitman School of Management’s master’s in professional accounting program has received STEM-designation. The class of 2022 will be the first to graduate with this new STEM certification. “We have made notable innovations to our master’s in professional… Whitman’s Full-Time MBA Program Achieves Highest U.S. News Ranking Since 1998 The Martin J. Whitman School of Management at Syracuse University is now ranked No. 57 in the nation for its full-time MBA program by U.S. News & World Report. This is the highest ranking for the Whitman School since 1998… Stocks and Finance Immersion Offers A&S | Maxwell Students a Window Into Finance When Jehan Muhialdain ’22 moved to the United States from Iraq five years ago, one of the major differences she noticed in her new country was the focus put on financial literacy and wealth management. She says living in Iraq,… Applications Open for RvD iPrize and Hunter Brooks Watson Spirit of Entrepreneurship Competitions The School of Information Studies (iSchool) with support from the Blackstone LaunchPad at Syracuse University Libraries (LaunchPad) are now accepting applications through March 15 for the Raymond von Dran (RvD) iPrize pitch competition and the Hunter Brooks Watson Spirit of… Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.