Skip to main content calendar subscribe Facebook Twitter Instagram RSS Feeds YaleNews Explore Topics Alumni Arts & Humanities Business Campus & Community Environment Health & Medicine International Law Science & Technology Social Sciences In Focus In Memoriam Search form Search Campus & Community Stories Yale responds to COVID-19 May 17, 2022 YaleNews highlights its coverage of how campus is responding to the coronavirus pandemic, and how Yale experts are taking action against the crisis. Yale stands with New Haven in responding to COVID-19 April 14, 2020 Yale has moved quickly on several fronts to support the New Haven community, and will continue to do so through a growing number of initiatives and programs. Udall Foundation honors three students for their environmental work May 31, 2022 Two undergraduates have been named Udall Scholars, and a third wins honorable mention. Portrait of childhood education pioneer James Comer unveiled at Yale May 31, 2022 For more than 50 years, Comer’s pioneering work has revolutionized school systems and lifted up their most vulnerable children. Alumnus with exceptional mathematical promise wins Hertz Fellowship May 31, 2022 A Yale alumnus working toward a Ph.D. in mathematics at MIT is among the 33 doctoral students awarded Hertz Fellowships. Getting to Know You: Reunion edition with John Yi ’12+1 May 27, 2022 An associate director at Yale Admissions, John Yi appreciates his time as both a Yale student and employee, and shares excitement for Yale College Reunions. Yale Library congratulates the Class of 2022 May 27, 2022 Graduates, family, and friends gathered at Sterling Memorial Library to commemorate the special day with pictures inside and outside the library. In Memoriam John M. Merriman, French historian, beloved teacher May 26, 2022 A prodigiously productive scholar and popular and admired teacher at Yale, Merriman died on May 22 after a long illness. He was 75. Office Hours with… Lamia Haque May 26, 2022 An expert on the intersection of addiction and chronic liver diseases, Haque talks about her clinical work, training at Yale, and her current pastimes. Pericles Lewis named dean of Yale College May 25, 2022 An internationally recognized expert on the qualities and purposes of a liberal education, Lewis brings to the role over two decades of leadership experience. Show More Articles Search Campus & Community In Brief YSN honors distinguished alumni and decade award winners Announcing the Adrian Van Sinderen Book Collecting Prizes for 2022 Organist James O’Donnell to join ISM/YSM faculty Dragomir Radev to speak at launch of AI and computer science institute Yale Physics welcomes NSF MPS-Ascend postdoctoral fellow Fernando Flor Bellamy appointed director of PRCH; succeeds retiring Davidson Gerald Shulman wins Manpei Suzuki International Prize for Diabetes Research More In Brief In memoriam Here we remember the scholars and teachers of Yale who have enriched us all through their pursuit of light and truth. View in memoriam Yale Browse Archives Contact Us For the Media It’s Your Yale Apply to Yale Give to Yale Managed by the Office of Public Affairs & Communications Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved · Privacy policy · Accessibility at Yale Facebook Twitter Instagram RSS Feeds Yale on Instagram