Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All Posts in #Dome Campus & Community 5 Things to Know About the JMA Wireless Dome Wednesday, May 25, 2022, By Jen Maser Home to countless athletic competitions, five Orange teams, some of the most memorable moments in collegiate sports history and cherished University traditions. Host to Commencement, iconic performers, family-friendly entertainment, high school athletic events and graduations for local districts, and even… Campus & Community Syracuse University, JMA Wireless Announce Naming Rights Partnership, Usher in the JMA Wireless Dome Era Thursday, May 19, 2022, By News Staff Syracuse University and JMA Wireless (JMA) today announced a 10-year partnership for naming rights of the University’s iconic on-campus stadium. For the first time since the venue opened its doors in 1980, the stadium will have a new name, only… Campus & Community Hospitality Advisor for Yankees, Rams, Cowboys Will Look to Improve Fan Experience at the Dome Wednesday, January 15, 2020, By Jennifer Horvath In an ongoing effort to provide an enhanced fan experience at the Dome, Auxiliary Services engaged Michael Bekolay of Venue Hospitality Solutions to provide feedback on the facility’s food service operations and capabilities. He began his work on campus in… Campus & Community Huge Crane Arrives to Provide a ‘Pick Me Up’ for Stadium Project Thursday, July 25, 2019, By Keith Kobland You’ll soon see a massive crane take shape on the Syracuse University campus, as a major construction project kicks into high gear. Campus & Community Syracuse University Community Comes Together for Monster Jam Monday, April 8, 2019, By Brandon Dyer The Dome’s air-supported roof has been a part of the Syracuse skyline since its dedication on Sept. 20, 1980. When construction was completed, the Dome was the fifth-largest domed stadium in the United States and the first of its kind… Health & Society Yoga in the Dome Is Tuesday Monday, October 1, 2018, By Kelly Homan Rodoski Hendricks Chapel and Recreation Services will sponsor Yoga in the Dome on Tuesday, Oct. 2, beginning at 11 p.m. Yoga expert Dara Harper will guide participants through a session focusing on mindfulness, relaxation and harmony. The session is free and… Campus & Community Dome Nights Are Back Tuesday, September 25, 2018, By Currie Murch Elliot After a successful premiere last April, Recreation Nights at the Dome will be returning this fall. Every Tuesday in October (2, 9, 16, 23 and 30), the Dome will be available to students for open recreation from 7-11 p.m. At… Campus & Community Syracuse University Announces $118 Million Investment to Create a New Stadium Experience Monday, May 14, 2018, By News Staff A new fixed roof, a vertically hung scoreboard, state-of-the-art sound and lighting systems, improved accessibility and added Wi-Fi capabilities are just a handful of features visitors to Syracuse University’s stadium will experience beginning in fall 2020. The $118 million investment,… Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.