Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program NC State Partners with Sandia National Laboratories facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Bulletin Board NC State faculty and staff can stay tuned between issues of our weekly Bulletin newsletter with news and notes from around campus. May 26, 2022 Wicked Problems, Wolfpack Solutions Focuses on Future of Food Many members of DELTA’s staff have worked tirelessly to make the course a success for incoming first-year and transfer students. Recent Stories New Studies Shed Light on Election-Related Stress A School of Fishes Twisted Soft Robots Navigate Mazes Without Human Or Computer Guidance May 26, 2022 Bob Franks Tapped to Lead Applied Ecology Professor Bob Franks says he looks forward to serving as the interim department head for Applied Ecology while the college and department search for a permanent leader. May 25, 2022 NC State Names 42 Students to Park Scholarships Program Students in the university's 27th class of Park Scholars represent nine states and 20 North Carolina counties. May 20, 2022 Poultry Science’s Curtis Praised for Transformative Leadership After more than 30 years working in higher education, 15 of those years at North Carolina State University, Patricia Curtis, department head for the Prestage Department of Poultry Science, is retiring beginning July 1. May 19, 2022 Evans Wins Back-to-Back Awards for Community Service, Diversity and Inclusion Efforts Staff member Raven Evans recently won two awards, including the Office of Finance and Administration’s Award for Excellence in Human Relations. May 19, 2022 Bee-Friendly All Summer Did you know honey bees are the most important insect pollinator for crops grown in North Carolina? Help promote pollinators with these bee-friendly tips. May 18, 2022 Keeping Students Engaged in Asynchronous Lectures What makes the learning active or passive is not the modality (Zoom vs. pre-recorded videos vs. text-based lessons), but the structure of the lesson the instructor creates. Faculty Fellow Claire Gordy share tips for keeping students engaged. May 16, 2022 ‘We’re Stuck’ — Meet #NCState22 Best Friends Niambé and Kourtni Best friends say 'goodbye' to NC State in the field where they first said 'hello' and started a lifelong friendship. May 16, 2022 Nearly 2,000 Employees Attend Appreciation Event University Human Resources hosted a Staff and Faculty Appreciation Event on May 2. May 12, 2022 What Caused This Megatooth Shark’s Massive Toothache? Big shark, bad day. A damaged O. megalodon tooth points to an injury received while feeding. May 10, 2022 Online College Counseling Program Supports Educators Around the World Ciandra Gaston taught in Haiti before pursuing her degree at NC State. Now, she is using her degree to expand her skills as an educator at the collegiate level. May 10, 2022 NC State Professor Emeritus Honored by the American Chemical Society Dimitri Argyropoulos, a professor emeritus of chemistry at the NC State College of Natural Resources, was recently recognized by the organization for his groundbreaking research on lignin. May 9, 2022 Design Students Develop Compostable Take-Out Container Prototypes in Project Sponsored by Eastman To combat packaging waste, NC State’s College of Design worked alongside Eastman to create food packaging with a new compostable material. May 9, 2022 Krispy Kreme Challenge Meets $2 Million Commitment Park Scholars celebrate an achievement nearly two decades in the making. The funds directly impact North Carolina children and families at UNC Children's Hospital and NC State Park Scholars Children's Specialty Clinic. May 3, 2022 NC State Partners with Sandia National Laboratories The Sandia University Partnership Network is a collaboration between the science and engineering research lab and 27 schools to shape the future of engineering for national security. Posts navigation 1 2 … 4 Next Page Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.