Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia News Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Featured News Topics Video Books Podcasts All News Media Resources Awards & Milestones Arts & Humanities Politics & Social Justice Research & Discovery Photo of the Week Commencement 2022 Columbia News You are here: Home Awards & Milestones Awards & Milestones Awards & Milestones Columbia faculty, students, and staff are on the cutting edge of advancements in all fields and their work is thus justly awarded and recognized. Below, find recent accomplishments and milestones as well as bi-monthly lists of recent awards. Want your accomplishment to be included? Email [email protected]. Want these announcements in your inbox? Subscribe to Columbia News newsletters. SPOTLIGHT Four Columbians Win Guggenheim Fellowships Columbia’s 2022 Truman Scholars 14 Columbia University Affiliates Awarded Fulbright U.S. Student Grants Recent Awards & Milestones Awards & Milestones Columbia Professor Wins NIH Award for Innovative, High-Impact Biomedical Research October 03, 2018 Raju Tomer has won a NIH Director’s New Innovator Award, for his pioneering work in developing new technologies for high-resolution mapping of brai Arthur Ashkin, May 27, 1947. Photo courtesy Columbia University Archives Awards & Milestones Arthur Ashkin, CC'47, Wins Nobel Prize in Physics October 02, 2018 Columbia alumnus Arthur Ashkin (CC 1947) has won the Nobel Prize in Physics for his groundbreaking research in laser physics. Elena Aprile leads the XENON collaboration, which has built the world’s largest and most sensitive device yet to look for evidence of weakly interacting massive dark matter particles, or WIMPs. (Symmetry magazine) Awards & Milestones Physicist Leading the Hunt for Dark Matter Wins Berkeley Prize June 18, 2018 Elena Aprile, a physics professor at Columbia who is leading the world’s most sensitive search yet for dark matter, will receive the American Astro Awards & Milestones Columbia Neuroscientist and Computer Scientist Elected to National Academy of Sciences May 04, 2018 Two Columbia professors — a neuroscientist whose work on the visual system could lead to a cure for blindness and a theoretical computer scientist Awards & Milestones Mellon Foundation Awards Nearly $3 Million to Columbia University May 03, 2018 Columbia University has received nearly three million dollars in grants from The Andre Awards & Milestones Two Columbia Professors Named 2018 Guggenheim Fellows April 11, 2018 Photo by Martin Godwin for The Guardian Awards & Milestones Ayad Akhtar's Play 'Junk' Wins 2018 Kennedy Prize for Drama February 22, 2018 The Kennedy prize is given annually to a new play or musical that explores U.S. Awards & Milestones Astronomer David Kipping Named Sloan Research Fellow February 19, 2018 Awards & Milestones Branka Arsić to Receive MLA's James Russell Lowell Prize December 05, 2017 The Charles and Lynn Zhang Professor of English and Comparative Literature, Branka Arsić was awarded MLA's James Russell Lowell Prize for her book Photo Courtesy of John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation Awards & Milestones Columbia’s Kate Orff, Damon Rich and Alumni Tyshawn Sorey, Regina Barzilay Named MacArthur ‘Geniuses’ October 11, 2017 Urban Design Program Director Kate Orff and Architecture Adjunct Damon Rich won 2017 MacArthur Foundation "genius" grants. Ivaylo Ivanov is studying how commensal bacteria (green) interact with intestinal tissues (pink) to activate immune cells in the gut to fight infection. Image courtesy of Ivanov. Awards & Milestones Gut Microbiome Researcher Wins Pew Innovation Grant September 20, 2017 Ivaylo Ivanov, an immunologist at Columbia who studies the role of intestinal bacteria in the body’s immune response, in collaboration with Caltech Awards & Milestones Alexander Navab and Li Lu Elected to Columbia Board of Trustees September 07, 2017 Columbia University announced that Alexander "Alex" Navab (CC’87), a partner and former head of the Americas Private Equity business at Kohlberg Kr Pagination First page« First Previous page‹ Previous Page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Current page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 Next pageNext › Last pageLast » Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close