Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia News Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Featured News Topics Video Books Podcasts All News Media Resources Awards & Milestones Arts & Humanities Politics & Social Justice Research & Discovery Photo of the Week Commencement 2022 Columbia News You are here: Home Awards & Milestones Awards & Milestones Awards & Milestones Columbia faculty, students, and staff are on the cutting edge of advancements in all fields and their work is thus justly awarded and recognized. Below, find recent accomplishments and milestones as well as bi-monthly lists of recent awards. Want your accomplishment to be included? Email [email protected]. Want these announcements in your inbox? Subscribe to Columbia News newsletters. SPOTLIGHT Four Columbians Win Guggenheim Fellowships Columbia’s 2022 Truman Scholars 14 Columbia University Affiliates Awarded Fulbright U.S. Student Grants Recent Awards & Milestones Awards & Milestones Columbia to Award the 2011 Horwitz Prize to Biologists Jeffrey C. Hall, Michael Rosbash, and Michael W. Young, for their Ground-Breaking Studies on the Molecular Basis of Circadian Rhythms September 29, 2011 Columbia University will award the 2011 Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize to Jeffrey C. Hall, Michael Rosbash, and Michael W. Awards & Milestones Bloomberg Senior Writer David Evans Receives the 2011 John Chancellor Award September 27, 2011 An investigative reporter whose work has revealed how secret profit schemes cheated the families of fallen U.S. President Bollinger with T.D. Lee at the Sept. 13 reception held in Professor Lee's honor. Image credit: Eileen Barroso/Columbia University Awards & Milestones "Pleasure Is Learning": University Honors Retiring Nobel Laureate T.D. Lee September 14, 2011 When T.D. Awards & Milestones Journalism School Announces 2011 Winners of Cabot Prizes for Latin American and Caribbean Reporting September 13, 2011 The Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism has announced the 2011 winners of the Maria Moors Cabot Prizes for outstanding Awards & Milestones Jerome L. Greene Science Center Will Be Interdisciplinary Hub June 23, 2011 Sixty years ago, when neurology department professor Harry Grundfest was doing groundbreaking research at the College of Physicians and Surgeons Awards & Milestones Computer Science Grad Student Rips Up Syllabus, Redesigns Class, Wins Award June 16, 2011 Special from The Record Awards & Milestones Award-Winning Graduate Student Headed to NIH May 13, 2011 Special from The Record Awards & Milestones National Academy of Sciences Elects Two Columbia Faculty Members May 09, 2011 Two Columbia professors have been named members of the National Academy of Sciences (NAS). Awards & Milestones Writing Program Faculty, Alumni: Premiere Place in Spring Issues of "The New Yorker" May 08, 2011 Columbia University School of the Arts Writing Program professors and alumni have occupied a premiere place in recent issues of The New Yorker, Pagination First page« First Previous page‹ Previous Page 10 Page 11 Page 12 Page 13 Page 14 Page 15 Page 16 Page 17 Current page 18 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close