Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Close Search Tulane Search form Search this site Search search tulane.edu search news only Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Tulane News News Tulanian Magazine Events Experts Press Releases On Good Authority Podcast Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... News HomeHome Inline CSS for Tulane News Articles Tulane Today Submission Guidelines Tulane Today is a daily e-newsletter that keeps Tulane University faculty and staff informed about news and events on campus and in our community. It is distributed Monday through Friday during the semester and publishes Tuesday and Thursday during the summer. Click here to subscribe. Content Tulane Today shares university news with faculty and staff. Among the items that will merit consideration are: Institutional/college/unit news Research news and grant announcements Campus events and opportunities (including downtown, Elmwood and Northshore) Office of Human Resources updates Faculty/staff news and accomplishments Due to the high volume of submissions, not all content submissions can be included in the email. How and whether items are presented will be determined by the editorial staff. University Communications and Marketing will work with our partners across campus to ensure the most pertinent items are included in a timely manner. Items that cannot be considered for inclusion are: Obituaries, retirement news, advertisements for items/services that require payment, news unrelated to the Tulane community, or items deemed inappropriate by the Communications and Marketing staff. Send in your news To share a news item in Tulane Today, complete the online submission form. Please include a headline suggestion, a 75-word description and a link to a web page that contains more information about the news item. You may also request a desired publication date. While submitting a news item does not guarantee it will be published, all items will merit thoughtful consideration. University Communications and Marketing will contact you in the event an item will not be published. Submitted items may edited for style, clarity and brevity. Deadlines Deadlines for publication in Tulane Today are as follows: Monday: Previous Thursday at noon Tuesday: Previous Friday at noon Wednesday: Previous Monday at noon Thursday: Previous Tuesday at noon Friday: Previous Wednesday at noon These deadlines remain the same when Tulane Today publishes on Tuesday and Thursday during the summer. Contact us Questions about submission guidelines or other editorial inquiries should be directed to today@tulane.edu. Submission form To share a news item or an announcement in Tulane Today, please complete the online form. Someone will respond to your submission for more details if selected for publication. Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane Home Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University