Skip to main content Toggle navigation Search Cornell University Cornell.edu Media Relations Search Cornell University Cornell Chronicle Topics Architecture & Design Arts & Humanities Business, Economics & Entrepreneurship Computing & Information Sciences Energy, Environment & Sustainability Food & Agriculture Global Reach Health, Nutrition & Medicine Law, Government & Public Policy Life Sciences & Veterinary Medicine Physical Sciences & Engineering Social & Behavioral Sciences Coronavirus Campus & Community News & Events Public Engagement New York City Staff News Photos of the Day Big Red Sports Diversity In Memory Features NYS Impact Student Life Around Cornell All Stories In the News Expert Quotes Cornellians All Stories menu List Grid All Stories Filters Topics Architecture & Design Arts & Humanities Business, Economics & Entrepreneurship Computing & Information Sciences Food & Agriculture Energy, Environment & Sustainability Global Reach Health, Nutrition & Medicine Law, Government & Public Policy Life Sciences & Veterinary Medicine Physical Sciences & Engineering Social & Behavioral Sciences Campus & Community NYS Impact Rankings News & Events Staff News New York City Diversity Public Engagement Campus blog: Essentials Photos of the Day Around Cornell Colleges & Schools Agriculture and Life Sciences Architecture, Art and Planning Arts and Sciences Cornell Ann S. Bowers College of Computing and Information Science Continuing Education and Summer Sessions Cornell Jeb E. Brooks School of Public Policy Cornell SC Johnson College of Business Cornell Tech Engineering Graduate School School of Hotel Administration Human Ecology Industrial and Labor Relations Johnson Graduate School of Management Law School Veterinary Medicine Weill Cornell Medicine-NY Weill Cornell Medicine-Qatar Consumers embrace milk carton QR codes, may cut food waste June 1, 2022 Milk carton “use-by” dates soon may be a quaint relic. A new Cornell study finds that consumers like QR codes, better depicting how long milk is drinkable – creating less food waste. Target CO2 and non-carbon pollutants to slow climate change May 23, 2022 Mitigation strategies must target carbon dioxide alongside other largely neglected climate pollutants in order to stay below catastrophic climate tipping points. Spongy material captures carbon dioxide in cavities May 23, 2022 Researchers developed porous, sponge-like materials that can trap carbon dioxide – a potentially low-cost approach for limiting the environmental damage of coal-fired power plants. June launch for NASA-Cornell tool to view dust from space May 19, 2022 Scientists soon will see Earth’s atmospheric dust in high-resolution, thanks to new spectrometer expected to launch June 7 aboard a SpaceX rocket to the International Space Station. Inaugural Cornell RANA Prize winner tackles energy issues in Indonesia May 18, 2022 Doctoral student Timothy Ravis earned the first RANA Prize winner at Cornell for research focused on uncovering the social, political, and economic impediments to a green energy transition in Indonesia. Around Cornell Harrison College Scholars tackle interdisciplinary research projects May 18, 2022 This year’s graduating class of Robert S. Harrison College Scholars presented their final theses during a daylong event May 7 in Goldwin Smith Hall. Around Cornell National Zoning Atlas launched to make America's patchwork of codes accessible and comprehensible May 17, 2022 Professor of City and Regional Planning Sara Bronin's zoning atlas initiative is a first-of-its-kind effort to translate and standardize zoning codes across the U.S. into a single, accessible online resource. Around Cornell Pump heralds a fossil fuel-free future at child care center May 16, 2022 So long, natural gas heat: Let the Earth warm little fingers and toes. Building a new, environmentally friendly heating and cooling system at the Cornell Child Care Center will start in late summer. The 2030 Project to marshal faculty to solve climate crisis May 12, 2022 Declaring this the “decisive decade” for climate action, Cornell launched The 2030 Project: A Climate Initiative, which will mobilize world-class faculty to develop and accelerate tangible solutions to the climate challenge. 3D-printing robot enables sustainable construction May 12, 2022 The Bovay Civil Infrastructure Laboratory Complex has a new tenant: a roughly 6,000-pound industrial robot capable of 3D printing large-scale structures that could make construction more sustainable. Veterinarian ecologist to bolster pandemic prevention efforts May 11, 2022 Scholar who studies cross-species pathogen spillover to join the College of Veterinary Medicine and become a Cornell Atkinson Scholar. Around Cornell New Frontier Grants push boundaries in A&S research May 11, 2022 The College of Arts and Sciences awarded $1.25 million in grants to faculty members pursuing critical developments in areas ranging from quantum materials to sustainable technologies. Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 Next page ›› Last page Last » Gallery Heading × Previous Next Links About the Chronicle Media Relations Office Copyright Web Accessibility Assistance Contact Cornell Chronicle 312 College Ave Ithaca, NY 14850 607-255-4206 cunews@cornell.edu SUBSCRIBE Daily and weekly newsletters Feeds - RSS & JSON