Skip to content The Harvard Gazette Search for: Arts & Humanities Business & Economy Campus & Community Commencement 2022 The Coronavirus Update Events Health & Medicine National & World Affairs News & Announcements Photography The Quest for Racial Justice Science & Technology The Solutions Series News + About Accessibility Athletics News and Scores For Media & Journalists Privacy Policy Trademark The Daily Gazette Sign up for daily emails to get the latest Harvard news. Harvard University National & World Affairs World Taken out of context GenSci Lab scholars urge researchers to take care crafting definitions of sex as language can make its way into law, public policy World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Health & Medicine Health Don’t let latest COVID surge overshadow progress, says Hanage Epidemiologist explains how to stay on guard against subvariants, noting role of protective measures in transition to new pandemic phase Health Researchers find sleep benefit in higher dose of melatonin Supplements show promise in small study of older adults Featured National & World Affairs Health & Medicine Arts & Humanities Science & Technology Business & Economy Campus & Community Experience Commencement 2019 © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College The Harvard Gazette Skocpol tells PBK students: World of trouble awaits you. Fight to fix it. United by lockdown, divided by ‘Seinfeld’ Campus Skocpol tells PBK students: World of trouble awaits you. Fight to fix it. Campus & Community Skocpol tells PBK students: World of trouble awaits you. Fight to fix it. “High academic achievement and accolades from such an excellent college as this are not a prize; they are a calling to do one’s utmost to serve the common good,” said Theda Skocpol at the Phi Beta Kappa Literary Exercises in the Sanders Theatre. Photos by Kris Snibbe/Harvard Staff Photographer Political scientist joined by Pulitzer Prize-winning poet Forrest Gander at Phi Beta Kappa ceremony By Liz Mineo Harvard Staff Writer DateMay 24, 2022May 25, 2022 Share Email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Also in the Series Triple the joy Time of ‘democracy in crisis’ Ardern’s forceful reminder: Democracies can die Embracing the moment Seven alumni elected to the Board of Overseers View all of Commencement 2022 Theda Skocpol, Victor Thomas Professor of Government and Sociology, urged the 2022 Phi Beta Kappa Class to confront “the troubles of our time” and fight to defend the public good during PBK Literary Exercises Tuesday morning at Sanders Theatre. The world, said Skocpol, is threatened by armed conflict, attacks on truth and science, and the “erosion of the very bedrocks that have supported inclusive civil society and democratic institutions in the United States and beyond.” Skocpol encouraged students to follow their hearts in pursuit of family and careers, but also to honor the legacies of W.E.B. Du Bois, Helen Keller, and Maud Wood Park, and other Harvard graduates who met “the public challenges of their times.” “Ready or not, and whether we like it or not, this is a critical juncture in U.S. and world history,” she said. “Basic democratic principles are under manipulative and at times violent attack, with the spearpoint directed against competitive, fair, and honestly counted elections to install public officials and hold them accountable. “As new Phi Beta Kappans, you have a special obligation to recognize and meet what Martin Luther King Jr. once called ‘the fierce urgency of now.’ High academic achievement and accolades from such an excellent college as this are not a prize; they are a calling to do one’s utmost to serve the common good.” Skocpol reminded the audience that social progress requires “unswerving persistence,” including efforts to build coalitions that can overcome disagreements. Each of us has the power to set change in motion, she said. Sometimes that involves reaching across divides. “Get out of your professional bubbles, hear what others have to say in their own words about community matters, including people who harbor views you cannot share,” Skocpol said. “Fight all necessary battles with unswerving commitment and energy. But also find various ways to listen to others and interact as an equal with a broad range of fellow citizens and human beings.” Seventy-six graduating seniors were inducted into Phi Beta Kappa on Tuesday. During the literary exercises, poet Forrest Gander read from his book “Twice Alive.” PBK Exercises have been part of Harvard Commencement since the 18th century. To be elected to Alpha Iota of Massachusetts, the Harvard College chapter of PBK, a student needs to demonstrate outstanding academic achievement and originality, intellectual honesty, and rigor in their undergraduate course of study. Students are chosen by Harvard faculty and senior staffers who are also Phi Beta Kappa members. A maximum of 10 percent of any graduating class can be selected each year. The 76 graduating seniors inducted Tuesday joined 73 members of the class of 2022 elected in previous years. The ceremony honored three members of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences for teaching excellence: Adam Hesterberg, assistant director of undergraduate studies for computer science, for his “unique combination of approachability and excellence”; Peter Huybers, a professor of Earth and planetary sciences and of environmental science and engineering, for his “generosity and kindness towards students”; and Andrea Wright, a lecturer in anthropology and the Allston Burr Resident Dean of Eliot House, for her “generous devotion to student growth.” The exercises also feature a reading by a poet. The Pulitzer Prize winner Forrest Gander drew from his most recent book, “Twice Alive” (2021), in which he addresses personal and ecological trauma. Gander read “Immigrant Sea,” “Wasteland (For Santa Rosa),” and “Twice Alive.” “Wasteland” sifts the damage of the wildfires that have ravaged his California hometown the past two years: Across the valley, on Sugarloaf Ridge, the full moon showed up like a girl doing cartwheels. No one goes on living the life that isn’t there. Below a vast column of smoke, heat, flame, and wind, I rose, swaying and tottering on my erratic vortex, extemporizing my own extreme weather, sucking up acres of scorched topsoil and spinning it outward in a burning sleet of filth and embers that catapulted me forward with my mouth open in every direction at once. So I came for you, churning, turning the present into purgatory because I need to turn everything to tragedy before I can see it, because it must be leavened with remorse for the feeling to rise. Editor's Picks Campus Triple the joy Photographers capture the festive rites and poignant moments as three classes celebrate Commencement World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Campus A call to public service Merrick Garland tells grads to get involved, warns democracy in peril, cites Capitol attack, rise in mass shootings, stifling of voting rights Also in the Series Triple the joy Time of ‘democracy in crisis’ Ardern’s forceful reminder: Democracies can die Embracing the moment Seven alumni elected to the Board of Overseers View all of Commencement 2022 Up Next Campus United by lockdown, divided by ‘Seinfeld’ Campus & Community United by lockdown, divided by ‘Seinfeld’ Harvard student Phiroze Parasnis traveled with his younger brother and parents in India just weeks before COVID-19 shut the country down. Photo courtesy of Phiroze Parasnis