Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program For Media facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program For Media The News Services office is located in the Butler Communications Building at 3210 Faucette Drive, near the intersection of Western Boulevard and Varsity Drive. For assistance, please call us at 919.515.3470, email newstips@ncsu.edu or contact a News Services staff member. NC State TV Studio North Carolina State University provides technical support in its television studio facility for on-campus broadcast television with faculty and staff experts and administrators. The facility is located in the Butler Communications Building at 3210 Faucette Drive (see map) and allows our experts to share their knowledge and findings with local and national audiences in live or pre-taped interviews. A listing of nearly 500 campus experts in fields ranging from agriculture to zoology is available here. We have a direct fiber link to Microspace Communications Corporation in Raleigh for HD distribution over The Switch, LTN, and Ku band HD over satellite, both domestically and internationally. To make technical arrangements for a TV interview contact Lauren Barker at 919.515.4734 or lauren_barker@ncsu.edu, or Mick Kulikowski at 919.515.8387 or mick_kulikowski@ncsu.edu. Studio (IFB) number: 919.515.7417 Control room (PL) number: 919.513.3060 NC State Radio Studio NC State’s radio studio uses the Comrex Bric Linc II audio over IP solution to connect university experts for live or live-to-tape radio interviews. The studio is located on main campus in the Butler Communications Building at 3210 Faucette Dr. Contact Lauren Barker (919.515.4734 or lauren_barker@ncsu.edu) or Mick Kulikowski (919.515.8387 or mick_kulikowski@ncsu.edu) to inquire about or schedule a radio studio interview. Additional Resources About NC State News Releases Experts List In the News Videos Photos Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.