WSU Cougar Head Logo Washington State University Give Apply Locations My WSU Give Apply Locations My WSU Close WSU Insider News and Information for Faculty, Staff, and the WSU Community Menu Close News News Categories Arts & Culture Awards & Achievements Benefits & Training Business & Economics Campus & Community Food & Agriculture Health & Medicine Politics & Society Reports & Updates Science & Technology University Affairs Veterinary Medicine Announcements Contact Us For Journalists Press Releases Tip Sheets COVID-19 Cannabis research Institutional Data Quick Facts Search Close May 6, 2022 Two WSU faculty named to National Academy of Sciences National Academy of Sciences building in Washington, D.C. Photo by Bpperry on iStock. Biochemistry Professor John Browse and anthropology Professor Tim Kohler were elected to the National Academy of Sciences in recognition of their achievements in original research. Browse and Kohler are among just 150 new members announced on May 3. First established by U.S. Congress and President Abraham Lincoln in 1863, the National Academy of Sciences is a nonprofit society of scholars charged with providing independent, objective advice about science and technology to the nation. John Browse Charlotte Martin Distinguished Professor in Agricultural Research Regents professor of biochemistry and molecular plant sciences, Institute of Biological Chemistry John Browse Browse is a pioneer and leader in plant biology. His research focuses on investigating the biosynthesis of membrane and seed-storage lipids in plants, using Arabidopsis, or thale cress, a model organism often used to understand plant biology. His work has improved understanding of plant defenses and helped bioengineer plants with higher amounts of useful chemicals, such as increased levels of heart-healthy monounsaturated fatty acids. He is also well known for identifying and cloning the desaturase gene in Arabidopsis, responsible for the synthesis of polyunsaturated fatty acids in plants. Tim Kohler Regents Professor Emeritus of Archaeology and Evolutionary Anthropology External Professor, Santa Fe Institute Tim Kohler Kohler studies the social dynamics of prehistoric cultures, specializing in the U.S. Southwest. His research explores the relationships among demography, violence, wealth inequality, social evolution, and climate variability. While his work has improved methods of understanding the past, his findings have echoes into the present — which was recently recognized when the United Nations named Kohler as a lead author on a recent Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report. Kohler’s current projects include the SKOPE project to make interpreted paleoenvironmental data widely accessible, and another National Science Foundation-funded project to generate and analyze measures of wealth inequality in societies around the world over the last 10,000 years. Categories: Awards & Achievements Next Story May 27, 2022 Emergency response trainings taking place on Pullman campus May 30–June 2 Local law enforcement and fire departments will meet on the WSU Pullman campus to conduct a series of training exercises May 30–June 2. Recent News May 27, 2022 Emergency response trainings taking place on Pullman campus May 30–June 2 Local law enforcement and fire departments will meet on the WSU Pullman campus to conduct a series of training exercises May 30–June 2. May 27, 2022 WSU appoints Danielle Hess executive director for policy and governance The university’s top lawyer is taking a new systemwide role and will be replaced as division chief by an assistant attorney general who has worked alongside her since 2015. attorney general, Board of Regents, compliance, governance, policy By RJ Wolcott, WSU News & Media Relations May 27, 2022 WSU Insider will be back Tuesday The staff at WSU Insider hopes you make the most of your Memorial Day holiday. New postings will resume Tuesday. May 26, 2022 WSU experts: Washington monkeypox case cause for concern, not panic The now-confirmed case of monkeypox in the state should raise awareness of the virus, but it will not spread as easily as COVID-19, according to WSU infectious disease experts. By Sara Zaske, WSU News & Media Relations May 26, 2022 Stacy Pearson retiring at end of 2022 During her tenure as VP for finance and administration and CFO, WSU turned a $30 million annual operating deficit into a nearly $30 million surplus in 2020. A national search for her replacement will be conducted. administration, finance, WSU President Kirk Schulz By RJ Wolcott, WSU News & Media Relations May 26, 2022 Leadership changes in the Voiland College The Voiland College of Engineering and Architecture announced three new directors for the upcoming school year. By Tina Hilding, Voiland College of Engineering and Architecture Find More News Subscribe for more updates Subscribe to WSU Insider to receive free daily updates by email. University employees are automatically subscribed—no sign up is necessary. RecommendedFeatures Nine faculty selected to receive seed grants The Office of Research program provides support for junior faculty to develop research, scholarly, or creative programs that lead to sustained professional development and extramural funding. May 18, 2022 Professor joins National Academies Agriculture and Natural Resources Board Emeritus Professor John McNamara was recognized for his 33 years of service as an animal sciences researcher and educator at WSU. May 17, 2022 Find More News Trending News Cougs in Space: Launching satellites and careers March 10, 2022 WSU Men’s Basketball bound for NIT semifinals March 24, 2022 Schulz spotlights recent successes during 2022 State of the University March 22, 2022 ‘Breaking Bad’ star to discuss how cerebral palsy helped shape his career March 22, 2022 FOR WSU CONTRIBUTORS Content guidelines WSU Insider Guidelines Press Releases Guidelines Announcements Guidelines Events Guidelines Submission Information Insider Submission Press Release Submission WSU Announcements Submission WSU Events Submission Additional Resources WSU Brand Guidelines WSU Editorial Style Guide WSU Podcasts Social Media Directory WSU News & Media Relations PO Box 641227, Pullman, WA 99164-1227 509-335-3581 wsunews@wsu.edu WSU Cougar Head Logo © Washington State University 2021 Access Policies MyWSU Follow WSU