Skip to main content Stanford University Stanford Report Search this site Submit Search Menu Students Faculty Staff About Search this site Submit Search Leadership communications Stanford President Marc Tessier-Lavigne 3 weeks ago President’s statement on discovery of noose Stanford President Marc Tessier-Lavigne shares distress, outrage, and urgent resolve regarding Sunday's incident. Read More 4 weeks ago Exciting news about our new school: A message from President Marc Tessier-Lavigne President Marc Tessier-Lavigne announces the Stanford Doerr School of Sustainability, the university’s first new school in 70 years. Read More 2 months ago Welcome to spring quarter Stanford President Marc Tessier-Lavigne welcomes the campus community to spring quarter by highlighting upcoming events, progress on the new school focused on climate and sustainability and university awards that celebrate excellence in our community. Read More 3 months ago President’s remarks to the Faculty Senate on invasion of Ukraine President Marc Tessier-Lavigne made the following comments at the Faculty Senate meeting on Feb. 24, 2022. Read More 4 months ago Affordability enhancements at Stanford In a message to the campus community, Stanford President Marc Tessier-Lavigne and Provost Persis Drell announce new steps Stanford is taking to enhance affordability for staff, faculty, graduate students and postdoctoral scholars Read More 5 months ago Welcome to winter quarter As we begin the new quarter, Stanford President Marc Tessier-Lavigne shares some context around the university’s decision-making regarding the omicron variant and expresses gratitude for our community’s adaptability, partnership and perseverance. Read More More from the president Stanford Provost Persis Drell 6 months ago Update on the beginning of winter quarter In a message to the community, Provost Persis Drell and Associate Vice Provost for Environmental Health & Safety Russell Furr provide an update for students and instructors about the beginning of winter quarter instruction in January. Read More 6 months ago A message on winter quarter return policies Provost Persis Drell and Russell Furr, associate vice provost, environmental health & safety, update the Stanford community on protocols for returning to campus following winter break. The university’s approach to supporting a healthy return to campus includes continued masking, enhanced COVID-19 testing, including an additional rapid test upon arrival for some students, and limitations on student parties and some other gatherings for the start of the quarter. Read More 6 months ago Annual Title IX Report: Message to the community In a message to the community, Provost Persis Drell and Vice Provost for Institutional Equity, Access and Community Patrick Dunkley discuss the Annual Title IX/Sexual Harassment Report. Read More 9 months ago Preparations for fall quarter In a letter to the campus community, Stanford Provost Persis Drell discusses the plans under way to prepare for fall quarter. Read More 12 months ago Theta Delta Chi and Greek life at Stanford Provost Persis Drell comments on the decision on an appeal in a case involving the Theta Delta Chi fraternity. Read More 12 months ago Stanford’s IDEAL initiative makes substantial progress toward goals The campus-wide efforts to promote diversity, equity, access and inclusion have expanded significantly in the academic year 2020-21. Read More More from the provost Stanford Report News and information for the Stanford community. COVID-19 info & resources Re-Approaching Stanford Contact Stanford News Subscribe to Stanford Report Stanford Report is sent automatically to all Stanford faculty, staff and students. Others are invited to subscribe to Stanford Report. Stanford University Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.