Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Tactical Navigation - New Wave Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Close Search Tulane Search form Search this site Search search tulane.edu search news only Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Tulane News Primary Navigation - New Wave News Tulanian Magazine Events Experts Press Releases On Good Authority Podcast Tactical Navigation - New Wave Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Public Relations Team: tel 504-865-5210, @tulanenews, pr@tulane.edu Commencement, Culture, People School of Liberal Arts will present 2022 Distinguished Alumni Award to Academy Award winner Robert Fyvolent May 18, 2022 Academy Award winner Robert Fyvolent is this year's winner of the School of Liberal Arts' Distinguished Alumni Award. Culture, NOLA, People, Podcast Brass is back with the return of festival season May 05, 2022 Tulane professor Matt Sakakeeny recently discussed New Orleans brass bands on Tulane University’s podcast On Good Authority. His research touches on musical theory and expands to include questions about how music affects the fabric of the city and the importance of music education. COVID-19, Culture, Event, On Campus, People, World Psychologist explores history of anti-API racism and advocates for a united community May 03, 2022 In time for Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month in May, the Office of Equity, Diversity and Inclusion invited Sherry Wang, an associate professor of counseling psychology at Santa Clara University, a licensed psychologist, researcher and anti-racist educator, to present her research on anti-Asian violence and racism in the lecture “Asian American/Pacific Islander Mental Health Amidst the Twin Pandemics: Lessons Beyond COVID-19.” Culture, Health, Research in Real Time, Science Researchers study impact of college personality course on personality understanding April 28, 2022 Tulane researchers conducted a study that looked at the connection between students taking an introductory personality course and their dispositional intelligence. Culture, News Releases, NOLA, World Newcomb Dance Company presents "Cassandra Machine" April 18, 2022 The Newcomb Dance Company presents the premiere of Cassandra Machine, a contemporary dance work, beginning April 26 at Tulane. Culture, People An Eagle (Scout) in the Woods April 15, 2022 When the dedication and leadership of an Eagle Scout are paired with environmental preservation and the artistic endeavors of a program such as of A Studio in the Woods, great things are accomplished. Culture, News Releases, Research in Real Time, World Tulane study explores academic success among Jewish girls April 14, 2022 A Tulane study concludes that girls raised by at least one Jewish parent acquire a particular way of viewing the world that influences their education choices, career aspirations and various other experiences. Culture, Health, Research in Real Time, Science, World Tulane professor among international experts to produce landmark U.N. climate change report April 05, 2022 Tulane professor Jesse M. Keenan is among dozens of scholars and scientists involved in the writing and editing of a newly released United Nations report on the state of climate change. COVID-19, Culture, Health New book aims to prepare social work students for 21st century challenges March 23, 2022 The role of social workers in the pandemic is one of the topics that Joan Blakey, PhD, addresses in the 11th edition of her book Direct Social Work Practice: Theory and Skills. Culture, Event, Life@Tulane Dumpstaphunk to headline Crawfest’s return to campus in April March 21, 2022 On Saturday, April 23, Crawfest returns to the Berger Family Lawn on Tulane’s uptown campus. The festival runs from 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. and will feature live music, including Dumpstaphunk, art vendors and lots of crawfish! Culture, Event, Health, People, Science, World Tulane neuroscientist among women honored in Smithsonian’s If/Then exhibit March 17, 2022 This March the Smithsonian is adding to the excitement of Women’s History Month with the opening of “#IfThenSheCan – The Exhibit”, a collection of 120 life size 3D-printed statues honoring groundbreaking women in STEM. Elizabeth “Liz” Engler-Chiurazzi, Tulane assistant professor of neurosurgery at the Clinical Neuroscience Research Center at the School of Medicine, was chosen as one of the 120 If/Then ambassadors.This March the Smithsonian is adding to the excitement of Women’s History Month with the opening of “#IfThenSheCan – The Exhibit”, a collection of 120 life size 3D-printed statues honoring groundbreaking women in STEM. Elizabeth “Liz” Engler-Chiurazzi, Tulane assistant professor of neurosurgery at the Clinical Neuroscience Research Center at the School of Medicine, was chosen as one of the 120 If/Then ambassadors. Culture, Event, Life@Tulane, NOLA, On Campus New Orleans Center for the Gulf South presents annual Indigenous Studies Symposium March 11, 2022 The 4th annual Tulane Gulf South Indigenous Studies Symposium, titled “Sassafras, Stickball and Stories: Indigenous Cultures of the Gulf South,” and will be held March 18-19 in the Kendall Cram Lecture Hall in the Lavin Bernick-Center for University Life. COVID-19, Culture, Health, News Releases, Research in Real Time, Science, World Tulane wins $2.27 million grant to combat burnout among health care workers March 04, 2022 The Tulane School of Social Work has been awarded a $2.27 million grant from the U.S. Health Resources and Services Administration to develop and implement a plan to address retention, burnout and overall wellbeing and resiliency of the health care workforce. Culture, Life@Tulane, NOLA, On Campus Newcomb Art Museum awarded $500,000 grant from The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation March 03, 2022 New fellowships aim to make museum and arts-related careers more accessible for everyone. Culture, News Releases, NOLA, On Campus Preserving the legacy of New Orleans’ first Black radio DJ February 24, 2022 Using a grant from the GRAMMY Museum, Tulane University has digitized the recordings of radio pioneer Vernon “Dr. Daddy-O” Winslow, New Orleans’ first Black DJ. Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next › last » Subscribe to Tulane Today Tulane Today Archive News Archive Submit Your News Submission Guidelines Tulane in the News On Good Authority Podcast Statements Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane Home Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University