Skip to main content Visit Temple.edu Toggle Utility Menu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Search Site Search Temple Now Navigation - Go To - News by topic - Arts & Culture - Athletics - Campus News - Community Engagement - Global Temple - Research - Staff & Faculty - Student Success - Sustainability - Return to Campus - Visualize TempleAnnouncementsNewsletters - Temple Now subscriptionPublicationsTemple in the newsSocial MediaSpecial SeriesTemple MagazineAboutAccolades News by topic Announcements Newsletters Special Series About Arts & Culture What to read, listen to and watch to learn more about AAPI communities Athletics Introducing a new head coach of women’s basketball Campus News New General Education course to focus on AAPI identity and experiences Community Engagement President Wingard highlights Center City Business Association’s “Lunch with the City's Leaders” Global Temple Serving the American media from the Far East Research Temple-headquartered STARS Computing Corps receives a $3 million National Science Foundation grant Return to Campus Student community health ambassadors look out for their fellow Owls Staff & Faculty Temple thought leaders lend their voices to national conversation surrounding Roe v. Wade Student Success Temple Made for … building community Sustainability Charles Library earns LEED Gold certification Visualize Temple Charles Library shapes the future at Temple and beyond View Archives Home / News by topic Posted December 2, 2020 Arts & Culture, Boyer College of Music and Dance, Class of 2021, COVID-19, news, opera, Student Experience Temple University Opera Theater’s 'The Turn of the Screw' in pictures The production was adapted to meet the safety restrictions imposed by the coronavirus pandemic, from virtual auditions to a physically distanced performance. Photography By: Joseph V. Labolito The Temple University Opera Theater production of "The Turn of the Screw" was shaped by the coronavirus pandemic, with the cast and crew adapting to meet the safety restrictions imposed by COVID-19. Temple University Opera Theater's "The Turn of the Screw" in pictures See how the cast and crew staged a physically distanced opera for the COVID-19 era. View the Story keywords --Edirin Oputu Anonymous Related Stories All together now: The making of Temple University Jazz Band's 'Covid Sessions' A new dance show reimagines performances for the pandemic era Temple violist completes master’s degree on a high note thanks to Philadelphia Orchestra Temple University Strategic Marketing & Communications Bell Building 1101 W. Montgomery Avenue Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Directory Maps and Directions Contact RSS Facebook Twitter Pinterest LinkedIn.com YouTube Flickr TUPortal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Temple Now: The official source for Temple news. Copyright 2015, Temple University. All rights reserved.