Skip to main content Toggle navigation Search Cornell University Cornell.edu Media Relations Search Cornell University Cornell Chronicle Topics Architecture & Design Arts & Humanities Business, Economics & Entrepreneurship Computing & Information Sciences Energy, Environment & Sustainability Food & Agriculture Global Reach Health, Nutrition & Medicine Law, Government & Public Policy Life Sciences & Veterinary Medicine Physical Sciences & Engineering Social & Behavioral Sciences Coronavirus Campus & Community News & Events Public Engagement New York City Staff News Photos of the Day Big Red Sports Diversity In Memory Features NYS Impact Student Life Around Cornell All Stories In the News Expert Quotes Cornellians Health, Nutrition & Medicine Consumers embrace milk carton QR codes, may cut food waste June 1, 2022 Milk carton “use-by” dates soon may be a quaint relic. A new Cornell study finds that consumers like QR codes, better depicting how long milk is drinkable – creating less food waste. New cancer subtype may illuminate treatment strategy May 31, 2022 Researchers at Weill Cornell Medicine and Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center have identified a previously unrecognized form of hormone therapy-resistant prostate cancer, as well as a set of molecules that drive its growth. Higher dengue rates found near public transit in low-income areas May 31, 2022 In Medellin, Colombia, low-income residents who lived in close proximity to new public transit stations had increased rates of mosquito-transmitted dengue fever, according to a new study. How to get people to follow the rules: lessons from the pandemic’s ‘great experiment’ May 27, 2022 When a deadly global pandemic broke out, compliance — the act of following rules — became critical. Yet many people didn’t adhere to the rules. Professor John, from the Cornell Law School, explains how getting people to work together and follow rules takes careful thought and planning, and that compliance inside businesses and organizations is essential to accomplishing just about anything. Around Cornell First class of Milstein students heads toward graduation May 26, 2022 Twenty seniors in the Milstein Program in Technology & Humanity will graduate this year with degrees in everything from biology to linguistics to computer science to physics. Around Cornell Study reveals potential therapies for aggressive lymphoma May 26, 2022 The Weill Cornell Medicine research takes a step toward precision medicine for a type of cancer that disproportionately affects people with African ancestry, an underserved population. Artificial cilia could someday power diagnostic devices May 25, 2022 Cornell researchers designed a micro-sized artificial cilial system that could eventually enable low-cost, portable diagnostic devices for testing blood samples, manipulating cells or assisting in microfabrication processes. Startup Roundup: Antithesis Foods, Guard Medical, C2i, Bactana May 24, 2022 Cornell startup Antithesis Foods and Bactana were awarded NSF small-business grants, as Guard Medical raises $11 million in Series B investments and C2i launches a disease test in Europe. Weill Cornell Medicine Commencement returns to Carnegie Hall May 20, 2022 President Martha E. Pollack joined Deans Augustine M.K. Choi and Barbara Hempstead in conferring degrees on students graduating from Weill Cornell Medical College and Weill Cornell Graduate School of Medical Sciences, in the first in-person ceremony since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic. Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 Next page » Last page Last » Gallery Heading × Previous Next Links About the Chronicle Media Relations Office Copyright Web Accessibility Assistance Contact Cornell Chronicle 312 College Ave Ithaca, NY 14850 607-255-4206 cunews@cornell.edu SUBSCRIBE Daily and weekly newsletters Feeds - RSS & JSON