Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Close Search Tulane Search form Search this site Search search tulane.edu search news only Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Tulane Releases News Tulanian Magazine Events Experts Press Releases On Good Authority Podcast Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... News HomeNews Home /PR Tulane Newsroom Tulane Releases Health, News Releases, Research in Real Time, Science Study examines why the memory of fear is seared into our brains May 27, 2022 A team of Tulane neuroscientists have been studying the formation of fear memories in the emotional hub of the brain – the amygdala — and think they have a mechanism. News Releases, Research in Real Time, Science Tulane scientists develop powerful family of two-dimensional materials May 05, 2022 A team of Tulane scientists has developed a new family of two-dimensional materials that researchers say has promising applications in everything from advanced electronics to high-capacity batteries. News Releases, Research in Real Time Study finds training ‘village doctors’ can improve blood-pressure control in rural areas May 02, 2022 High blood pressure is a leading cause of heart disease and early death, but many across the globe live in areas with limited access to high-quality healthcare. The problem is especially serious in rural China where little more than 5% of hypertension patients have their blood pressure under control. News Releases, NOLA, On Campus Tulane researchers awarded grant to develop environmental humanities minor April 29, 2022 Two Tulane University School of Liberal Arts professors have received a grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) to develop an environmental humanities minor. COVID-19, News Releases, Research in Real Time Tulane researchers receive American Heart Association grant to study COVID’s vascular effects April 25, 2022 The American Heart Association has awarded Tulane University researchers $940,000 to study how COVID-19 spurs vascular inflammation that may increase risks for blood clots and lingering symptoms of long COVID. New Hires, News Releases Veteran leader to head Tulane’s new Innovation Institute April 20, 2022 Tulane University has named Kimberly Gramm as the inaugural David and Marion Mussafer Chief Innovation and Entrepreneurship Officer to lead the newly announced Tulane Innovation Institute. Culture, News Releases, NOLA, World Newcomb Dance Company presents "Cassandra Machine" April 18, 2022 The Newcomb Dance Company presents the premiere of Cassandra Machine, a contemporary dance work, beginning April 26 at Tulane. News Releases Study finds college becomes cheaper for some students, despite rising tuition at public universities April 15, 2022 While tuition at public universities across the nation has risen dramatically in recent years, increases in financial aid have kept pace to keep college more affordable for students from lower-income families, according to a new Tulane University study. Culture, News Releases, Research in Real Time, World Tulane study explores academic success among Jewish girls April 14, 2022 A Tulane study concludes that girls raised by at least one Jewish parent acquire a particular way of viewing the world that influences their education choices, career aspirations and various other experiences. News Releases Tulane Innovation Institute to transform university’s tech and entrepreneurial enterprises — and the regional economy April 13, 2022 The Tulane Innovation Institute will launch operations from its downtown headquarters later this year, thanks to several generous lead gifts from forward-thinking philanthropists. Like the nascent technologies and startups it seeks to invigorate, the multi-million-dollar, long-term project to transform the university’s entrepreneurial capabilities is attracting interest from expert investors who recognize its powerful potential. Load more Media Inquiries To interview Tulane Faculty contact the public relations office. tel: 504-865-5210 pr@tulane.edu Subscribe to Tulane Today Tulane Today Archive Submit Your News Submission Guidelines Tulane in the News Office of Public Relations Link to Tulane Home Page Footer - Left Column Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions Footer - Middle Column News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Footer - Right Column Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University