Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia News Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Featured News Topics Video Books Podcasts All News Media Resources Awards & Milestones Arts & Humanities Politics & Social Justice Research & Discovery Photo of the Week Commencement 2022 Columbia News You are here: Home All News How to Talk to Children About Gun Violence In the News How to Talk to Children About Gun Violence Prerna Arora, assistant professor of school psychology at Teachers College at Columbia University, offers some advice. May 27, 2022 In the span of less than two weeks, an elementary school in Uvalde, Texas, and a grocery store in Buffalo, N.Y., were shattered by gun violence, leaving family and friends to suffer from unspeakable loss. People around the world are still reeling—and will for some time—from these horrific tragedies in which more than 30 individuals, the majority of whom were children, were murdered. More Experts Weigh In Responding to Mass Shootings Gun Violence Can Be Prevented A ‘Solvable Problem,’ But Not a Quick Fix For parents and guardians, especially, it can be a struggle to know what to say to their own school-aged children about this horrible news. To offer some guidance, Columbia News reached out to Prerna Arora, assistant professor of school psychology at Teachers College, which is affiliated with Columbia University. Here's what she had to say. As a psychologist and educator, I think it is critical to first take a developmental approach to this communication. What a 6-year-old will need to hear will likely be different than a 16-year-old. For young kids, if parents choose to approach the topic, offering very simple information and ensuring children that they are safe is best. For older children, engaging children in a calm conversation, answering any questions they may have, and offering reassurance is recommended. For teenagers, actively listening and being available to talk, answering their questions and helping them understand their feelings can be beneficial. Generally, I suggest parents limit the amount of news coverage and stay away from graphic details. Tags Public Health Faculty News June 01, 2022 Eric Kandel, Nobel Prize Winner and University Professor, to Retire June 01, 2022 Faculty Named Fulbright U.S. Scholars, Other Institutional Milestones June 01, 2022 Columbia Physicist Tanya Zelevinsky Wins 2022 Brown Investigator Award June 01, 2022 Celebrating Pride Month 2022 at Columbia May 31, 2022 A Cultural Critic Publishes Her Second Memoir Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close