Skip to content University Home Academics Admissions Campus Life Research About Apply Giving Clemson News Search Topics OUR Clemson Impact and Innovation Student Success Faculty and Staff Achievements Alumni Accomplishments All Stories Clemson In The News Celebrating the Class of 2022 Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Divisions Office of the President Office of the Provost Advancement Clemson Computing Information Technology External Affairs Finance and Operations Inclusion and Equity Public Service and Agriculture Research Student Affairs Athletics For Journalists Our Experts Clemson.edu Resources University Home Academics Admissions Campus Life Research About Search for: Search Search Clemson News Search for: Search Celebrating the Class of 2022; Clemson University Honors College; Research; Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Clemson student selected for Posters on the Hill research forum Share: Download image April 25, 2022April 25, 2022 Clemson University student Ronnie Clevenstine, a senior from Greenville majoring in economics with a minor in political science, has been selected to participate in the Posters on the Hill research forum hosted by the Council on Undergraduate Research. The forum, which showcases undergraduate research from across the country, will take place virtually April 26-27. Clevenstine’s research looked at the federal Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) and state restrictions placed on the program. Working with political science professor Jeff Fine, she looked at how those restrictions differ from state to state and the variables that affect those restrictions, such as political partisanship, economic conditions and racial climate. Clevenstine said this type of research will help inform her future work in addressing food insecurity policy and other social policy research. “This project helped me get at what research questions I want to ask about these issues,” she said. “I hope to be able to use this type of research to talk to legislators about how we loosen restrictions to SNAP access for vulnerable populations.” Clevenstine is a student in the Clemson Honors College and the National Scholars Program, Clemson’s most selective academic merit scholarship. She has also participated in Clemson’s Creative Inquiry undergraduate research program, which gives students the opportunity to work in small groups with a faculty mentor to answer challenging questions and solve real-world problems. Clevenstine’s previous Creative Inquiry projects also dealt with food insecurity. She helped create a community garden in a rural area of South Carolina, and she assisted with a College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences project to create a food access map for Upstate residents experiencing food insecurity during the COVID-19 pandemic. She credits her experience in Creative Inquiry with sparking her interest in research. “What’s so wonderful about Creative Inquiry is that it allows you as an undergraduate to feel like you can work in the research space and contribute in a valuable way. When I came to Clemson, I was not interested in research. I felt like it was something for science or engineering majors; I didn’t think I had a role in that. Participating in Creative Inquiry helped me see myself as someone who can do research, who knows how to ask the right questions and work as part of a team to create something or solve a problem.”Clemson student Ronnie Clevenstine Clevenstine was named a Truman Scholar in 2021 and was named a finalist for both the Marshall Scholarship and the Rhodes Scholarship. She received the Duckenfield Scholarship from the Clemson Honors College and the University also recognized her with the Matt Locke Leadership Award and the Martin Luther King Jr. Excellence in Service Award. She held an economics internship last summer with the Brookings Institution and after she graduates in May, she will spend a year working with MEF Associates, a social policy research firm, before pursuing a Ph.D. Want to Discuss? Get in touch and we will connect you with the author or another expert. Or email us at news@clemson.edu Your Name Your Email Your Message This form is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Related Posts Watts give $5.5 million for Clemson innovation center, academic and athletic funds AcademicsClemson University Honors CollegeCreative InquiryDepartment of EconomicsDepartment of Political ScienceNational Scholars ProgramresearchStudents Clemson News Clemson News is the go-to source for stories and news about the innovations, research and accomplishments of the Clemson Family. Contact Us Media Resources For Journalists Find an Expert Clemson Publications Clemson World Decipher IDEAS magazine Student Affairs Experience Magazine Orange. The Experience. Clemson TV Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022. All Rights Reserved. Clemson University Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson