Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All Posts in #Philanthropy Campus & Community Daniel ’68, H’20 and Gayle D’Aniello Donate $10M to Invigorate Syracuse Abroad Florence Program, Expand Access for Students Monday, May 16, 2022, By Kathleen Haley In support of academic excellence and the University’s expansion as a global institution, Life Trustee Daniel D’Aniello ’68, H’20 and his wife, Gayle, are gifting $10 million toward significantly enhancing the Syracuse Abroad Florence program. The transformational nature of this… Campus & Community Investing in the Bedrock of Discovery: New Endowed Professorship in Quantum Science Wednesday, May 11, 2022, By News Staff Kathy Walters ’73 and her husband, Stan ’72, can look back over 50 years and easily track the impact Syracuse University had on their lives, but their newest gift to their alma mater looks far into the future, for generations… Campus & Community An Endowed Gift That Improves Prospects for the ‘Onlys’ Wednesday, May 11, 2022, By Eileen Korey Throughout much of her adulthood, Christine (Chris) A. Carona ’85 has either experienced or witnessed the “Onlys”—a term used to describe what it feels like to be the only woman or member of an unrepresented group in the room at… Campus & Community Lauren R. Villanueva Named Vice President of Alumni Engagement Friday, May 6, 2022, By News Staff As Syracuse University continues to advance several priorities related to its fundraising and alumni engagement efforts, Matt Ter Molen, senior vice president and chief advancement officer, announced the appointment of Lauren R. Villanueva as the University’s next vice president of… Campus & Community The Present Family Legacy of Love: A Forever Orange Story Tuesday, March 22, 2022, By Eileen Korey Just a few days after Jane Werner Present ’56 died, students at Syracuse University received a gift from her … in the form of a reading by New York Times bestselling author Nana Kwame Adjei-Brenyah G’16, the Jane and Daniel… Campus & Community Forever Orange Week Kicks Off Today Tuesday, March 22, 2022, By John Boccacino Forever Orange Week, Syracuse University’s annual celebration of what it means to be Orange, kicks off today with a full slate of activities designed to highlight the sense of pride current Syracuse University students and alumni feel for their campus…. Campus & Community Forever Orange Week Celebrates What It Means to Be Orange Tuesday, March 15, 2022, By John Boccacino What does it mean to be Orange? The sense of pride current Syracuse University students and alumni feel for their campus will be on full display during this year’s Forever Orange Week festivities, held the week of March 21. Hosted… Campus & Community New Mathematics Scholarship Honors Legacy of Longtime Faculty Member Philip Throop Church Wednesday, March 9, 2022, By Dan Bernardi It’s common for a certain noise, taste or smell to bring about memories of the past. For Susan Church Andersson, she remembers the distinctive squeak her father’s chair would make as he worked late into the night in the kitchen… Campus & Community A $2 Million Gift to the John A. Lally Athletics Complex to Strengthen the Student-Athlete Experience Monday, March 7, 2022, By Eileen Korey Michael Bill ’58 was a top student-athlete at Syracuse University, a center on the highly ranked football team that went to the Cotton Bowl. After graduation, he lost touch with his alma mater, but never lost the Orange spirit. In… Campus & Community Syracuse Honors NCAA Division I Winningest Basketball Coach on Final Trip to the Stadium, Recognizes Fiserv CEO for Commitment to the University Wednesday, March 2, 2022, By Stephanie Salanger It was a busy weekend filled with anticipation as Syracuse welcomed top-ranked Duke University for another historic rival matchup, along with some special pregame activities this time around. The game was the last time that Duke’s Mike Krzyzewski would coach… 12345 Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.