Skip to main content Search Close Search Search this site Search Search News and Media All of Oklahoma State University Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Headlines News and Media Main Menu In this section News News Archive Topics College News In the Media Magazines Experts Directory Submit News Contact Us Home Magazines State Magazine Advertise State Magazine Advertise Insertion Information and Specifications Rates Insertion Rates Per Issue Per magazine 1 issue (all ads must be full-page, four color only.) Single Page Inside: $2,250 Single inside cover, front or back: $2,750 Two-page spread inside: $3,250 Bundle Pricing STATE magazine advertisers who sign a one-year, three-issue agreement will receive a discount. Bundle pricing for STATE magazine: Single page ad (3): $5,400 Inside cover (3): $6,600 Deadlines Fall — July 1 Winter — October 1 Spring — March 1 Checklist Document files A summary of the files you are sending Any special instructions Your contact information The ad’s run date(s) Sending Ads Email Ads to: osu.advertising@okstate.edu Or submit Digital Files to: Oklahoma State University Department of Brand Management Attention: STATE Magazine 305 Whitehurst Stillwater, OK 74078-8031 All other Inquiries to: Telephone: 405-744-6262 FAX: 405-744-8445 editor@okstate.edu General Information All advertisements are accepted and published by the publisher upon the representation that the agency and/or advertiser are authorized to publish the entire contents and subject matter thereof. In consideration of the publisher’s acceptance of such advertisements for publication, the agency and/or advertiser will indemnify and save the publisher harmless from and against any loss or expense resulting from claims and suits based upon the contents or subject matter of such advertisements, including, without limitation, claims or suits for libel, violation of right of privacy, plagiarism and copyright infringement. All advertisements are published for the benefit of the agency and the advertiser, and each of them is jointly and severally liable for all charges. The publisher reserves the right to refuse any advertising and shall not be liable for damages if for any reason it fails to publish an advertisement. Cancellation of any part of a contract voids all rate and position agreements. No cancellation is accepted after closing dates. Ad Guidelines and Specifications Single page size: 8.375” wide x 10.875” tall, with a bleed tolerance of 1/8” and a margin tolerance of 3/16.” To avoid loss from binding or trimming, keep essential elements within the live area (at least 3/8” from top, bottom, and outer edges, and 1/2” from the gutter edge). The preferred file format for ad submissions is a high resolution Adobe Acrobat PDF, version 5.0 or later. PostScript fonts should be embedded in the PDF. All continuous tone artwork should be scanned between 300 to 600 dpi. All line art should be scanned at 600 to 1200 dpi. All work should be in the CMYK mode/convert RGB and spot colors to CMYK. Black should be set to overprint if it is to print over color, set trapping if required. Please make sure your ad bleeds on all four sides. Please ensure that ads are sized correctly, and that the PDF output is set to “Press Optimized” or derivation of. The recommended setting is PDF/X-1a (Acrobat Distiller or InDesign.) Include bleed and crop marks 1/8” from trim. Turn off document security and save without compression. We can accept ads on DVD-R, CD-R or by email. Storage media will not be returned unless requested. Please clearly indicate your address if you wish your media returned. SWOP standard digital color proofs, from the digital files being sent, should accompany your files to ensure accurate reproduction of your ad. Without it, we cannot guarantee the final color reproduction. Website banner ads should be no more than 680 pixels wide by 100 pixels high, and sidebar ads should be roughly 200 pixels wide by 200 pixels high. Email online ads as a JPEG file and include the hyperlink separately. Advertiser Information Want to connect with OSU’s most dedicated supporters? STATE can help. STATE, the official magazine of Oklahoma State University, is the premier college magazine in the state. Its award-winning writing and photography is the best way to reach our loyal network of educated, affluent and connected alumni and donors. The official magazine of Oklahoma State University Why should you use STATE to reach OSU alumni? The answer is in the numbers. Each edition of STATE goes to more than 36,000 OSU alumni, donors, friends, public figures and leaders. Our readers, most of whom are members of our alumni association, love OSU and never want to lose touch with their beloved alma mater. STATE is their one-stop shop for news about OSU, campus, faculty research, students and former classmates. Each issue, published in spring, fall and winter on glossy, high-quality paper, has award-winning feature writing, photography and design. Everyone from country music stars and civil rights figures to titans of industry, science and politics have been profiled in its pages. Long after each printing, your ad will continue to brand your company or organization to OSU’s target audience and will also become visible worldwide on ISSUU, a digital publishing platform. Once posted, articles and advertisements remain online indefinitely and the full content becomes available to major search engines. The print ad is placed on ISSUU for free with the complete digital magazine accessed by thousands of readers throughout the world. As the official magazine of Oklahoma State University, STATE is the most widely circulated and longest-published current periodical about and for OSU. Contact us today to learn more about how STATE can further your message. A few of the names and faces included on its pages: Garth Brooks, the biggest-selling solo act of all time Boone Pickens, billionaire and philanthropist Famed Native American Scholar Henrietta Mann American POP Artist James Rosenquist Wayne Allen, former chairman and CEO of Phillips Petroleum Co. Oklahoma Governor Kevin Stitt TIME Magazine Most influential People and CNN Hero Sister Rosemary Nyirumbe Don McClanen, founder of the Fellowship of Christian Athletes Wally Funk, pioneering female astronaut candidate and pilot Gene Nichol, former president of William and Mary and free speech champion Dr. Bob Purcell, discoverer of several Hepatitis viruses and vaccine Major League Baseball World Series Champion John Farrell Readership percentage nation-wide Oklahoma - 63% Texas - 15% Louisiana, Mississippi, Arkansas, Tennessee, Georgia, Florida, South Carolina, North Carolina - 6% New Mexico, Colorado, Wyoming, Montana, Idaho, Oregon, Washington, Nevada, California, Arizona, Utah (including Alaska and Hawaii) - 6% North Dakota, South Dakota, Nebraska, Kansas, Missouri, Arkansas, Missouri, Kentucky, Ohio, Indiana, Illinios, Michigan, Wisconsin - 7% Pennsylvania, New York, Virginia, Maine - 3% *Based roughly on a ratio of three readers per household Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©