Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: Syracuse University News Campus & Community COVID-19 Update: Effective Wednesday, June 1, Masking Level Returns to Yellow Friday, May 27, 2022, By News Staff Dear Students, Families, Faculty and Staff: Recently the Onondaga County Health Department has reported a notable decline in new COVID infections and hospitalizations across the Central New York region. This positive trend, combined with significantly reduced population density on our... Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Featured Stories Health & Society Social Work Student Bre’Yona Montalvo Receives First Sunflower Scholarship Wednesday, May 25, 2022, By Matt Michael Media, Law & Policy Newhouse Creative Advertising Students Win 195 Awards in 1 Year, Setting a New School Record Thursday, May 26, 2022, By News Staff Health & Society Alumni Draw on Their Military Experience in Their Roles as Teachers Thursday, May 26, 2022, By Martin Walls All News Stories Recent Stories Media, Law & Policy VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Campus & Community Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Health & Society Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Media Tip Sheets PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? STEM Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program All Recent Stories Faculty Experts J. Christopher Hamilton Assistant Professor, Television, Radio & Film Lynne Vincent Assistant Professor of Management Union Danielle Smith Director of the Renée Crown University Honors Program, Professor of African American Studies Brian Taylor Professor and Chair of the Political Science Department Russia Michael J. Williams Associate Professor, Public Administration and International Affairs Kyla Garrett Wagner Assistant Professor, Communications Pramod K. Varshney Distinguished Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; Director of CASE: Center for Advanced Systems and Engineering Faculty members at Syracuse University are available for expert commentary and analysis of breaking news and ongoing issues in the media landscape. Please contact the Syracuse University Media Relations team to set up interviews or for any questions about possible experts. Find an Expert Student Spotlight Media, Law & Policy Newhouse Creative Advertising Students Win 195 Awards in 1 Year, Setting a New School Record Thursday, May 26, 2022, By News Staff Creative advertising students at the Newhouse School have set the program record by winning an impressive 195 awards in one year. “What most impressed me about the awards the Newhouse creative advertising students won was not the amount but the… Campus & Community Student Speaker Ghael Fobes Mora Shared Highlights of the Class of 2022 Monday, May 16, 2022, By News Staff As the student speaker, University Scholar Ghael Fobes Mora ’22 shared memories of the past four years during Syracuse University’s 2022 Commencement on Sunday, May 15, 2022. “While today might seem like the closing of our collective Syracuse chapter, fear… All Student Spotlights Featured Videos STEM Preserving Aquatic Ecosystems, One Lake at a Time Thursday, April 21, 2022, By Daryl Lovell Svetoslava Todorova is passionate about her work with aquatic ecosystems. For years, she’s been bringing small groups of her Syracuse University students to Green Lakes State Park, equipped with gear to measure the make-up of the lake and armed with… STEM Women in Science Day Profile: Biomaterials Engineer Developing Smart Materials of the Future Thursday, February 10, 2022, By Daryl Lovell Scientist Mary Beth Browning Monroe is developing materials for healing the human body that could make a tremendous difference in life or death situations. These biomaterials—easy to use and highly effective—could control bleeding within wounds, especially critical in instances where… Campus & Community New Students: What Is the ‘Must-Have’ Item for Your Room? (Video) Sunday, August 29, 2021, By Keith Kobland From comfy pillows to a favorite sports item, incoming new students share what their “must-have” items are for their residence hall rooms. All Videos Featured Media Coverage Media Tip Sheets Architecture Expert and Researcher of Abortion Clinics On the Future of Access PBS NewsHour “Elon Musk bought Twitter. What’s next?” Media Tip Sheets “Inclusion Should Not Be an Afterthought”: Education and Legal Experts Weigh In on Plan to Update Federal Regulations Media Tip Sheets Former UN Special Prosecutor for International War Crimes Tribunal Releases New Report on War Crimes in Ukraine Media Tip Sheets 6 Climate Takeaways for Earth Day 2022 All Media Coverage Syracuse Views Syracuse Views Spring 2022 Sunday, May 15, 2022, By News Staff Syracuse Views Fall 2021 Monday, December 6, 2021, By News Staff Summer Snaps 2021 Friday, August 6, 2021, By News Staff Syracuse Views Spring 2021 Thursday, April 1, 2021, By Kathleen Haley Syracuse Views Fall 2020 Tuesday, December 22, 2020, By Kathleen Haley All Syracuse Views Events ‘Student Voices in Print’ Exhibition Through Oct. 31, Bird Library, Sixth floor This Special Collections Research Center exhibition features Syracuse University’s rich history and variety of student voices and student publications, which have been part of the fabric of the campus since its early days. Full Calendar Twitter @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.