Skip to main content Visit Temple.edu Toggle Utility Menu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Search Site Search Temple Now Navigation - Go To - News by topic - Arts & Culture - Athletics - Campus News - Community Engagement - Global Temple - Research - Staff & Faculty - Student Success - Sustainability - Return to Campus - Visualize TempleAnnouncementsNewsletters - Temple Now subscriptionPublicationsTemple in the newsSocial MediaSpecial SeriesTemple MagazineAboutAccolades News by topic Announcements Newsletters Special Series About Arts & Culture What to read, listen to and watch to learn more about AAPI communities Athletics Introducing a new head coach of women’s basketball Campus News New General Education course to focus on AAPI identity and experiences Community Engagement President Wingard highlights Center City Business Association’s “Lunch with the City's Leaders” Global Temple Serving the American media from the Far East Research Temple-headquartered STARS Computing Corps receives a $3 million National Science Foundation grant Return to Campus Student community health ambassadors look out for their fellow Owls Staff & Faculty Temple thought leaders lend their voices to national conversation surrounding Roe v. Wade Student Success Temple Made for … building community Sustainability Charles Library earns LEED Gold certification Visualize Temple Charles Library shapes the future at Temple and beyond View Archives Home / COVID-19 COVID-19 Narrative medicine gives Temple’s healthcare community the opportunity to reflect Type: News Story The program has helped students and faculty process their pandemic experiences. February 16, 2022 Temple Theaters’ ‘Head over Heels’ in pictures Type: News Story Partly planned and rehearsed virtually, the show will be performed live, in person. February 15, 2022 Michael L. Klein wins prestigious John Scott Award Type: News Story CST dean’s latest research breakthrough could impact treatment of COVID-19 December 14, 2021 Thank you to the 40,000-plus members of the Temple community who rallied to keep campus and Philadelphia healthy and safe Type: News Story Temple community bands together in complying with vaccine mandate. November 22, 2021 Temple Libraries provides photos for new Philadelphia true crime book Type: News Story After researching true crime in Philadelphia for her book, Kathryn Canavan used the resources at Temple Libraries to tell the story. November 17, 2021 Temple disburses $39,204,052 in COVID-19 relief assistance to students Type: News Story Nearly $40 million distributed in third round of HEERF. November 17, 2021 Temple Theaters’ ‘Spring Awakening’ in pictures Type: News Story See photos from the first production performed in person since the COVID-19 pandemic began. October 19, 2021 The Temple University Jazz Band celebrates the legacy of jazz great Jimmy Heath Type: News Story The band’s new album honors luminaries including Heath, John Chaney and Bootsie Barnes. October 15, 2021 Philly Community Wireless offers internet for the community, by the community Type: News Story The group hopes to address inequalities in internet access that were highlighted by the COVID-19 pandemic. October 7, 2021 Temple dean discusses the importance of public health and other stories featuring Temple in the media Type: News Story September 15, 2021 Campus might look a little different than you last remembered Type: News Story New construction projects enhance Temple’s vibrant campus. September 1, 2021 Temple celebrates LGBTQ+ Pride in NYC Type: News Story Temple’s Pride class offers a history lesson and a unique internship opportunity with NYC’s annual Pride event. August 4, 2021 Is it OK to ask, ‘Are you vaccinated?’ Type: News Story Klein College faculty member Deborah Kai explains how to ask about a person’s vaccination status. July 29, 2021 Accessibility before and after the pandemic Type: News Story Temple’s director of Disability Resources and Services talks about how returning to campus may impact students with disabilities. July 28, 2021 ‘Pandemic brain’ is making it harder for us to focus Type: News Story The pandemic has altered the way our brains function, making it harder for us to concentrate. July 20, 2021 Rising to the challenge Type: News Story The Temple community rose to confront the challenge of a worldwide pandemic. June 25, 2021 Dental student shares heartfelt white coat ceremony with her parents Type: News Story Natasha Rockwell was presented with her white coat by her parents, who both have ties to Temple’s dentistry program. June 23, 2021 In a class of her own Type: News Story Alumna Nicole Jordan is the Philadelphia Orchestra’s first Black female member. June 22, 2021 Championing racial equity at Temple and beyond Type: News Story The national advisor for Black engagement for the Biden-Harris campaign, Adjoa B. Asamoah is also the social impact strategist for the CROWN Act. June 11, 2021 Essential employees enable Temple to fulfill its mission Type: News Story Meet the Temple heroes who maintained campus operations during the COVID-19 pandemic. May 11, 2021 2021 Wearable Art Show goes virtual Type: News Story The annual show hosted by the Tyler School of Art and Architecture will bring the runway and cutting-edge work into viewers’ homes with a virtual screening of a unique film. May 7, 2021 One student empowers others after her disrupted study abroad experience Type: News Story Jennifer Hall instills a passion for studying abroad in other students of color. May 5, 2021 Commencement speaker says build a team to face life’s curveballs Type: News Story 2021’s Commencement speech focuses on the power of teamwork, despite the pandemic’s limitations May 5, 2021 Transport yourself to the Forest of Arden with TFMA’s unprecedented project Type: News Story The School of Theater, Film and Media Art will stream their vibrant rendition of "As You Like It" on May 10. May 4, 2021 How one Owl went from mentee to employee Type: News Story The Political Science Department is working to connect students and alumni with career support amid the COVID-19 pandemic. May 4, 2021 Pages 1 2 3 4 5 next › last » Temple University Strategic Marketing & Communications Bell Building 1101 W. Montgomery Avenue Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Directory Maps and Directions Contact RSS Facebook Twitter Pinterest LinkedIn.com YouTube Flickr TUPortal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Temple Now: The official source for Temple news. Copyright 2015, Temple University. All rights reserved.