Skip to main content Stanford University Stanford Report Search this site Submit Search Menu Students Faculty Staff About Search this site Submit Search Stanford News Service Stanford News — May 30, 2022 Small modular reactors produce high levels of nuclear waste Small modular reactors, long touted as the future of nuclear energy, will actually generate more radioactive waste than conventional nuclear power plants, according to Stanford-led research. Read More Stanford News — May 27, 2022 ‘What matters most to you and why?’ Zelenskyy asks Stanford students Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelenskyy spoke to the Stanford community in a video address about his country’s war against Russia for freedom and global democracy, which he said requires the continued support of all the people of the free world. Read More Stanford News — May 25, 2022 Stanford scholars on gun violence Why are so many people killed each year by guns? What gun laws need to be changed? How can Second Amendment rights be balanced with firearm safety? Stanford scholars have been studying these issues from a range of perspectives, including law, politics, economics and medicine. Here are some of their findings. Read More Stanford News — May 24, 2022 The future of allergy diagnosis A new device that can quickly isolate allergen-reactive white blood cells using microfluidics and magnets could one day help replace today's slow and painful skin tests and oral food challenges. Read More May 23, 2022 Creative writing course explores overlap of science and art Students in this course combine creative writing and science, discussing their texts in group workshops and gaining immersive writing experience through a trip to Hopkins Marine Station. Read More May 20, 2022 Stanford provost presents 2022-23 budget plan to Faculty Senate At Thursday’s Faculty Senate meeting, senators heard the provost’s annual budget presentation as well as a presentation from the Committee on the University Press. Read More May 19, 2022 How to prototype: Students make five unique chairs at the d.school Physical prototyping is an important part of the creative process. It provides a wide range of solutions for designers to explore. In a Stanford d.school class called Creative Gym, students practiced their prototyping skills by creating five unique chairs using different types of materials. Read More Stanford News — May 18, 2022 Four questions for Desiree LaBeaud The Stanford epidemiologist reacts to recent news about the effects of plastic on human health. Read More Stanford News — May 18, 2022 Tracking COVID infections through wastewater Civil and environmental engineering Professor Alexandria Boehm discusses the system her team developed for monitoring COVID-19’s prevalence on campus, collaboration with public health officers, and the great promise that wastewater monitoring holds for anticipating the spread of other diseases. Read More May 13, 2022 Interdisciplinary course applies physical science methods to art conservation An interdisciplinary course combining art, archaeology, and physics encourages students to look at cultural heritage objects through the lens of science and quantitative reasoning. The instructors hope to inspire careers in art conservation and archaeological science. Read More « Older stories Stanford Report News and information for the Stanford community. COVID-19 info & resources Re-Approaching Stanford Contact Stanford News Subscribe to Stanford Report Stanford Report is sent automatically to all Stanford faculty, staff and students. Others are invited to subscribe to Stanford Report. Stanford University Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.