Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia News Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Featured News Topics Video Books Podcasts All News Media Resources Awards & Milestones Arts & Humanities Politics & Social Justice Research & Discovery Photo of the Week Commencement 2022 Columbia News You are here: Home All News Columbia Physicist Tanya Zelevinsky Wins 2022 Brown Investigator Award Awards & Milestones Columbia Physicist Tanya Zelevinsky Wins 2022 Brown Investigator Award One of four mid-career researchers selected, Zelevinsky will use the $2 million award to advance the use of molecules to study fundamental science. By Ellen Neff June 01, 2022 Today, professor of physics Tanya Zelevinsky was awarded a 2022 Brown Investigator Award from the Brown Science Foundation, a nonprofit founded by Ross Brown in 1992 to support scientific discovery. The award recognizes mid-career scientists for their curiosity-driven research in physics and chemistry. Tick Tock! Building Molecular Clocks with Tanya Zelevinsky Zelevinsky’s lab builds devices called molecular clocks to study fundamental physics questions, like gravity at nanoscales and the existence of so-called dark matter and antimatter in the universe. Such clocks, which can be built in labs, are smaller-scale, less expensive ways to measure unknown forces than high-energy particle accelerators. Zelevsinsky joined Columbia in 2008. She received her PhD from Harvard and completed a postdoc at Colorado research institute JILA, where she first learned how to cool atoms and molecules to near absolute zero. For her work on quantum control of clock molecules, Zelevinsky will receive $2 million over the next five years. The award is a testament to Zelevinsky, said Physics Professor Robert Mawhinney, who as a divisional dean of science in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences at Columbia nominated Zelevinsky. “Her remarkable work has advanced the science driving ultracold molecules and molecular clocks, and we are excited to see how she will continue to push the field forward with this latest Brown Investigator Award,” Mawhinney said. Zelevinsky will use the award to improve her lab’s clock-building capabilities. “I want to strengthen fundamental science measurements with molecules,” she said. Get Columbia News In Your Inbox Tags Physics Quantum Faculty News June 01, 2022 Eric Kandel, Nobel Prize Winner and University Professor, to Retire June 01, 2022 Faculty Named Fulbright U.S. Scholars, Other Institutional Milestones June 01, 2022 Columbia Physicist Tanya Zelevinsky Wins 2022 Brown Investigator Award June 01, 2022 Celebrating Pride Month 2022 at Columbia May 31, 2022 A Cultural Critic Publishes Her Second Memoir Media Contact Ellen Neff Science Communications Manager, Columbia Quantum Initiative [email protected] Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close