Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: Media Tip Sheets 6 Climate Takeaways for Earth Day 2022 Thursday, April 14, 2022, By Daryl Lovell Share Climate ScienceDepartment of Earth and Environmental SciencesEarth DayEmissions Sam Tuttle This month, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) of the United Nations released a new report detailing the biggest climate concerns for countries all over the world. Some of the report’s main conclusions centered around steadily rising emissions and continued global warming, which will have a catastrophic impact on our climate if levels continue to increase. Syracuse University assistant professor and hydrology expert Sam Tuttle provides six takeaways from the report that he views as the most important elements ahead of Earth Day (April 22). He is available for future interviews and questions. Professor Tuttle says: We know what needs to be done – we just have to do it. The technology is available to reduce global carbon emissions to avoid catastrophic climate change. We have to move very fast if we are to avoid major climate-related impacts. The report says that we must massively cut down on fossil fuel use by 2030 in order to keep warming below the commonly accepted 1.5 degrees C above pre-industrial temperature, which will allow us to avoid the worst impacts of climate change. Global carbon emissions have not slowed in the past 10 years. We no longer have the luxury of trying to make incremental changes. We need transformational change, and we need it as soon as possible. Climate change is impacting everyone. Wealthy countries are responsible for a majority of carbons emissions, but developing countries will suffer the most from future climate change. Change must come from all levels, including the top. Individual actions are not enough to make the necessary change at this point. We also need changes to infrastructure, which needs to come from government policies and initiatives, as well as businesses. It will not be cheap nor easy to change our energy infrastructure, but we need governments to act, and boldly! However, there does not seem to be a political will nor urgency to do what is needed to reduce carbon emissions. Current climate commitments made by countries generally fall well short of what is needed, and it seems like most countries are not meeting even their modest goals. Every little bit counts! The sooner we reduce emissions, the better for our future. Even if we miss the 1.5 degrees C target, our safest future is with as little global warming as possible. There is no future date where it’s no longer worth it to reduce carbon emissions. We need to do as much as we can, as soon as we can! For more information: Daryl Lovell Associate Director of Media Relations University Communications M 315.380.0206 dalovell@syr.edu | @DarylLovell The Nancy Cantor Warehouse, 350 W. Fayette St., 4th Fl., Syracuse, NY 13202 news.syr.edu | syracuse.edu Syracuse University Author Daryl Lovell Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi More In Media Tip Sheets PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? June is PTSD Awareness Month and it serves as yet another reminder of the mental health struggles many veterans face each and every day – often times without any support, according to this recent Op-Ed in Newsweek written by John… Vice Admiral responds to Biden’s trip to Asia If you are looking for an expert in military and intelligence issues, please see comments from retired Vice Admiral Robert Murrett regarding President Biden’s trip to Asia and the mention of the “United States would intervene militarily if China attempts to… Media Tip Sheet: Consequences of China Lockdown As the intense lockdowns continue in China, one of our Syracuse University professors weighed in on possible consequences they may have on the economy. Dimitar Gueorguiev is an associate professor of political science at the Maxwell School of Citizenship and… Architecture Expert and Researcher of Abortion Clinics On the Future of Access Last week, a draft decision for Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health Organization was leaked from the Supreme Court and shows that five justices are preparing a judgment that would strike down Roe v. Wade. For reporters covering this ongoing story,… “Inclusion Should Not Be an Afterthought”: Education and Legal Experts Weigh In on Plan to Update Federal Regulations For the first time in 45 years, the U.S. Education Department is planning to update federal mandates for how schools and colleges must accommodate students with disabilities. The department is soliciting public comments about how current regulations can be improved… Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Facebook @SyracuseUNews Youtube Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.