Skip to content The Harvard Gazette Search for: Arts & Humanities Business & Economy Campus & Community Commencement 2022 The Coronavirus Update Events Health & Medicine National & World Affairs News & Announcements Photography The Quest for Racial Justice Science & Technology The Solutions Series News + About Accessibility Athletics News and Scores For Media & Journalists Privacy Policy Trademark The Daily Gazette Sign up for daily emails to get the latest Harvard news. Harvard University National & World Affairs World Taken out of context GenSci Lab scholars urge researchers to take care crafting definitions of sex as language can make its way into law, public policy World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Health & Medicine Health Don’t let latest COVID surge overshadow progress, says Hanage Epidemiologist explains how to stay on guard against subvariants, noting role of protective measures in transition to new pandemic phase Health Researchers find sleep benefit in higher dose of melatonin Supplements show promise in small study of older adults Featured National & World Affairs Health & Medicine Arts & Humanities Science & Technology Business & Economy Campus & Community Experience Commencement 2019 © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College The Harvard Gazette Echoes of El Salvador in Egypt Harvard’s secret court 100 years later Campus & Community Echoes of El Salvador in Egypt Campus & Community Echoes of El Salvador in Egypt Hainer Sibrian, M.P.P. ’20, (right) was able to attend Harvard Kennedy School through a Thomas R. Pickering Fellowship, which prepares students for U.S. Foreign Service careers. He is pictured with former U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and Tufts' Pickering Fellow Nicole Bermudez. Photos courtesy of Hainer Sibrian The son of Latin American immigrants, Hainer Sibrian, M.P.P. ’20, is set to launch a career as a U.S. diplomat, inspired by study abroad during Arab Spring By James F. Smith HKS Communications DateJune 10, 2020June 12, 2020 Share Email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Also in the Series Many happy returns Triple the joy A call to public service Victory of perseverance, vision over more than decade of challenges Merrick Garland to speak at Commencement for Classes of 2020 and 2021 View all of Honoring the Class of 2020 This is one in a series of profiles showcasing some of Harvard’s stellar graduates. Hainer Sibrian’s desire for a career as a U.S. diplomat was ignited while studying in Egypt during the Arab Spring, where he recognized the same democratic ambitions and thwarted dreams that had gripped the El Salvador his father fled in the 1980s. “A lot of what I understand about the world is shaped through the perspective of the Salvadoran Civil War and my father’s experience in it,” he said. Sibrian, M.P.P. ’20, described his parents’ early struggles in the United States. After arriving from El Salvador, his father was undocumented in Los Angeles, living in a car with his cousin. When Sibrian and his siblings were young, his mother, an immigrant from Mexico, cleaned offices and hotels in East L.A. Eventually, his father moved the family to the Atlanta suburbs so he could take a job installing hardwood floors, which he built into a successful business. But Sibrian was always aware of his family’s minority immigrant status, and he increasingly focused on issues of inequality and opportunity, at home and in the world. After Sibrian’s ROTC scholarship to Tulane University was upended during his freshman year by the federal budget sequester, he returned home and enrolled at Georgia State University. During his senior year in 2012, he landed a scholarship to study a foreign language abroad in 2012. He chose the American University of Cairo. “I chose to study Arabic because I was seeing U.S. policy in the region taking on a character that seemed to mirror in a lot of ways the actions that were taking place in Latin America in the 1980s,” he said. Sibrian saw the Middle East as a region “consistently regarded as expendable by the powers that be, in particular by the United States, where the focus was almost entirely counterterrorism.” And he concluded that “the costs to the populations in Iraq and Egypt were not going to be different from what was going on in Latin America.” "My laptop and planner, which got me through each day at HKS," wrote Hainer Sibrian. The Egyptian experience prompted Sibrian to pursue jobs in international democracy promotion in Washington. He worked for The Project on Middle East Democracy, which supports strengthening voices that promote democratic principles in the region. He moved on to a job with the National Endowment for Democracy, a bipartisan nonprofit that provides international grants funded by Congress through the State Department. As a State Department contractor, he managed multimillion-dollar funding, including the entire European assistance portfolio. Sibrian says he realized that he needed to combine his passion for fostering democratic change in the world with skills in project management and negotiation, so that he could deliver results for people. He made his way to the Kennedy School (HKS) in 2018 through a Thomas R. Pickering Fellowship, which prepares students for U.S. Foreign Service careers. He will be commissioned this fall as a foreign service officer in the State Department. “I hope to have conversations as a political officer with country counterparts that help uphold the scaffolding of liberal democracy,” Sibrian says. “It doesn’t necessarily have to be everything they want, but just getting them to a place where the people feel represented, heard, and feel that they live in a system that is just.” Sibrian cites a formative lesson from his adolescent years in Atlanta, when he took part in Christian athlete fellowship programs, in the prayer of St. Francis. “We shouldn’t seek to be understood, but more so to understand.” Editor's Picks Campus Triple the joy Photographers capture the festive rites and poignant moments as three classes celebrate Commencement World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Campus A call to public service Merrick Garland tells grads to get involved, warns democracy in peril, cites Capitol attack, rise in mass shootings, stifling of voting rights Also in the Series Many happy returns Triple the joy A call to public service Victory of perseverance, vision over more than decade of challenges Merrick Garland to speak at Commencement for Classes of 2020 and 2021 View all of Honoring the Class of 2020 Up Next Campus Harvard’s secret court 100 years later Campus & Community Harvard’s secret court 100 years later Harvard Yard in 1920. Creative Commons