Keyword Search Campus Directory Maps Jobs at SDSU TOPICS OF INTEREST How to become an Aztec How to become a mentor Need an intern? Campus Events Calendar Take a campus tour Use the library's resources SDSU NewsCenter Sexual Assault Resouces Smoke Free SDSU Student Enrollment Characteristics SDSU By the Numbers 1897 Founded 34,000 Students (Fall 2019) 3,076 Students Studying Abroad (2017-18) 400,000+ Alumni 3.77 Average Incoming High School GPA 93,704 Total Applications for Fall 2020 10,300 Graduates (Spring 2019) Keyword Search Campus Directory Maps Jobs at SDSU Topics of InterestHow to become an Aztec How to become a mentor Need an intern? Campus Events Calendar Take a campus tour Use the library's resources SDSU NewsCenter Sexual Assault Resouces Smoke Free SDSU Student Enrollment Characteristics SDSU By the Numbers 1897 Founded 34,000 Students (Fall 2019) 3,076 Students Studying Abroad (2017-18) 400,000+ Alumni 3.77 Average Incoming High School GPA 93,704 Total Applications for Fall 2020 10,300 Graduates (Spring 2019) Monday, May 30, 2022 Return to home Imperial Valley SDSU Imperial Valley (SDSU) Thursday, May 26, 2022 SDSU Imperial Valley Launches New, Accelerated Pre-Licensure BSN Program The SDSU Imperial Valley BSN program provides students the opportunity to complete their BSN through an accelerated timeline. By SDSU News Team Story Keywords: Imperial Valley, Nursing Please enter your info below Your name * Your Email address * * Recipient Email Address * * Tweet San Diego State University Imperial Valley is helping combat the critical nursing shortage in the region through the creation of a new, accelerated pre-licensure bachelor of science in nursing (BSN) program. The program was officially approved by the California Board of Registered Nursing on May 18. The SDSU Imperial Valley BSN program provides freshman entry students the opportunity to complete their BSN in three years and transfer eligible students in two years. The direct entry BSN program builds upon the continued partnership with Imperial Valley College to provide opportunities for students in Imperial Valley to pursue a career in the high-demand healthcare industry. The pre-licensure BSN program, which also builds upon the university’s work with the Imperial Valley Regional Occupation Program, will create a larger pool of baccalaureate prepared nurses to serve the Imperial Valley community – right in their home community. Prospective students can submit an application for the inaugural program now through June 3 for the fall 2022 semester. First-year and transfer students who qualify for California State University admission and meet program-specific prerequisites are eligible for admission. “This vital program will also provide opportunities for high school freshmen to enter directly as a nursing major and alleviate the bottleneck of transfer students seeking nursing careers,” said Karen Macauley, director of SDSU’s School of Nursing and a professor within the College of Health and Human Services. “It is exciting to have multiple pathways locally that can offer a variety of entry points for compassionate individuals who desire to become a nurse and serve in their own community,” said Helina Hoyt, the nursing program coordinator at SDSU Imperial Valley. SDSU Imperial Valley already offers a Registered Nurse (RN) to BSN program and a separate masters of science in nursing leadership in health care systems program. The RN to BSN program is funded in part through a $480,000 Song Brown award from the California Department of Health Care Access and Information, spread out over a two-year period. The award will provide student stipends, simulation equipment and academic mentoring to RN to BSN nursing students who are cross enrolled in both SDSU Imperial Valley and Imperial Valley College nursing programs. The accelerated program announcement follows four years of increased course offerings and expanded student support services at SDSU Imperial Valley. Earlier this month, California Gov. Gavin Newsom announced that he has included $80 million in new funding for a SDSU Imperial Valley science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) facility that will drastically expand educational, research, and economic development opportunities in Imperial County. Related Stories Latest Stories Events Gov. Newsom Proposes $80M Investment in SDSU Imperial Valley Site SDSU Imperial Valley Faculty Receive NSF Award for Math Education SDSU's Sage Project Tackles Homelessness in El Centro An Imperial Valley First: Licensed Therapist Joins Campus Pilot Shuttle Service Introduced between SDSU, SDSU Imperial Valley Imperial Valley is Focus of Study on High Heat and Social Inequality Consensus Builder: SDSU Imperial Valley Dean Gregorio Ponce Carrying a Distinction with Pride SDSU Imperial Valley Launches New Offerings, Expanded Support Services SDSU Imperial Valley and Global Campus Partner for New Degree Programs Inspired to Lead Spirit of Giving: Serving the Homeless in Calexico BROWSE ALL RELATED Exploring Crime, Punishment, and Pleasure in Reality TV After Childhood Rife With Post-9/11 Racism, Daughter of Immigrants Strives to Shape Policy 'It’s Elementary' for SDSU Student's A.M.A.N.I. Project SDSU to Host Mountain West Baseball Championship SDSU Management Professor Takes a Hard Look at Inclusion in the Workplace California Shellfish Farmers Adapt to Climate Change Money Magazine’s Best Colleges for Value Ranks SDSU Banned Contaminants Still Threaten Endangered California Condors ‘Incredibly Competitive’ Fulbright Grants Awarded to Six Students Softball: Aztecs Draw LSU at NCAA Tempe Regional Gov. Newsom Proposes $80M Investment in SDSU Imperial Valley Site Say It Loud: I'm Curly and I'm Proud BROWSE ALL LATEST BROWSE ALL EVENTS ONLINE COMMUNITIES ADDITIONAL RESOURCES Campus Directory Maps Parking Jobs Media Web Portal CSU Land Acknowledgement NEWSLETTER SIGN UP Sign up for the SDSU NewsCenter weekly newsletter. 5500 Campanile Drive San Diego, CA 92182 Tel: 619-594-5200