Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Close Search Tulane Search form Search this site Search search tulane.edu search news only Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Tulane News News Tulanian Magazine Events Experts Press Releases On Good Authority Podcast Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... News HomeHome Inline CSS for Tulane News Articles Under the Oaks 2022 May 21, 2022 5:30 PM | Alicia Serrano Bilich aserrano1@tulane.edu Print to PDF Newcomb Institute held its annual Under the Oaks ceremony on Friday, May 20, in Dixon Hall. The ceremony honored Newcomb Scholars, Newcomb Institute award and grant recipients, outstanding faculty, alumnae association award recipients and members of the Class of 1970, 1971 and 1972. Members of the Class of 1972 received a second diploma from the institute, commemorating their 50-year reunion. Prior to the presentation of awards, Executive Director of Newcomb Institute Sally Kenney, addressed the Class of 2022. “Each generation is defined by the issues it chooses to address, as well as how it responds to issues not of its choosing,” Kenney said. She said that she has learned to never underestimate the power of new generations asking uncomfortable questions. “Graduates, whether it’s sexual violence, unequal pay or racial injustice, don't accept the way things are, keep pressing for how things should be.” She continued with a call to action by stating, “Graduates, take your seat at the table. Insert yourself at the center of power, not only in the girls’ auxiliary on the margins. Once there, be bold and demand what’s right in speaking up for equality. Use your voice on the issues you care about.” Kenney encouraged the graduates to develop an instinct for activism. “As you do, think of all the Newcomb graduate who came before you as the wind at your back, holding you up, whatever the challenge.” To read more about the Under the Oaks Ceremony, click here. DaisyChain_600.jpg The ceremony opened with the procession of the Daisy Chain, which consists of over 1,000 daises gathered by the members of the junior class. The Daisy Chain has been a tradition in Newcomb commencement ceremonies since the early days of the college. (Photo by Cheryl Gerber) SallyKenney_600.jpg Sally Kenney, executive director of Newcomb Institute, congratulates the Newcomb graduates and recognizes the faculty and staff for their dedication. (Photo by Cheryl Gerber) NewcombAlumnae_600.jpg Newcomb Institute welcomed back members of the Newcomb College classes of 1970, 1971 and 1972 to be recognized at the ceremony. The Class of 1972 celebrated its 50-year reunion. (Photo by Cheryl Gerber) Lily_600.jpg Lily Mae Lazarus, graduating senior who majored in international relations and Middle Eastern Studies, addressed the graduates, while paying homage to the Class of 1972. She said, in part, “We have learned to rebuild the community after displacement. We have learned to adapt to constantly evolving scenarios. And we have learned to create a space in which we take nothing for granted. We should come together and celebrate our collective achievements, uplift the voices of other women and stop apologizing for our success. Maybe then we can finish what the second wave of feminism started and honor the legacy of women’s liberation.” (Photo by Cheryl Gerber) NewcombScholars_600.jpg Newcomb Scholars of the Class of 2022 are recognized on stage. (Photo by Cheryl Gerber) Related Articles Other Related Articles Class of 2022 praised for persistence at Unified Commencement in Yulman Stadium Public health graduate channels passions for language and health equity Love of the legal profession started early for law review editor School of Liberal Arts graduate finds literary voice through Tulane educational journey Marvelous Mortarboards, Class of 2022 edition Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane Home Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University