Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia News Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Featured News Topics Video Books Podcasts All News Media Resources Awards & Milestones Arts & Humanities Politics & Social Justice Research & Discovery Photo of the Week Commencement 2022 Columbia News You are here: Home All News Chef Jacques Pépin Inaugurates Maison Française’s New Kitchen Campus Life Chef Jacques Pépin Inaugurates Maison Française’s New Kitchen April 19, 2014 Chef and Columbia alumnus Jacques Pépin (GS '70, GSAS '72) came back to campus to celebrate the opening of the new kitchen at Maison Française in Buell Hall. The kitchen will be used to create programming on French and international cuisine, including cooking demonstrations by invited chefs, classes on culinary history and culture, and other food-related events. The evening started with a discussion between Pépin and "New Yorker" staff writer and essayist Adam Gopnik, who played the role of sous chef during a demonstration and tasting of recipes from Pépin’s newest cookbook, "Essential Pépin." During the discussion, Pépin reflected on his life as a French chef and emissary of French cooking in America since his arrival in New York in 1959. Their conversation explored the influence of French cuisine on American tastes and cooking habits and the current state of the culinary arts in France and the U.S. Pépin, who cooked for three French heads of state as France's "First Chef" before coming to the U.S. in his 20s, earned a master's degree and embarked on a Ph.D. in French literature before deciding to return to his first love, cooking. He has been widely influential in revolutionizing American cooking, bringing French techniques and recipes into American kitchens through his television series and cookbooks. Pépin has won several awards from the James Beard Foundation, including a Lifetime Achievement Award, and a Legion of Honor. Visit the Columbia Maison Française website for more information. Tags Food News June 01, 2022 Eric Kandel, Nobel Prize Winner and University Professor, to Retire June 01, 2022 Faculty Named Fulbright U.S. Scholars, Other Institutional Milestones June 01, 2022 Columbia Physicist Tanya Zelevinsky Wins 2022 Brown Investigator Award June 01, 2022 Celebrating Pride Month 2022 at Columbia May 31, 2022 A Cultural Critic Publishes Her Second Memoir Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close