Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Lasting Impact in (and Outside) the Classroom facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Beyond the Bricks Lasting Impact in (and Outside) the Classroom The Kenan Fellows Program for Teacher Leadership aims to boost performance in classrooms and strengthen communities around North Carolina. May 6, 2020 Suzanne Wardle Anna Glasgow (left), a 2017-18 fellow from the Kenan Fellows Program, works with mentor Katie Rehain in a biology laboratory at the University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill. Glasgow, who works with middle schoolers in Chapel Hill-Carrboro City Schools, designed a unit in which students learn about DNA and organisms. The school year is winding down, but 19 teachers from across North Carolina are gearing up for their own learning experience in the Kenan Fellows Program for Teacher Leadership. The program, now in its 20th year, offers professional-development sessions, an internship and networking opportunities to boost teachers’ performance in the classroom and, in turn, strengthen their communities, says Elaine Franklin, program director. Today there are 493 fellows across North Carolina and beyond. Kenan staff have faced some challenges this year because of the COVID-19 pandemic. Online interviews have replaced face-to-face ones, and the residential program that usually takes place at the North Carolina Center for the Advancement of Teaching in Cullowhee might not be possible. However, the mission to improve the quality of K-12 teaching hasn’t changed. “We are particularly looking for teachers who are aspiring to have an impact in their classroom and beyond,” Franklin says. “They really have a desire to lift up their profession and support other practitioners.” Local Teamwork The Kenan Fellows Program originally targeted STEM teachers but now is open to instructors of all subjects and grade levels. The program has made an effort in recent years to reach out to rural communities, Franklin says. Cohorts often include teachers from Title I schools with large numbers of students from low-income homes. Fellows go through 80 hours of professional development, and topics change depending on what’s important in the world of education. This summer, discussions will include remote teaching and learning, Franklin says. Teachers then begin a three-week internship with a mentor to identify and address an educational need, culminating in a capstone project. For the 2019-20 cohort, those included formulating a love of STEM education, using statistics to solve problems and promoting diversity in leadership. “In true project-based learning, you want to be solving a real-life problem,” Franklin says, adding that teachers appreciate the practical approach. “They say it makes a difference because somebody’s going to use it. It’s not just solving it for a school project, it could actually be put into use.” Rebecca Brown, an elementary school teacher and a 2017-18 fellow from the Kenan Fellows Program, learns how power is generated and delivered. Her mentors came from both the North Carolina Electric Cooperatives and its member organization for Duplin County. Projects can align with mentors’ industries or organizations — the mentors for the 2019-20 project Pork Proud STEM Classwork came from the Wayne County Farm Bureau, the North Carolina Pork Council and the North Carolina Farm Bureau. Mentors can come from corporations, local groups or universities — including NC State — and work with the teachers in different ways. “If you’re teaching an AP Biology class in high school, the person who is your mentor may come in to help teach a procedure,” Franklin says. “It’s going to be all over the map.” Local Impact Kenan’s internships fulfill its mission of helping both teachers and their communities. “We want these to be very place-based, very local,” Franklin says. “We want fellows really learning about the resources in their community. We want to help them build relationships with businesses, industries, universities and community colleges in their own community.” Related Beyond the Bricks In this series, get to know NC State people and programs at work outside our Raleigh campus. According to Kenan’s reviews, the program is working. Fellows report that it made them better teachers, helped them develop skills to work with community stakeholders and turned them into capable mentors for fellow instructors. That level of empowerment is the benchmark of the program’s success, Franklin says. “We are fortunate to be able to select wonderful, outstanding teachers,” Franklin says. “We hope to elevate them, amplify their voices and give them that boost.” Categories: Beyond the Bricks Faculty and Staff Tags: beyond the bricks kenan fellows program for teacher leadership View Comments 0 total responses Leave a Response Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. All fields are required. Comment * Name * Email * More From NC State News A School of Fishes Homegrown Vintage It’s in the (Produce) Bag Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.