Skip to content University Home Academics Admissions Campus Life Research About Apply Giving Clemson News Search Topics OUR Clemson Impact and Innovation Student Success Faculty and Staff Achievements Alumni Accomplishments All Stories Clemson In The News Celebrating the Class of 2022 Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Divisions Office of the President Office of the Provost Advancement Clemson Computing Information Technology External Affairs Finance and Operations Inclusion and Equity Public Service and Agriculture Research Student Affairs Athletics For Journalists Our Experts Clemson.edu Resources University Home Academics Admissions Campus Life Research About Search for: Search Search Clemson News Search for: Search Talk to an Expert Whether you’re looking for commentary on breaking trends shaping the world or a background briefing, our experts are available to help. Sort by topic AgricultureArchitectureArtAutomotive and MobilityBusinessCareersClimate ChangeCommunicationEconomicsEducationEngineeringEntomologyEnvironmental ScienceForestryHealthIntellectual PropertyManufacturingNatural ResourcesNutritionPsychologyPublic PolicyRidesharingScienceSocial MediaSustainability Dustin Albright As a founding member of Clemson University’s Wood Utilization + Design Institute, Albright’s work contributes to wood-based construction materials’ design advancements. His research focuses on different applications of prefabricated light-framing and mass timber systems, including those with cross-laminated timber. Read More about Dustin Albright Amy Apon A leader in her field, Apon explores the performance, improvement and evaluation of parallel and distributed systems, and utilizes various cloud-computing architectures in order to solve important scientific and industry-related problems. Read More about Amy Apon Kimberly Baker Whether it’s food safety, shelf stability or the creation of nutrition fact panels, Baker’s expertise in food science, nutrition and the culinary arts addresses food safety from a unique scientific and health-conscious perspective – without sacrificing flavor. Read More about Kimberly Baker John Ballato Optical fibers are used in a growing range of applications central to modern life from communications, defense and medicine. Ballato has spent his career researching fiber optic development by looking at materials and how they influence light. Read More about John Ballato Eric Benson While many insects are beneficial, they’re typically not wanted anywhere you commonly frequent. At Clemson, Benson has dedicated his life to figuring out how to control these unwelcome intruders, studying the insects invading the places we live, work and play. Read More about Eric Benson Johnell Brooks Vehicle design is more than engines, electronics and aesthetics — for Johnell Brooks, it’s also about crafting the interaction among drivers, passengers, vehicles and environments for safer, accessible and enjoyable travel. Brooks’s research focuses on designing vehicles and transportation systems with the human experience in mind. Read More about Johnell Brooks Neil Burton By keeping his finger on the pulse of national and global job markets and the professional aspirations of today’s college students, Neil Burton equipped his team to deliver the best career services in the nation through helping Clemson students achieve their goals after graduation. Read More about Neil Burton David Clayton With experience in higher ed., industry and public service, Clayton can speak to trends in advanced STEM education, economic and workforce development. His work spans public-private partnership development, corporate engagement, business development, market research, financial services, transportation and nuclear engineering. Read More about David Clayton Delphine Dean Dean works to impact health care through basic and applied science. She has established Clemson’s first high-complexity CLIA-certified clinical diagnostics lab on campus, which can run up to 9,000 COVID PCR saliva-based tests per day. Read More about Delphine Dean Andrea Feeser Feeser’s research into the histories of place and community with respect to intertwined cultures and environments has had global impact, redefining perceptions from the tourism industry in Hawaii to colonial indigo production and use in the American South. Read More about Andrea Feeser Jorge Luis García Economic policies can have long-term, unintended consequences, especially in labor and development. Jorge Luis Garcia examines economic policies and why the labor market locates talent the way it does, focusing on women in developing countries, along with working and single mothers and early childhood education in the United States. Read More about Jorge Luis García Thomas O’Halloran O’Halloran measures the emissions of gases like methane, carbon dioxide and nitrous oxide released by soil, and the exchange of carbon, water and energy between the Earth’s surface and the atmosphere. He’s also helped create a global map measuring the cooling effect forests have. Read More about Thomas O’Halloran Mark Johnson Technology is changing how the world does business, and manufacturing is no exception. Johnson stays ahead of trends through research on topics ranging from robotics and virtual reality to artificial intelligence and lightweight materials. Read More about Mark Johnson Shontavia Johnson An expert in digital brand building, intellectual property law and entrepreneurship, Johnson is a recognized leader throughout the country. She has led national discussions about the science of going viral, digital literacy, patents and Black inventors. Read More about Shontavia Johnson Roy Jones The visionary behind Call Me MISTER®, Jones has grown the program into a nationally renowned model. Today it serves more than 33 colleges and universities across 10 states and has more than 600 program participants driving change in the classroom. Read More about Roy Jones Robin Kowalski Social media, gaming and other online communications have benefits, but when these platforms are used to bully others, people young and old can feel they are unable to escape bullying behavior. Kowalski studies how bullying and cyberbullying overlap, what motivates this behavior and what parents and educators can do to mitigate the negative effects of bullying and cyberbullying. Read More about Robin Kowalski Stephen Kresovich Genetic diversity of crops can aid food security, improve human health and provide cropping systems sustainability. By exploring genetics, Kresovich seeks to understand how traits impact plants’ resilience and nutrition to advance agriculture. Read More about Stephen Kresovich Patricia Layton Pat Layton, forestry professor and WU+D director, explores mass timber construction, especially utilizing Southern yellow pine cross-laminated timber. She’s been central in policy creation and the development of several high-profile mass timber buildings in South Carolina. Read More about Patricia Layton Susan Limber As a developmental psychologist with a masters in legal studies, Limber’s research and writing focuses on psychological and legal issues related to bullying among children, as well as youth participation and children’s rights. Read More about Susan Limber Darren Linvill An internationally recognized leader in the social media forensics and data monitoring field, Linvill identifies inauthentic behavior produced by troll farms and the propagation of misinformation and disinformation intended to persuade the public. Read More about Darren Linvill Trudy Mackay Mackay is one of the world’s leading authorities on the genetics of complex traits, a field of study that leads to cures for terminal illness in children, preserving the health of the elderly and restoring the health of people with drug addictions. Read More about Trudy Mackay Ken Marcus With more than a dozen patents, Marcus is world-renowned in the fields of physics, chemistry and spectroscopy, and his discoveries have fueled innovations in health care, national defense, advanced materials and other industries. Read More about Ken Marcus Joe Mari Maja The use of technology to address problems in manufacturing has been widespread, and now it’s become a growing trend in agriculture. Mari Maja’s research explores how technology can be used in farming to optimize operations and provide data to assist in faster decision-making for the betterment of crops. Read More about Joe Mari Maja Laine Mears With nearly three decades of experience in education and industry, Laine Mears’s work spans advanced controls for manufacturing, assembly processes, human-machine interaction, Industry 4.0 and national advanced manufacturing trends. Read More about Laine Mears Hala Nassar Landscape architecture plays a pivotal role in the evolution of cultures, societies and the environment, especially in times of crises like a pandemic. Nassar’s understanding of landscape architecture and its effect on civilization spans history and the globe. Read More about Hala Nassar Chad Navis Navis explores stakeholder mobilization, emphasizing how an entrepreneur’s language and behaviors shape stakeholders’ reactions. He also examines how processes and results are altered when entrepreneurs exhibit overconfidence and narcissism. Read More about Chad Navis Srikanth Pilla An advanced lightweight and sustainable materials researcher within the Department of Automotive Engineering, Pilla’s experience is in high-performance advanced materials including fundamental science and material synthesis to functional prototyping and manufacturing planning. Read More about Srikanth Pilla Jennifer Siemens Siemens helps marketers and consumer advocates understand consumer experiences during major life transitions, how consumers might be vulnerable and what resources can be provided to help them. With an understanding of consumer behavior, her research benefits consumer welfare and quality of life as it relates to consumption. Read More about Jennifer Siemens Angeline Close Scheinbaum A scholar of consumer behavior and integrated brand promotion with a focus on sport, e-commerce and social media, Scheinbaum’s work includes theoretical rigor and industry relevance and is used in many business schools and communication programs. Read More about Angeline Close Scheinbaum Craig Wallace Wallace has spent two decades applying his knowledge in organizational psychology to deliver lifesaving strategy to businesses. He is a pioneer in high-involvement leadership, a strategy harnessing the power of teamwork by empowering employees. Read More about Craig Wallace V. Skye Wingate One out of every five students reports being a victim of bullying. While the most common measure of bullying is frequency, Wingate examines and measures bullying severity by looking at its severity and intention, and its effects alongside bullying frequency. Read More about V. Skye Wingate B.D. Wortham-Galvin Half of the world’s population lives in urban areas, and by 2050, that figure will rise to two-thirds. Wortham-Galvin has dedicated her career to finding proactive solutions to the particular problems posed by humanity’s migration to urban living. Read More about B.D. Wortham-Galvin Mary Ellen Wright Substance use disorder is a national crisis, especially when the addict is a mother. The problem is compounded by a complex domestic situation or marginalized family. Wright explores how systems and processes address these problems, the best strategies for response and caring can be applied to aid in recovery. Read More about Mary Ellen Wright Heidi M. Zinzow A licensed clinical psychologist and professor, Zinzow addresses risk, protective factors for trauma victimization and how to ameliorate associated mental health symptoms, focusing on developing intervention and prevention programs. Read More about Heidi M. Zinzow Want to Talk? Let us know and we'll connect you with an expert. Or email us at news@clemson.edu Your Name Your Email Your Message This form is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Clemson News Clemson News is the go-to source for stories and news about the innovations, research and accomplishments of the Clemson Family. Contact Us Media Resources For Journalists Find an Expert Clemson Publications Clemson World Decipher IDEAS magazine Student Affairs Experience Magazine Orange. The Experience. Clemson TV Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022. All Rights Reserved. Clemson University Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson