Skip to main content Giving News Menu Close Stories of Impact Podcast Video Gift Announcements Featured Series Donor Recognition Giving Home Biological Sciences Professor Hoyo Named Goodnight Innovation Distinguished Chair facebook twitter linked in email Stories of Impact Podcast Video Gift Announcements Featured Series Donor Recognition Giving Home Give Now Impact May 24, 2022 From Farm to Flight: O.K. Moore ’59 Follows His North Star O.K. Moore experienced all he could at NC State before graduating in 1959. Now, he and his wife, Marsha, are helping provide unexpected opportunities for students just like him. Recent Stories Ready to Make an Impact Extraordinary Highlights Wolfpack Women in Philanthropy May 24, 2022 Senior Vice Provost for Global Engagement Returning to Faculty After 16 Years of Leadership Senior Vice Provost for Global Engagement Bailian Li will step down from his position and return to the faculty in the College of Natural Resources effective August 15. During Dr. Li’s tenure, NC State increased faculty international funding support, launched the Global Learning for All initiative to provide greater virtual-learning options and much more. May 24, 2022 Goodnight Scholars Program Announces Class of 2026 The Goodnight Scholars Program at NC State recently named the 50 recipients from 32 North Carolina counties selected for its new cohort of scholars. The class of 2026 features students with impressive accolades including Science Olympiad winners, national robotics captains, varsity athletes, memberships on the North Carolina Association of County Commissioners and participation in the Governor’s School of North Carolina. May 24, 2022 New Endowment Established to Honor Forestry Alumnus Bob Jordan For the 1954 forestry graduate who went on to serve as a state senator, lieutenant governor, chairman of NC State’s Board of Trustees, and head of his beloved family’s lumber business, helping others is what it was all about. Now, his wife, Sarah Jordan, has honored his memory by establishing the Robert B. Jordan III Extraordinary Opportunity Scholarship Endowment for the College of Natural Resources, aided with gifts from immediate family members and Jordan Lumber. May 24, 2022 Service Raleigh Celebrates Its 25th Anniversary Service Raleigh is an annual day of service headed by five Park Scholar and Goodnight Scholar co-chairs that leads to the coordination of thousands of hours of community service benefiting people and organizations throughout the Triangle. In its 25th anniversary year, Service Raleigh returned to an entirely in-person format, bringing together more than 700 volunteers for a day of service at 80 sites all across the region. May 24, 2022 College of Education Alumna Andrea Duhon Is Making Marginalized Students Feel Seen and Heard by Giving Back Andrea Duhon never felt seen in the classroom and was constantly feeling like she had to prove herself. Today, she helps ensure students find value in themselves in these same spaces as an assistant professor of mathematics and as co-founder and co-chair of the NC State Latinx Alumni Network. The group is working to achieve their endowment goal for the Latinx Alumni Network Scholarship. May 24, 2022 Graduating Senior Strives for ‘Bigger and Better Things’ Luke Owen was excelling in his course work in horticulture technology at Blue Ridge Community College when he decided to see if he could earn a scholarship to transfer to a four-year university. To his surprise, the Transylvania County native won what was essentially a full-ride scholarship to NC State, where he continued to Think and Do. May 24, 2022 Prashant Prabhu ’77, ’79 Wins Distinguished Global Alumni Award Dr. Prashant Prabhu was recently named the recipient of the 2022 Distinguished Global Alumni Award by NC State’s Office of Global Engagement. The award recognizes Prabhu’s esteemed contributions to his alma mater, success within the sustainable-mobility industry and impact on the world. May 24, 2022 Sustainability By Design Students are gaining real-world experience while reducing waste in a new project sponsored by Eastman. The company challenged NC State industrial design seniors in the College of Design to create consumer products that have sustainability top of mind, with the work taking place in a studio sponsored by Eastman. May 24, 2022 Biological Sciences Professor Hoyo Named Goodnight Innovation Distinguished Chair The College of Sciences has named Cathrine Hoyo of the Department of Biological Sciences as a Goodnight Innovation Distinguished Chair. This professorship was made possible by a gift from longtime NC State supporters Dr. Jim and Mrs. Ann Goodnight and will further Hoyo’s research into improving our understanding of how early development influences the risk of common chronic diseases, especially those that affect minority populations. Posts navigation 1 2 … 254 Next Page Giving Home Campus Box 7474 Raleigh, NC 27695-7474 Email Us 919-515-7827 Campus Map Accessibility Advancement Services Giving News Make a Gift NC State Call Center NC State Website NC State University Foundation Policies Privacy Statement Share Your Story Strategic Plan Update Your Information University Advancement Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.