Skip to content University Home Academics Admissions Campus Life Research About Apply Giving Clemson News Search Topics OUR Clemson Impact and Innovation Student Success Faculty and Staff Achievements Alumni Accomplishments All Stories Clemson In The News Celebrating the Class of 2022 Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Divisions Office of the President Office of the Provost Advancement Clemson Computing Information Technology External Affairs Finance and Operations Inclusion and Equity Public Service and Agriculture Research Student Affairs Athletics For Journalists Our Experts Clemson.edu Resources University Home Academics Admissions Campus Life Research About Search for: Search Search Clemson News Search for: Search Allard-Keese receives Class of 1956 Award for Staff Excellence Share: Cora Allard-Keese with President Jim Clements and Provost Bob Jones Download image May 19, 2022May 18, 2022 Cora Allard-Keese, associate director of the Creative Inquiry + Undergraduate Research program at Clemson University, has received the Class of 1956 Award for Staff Excellence. The award recognizes staff members who have made exemplary contributions to undergraduate student success. Allard-Keese oversees Creative Inquiry, Clemson’s nationally recognized, cross-disciplinary undergraduate research and engagement program. More than 2,800 students from all majors participate in Creative Inquiry each semester, working directly with faculty mentors and a team of peers to tackle real-world problems. Since it began in 2005, more than 55,000 students from every major have participated in Creative Inquiry projects. “Cora is always willing to embrace new challenges and new learning opportunities to achieve the goal of continuous improvements to the Creative Inquiry + Undergraduate Research program,” said Barbara Speziale, executive director of the program. Allard-Keese collaborated with bioengineering faculty to create the Clemson COVID Challenge in the summer of 2020 that engaged more than 400 students in 82 projects under the guidance of 126 mentors from more than 16 institutions in virtual teams to explore solutions and responses to the COVID-19 pandemic. That initiative was recognized with a 2020 InnoVision Award. Allard-Keese has also implemented an introduction to research course that she co-teaches, and she established a seminar series for students participating in the Summer Creative Inquiry program. She is a strong facilitator for the Corporate Creative Inquiry program, that provides opportunities for students to engage in research with various industries. Allard-Keese has served as associate director of Creative Inquiry since 2015. She was recognized with the 2018 Board of Trustees High Seminary Award for Excellence and the 2018 Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs Outstanding Staff Award. She previously served at Clemson as a lecturer and summer research program coordinator for the SC LIFE Project in the Department of Biological Sciences, which was funded by the Howard Hughes Medical Institute’s Precollege and Undergraduate Science Education Program. She also previously served as a research technician at Clemson and a research associate at the University of Kentucky. Want to Discuss? Get in touch and we will connect you with the author or another expert. Or email us at news@clemson.edu Your Name Your Email Your Message This form is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Related Posts 28 faculty, staff and students honored with 2022 University Spring Awards Focus on Creative Inquiry poster forum recognizes undergraduate research Bradley Awards recognize faculty, graduate student Creative Inquiry mentors Clemson student selected for Posters on the Hill research forum Creative InquiryStaff Clemson News Clemson News is the go-to source for stories and news about the innovations, research and accomplishments of the Clemson Family. Contact Us Media Resources For Journalists Find an Expert Clemson Publications Clemson World Decipher IDEAS magazine Student Affairs Experience Magazine Orange. The Experience. Clemson TV Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022. All Rights Reserved. Clemson University Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson