Skip to main content Visit Temple.edu Toggle Utility Menu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Search Site Search Temple Now Navigation - Go To - News by topic - Arts & Culture - Athletics - Campus News - Community Engagement - Global Temple - Research - Staff & Faculty - Student Success - Sustainability - Return to Campus - Visualize TempleAnnouncementsNewsletters - Temple Now subscriptionPublicationsTemple in the newsSocial MediaSpecial SeriesTemple MagazineAboutAccolades News by topic Announcements Newsletters Special Series About Arts & Culture What to read, listen to and watch to learn more about AAPI communities Athletics Introducing a new head coach of women’s basketball Campus News New General Education course to focus on AAPI identity and experiences Community Engagement President Wingard highlights Center City Business Association’s “Lunch with the City's Leaders” Global Temple Serving the American media from the Far East Research Temple-headquartered STARS Computing Corps receives a $3 million National Science Foundation grant Return to Campus Student community health ambassadors look out for their fellow Owls Staff & Faculty Temple thought leaders lend their voices to national conversation surrounding Roe v. Wade Student Success Temple Made for … building community Sustainability Charles Library earns LEED Gold certification Visualize Temple Charles Library shapes the future at Temple and beyond View Archives Home / News by topic Posted January 27, 2021 cardiology, Health Science Campus, Heart, news, Research, Lewis Katz School of Medicine Temple researchers identify a cardiac protein that causes heart failure In two new studies, researchers at the Katz School of Medicine are the first to identify a new molecule responsible for the progression of heart disease. Photography By: Joseph V. Labolito For patients with a diseased heart, everyday tasks like climbing a flight of stairs or walking across a room eventually become exhausting. Regardless of the underlying cause of the damage, heart disease typically progresses due to a constant barrage of oxidative stress and toxic lipids that ultimately impact the ability of the heart to function normally. Oxidative stress occurs when harmful oxygen-containing molecules outnumber helpful antioxidants, leading to damaging reactions with proteins, DNA and other cell components. Now, two new studies by researchers at the Lewis Katz School of Medicine demonstrate that a molecule in the heart called Krϋppel-like factor (KLF)-5 is responsible for increasing heart dysfunction by single-handedly fueling both the generation of injurious oxidizing molecules and the accumulation of toxic lipids in the heart. The studies are the first to identify KLF5 as a key contributor to cardiac damage in animal models. “Our findings expose KLF5 as a new target for different types of cardiac disease,” said Konstantinos Drosatos, associate professor of pharmacology at the Center for Translational Medicine, the Center for Metabolic Disease Research and the Alzheimer’s Center at Temple. “As a unifying factor driving oxidative stress and accumulation of toxic lipids in the heart, the implications of targeting KLF5 could be far-reaching, opening up treatment for a broad range of diseases involving heart dysfunction.” The studies were funded in part by the National Heart Lung and Blood Institute of the National Institutes of Health, the National Institute of General Medical Sciences, the W. W. Smith Charitable Trust and the American Heart Association. Read the full story. Anonymous Related Stories HIV breakthrough gets Temple researchers closer to the cure Temple's first Black female MD graduated in 1912 Temple steps up in city fight against COVID-19 Time is money: How three CIS students streamlined an unruly database for a local nonprofit Temple University Strategic Marketing & Communications Bell Building 1101 W. Montgomery Avenue Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Directory Maps and Directions Contact RSS Facebook Twitter Pinterest LinkedIn.com YouTube Flickr TUPortal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Temple Now: The official source for Temple news. Copyright 2015, Temple University. All rights reserved.