Skip to main content University of Virginia Logo Search News Enter the terms you wish to search for. Sections Search UVA Today Videos Subscribe Sections Main navigation Main menu Series Home All News University News Arts & Culture Research & Discovery Business & Government Student Experience UVA Today Branding In The News Video Subscribe Photos: See Images From Saturday’s Final Exercises May 21, 2022 • Mike Mather, mike.mather@virginia.edu University News Photos: See Images From Saturday’s Final Exercises May 21, 2022 By Mike Mather, mike.mather@virginia.edu Photos By Sanjay Suchak, sanjay@virginia.edu Erin Edgerton, erineedgerton@gmail.com Dan Addison, danaddison@virginia.edu Facebook Twitter Email Under near record-setting heat, and for the first time since 2019, students walked the Lawn and enjoyed the full ceremony there for Final Exercises for the College and Graduate School of Arts & Sciences. The custom had been interrupted by the pandemic, but on Saturday, thousands of students, family members and spectators finally gathered for one of the University’s most endearing traditions. Here are the images from the procession and the ceremony, as well as the keynote address from Claudrena Harold, the Edward R. Stettinius Jr. Professor of History and department chair. Final Exercises continue on Sunday for the rest of the schools, with Dr. Taison Bell serving as the keynote speaker. Photos by Erin Edgerton, Sanjay Suchak and Dan Addison. Related Story Final Exercises 2022 Graduating? Let's stay in touch! Sign up for the UVA Today Daily Report to get news every weekday morning. First Name Last Name Email Affiliation with UVA (select preferred) --Select Affiliation--StudentFacultyStaffParentAlumniFriend Leave this field blank Media Contact Mike Mather Managing Editor University Communications mike.mather@virginia.edu Article Information May 31, 2022 You May Also Like Dungeons & Dragons and Burgers: ‘Really Bad Outcomes’ When We Don’t Grasp Fractions The COVID-19 Booster Shot for 5- to 11-Year-Olds: 5 Questions Answered UVA Aims to Save Kids From Dangerous Infections Using a Single-Celled Amoeba University of Virginia Logo Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube UVA About Us About Us News Releases Privacy Policy Contact © 2022 By The Rector And Visitors Of The University Of Virginia