Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Close Search Tulane Search form Search this site Search search tulane.edu search news only Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Tulane News News Tulanian Magazine Events Experts Press Releases On Good Authority Podcast Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... News HomeHome Inline CSS for Tulane News Articles Four professors receive Tulane 2022 teaching awards May 23, 2022 11:15 AM | Tulane Today staff today@tulane.edu Print to PDF 2022_Commencement_Banner_v01.jpg During Commencement 2022, four Tulane University faculty received university-wide teaching awards – two Weiss Presidential Fellowships for Undergraduate Teaching and two President’s Awards for Excellence in Graduate and Professional Teaching. The 2022 Weiss Fellows are Michelle Foa, associate professor of art history in the Newcomb Art Department in the School of Liberal Arts and a Carnegie Professor at the Phyllis M. Taylor Center for Social Innovation and Design Thinking, and Tiffany Lin, associate professor of architecture and design program director at the School of Architecture. The recipients of 2022 President’s Awards for Excellence in Graduate and Professional Teaching are Alessandra Bazzano, associate professor at the School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, Carnegie Corporation of New York Professor of Social Entrepreneurship at the Phyllis M. Taylor Center for Social Innovation and Design Thinking, and director of the Tulane Center of Excellence in Maternal and Child Health, and Guadalupe García, associate professor in the Department of History at the School of Liberal Arts. Michelle-Foa600-pbc_600.jpg Michelle Foa, associate professor of art history in the Newcomb Art Department in the School of Liberal Arts and a Carnegie Professor at the Phyllis M. Taylor Center for Social Innovation and Design Thinking. (Photo by Paula Burch-Celentano) Tiffany Lin600-pbc-9520.jpg Tiffany Lin, associate professor of architecture and design program director at the School of Architecture. (Photo by Paula Burch-Celentano) Alessandra_Bazzano_RC1_600.jpg Alessandra Bazzano, associate professor at the School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, Carnegie Corporation of New York Professor of Social Entrepreneurship at the Phyllis M. Taylor Center for Social Innovation and Design Thinking, and director of the Tulane Center of Excellence in Maternal and Child Health. (Photo by Rusty Costanza) Guadalupe_Garcia_RC1_600.jpg Guadalupe García, associate professor in the Department of History at the School of Liberal Arts. (Photo by Rusty Costanza) Related Articles Other Related Articles School of Liberal Arts welcomes journalist Vann R. Newkirk II to media lectureship History professor and PhD candidate receive honors for scholarly work on US foreign relations Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane Home Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University