Skip to content University Home Academics Admissions Campus Life Research About Apply Giving Clemson News Search Topics OUR Clemson Impact and Innovation Student Success Faculty and Staff Achievements Alumni Accomplishments All Stories Clemson In The News Celebrating the Class of 2022 Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Divisions Office of the President Office of the Provost Advancement Clemson Computing Information Technology External Affairs Finance and Operations Inclusion and Equity Public Service and Agriculture Research Student Affairs Athletics For Journalists Our Experts Clemson.edu Resources University Home Academics Admissions Campus Life Research About Search for: Search Search Clemson News Search for: Search Advancement Clemson Family breaks record for gifts on annual Give Day Share: Download image April 21, 2022April 21, 2022 Charitable giving reached a record $6,333,884 during the 7th annual Clemson University 24-hour Give Day on Wednesday, April 20, 2022. Cash, new pledges and a multi-million-dollar estate gift made up this year’s total. Contributions poured in by mail, phone, online through the dedicated Give Day website, along with in-person contributions collected by volunteers and staff on campus. In total, 2,674 individual donors contributed in an effort to help the University change the lives of students and offer a full Clemson Experience. The money will: Provide funding for scholarships that bring the best and brightest to Clemson. Grant resources to esteemed faculty for groundbreaking research. Enhance Clemson facilities to match the needs of the campus. Create unforgettable Clemson experiences for the next generation of Tigers. “It amazes me how the Clemson Family always joins together to support our students and make a positive impact on the educational offerings and services the University provides,” said Brian O’Rourke, vice president for Advancement. “This collective effort, and the results it produces, is what faculty, staff, students — and even prospective students — recognize as the Family atmosphere and an essential portion of the Clemson Experience. This is what we all want to expand and share, and each contribution helps do that.” Last year, $1,772,848 was given from 2,088 donors who primarily contributed online. “Our Clemson Family did it again. One special day will make a lasting effect on the University for years to come,” said Ann Smith, senior director of annual giving. “Our on-campus event successfully reached students, faculty and staff, and Give Day extended outside of campus boundaries to Clemson Clubs and affinity groups all across the country. People participate at all giving levels on Give Day, and we are grateful for each gift and a very successful Give Day.” This year’s campaign featured three challenge donors who encouraged fellow Tigers to make their Give Day gifts. Mike ’89 and Clarkie Brown pledged a gift of $250,000 to create the Michael J. Brown ’89 & Clarkie Hicks Brown Scholarship Endowment for Mechanical Engineering. Vice President of University Relations and Chief Marketing and Communications Officer Amy Burns Smith ’92 and her family made a commitment of $50,000 to create unforgettable experiences for students studying abroad. Paul ’03 and Stacy ’04 Pennell made their annual gift on Give Day, and their continued membership in the President’s Club, along with those who give between $1000 and $2500 each year, inspired others to join them. Faculty, staff, alumni and friends were encouraged to participate on social media by using #ClemsonGiveDay. Since the inaugural Give Day in 2016, the Clemson Family has given more than $14,650,110 in support of the annual event. Give Day is one of many events which highlights the strong engagement of Clemson alumni. This alumni support has earned the University the No. 3 spot for alumni participation among public institutions in the 2022 U.S. News & World Report annual rankings. Want to Discuss? Get in touch and we will connect you with the author or another expert. Or email us at news@clemson.edu Your Name Your Email Your Message This form is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Related Posts Clemson Family raises more than $2M on fourth annual Give Day, includes $500,000 gift Give Day raises $1.4 million for Clemson scholarships, teaching and facilities Great gifts made with humble hearts Experiments and Experiences Give Day Clemson News Clemson News is the go-to source for stories and news about the innovations, research and accomplishments of the Clemson Family. Contact Us Media Resources For Journalists Find an Expert Clemson Publications Clemson World Decipher IDEAS magazine Student Affairs Experience Magazine Orange. The Experience. Clemson TV Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022. All Rights Reserved. Clemson University Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson