Skip to main content Visit Temple.edu Toggle Utility Menu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Search Site Search Temple Now Navigation - Go To - News by topic - Arts & Culture - Athletics - Campus News - Community Engagement - Global Temple - Research - Staff & Faculty - Student Success - Sustainability - Return to Campus - Visualize TempleAnnouncementsNewsletters - Temple Now subscriptionPublicationsTemple in the newsSocial MediaSpecial SeriesTemple MagazineAboutAccolades News by topic Announcements Newsletters Special Series About Arts & Culture What to read, listen to and watch to learn more about AAPI communities Athletics Introducing a new head coach of women’s basketball Campus News New General Education course to focus on AAPI identity and experiences Community Engagement President Wingard highlights Center City Business Association’s “Lunch with the City's Leaders” Global Temple Serving the American media from the Far East Research Temple-headquartered STARS Computing Corps receives a $3 million National Science Foundation grant Return to Campus Student community health ambassadors look out for their fellow Owls Staff & Faculty Temple thought leaders lend their voices to national conversation surrounding Roe v. Wade Student Success Temple Made for … building community Sustainability Charles Library earns LEED Gold certification Visualize Temple Charles Library shapes the future at Temple and beyond View Archives Home / News by topic Posted April 13, 2021 Charles Library, news, Sustainability Charles Library earns LEED Gold certification The recognition shows Temple’s continued commitment to sustainable development on campus. Photography By: Betsy Manning Charles Library’s rooftop garden was one of the many reasons why the library earned LEED Gold certification. Since opening in 2019, Charles Library has led the way when it comes to sustainability efforts in higher education. Now, it’s been recognized by one of the most widely used and established green building rating systems in the world. LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) is the world’s leading green building performance and project management system, and it conducts its point-based rating on a building’s design, construction, operations and performance in terms of sustainability. Temple worked with the architects and engineers from Snohetta, a world-class architecture firm, and Stantec, a Philadelphia-based design firm, to develop ideas for Charles Library. Keeping sustainability in mind from the start, they developed a targeted list of sustainable items to incorporate in the design of the project and ensured they were implemented during construction. Once the work on Charles Library was documented and submitted to LEED’s online system for review and certification, the final score resulted in the library receiving a Gold certification—the second highest possible rating. A major factor contributing to Charles Library’s Gold status is its green roof. “The library’s green space in an urban environment is important not only to the students and stakeholders of the university, but green space can also help manage the natural precipitation that falls onto the site,” said Julia Mullin, associate director of construction for Main Campus. “The roof above the fourth floor is planted with sedums—small drought-tolerant plants—that need very little maintenance and help contain and filter the precipitation that falls onto the roof. This limits and slows down the stormwater runoff that ends up in the city’s underground stormwater systems, which can be overtaxed during heavy rain events.” According to Mullin, other factors that contributed to the LEED Gold certification include reducing water use by using low flow toilets and faucets, optimizing the energy use of the building by using energy efficient equipment, and using construction materials that contain recycled content and/or low-emitting materials. Charles Library also features high-reflective paving to reduce the heat island effect and superior air quality through the use of low-emitting materials, air filtration and increased ventilation—providing a safer, healthier and more sustainable experience for students, staff and faculty. The LEED Gold certification showcases Temple’s continued commitment to sustainability. And, it conveys the importance of the impact a built environment can have on the natural environment around it for years to come. “Charles Library is not only a signature architectural element on Temple University’s Main Campus, but a sustainable and environmentally responsible building that will be here for generations,” said Mullin. Learn more about Temple’s commitment to sustainability and the efforts to build and maintain a green campus. —Kierstyn Smith Anonymous Related Stories On Charles Library’s green roof, sustainability starts from the top down Rain, Rain, Go Away Charles Library shapes the future at Temple and beyond Temple University Strategic Marketing & Communications Bell Building 1101 W. Montgomery Avenue Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Directory Maps and Directions Contact RSS Facebook Twitter Pinterest LinkedIn.com YouTube Flickr TUPortal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Temple Now: The official source for Temple news. Copyright 2015, Temple University. All rights reserved.