Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia News Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Featured News Topics Video Books Podcasts All News Media Resources Awards & Milestones Arts & Humanities Politics & Social Justice Research & Discovery Photo of the Week Commencement 2022 Columbia News You are here: Home All News 12 Great Places to Take Graduation Pictures on Columbia's Campuses (Besides Our Favorite, Alma Mater) Commencement 2022 12 Great Places to Take Graduation Pictures on Columbia's Campuses (Besides Our Favorite, Alma Mater) Construction for Commencement and Graduation Ceremonies takes place sooner than you think—April 18, to be exact—on Columbia's Morningside campus. Here are some great alternative photo locations for your graduation photos! By Kelly Moffitt and Jennifer Pellerito April 07, 2022 Carolyn Rose (CC'22) and Sam Landa (GS'22) show us how to take an iconic graduation picture on Revson Plaza, mimicking "Tightrope Walker," a sculpture created by the Dutch artist Kees Verkade. Photos courtesy Carolyn Rose and Sam Landa. Graduation season is here! Get your cameras ready! At Columbia, everyone wants to grab an iconic photo with Alma Mater, Low Library, and in front of Butler Library in their regalia, but construction for commencement and school ceremonies starts earlier than you think. This year, bleachers will begin to be installed starting April 18. What's a grad to do? Columbia News has you covered. Below, find some ideas for alternative grad photo locations all over Columbia's campuses that will make you look your best. And check out the most daring pose above, by Carolyn Rose (CC'22) and Sam Landa (GS'22), taken at Revson Plaza's "Tightrope Walker" statue. COMMENCEMENT 2022 Read more stories about our graduates. We'd love to see your graduation photos this year! Share them with us here and you might be featured in an upcoming Columbia News article or @columbia post. With all this in mind, make sure you order your cap and gown as soon as possible so you can grab pictures wherever you please. For undergraduates and master's students, regalia ordering closes May 1. For doctoral students, regalia ordering closes on April 11. More information here. 1. The Sundial Maria Shakespeare, Francesca Crawford, Katherine Barrett, and Julia Baran (all BC'20). Photo courtesy Maria Shakespeare. O.K., well, we know the sundial in between Butler Library and Low Library isn't exactly alternative for grad pictures, but we couldn't help ourselves—we love a good grad-cap throw there. Make sure you grab your photo before the space fills up! 2. The Columbia Gates Yaroslava Zaitseva (GS'21) throws her cap at the Columbia gates. Photo by Ishan Guru (SEAS'17). A celebratory spot with great signage to boot: the Columbia gates. Yaroslava Zaitseva (GS'21) nails the blurry-cap-in-motion moment. 3. Scholars' Lion Katherine Liu (SEAS'21) and Michael Grandel (SEAS'21) pose in front of the Scholars' Lion statue, created by Greg Wyatt (CC'71, TC’74). Photo courtesy Michael Grandel. Roar, Lion, Roar! We love to see Scholars' Lion incorporated into your grad pictures. By the way, do you know the history of Columbia's Lion mascot? 4. Life Force on Revson Plaza Jon Carlo Dominguez (CC'19) and Hudson the Corgi pose at the Life Force statue on Revson Plaza. Photo courtesy Jon Carlo Dominguez. First things first: Pets are welcome, nay, encouraged in graduation pictures on campus. We love this one from Jon Carlo Dominguez (CC'19) and Hudson the Corgi in David Bakalar's "Life Force" sculpture on Revson Plaza. 5. Le Marteleur Ari Zingillioglu (SEAS'20) poses at Le Marteleur statue in front of Mudd Hall. Photo courtesy Ari Zingillioglu. We personally think Constantin Meunier's Le Marteleur (The Hammerman) sculpture in front of the Mudd Building does not get enough love in graduation pictures. A great option for our engineering students, like Ari Zingillioglu (SEAS'20) pictured above, or anyone who enjoys a classic contrapposto pose, really. 6. The Thinker Graduates file past The Thinker statue in front of Philosophy Hall. Photo by Chris Taggart. You've spent years cramming, studying, crunching the numbers, pondering life's big questions and you're NOT going to pose with The Thinker, the most philosophical of statues on campus? Situated on the lawn outside of Philosophy Hall, a pose with this statue is the perfect encapsulation of the academic side of the college experience. 7. Curl Jump for joy in front of the Curl statue at Uris Hall. Photo by Chris Taggart. Like the ribbon on a graduation present, Meadmore's "Curl" sculpture in front of Uris Hall is a fun and festive spot for a group shot. 8. Barnard Gate (+Bonus) Barnard 2021 grads (Khallela Barracks, Kaili Meier, Daphnie Ordonez, Adele Clemmonds) strike a pose with Barnard balloons and at the Barnard gate. Photos courtesy Barnard College. Barnard College's balloon game is always top-notch around commencement. You can find these prominently displayed by the Barnard Gate, also pictured. Two bonus ideas: The orange elevator at the Diana Center or the Diana Center Staircase has great light. Below, Anna Fondiller (BC'19) shows us how it's done. Play with great light and color with the Diana Center Staircase and Elevator, showcased by Anna Fondiller (BC'19). Photos courtesy Barnard College. 9. Teachers College Views Lauren Salazar (TC’21) at the Zankel Building entrance, and John E. Williams (TC’19) at the landing on the stairs behind Schapiro Hall. Photos courtesy Teachers College. We've always thought the Teachers College campus has Harry Potter vibes and that certainly comes through in these photos. Lauren Salazar (TC’21) is at the Zankel Building entrance, and John E. Williams (TC’19) is at the landing on the stairs behind Schapiro Hall. These spots are a lovely addition to your graduation photo repertoire. 10. Vagelos Education Center (CUIMC) Manpreet Nijjar (NUR'21). Photo by Janine Inez. We adore an iconic New York City landmark in a graduation photo and this shot, featuring the George Washington Bridge, is no different. Taken on Columbia University Irving Medical Center's campus on the balcony of the sleek Vagelos Education Building, we love the velvet tam tip by Manpreet Nijjar (NUR'21) here. 11. Allan Rosenfeld Building (CUIMC) Darwin Keung (MSPH'19) poses at the Mailman Building entrance. Photo by Suzanne Shrekgast. Good as gold! The Mailman Building entrance offers a gilded backdrop for our public health graduates, like Darwin Keung (MSPH'19), pictured above. 12. Manhattanville Photo by Timothy Schenck. Photo courtesy Columbia Business School. Graduation photo opps abound on Columbia's newest campus in Manhattanville, including this spot under the Harlem overpass looking back at the Columbia Business School buildings. What could be more iconic than taking your grad pics at the same place that Rihanna announced her pregnancy? Want more graduation content? Check out our Commencement 2022 Stories landing page here. Tags Students Commencement News June 01, 2022 Eric Kandel, Nobel Prize Winner and University Professor, to Retire June 01, 2022 Faculty Named Fulbright U.S. Scholars, Other Institutional Milestones June 01, 2022 Columbia Physicist Tanya Zelevinsky Wins 2022 Brown Investigator Award June 01, 2022 Celebrating Pride Month 2022 at Columbia May 31, 2022 A Cultural Critic Publishes Her Second Memoir Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close