Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Close Search Tulane Search form Search this site Search search tulane.edu search news only Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Tulane News News Tulanian Magazine Events Experts Press Releases On Good Authority Podcast Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... News HomeNews Home /PR /Tulane researchers study how Hurricane Michael affected pregnant mothers Tulane researchers study how Hurricane Michael affected pregnant mothers August 05, 2019 1:30 PM Print to PDF Carolyn Scofield cscofiel@tulane.edu (504) 247-1443 Hurricane Michael damage in Panama City Hurricane Michael caused major destruction in the Florida panhandle. (Photo by Carolyn Scofield) Hurricane Michael, a Category 5 storm, hit the Florida Panhandle in October of 2018. Now researchers at Tulane University are part of a new study to see how the disaster and its aftermath impacted pregnant women. Emily Harville, associate professor of epidemiology at Tulane University School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, is leading a team of investigators that includes Dr. Maureen Lichtveld, professor and Freeport McMoRan Chair of Environmental Policy, along with researchers from Florida State University. The research is funded by the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences. Researchers will look at birth outcomes in women across the state of Florida, comparing those in areas affected by Hurricane Michael to those living in areas outside the impact zone. The team is looking at different exposures caused by the storm including the lack of access to health care following it, mental health impacts after the disaster, damage to housing including mold, the presence of carbon monoxide in homes from using generator power and the impact of harmful algal bloom, more commonly known as red tide in waters churned up by Michael’s 155 mph winds. “If our research finds that not having access to health care following a disaster has the greatest impact on birth outcomes, then the key thing is going to be to get the healthcare facilities back up and running,” says Harville. “If we find a big effect with carbon monoxide, then we're going to need to be thinking about generator safety and that people know the symptoms of poisoning.” The team will look at outcomes including preterm birth and low birthweight. They’re mapping exposure patterns based on ecological sampling and satellite-based estimates of red tide, carbon monoxide surveillance data and poison control centers data. Researchers will also use hurricane damage reports such as state of the art satellite measurements, disaster declarations, power outage data, health facility closing notifications, and physical impact measurements of storm surge inundation, wind speed and land cover change. “This is about making research work for communities,” says Lichtveld. “It’s important to develop this knowledge so we know how to prepare when the next disaster hits.” Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane Home Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions Footer - Middle Column News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Footer - Right Column Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University