Skip to content The Harvard Gazette Search for: Arts & Humanities Business & Economy Campus & Community Commencement 2022 The Coronavirus Update Events Health & Medicine National & World Affairs News & Announcements Photography The Quest for Racial Justice Science & Technology The Solutions Series News + About Accessibility Athletics News and Scores For Media & Journalists Privacy Policy Trademark The Daily Gazette Sign up for daily emails to get the latest Harvard news. Harvard University National & World Affairs World Taken out of context GenSci Lab scholars urge researchers to take care crafting definitions of sex as language can make its way into law, public policy World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Health & Medicine Health Don’t let latest COVID surge overshadow progress, says Hanage Epidemiologist explains how to stay on guard against subvariants, noting role of protective measures in transition to new pandemic phase Health Researchers find sleep benefit in higher dose of melatonin Supplements show promise in small study of older adults Featured National & World Affairs Health & Medicine Arts & Humanities Science & Technology Business & Economy Campus & Community Experience Commencement 2019 © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College The Harvard Gazette Driven to provide health care Her daughter about to be sold away, an enslaved mother carefully packs her a sack Campus & Community Driven to provide health care Campus & Community Driven to provide health care Photos by Rose Lincoln/Harvard Staff Photographer After COVID hiatus, Harvard’s Family Van gears up again DateJune 22, 2021 Share Email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn After a 15-month, COVID-forced hiatus, the Family Van, a mobile health clinic affiliated with Harvard Medical School, is back on its regular routes. Founded nearly three decades ago, the Family Van empowers community members by improving health literacy and providing free screenings for conditions such as blood pressure disorders, diabetes, HIV, pregnancy, and more, in several of Boston’s underserved neighborhoods. It also offers referrals and health and wellness counseling. Health insurance is not required, and IDs are not checked. “What a joy it is to be back out in the community again, seeing and serving clients in person, many of whom we call family and friends,” said Rainelle Walker-White, assistant director of the Family Van. “Our mission, and hope, is to make everyone we see leave better than when they came aboard. Helping one person at a time, meeting the needs of the community.” Over the past year the Family Van was an essential part of Boston’s pandemic response. Its staff quickly adapted their services and began caring for their clients in new ways, including street outreach and individual phone calls. The van’s community health workers and volunteers helped reduce social isolation, dispel myths about COVID and the vaccine, and connect people with health care and social services. The van operates four days a week from 9 a.m. until noon. It’s in Nubian Square in Roxbury on Tuesdays; Liberty Plaza in East Boston on Wednesdays; Codman Square in Dorchester on Thursdays; and Upham’s Corner in Dorchester on Fridays. More information about various services, locations, and schedules can be found at www.familyvan.org. Simone de Oliveira talks with a Family Van client in East Boston. Simone de Oliveira (center) and Rainelle Walker-White (right), administer a blood pressure test to Wilson Viana Silva of E. Boston. Rainelle Walker-White (right) tests the blood pressure of Jovanna Tobon of Winthrop. A client has their blood sugar level checked. Rainelle Walker-White (right) chats with staffer Joanne Suarez inside Harvard University's Family Van while eating her lunch. Simone de Oliveira (left) administers a blood pressure test to Fabio Echeveri of East Boston while his dog Benji waits. Simone de Oliveira practices taking a blood pressure reading with Joanne Suarez before clients arrive at Harvard University’s Family Van. A detail of the van’s weekly schedule is pictured. Rainelle Walker-White (facing camera) heartily greets fellow staffer Joanne Suarez. Simone de Oliveira is at right. Simone de Oliveira (right) high-fives a regular client, Joseph Rocca of Winthrop. Ghislane “Gigi” Firmin is staff on the van and also its driver. The Daily Gazette Sign up for daily emails to get the latest Harvard news. Editor's Picks Campus Triple the joy Photographers capture the festive rites and poignant moments as three classes celebrate Commencement World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Campus A call to public service Merrick Garland tells grads to get involved, warns democracy in peril, cites Capitol attack, rise in mass shootings, stifling of voting rights Up Next Campus & Community Her daughter about to be sold away, an enslaved mother carefully packs her a sack Campus & Community Her daughter about to be sold away, an enslaved mother carefully packs her a sack Ashley's sack, embroidered with a piece of her family history. Credit: Middleton Place Foundation