Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia News Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Featured News Topics Video Books Podcasts All News Media Resources Awards & Milestones Arts & Humanities Politics & Social Justice Research & Discovery Photo of the Week Commencement 2022 Columbia News You are here: Home Commencement 2022 Commencement 2022 Commencement 2022 Stories It's that time of year. Banners are being hung, bleachers are being installed, and our pride in the Class of 2022 is reaching a fever pitch that is all the more palpable since it has been three long years since we've celebrated an in-person Commencement. On this page, you'll find stories from graduates, photos of the season, trivia, and the latest updates on what to expect from this year's Commencement and various graduation celebrations. You'll also find content celebrating our Classes of 2021 and 2020 who have been invited back to campus for a special ceremony since their in-person Commencement festivities were canceled due to COVID-19. If you're looking for logistical information, the schedule of ceremonies, and more, please click the button below to visit the full Commencement website. You can find COVID-19 policies for Commencement here. Congratulations, graduates! #RoarLions2022. Full Commencement Website Celebrating Our Graduates Meet 15 'Lions of Social Justice' From the Class of 2022 Words of Wisdom From Columbians Who Graduated in 2020 and 2021 at the Height of the Pandemic Meet Three Columbia Graduates From Our Surrounding Community 14 Photos That Show the Unabashed Joy of Columbia's Graduating Class of 2022 Speakers, Honorary Degrees, & Awards President Bollinger Reflects on a New Age of Disinformation in Commencement Address Here's Every Columbia 2022 Class Day Speaker We Know (So Far) Columbia's 2022 Honorary Degree Recipients Announced 2022 Faculty Mentoring, Service, and Diversity Awards Announced These Educators Received a Presidential Teaching Award This Year. Their Students Explain Why. 2022 Campbell Award Winners Making the Most of Graduation Season 6 Things to Know About Commencement 2022 and Graduation Season at Columbia 12 Great Places to Take Graduation Pictures on Columbia's Campuses How to Keep Your Parents Occupied When They Come to Campus for Your Graduation When and Where to Capture the Empire State Building Lit Up Blue for Columbia Grads in 2022 More Stories The Best Books to Buy for Columbia Graduates The Center for Justice Paves a Path to Reentry for Formerly Incarcerated Students Perspectives from Columbia Nursing's Class of 2022 Meet The School of General Studies' Class of 2022 9 Behind-the-Scenes Photos From Commencement 2022 Setup at Columbia Barnard College: 15 Images to Countdown 5 Days to Commencement Columbia Climate School Celebrates Its First Class Day Stories from CUIMC's 2022 Graduates The History of Commencement Everything You Need to Know About Commencement History & Regalia The Ceremonial Mace: Columbia's 'Symbol of Office' 7 Inspiring Columbia Graduation Speeches Worth Revisiting Quiz: How Well Do You Know Columbia Commencement History? Columbia’s Multicultural Graduation Celebrations: What They Mean and Why They Are Special to Graduates How Many Volunteers Does It Take to Pull Off Columbia's Commencement? Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close