Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All Posts in #Physics STEM Matt Cufari Named as a 2022-23 Astronaut Scholar Wednesday, May 25, 2022, By Kelly Homan Rodoski Matt Cufari, a senior physics major in the College of Arts and Sciences (A&S), a computer science major in the College of Engineering and Computer Science, a Coronat Scholar and a member of the Renée Crown University Honors Program, has… STEM Black Hole Image Shows Einstein Was Right, Once Again Thursday, May 12, 2022, By Daryl Lovell Today a team of astronomers announced they successfully captured the first direct image of the black hole at the center of the Milky Way galaxy. Duncan Brown is the Charles Brightman Endowed Professor of Physics at Syracuse University’s College of… Campus & Community Investing in the Bedrock of Discovery: New Endowed Professorship in Quantum Science Wednesday, May 11, 2022, By News Staff Kathy Walters ’73 and her husband, Stan ’72, can look back over 50 years and easily track the impact Syracuse University had on their lives, but their newest gift to their alma mater looks far into the future, for generations… STEM (Bio)Sensing Protein Interactions Tuesday, March 22, 2022, By Dan Bernardi The job of a protein hub inside the nucleus of a cell is similar to a chef in a kitchen. Both need to manage multiple tasks efficiently for a successful outcome. For the chef, if they spend too much time… Media Tip Sheets Wishing On a Star – Webb Telescope Could Detect Ancient Clusters Wednesday, December 1, 2021, By Lily Datz Launching this month, the James Webb Space Telescope will be one of the most revolutionary space exploration technology tools in modern history. Scientists plans to use the powerful telescope to study planets and other bodies in our solar system to… STEM Government Agency Features A&S Physicist’s Pentaquark Research Sunday, November 21, 2021, By Dan Bernardi The National Science Foundation’s (NSF’s) 2020 Mathematical and Physical Sciences Directorate (MPS) bi-annual brochure highlighted research by Tomasz Skwarnicki, professor of physics in the College of Arts and Sciences (A&S), and a team of his collaborators. The brochure featured the… STEM Physicist Stefan Ballmer Named APS Fellow Tuesday, October 26, 2021, By Dan Bernardi Stefan W. Ballmer, professor of physics in the College of Arts and Sciences, has been named a Fellow of the American Physical Society (APS). He joins 23 previous University faculty members to receive the distinction during the 100 years the award… STEM A&S Physicists Develop One of the First Models Capturing Dynamics of Confined Cell Movement Wednesday, October 20, 2021, By Dan Bernardi The process of normal cell division in the human body is quite simple: start dividing in response to a signal, such as a wound, and stop when enough cells have been produced and the skin is healed. But cancerous cells… STEM Arts and Sciences Physicist Part of a 5-University Team Programming Biological Cells to Design Futuristic Materials Tuesday, October 5, 2021, By Dan Bernardi Jennifer Ross, professor and department chair of physics in the College of Arts and Sciences (A&S), is among a team of researchers that was recently awarded a $1.8 million grant from the National Science Foundation (NSF) to design and create… STEM What to Watch: Total Solar Eclipse, Stargazing on the Solstice Wednesday, December 9, 2020, By Daryl Lovell Walter Freeman, associate teaching professor in the Physics Department at Syracuse University’s College of Arts and Sciences, answers three questions about upcoming astronomy events this month. Q: What can you tell us about the upcoming total solar eclipse? A: The… 12345 Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.