Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All Posts in #faculty STEM Bringing ‘CSI’ Into the Classroom Thursday, May 26, 2022, By Dan Bernardi Dusting for fingerprints, documenting blood stain patterns and measuring bullet trajectory—you might think this is a description of a recent episode from the popular television series “CSI.” While this may be true, these are also the daily lessons students are… Media, Law & Policy Funding Expands for Newhouse Professors’ Work on Technology to Combat Fake News Wednesday, May 18, 2022, By Wendy S. Loughlin Two professors from the S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications who are working on the development of technology to detect manipulated media and combat the spread of fake news are supported by a subcontract that now tops $1.1 million, thanks… Campus & Community Student Representatives to the Board of Trustees Have Been Named Monday, May 16, 2022, By News Staff Alexis Telga L’23, a third-year law student in the College of Law, has been named as the law student representative to the Board of Trustees, and Dylan Blaine France ’24, a junior majoring in finance in the Whitman School of… Campus & Community Karin Ruhlandt to Conclude Tenure as Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences, Lois Agnew to Serve as Interim Dean Monday, May 16, 2022, By News Staff Karin Ruhlandt, dean of the College of Arts and Sciences (A&S) and Distinguished Professor of chemistry, has announced that she plans to step down as dean later this year and return to the chemistry faculty following a well-earned research leave…. Campus & Community Falk College Honors Faculty for Excellence in Service, Teaching, Research Wednesday, May 11, 2022, By Matt Michael Kenneth Marfilius, David Meluni and Latha Ramalingam were honored with 2022 Falk College Faculty of the Year awards for excellence in service, teaching, and research, respectively. The honorees were nominated by their peers for outstanding teaching, scholarship and internal and… Media, Law & Policy Sean Branagan Awarded Fulbright Specialist Grant for Estonia Digital Media Innovation Project Tuesday, May 3, 2022, By Diane Stirling What’s next in the digital media entrepreneurship space? Answers to that question are what Sean Branagan ’80, director of the Center for Digital Media Entrepreneurship and an adjunct faculty member in the S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications, hopes to… Campus & Community College of Law Remembers Dean Emerita Hannah R. Arterian Thursday, April 28, 2022, By News Staff Hannah R. Arterian, dean emerita of Syracuse University’s College of Law who oversaw the building and opening of the school’s state-of-the-art facility, Dineen Hall, died April 8 in Los Angeles. She was 72. Arterian served as dean of the College… Campus & Community EOIRS Provides Options in a Respectful Environment for Reporting of Discrimination, Harassment Wednesday, April 27, 2022, By Kathleen Haley As an equal opportunity and Title IX investigator, Bernie Jacobson wants staff and faculty to know that everyone who reaches out to the Office of Equal Opportunity, Inclusion and Resolution Services (EOIRS) will be heard and listened to, and treated… Campus & Community One University Awards Honor Members of University and Greater Communities Tuesday, April 26, 2022, By News Staff Syracuse University held the 2022 One University Awards on April 22 in Hendricks Chapel, honoring members of the University and greater communities who are making a difference through academics, scholarship, creative work and dedicated service. Bea González was officially installed… Campus & Community Supporting Student Wellness: Overcoming Challenges at New Heights Tuesday, April 26, 2022, By Gabrielle Lake Stepping out of comfort zones and facing challenges often results in personal growth, self-discovery and empowerment. We see this take shape as students navigate the rigors of the classroom and now with the pairing of the Barnes Center at The… 12345 Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.