Skip to content University Home Academics Admissions Campus Life Research About Apply Giving Clemson News Search Topics OUR Clemson Impact and Innovation Student Success Faculty and Staff Achievements Alumni Accomplishments All Stories Clemson In The News Celebrating the Class of 2022 Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Divisions Office of the President Office of the Provost Advancement Clemson Computing Information Technology External Affairs Finance and Operations Inclusion and Equity Public Service and Agriculture Research Student Affairs Athletics For Journalists Our Experts Clemson.edu Resources University Home Academics Admissions Campus Life Research About Search for: Search Search Clemson News Search for: Search College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities; College of Science Bradley Awards recognize faculty, graduate student Creative Inquiry mentors Share: Angela Naimou with President Jim Clements and Provost Bob Jones Download image May 18, 2022May 18, 2022 Angela Naimou, associate professor of English at Clemson University, has received the Phil and Mary Bradley Faculty Award for Mentoring in Creative Inquiry. The award recognizes outstanding work with undergraduate students engaged in Creative Inquiry projects. Naimou was nominated by her students for her mentorship on the Creative Inquiry project “Stories of Refuge, Detention and Hospitality,” which examines immigration detention in the United States and the experiences of people who have been held in detention centers. Students researched immigration laws and policies, met with area non-profit organizations and visited with immigrants being held at the Stewart Detention Center in Lumpkin, Ga. The students have organized events on campus to share what they have learned during the project and built an online archive of their interviews. Naimou started the project in 2019 along with Joseph Mai, associate professor of French in the Department of Languages. “In addition to establishing connections with her students, Dr. Naimou does an incredible job of always challenging us to critically think and dig deeper with our readings and constantly encourages us to explore immigration through a lens of our own interests. This ranges from public health to abolition to architecture and through all of this, she makes a successful effort to also learn about these different topics and their influence on migration and incarceration,” wrote one of her student nominators. Naimou said the project has sparked a new effort to establish a Clemson chapter of the national Every Campus a Refuge organization to provide resettlement assistance to refugees in Clemson. “It has been an inspiration to see the students take the lead on starting this campus and community initiative,” Naimou said. “The work they have done on this project could not have been confined to a 15-week seminar. I will have a life-long gratitude for what Creative Inquiry does on our campus.” Naimou’s work focuses on contemporary literature and how it engages with topics such as law, race and migration. She is lead editor of “Humanity Journal,” an international, multidisciplinary journal of human rights, humanitarianism and development, and she is active in editorial roles and national professional associations that promote the study of literature and the humanities. Her book “Salvage Work: U.S. and Caribbean Literatures amid the Debris of Legal Personhood” received the Association for the Study of the Arts of the Present Book Prize in 2016 and received honorable mention for the Modern Language Association’s William Sanders Scarborough Award. Naimou earned her bachelor’s in English from the University of Michigan and her master’s and Ph.D. in English both from Cornell University. She has been on the Clemson faculty since 2008. Graduate student Lauren Stoczynski with President Jim Clements and Provost Bob Jones Lauren Stoczynski, a doctoral student in biological sciences, received the Phil and Mary Bradley Award for Graduate Student Mentoring in Creative Inquiry for her work on the project “Ecotoxicological Effects in Aquatic Species,” which investigates the effects of exposure to human drugs on the migration behavior of certain fish species. The preliminary results of the project have been presented at three conferences so far. “These impressive achievements for a Creative Inquiry project are all driven by Lauren’s enthusiasm and her dedication to be successful in what she is doing,” wrote her faculty nominator. “The students working under her supervision are also raving about her support and her pedagogical qualities … I would rank her among the absolute top of graduate students that I have seen here at Clemson.” Stoczynski completed her Bachelor of Science in biology at Westminster College in 2014 and a Master of Science in environmental toxicology from Clemson in 2017. She also earned a certificate in Science and Engineering Education from Clemson in 2020. After graduation, she will take a post-doctoral position at Purdue University to study the pedagogy of biology education programs. She was named Outstanding Graduate in Learning by the College of Science this semester. About Creative Inquiry + Undergraduate Research Creative Inquiry + Undergraduate Research combines experiential learning, multi-disciplinary interactions and team-based research. Since it began in 2005, more than 55,000 students from every major have participated in Creative Inquiry projects. Today, approximately 2,800 students participate in Creative Inquiry each semester, exploring a wide range of topics. Projects typically last for multiple semesters, allowing students and faculty to dive deeper as they tackle tough questions and search for solutions to life’s challenges. Want to Discuss? Get in touch and we will connect you with the author or another expert. Or email us at news@clemson.edu Your Name Your Email Your Message This form is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Related Posts Allard-Keese receives Class of 1956 Award for Staff Excellence Dean’s Corner: May 2022 28 faculty, staff and students honored with 2022 University Spring Awards Spring 2022 awards ceremony: Nine students, undergraduate and graduate, to be honored AcademicsCreative InquiryFacultyGraduate Schoolresearch Clemson News Clemson News is the go-to source for stories and news about the innovations, research and accomplishments of the Clemson Family. Contact Us Media Resources For Journalists Find an Expert Clemson Publications Clemson World Decipher IDEAS magazine Student Affairs Experience Magazine Orange. The Experience. Clemson TV Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022. All Rights Reserved. Clemson University Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson