Skip to main content Toggle navigation Search Cornell University Cornell.edu Media Relations Search Cornell University Cornell Chronicle Topics Architecture & Design Arts & Humanities Business, Economics & Entrepreneurship Computing & Information Sciences Energy, Environment & Sustainability Food & Agriculture Global Reach Health, Nutrition & Medicine Law, Government & Public Policy Life Sciences & Veterinary Medicine Physical Sciences & Engineering Social & Behavioral Sciences Coronavirus Campus & Community News & Events Public Engagement New York City Staff News Photos of the Day Big Red Sports Diversity In Memory Features NYS Impact Student Life Around Cornell All Stories In the News Expert Quotes Cornellians Credit: Jerry Deis Dr. Jacque T. Washington delivering her keynote address, "Radical Reconciliation: Shifting Power While Honoring Truth," Friday, April 29, 2022. Third annual Inclusive Excellence Summit provides learning opportunities for staff and faculty By Ashley Fazio May 25, 2022 The third annual Inclusive Excellence Summit kicked off on Monday, April 25 with an interactive keynote titled “Confronting Ourselves,” by speaker, educator, and author Dr. Derek Greenfield. Attendees online and in-person were challenged to identify their commonalities as well as salient differences in the spirit of promoting greater empathy and cultural proficiency. “Treat people the way they want to be treated. But to do that we've got to know people. We've got to have the ability to truly see each other and have some of these wonderfully rich, and sometimes challenging, conversations." The summit, sponsored by The Department of Inclusion and Belonging, The Presidential Advisors on Diversity and Equity (PADE), and the Division of Human Resources took place over three days, April 25, 27, and 29. Offered free of charge to staff and faculty, the summit provided employees the opportunity to learn and develop practical skills for cultivating a diverse, equitable, and inclusive workplace and fostering a culture of belonging. “This year's theme is 'Truth and Reconciliation,' which sounds like a beginning and an end, but in actuality, it is a process," said Erin Sember-Chase, DEI Learning Consultant in the Department of Inclusion and Belonging. "A process that involves acknowledging painful facts and history, honoring individuals’ stories and truths, and working toward bridging differences and hopefully, ultimately, healing. It is based on the belief that confronting and reckoning with the past and the truth is critical for transitioning from a place of conflict and tension to one of peace and connectedness." Over three days, participants heard from experts on topics including emotional intelligence, fatphobia in higher education, "free" speech in the age of social media, and psychological barriers to reparations. The summit concluded with a powerful talk by Cornell Health therapist, Dr. Jacque Tara Washington, titled “Radical Reconciliation: Shifting Power While Honoring Truth.” Dr. Washington discussed how the history of racism in the U.S. was predicated on unjust systemic power dynamics that continue to impede genuine reconciliation efforts between the races or between socio-economic systems. "Change and transformation in a racist society come about through evolution, never giving up, ignoring naysayers, and welcoming all people genuinely committed to that purpose and those goals," she said. "It will take every person in this room... every one of us on this campus, this community, this country, and globally, to be radical in shifting our thinking from what it has been to what it must be. The work is exhausting. It's been going on for a very, very long time, and it can seem like it will never end. The world is fatigued with the racism battle. I acknowledge that and I know it's a fact; however, we cannot leave it for others to do. Each and every one of us must do the work." Staff News Diversity Around Cornell Media Inquiries Media Contact Media Relations Office mediarelations@cornell.edu 607-255-6074 Get Cornell news delivered right to your inbox. Subscribe You might also like Weill Cornell instills social justice, health equity in medical education Story circles foster intercultural conversations, belonging Gallery Heading × Previous Next Links About the Chronicle Media Relations Office Copyright Web Accessibility Assistance Contact Cornell Chronicle 312 College Ave Ithaca, NY 14850 607-255-4206 cunews@cornell.edu SUBSCRIBE Daily and weekly newsletters Feeds - RSS & JSON