Skip to main content Search Close Search Search this site Search Search News and Media All of Oklahoma State University Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Headlines News and Media Main Menu In this section News News Archive Topics College News In the Media Magazines Experts Directory Submit News Contact Us Home Articles OSU places high in Online Master’s Degrees 2022 rankings OSU places high in Online Master’s Degrees 2022 rankings Wednesday, February 9, 2022 Media Contact: Jordan Bishop | Communications Specialist | 405-744-9782 | jordan.bishop@okstate.edu Share Facebook Twitter Pinterest The website Online Master’s Degrees recently released its rankings for graduate programs that can be taken remotely. Oklahoma State University placed at least in the top 16 in eight categories and took the No. 1 spot in its Emergency Management program. The 2022 rankings cover more than 100 master’s degree programs and attempt to give students a simple, straightforward way to see which online programs to consider. The data for the rankings comes from the U.S. Department of Education. The Fire and Emergency Management Administration degree — located in OSU’s College of Engineering, Architecture and Technology — took the top spot based on its affordability and accessibility. The program prepares graduates for leadership positions in the critical service professions of fire and rescue, emergency management, emergency medical services, law enforcement, homeland security and related fields in both the public and private sectors. Elsewhere in CEAT, the Engineering and Technology Management degree, as well as the overall Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering degree, was listed on the rankings. The ETM program took the No. 6 spot, ranking highly with its online programs in the subject and number of online students enrolled while the MAE program was slotted at No. 14. In the Spears School of Business, OSU earned a No. 5 ranking for its Master of Business Administration program. Students can earn an MBA in as little as 36 credit hours for full-time students or 33 hours for experienced working professionals and distance students. In the College of Education and Human Sciences, OSU’s Educational Technology program came in at No. 3. The program covers such topics as instructional design, online teaching and the effects of technology on cognition. Also in EHS, the Master of Science in Nutritional Sciences also came in No. 3. The program, which offers an option in Dietetics, is designed for professionals already working in the nutrition field who wish to enhance their academic training and take the next step. The Mathematics and Science Education degree, which is also in EHS, took the No. 6 spot in its respective ranking. The College of Arts and Sciences had its Computer Science degree rank No. 16. The program covers the areas of data analytics, machine learning, artificial intelligence, cyber-physical systems, virtual reality, cyber-security and theoretical computer science. For more information on the plethora of online undergraduate and graduate degrees OSU offers, go to https://osuonline.okstate.edu/. Share Facebook Twitter Pinterest College of Arts and SciencesCollege of Education and Human SciencesCollege of Engineering Architecture and TechnologyEducational Foundations Leadership and AviationOnline CoursesSpears School of BusinessTeaching Learning and Educational Sciencesmaster's degree Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©