Skip to main content calendar subscribe Facebook Twitter Instagram RSS Feeds YaleNews Explore Topics Alumni Arts & Humanities Business Campus & Community Environment Health & Medicine International Law Science & Technology Social Sciences In Focus In Memoriam Search form Search Business Stories Does China’s research and development funding reach the right firms? May 31, 2022 New research shows that improving resource efficiency in China’s economy could deliver gains by encouraging “the right” firms to invest in R&D. Donaldson Fellows reflect on careers devoted to business and society May 27, 2022 The 2021–22 fellows, five alumni recognized for embodying the Yale SOM mission in their personal and professional lives, speak about their values and careers. Real-time placement odds can smooth the school choice process May 25, 2022 A new study finds that a software platform that provides warnings about the placement odds at top schools can dramatically reduce non-placements. YSE student’s alternative leather goods startup wins sustainability prize May 23, 2022 Co-founded by Jinali Mody ’23 M.E.M, Aatma Leather will manufacture plant-based leather products from fruit and crop waste. Learning, sharing, tangible outcomes mark CARE’s first year May 23, 2022 Students, faculty, alumni, and staff in the inaugural Council on Anti-racism and Equity worked together to promote inclusiveness in the SOM community. Why do religious nursing homes have worse violations of care standards? May 18, 2022 New research suggests homes’ strong internal identity means that wrongdoing is less likely to be flagged for an outside regulator’s involvement. Perceptions of shifts in public opinion are wildly off base May 17, 2022 New research finds that people have consistently inaccurate impressions of how public attitudes on various issues have changed over the last several decades. PODCAST: Taking on systemic inequities May 17, 2022 Yale sickle cell disease specialist Cece Calhoun joins Harlan Krumholz and Howard Forman to discuss her work focused on the health of the Black community. SOM hosts deferred commencement ceremony for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 May 16, 2022 Hundreds of members of the Classes of 2020 and 2021 celebrated the completion of their degree programs with guests in the Edward P. Evans Hall courtyard. Multinationals can have a positive local impact — with enough competition May 11, 2022 New Yale research looks at the impact of the United Fruit Company on Costa Rica, finding competition for labor in the 20th century led to beneficial investment. Show More Articles Search Business Yale Browse Archives Contact Us For the Media It’s Your Yale Apply to Yale Give to Yale Managed by the Office of Public Affairs & Communications Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved · Privacy policy · Accessibility at Yale Facebook Twitter Instagram RSS Feeds Yale on Instagram