Skip to main content Toggle navigation Search Cornell University Cornell.edu Media Relations Search Cornell University Cornell Chronicle Topics Architecture & Design Arts & Humanities Business, Economics & Entrepreneurship Computing & Information Sciences Energy, Environment & Sustainability Food & Agriculture Global Reach Health, Nutrition & Medicine Law, Government & Public Policy Life Sciences & Veterinary Medicine Physical Sciences & Engineering Social & Behavioral Sciences Coronavirus Campus & Community News & Events Public Engagement New York City Staff News Photos of the Day Big Red Sports Diversity In Memory Features NYS Impact Student Life Around Cornell All Stories In the News Expert Quotes Cornellians New York City New cancer subtype may illuminate treatment strategy May 31, 2022 Researchers at Weill Cornell Medicine and Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center have identified a previously unrecognized form of hormone therapy-resistant prostate cancer, as well as a set of molecules that drive its growth. Five student groups win Cornell Tech Startup Awards May 24, 2022 Cornell Tech awarded four student startup companies with pre-seed funding worth up to $100,000 in its ninth annual Startup Awards competition. A fifth company won a new startup award focused on public-interest technology. Weill Cornell Medicine Commencement returns to Carnegie Hall May 20, 2022 President Martha E. Pollack joined Deans Augustine M.K. Choi and Barbara Hempstead in conferring degrees on students graduating from Weill Cornell Medical College and Weill Cornell Graduate School of Medical Sciences, in the first in-person ceremony since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic. Benefactor Charles R. Lee ’61, trustee emeritus, dies at 82 May 19, 2022 Charles R. Lee was one of the university’s most active and generous ambassadors, and a tireless advocate for deeper connections across Cornell’s campuses and alumni communities. The 2030 Project to marshal faculty to solve climate crisis May 12, 2022 Declaring this the “decisive decade” for climate action, Cornell launched The 2030 Project: A Climate Initiative, which will mobilize world-class faculty to develop and accelerate tangible solutions to the climate challenge. T cell behavior determines immunotherapy success May 9, 2022 New research from Weill Cornell Medicine investigators may help explain why immunotherapy doesn’t work for some cancer patients. Cell division finding could lead to new cancer treatments May 9, 2022 A protein called CDC7, long thought to play an essential role early in the cell division process, is in fact replaceable by another protein called CDK1, according to a study by investigators at Weill Cornell Medicine and the Dana Farber Cancer Institute. Four elected to National Academy of Sciences May 5, 2022 An agricultural economist, a theoretical physicist, a plant biologist and a physiologist have each been elected to the National Academy of Sciences, the academy announced May 3. Protein contributes to drug tolerance in tuberculosis May 4, 2022 Weill Cornell Medicine researchers have identified a protein in Mycobacterium tuberculosis that contributes to drug tolerance, a phenomenon that allows bacteria to survive treatment with drugs that would normally kill them. Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 Next page » Last page Last » Gallery Heading × Previous Next Links About the Chronicle Media Relations Office Copyright Web Accessibility Assistance Contact Cornell Chronicle 312 College Ave Ithaca, NY 14850 607-255-4206 cunews@cornell.edu SUBSCRIBE Daily and weekly newsletters Feeds - RSS & JSON