Skip to content News Menu Search form Search term Home Find Stories For Journalists Contact Top Stories Social Sciences ‘What matters most to you and why?’ Zelenskyy asks Stanford students in virtual address Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelenskyy spoke to the Stanford community in a special video address about his country’s war against Russia for independence, freedom, and global democracy, which he said requires the continued support of all the people of the free world. Science & Technology Small modular reactors produce high levels of nuclear waste Small modular reactors, long touted as the future of nuclear energy, will actually generate more radioactive waste than conventional nuclear power plants, according to research from Stanford and the University of British Columbia. Science & Technology Q&A: How the aging immune system impacts brain health Katrin Andreasson, professor of neurology and neurological sciences, talks about the role the aging immune system plays in the development of age-related brain diseases. Science & Technology What the humble planarian teaches us about the building blocks of life A bioengineer studies the flatworms' ability to regenerate nerves, muscle, and other tissue. “One of the big questions we want to answer is how it does this on a genetic level?” Science & Technology Meet CoAuthor, an experiment in human-AI collaborative writing Researchers study how humans and AI can write together by designing large interaction datasets. In the Spotlight Social Sciences What to know about disinformation and how to address it Stanford scholars from across the social sciences are studying the threats disinformation poses to democracy. Here is some of their research. Law & Policy Reducing gun violence: Stanford scholars tackle the issue Many Americans are raising complicated concerns about the causes and solutions to gun violence. Stanford scholars offer their research findings from a variety of perspectives. Social Sciences Understanding the impact of the Russian invasion of Ukraine A compilation of Stanford scholarship and insights into the recent Russian invasion of Ukraine. More Stories Medicine Don’t vape that! A Stanford Medicine study found that Americans are vaping substances never meant to be inhaled, including melatonin, essential oils, tea, vitamins, and caffeine. Science & Technology Magnetic device isolates rarest white blood cells Stanford researchers quickly isolate rare, allergen-reactive white blood cells, called basophils, using microfluidics and magnets. The new device could help revolutionize allergy diagnosis from the current slow and painful process of skin tests and oral food challenges. Social Sciences Upgrades can help mom-and-pop stores compete with Big Retail A project to assist small Mexican shops with branding and management quickly boosted their sales. Science & Technology Earthquakes from oil field wastewater In the nation’s biggest oil field, faults that lay dormant for millennia are being activated by the underground disposal of wastewater from fossil fuel production, according to two Stanford studies. Social Sciences A pricing paradox: We want digital but will pay more for analog Research finds people express an almost universal willingness to pay more for physical products, yet almost unanimously say they would prefer to own the digital version of the same product. Social Sciences New ‘Segregation Index’ shows American schools remain highly segregated by race, ethnicity, and economic status Researchers at Stanford and USC developed a new tool to track neighborhood and school segregation in the U.S. Law & Policy Law and race after George Floyd At the two-year anniversary of George Floyd’s death, Rick Banks, director of the Center for Racial Justice, and David Sklansky, co-director of the Criminal Justice Center, look at how policing, racism, and the law have changed. Medicine Stanford biomedical ethicists among panelists updating law on definition of death Experts propose revising the legal and medical standard on declaring someone dead based on respiratory function and likelihood of consciousness rather than cessation of brain function. Teaching & Students Creative writing course explores the overlap of science and art at Hopkins Marine Station In the course The Artful Interpreter, students combine creative writing and science, discussing their texts in workshops and gaining immersive experience through a trip to Hopkins Marine Station. Science & Technology Four questions for Desiree LaBeaud The Stanford infectious disease physician and epidemiologist reacts to recent news about the effects of plastic on human health. Around the Farm FSI | Shorenstein APARC North Korea’s geopolitics, South Korea’s pop culture wave take center stage at Korea Program’s 20th anniversary conference Stanford Report Marine botanist Isabella Abbott honored JSK Journalism Fellowships JSK names U.S. journalism fellows for 2022-23 Stanford Engineering How to fight climate change Stanford Graduate School of Business Jessica Alba on the role of humility in entrepreneurship Faculty & Staff News Stanford Report Stanford provost presents 2022-23 budget plan to Faculty Senate Stanford Report Ken Hsu wins 2022 Amy J. Blue Award In the News Reuters Fact check: Mass bleaching events in the Great Barrier Reef kill coral and risk the future of the reef Wall Street Journal Crypto security debate goes to court Scientific American Our sun could someday reveal the surfaces of alien Earths Wall Street Journal When given a menu of tipping options, people tip more Mercury News What can save towns and cities left outside the economic boom? Stanford Report To receive Stanford news daily, subscribe to Stanford Report. For Journalists Press Releases Media Contacts Stanford Experts See Also Contact Stanford News Faculty / Staff Resources Events Events calendar Stanford News is a publication of Stanford University Communications Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.