Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Skin Cancer in People of Color May 3, 2022 Share this page Share on Facebook Tweet Share on Linkedin Share by email Dark skin does provide some protection against the sun’s ultraviolet rays, but it’s a myth that people with dark skin tones are immune to the harmful effects of UV radiation. People of color have a lower risk of developing skin cancer than people with fair skin tones, but UV exposure raises the risk for everyone. Dawn Queen Studies show that Black and Hispanic Americans who live in sunnier parts of the country have greater rates of melanoma and that UV radiation also correlates with other types of skin cancer in people with darker skin tones. UV radiation also ages the skin, leading to wrinkles, spots, and changes in skin texture in people of all skin tones. We spoke with Dawn Queen, MD, a dermatologist at Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons, to get the facts about skin color, skin cancer, and other effects of ultraviolet rays. Dark skin is not sunscreen. “Dark skin does confer some degree of natural protection due to the increased melanin content in the skin,” Queens says. But melanin is only protective up to an SPF of about 13, while current recommendations are to use sunscreens with an SPF of at least 30 every day and especially when outdoors. “Depending on the skin’s natural protective factor alone is not sufficient to protect you from sunburn. Although it’s true that people with darker skin won’t burn quite as quickly, they are still at risk for skin cancer and photoaging and should take preventative measures to minimize those risks.” Dark skin does burn. “There’s a misconception that people with darker skin tones can’t burn and don’t need to wear sunscreen,” Queen says. “While it is true that they will burn less frequently than their lighter counterparts due to increased protective melanin in the skin, melanin is not impervious to all UV rays. Burns can and do occur.” According to a CDC survey, 32% to 38% of Hispanic adults and 9% to 13% of Black men and women experience at least one burn a year. “Burns significantly increase the risk for skin cancers, and protecting the skin from UV rays is our best tool to prevent them before they happen,” Queen says. Melanoma survival rates are lower among people of color. Overall, skin cancers are less prevalent in Black and Hispanic people compared with lighter skinned individuals in the United States. For instance, for melanoma, age-adjusted incidence rates (per 100,000) among Hispanic and Black Americans (4.5 and 1.0) are significantly lower than among white non-Hispanic people (21.6). “But what is crucially important to understand is that melanomas in darker-skinned populations have consistently been associated with a higher rate of metastasis and poorer outcomes,” Queen says. For example, among non-white Hispanic males, the five-year survival rate of melanoma is 77.1%; it is around 78% for Black men and 86.5% in non-Hispanic white males. “In part, this is due to the fact that skin cancers such as melanoma are often diagnosed at a later stage in these populations.” Melanomas in people of color are often hidden. The most common forms of melanoma diagnosed in Black people occur on body parts that are usually shielded from the sun: the palms, soles of the feet, under the nails, and inside the mouth. “It is important to examine these areas to monitor for any new, changing, or growing moles,” Queen says. “Or in the case of nails, changes in color or a new or growing streak of pigment that runs the length of the nail.” Watch for other types of skin cancer. Among non-melanoma skin cancers, almost 90% of basal cell carcinomas are found on the head or the neck in people of color. “People should look for pearly growths that may bleed spontaneously,” Queen says. Another type of skin cancer—squamous cell carcinoma—can appear on any part of the body and often looks like a hard or scaly growing bump or plaque. Get vitamin D through food or supplements. Vitamin D deficiency is an issue among everyone, but in people with dark skin, melanin absorbs the UV rays that activate vitamin D production in the skin, contributing to and worsening vitamin D deficiency. “Vitamin D is important as it has protective effects against cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and some cancers,” Queen says, “but the preferred method of vitamin D intake is through oral supplementation. It is just as effective and significantly safer than obtaining vitamin D through cutaneous absorption.” References More information Columbia Dermatology is a leader in the innovative treatment of common and complex skin diseases, providing the latest state-of-the-art procedures and therapies for conditions of the skin, hair, and nails for patients of all ages. Call (212) 305-5293 for an appointment or referral. Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top