Skip to main content Search Close Search Search this site Search Search News and Media All of Oklahoma State University Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Headlines News and Media Main Menu In this section News News Archive Topics College News In the Media Magazines Experts Directory Submit News Contact Us Home Articles OSU School of Accounting programs ranked among top 15 in annual professors survey OSU School of Accounting programs ranked among top 15 in annual professors survey Wednesday, September 10, 2014 Share Facebook Twitter Pinterest Oklahoma State University’s School of Accounting has been recognized as one of the best in the nation in the rankings of those schools with 15 or fewer full-time faculty. The School of Accounting in the Spears School of Business is tied for 13th in the Top 25 Undergraduate Rankings in the Public Accounting Report 33rd Annual Professors Survey – 2014, and OSU’s master’s program in accounting ranks 10th. It is the nation’s only survey that allows accounting professors to rank the nation’s best accounting programs. The OSU School of Accounting is one of only eight in the nation recognized as being in the top 15 in both the undergraduate and master’s rankings by accounting professors across the United States. Robert Cornell, head of the School of Accounting, is pleased that Oklahoma State is being recognized for producing the type of accountants that firms want to hire. “We are again excited to be recognized in this year’s report,” said Cornell, whose school has 14 full-time accounting professors. “Our faculty and staff are dedicated to providing students with an engaging academic experience that prepares them to thrive in their professions and civic responsibilities. “We continue to work together with our alumni and administration to build upon a tradition of excellence established by those who have preceded us. We are committed to being wise stewards of the resources entrusted to us as we provide the highest level of technical training, and maintain a culture of integrity and values in all we do.” Ken Eastman, dean of the Spears School, said, “We are very proud of the faculty, staff, students, and alumni from the School of Accounting. Their ongoing commitment to excellence in education, outreach, and research is impressive. We are pleased to again be recognized in this way.” Jade Walle, Partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers in Tulsa, believes that Oklahoma State is doing its job in preparing students to enter the business world. “Oklahoma State University's accounting program has been a constant, unwavering resource of sound, solid and incredibly prepared accounting professionals that PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, as well as many other accounting firms, have been able to provide employment for, not only in Oklahoma, but at PricewaterhouseCoopers offices throughout the United States and subsequently, around the world,” said Walle, who earned both his bachelor’s and master’s degrees in accounting from OSU. “I would put OSU accounting graduates up against any school in the nation, confident that our graduates would emerge as distinguished practitioners and leaders in their respective fields. Oklahoma State University's accounting program is a top-tier program that is always seeking out innovations to raise the bar and expand the reach of their students and graduates in the world, and the program's momentum is palpable. It has been my honor and privilege to not only be a partner with, but to be associated with such a remarkable and prestigious program. The 33rd Annual Professors Survey provides professors from across the United States with an avenue to express their views to accounting firms about campus recruiting. Professors from nearly 200 U.S. colleges and universities participated in the 2014 survey, which was conducted in April and May. $skip Share Facebook Twitter Pinterest BusinessSchool of AccountingSpears School of Business Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©