Skip to main content University of Nebraska–Lincoln Visit Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Log In Search Search Form Search Submit Close Nebraska Today Menu Search Log In Agriculture & Environment Arts Business & Law On Campus Science & Technology Society & Culture Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Nebraska Newsroom Nebraska Today Perkins sews up degree, cuts path toward fashion industry Perkins sews up degree, cuts path toward fashion industry May 10, 2022 · 2 min read Perkins sews up degree, cuts path toward fashion industry by Avni Srivastav | University Communication and Marketing Craig Chandler | University Communication Omaha's Cherish Perkins will graduate May 14 with a degree focused on fashion merchandising. She also has earned minors in international studies, art and business. Outfit? Check. Cap and gown? Check. Nebraska degree? Almost! By the age of 5, Nebraska’s Cherish Perkins was sketching designs and dreaming of a career in fashion. By 10, she was in sewing classes, creating her designs. And now, she is days away from graduating with a degree in fashion merchandising and launching her own company. Before college, Perkins thought she knew everything about the fashion industry. But, after studying fashion for four years, she has built up her knowledge base and skills through the University of Nebraska–Lincoln’s textiles, merchandising and fashion design curriculum and hands-on opportunities like designing fabrics and helping local businesses create visual displays. “I didn’t realize how much work goes into the process of designing a line and I was shocked to learn that when I got to UNL,” Perkins said. “I love that the program is so one-on-one and lets us experience every part of the industry: sewing, textiles, merchandising, designing, etc.” Perkins took her passion for learning outside the classroom and was motivated to develop more skills that would be crucial to her success as a fashion designer. Through serving as the creative assistant for the College of Education and Human Sciences’ Global Exchange and president of Montage Fashion Club, Perkins learned about working in the professional world. She was polished in using the creative side of her brain, but involvement on campus pushed her outside of her comfort zone, teaching her to speak in front of crowds and run interviews, publish articles and juggle multiple projects. With only finals between her and a degree, Perkins is excited to direct years of dreams and hard work into her next journey —starting a company specializing in women’s wear and getting closer to becoming a well-known fashion designer. As she crosses the stage in Memorial Stadium, Perkins encourages Huskers to leverage university resources, build relationships and stretch their abilities whenever possible. “College is what you make it so take advantage of every opportunity that comes your way,” Perkins said. “You never know who you may come in contact with, so always put out your best version of yourself.” Share Tags Textiles, Merchandising and Fashion Design Cherish Perkins Education and Human Sciences fashion commencement May 2022 commencement students Recent News Mixed signals: Male wolf spiders get luckier following complex courtships 4 days ago Science & Technology 'Bell Affair' making its premiere in D.C. June 2 4 days ago Arts Society & Culture Students gain nonprofit experience through honors, foundry collaboration 4 days ago On Campus Lincoln wins big at National Bass Championship 4 days ago On Campus Interdisciplinary program takes long-range view of visual impairment instruction 4 days ago On Campus Kishore endeavors to leave a footprint 6 days ago On Campus Raikes School student projects solve real-world problems, aid clients 6 days ago Science & Technology On Campus Nebraska’s leading economic indicator continues to rise 6 days ago On Campus Address University of Nebraska–Lincoln 1217 Q St. Lincoln, NE 68588 US About the UComm News Team Submit a Story Related Links University Communication Athletic Department Communications Office Campus Links Directory Employment Events Libraries Maps News Office of the Chancellor Report an Incident Policies & Reports Accessibility Statement Emergency Planning and Preparedness Institutional Equity and Compliance Notice of Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Security and Fire Safety Report Student Information Disclosures UNL web framework and quality assurance provided by the Web Developer Network · QA Test University of Nebraska–Lincoln Established 1869 · Copyright 2022 Some parts of this site work best with JavaScript enabled.