Skip to main content Visit Temple.edu Toggle Utility Menu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Search Site Search Temple Now Navigation - Go To - News by topic - Arts & Culture - Athletics - Campus News - Community Engagement - Global Temple - Research - Staff & Faculty - Student Success - Sustainability - Return to Campus - Visualize TempleAnnouncementsNewsletters - Temple Now subscriptionPublicationsTemple in the newsSocial MediaSpecial SeriesTemple MagazineAboutAccolades News by topic Announcements Newsletters Special Series About Arts & Culture What to read, listen to and watch to learn more about AAPI communities Athletics Introducing a new head coach of women’s basketball Campus News New General Education course to focus on AAPI identity and experiences Community Engagement President Wingard highlights Center City Business Association’s “Lunch with the City's Leaders” Global Temple Serving the American media from the Far East Research Temple-headquartered STARS Computing Corps receives a $3 million National Science Foundation grant Return to Campus Student community health ambassadors look out for their fellow Owls Staff & Faculty Temple thought leaders lend their voices to national conversation surrounding Roe v. Wade Student Success Temple Made for … building community Sustainability Charles Library earns LEED Gold certification Visualize Temple Charles Library shapes the future at Temple and beyond View Archives Home / Announcements announcement A campus safety update Posted Mar 23, 2022 To the Temple community: I write this message at a time when the city of Philadelphia is facing an unprecedented crisis of gun violence. The unspeakable acts of violence taking place near campus simply are not acceptable. For Temple’s part, we are considering all options to protect the safety of our students, faculty, staff and neighbors in North Philadelphia. Safety is of the utmost importance to the university, and every potential solution is a chance to ensure it for our community. Just this week, we met with Mayor Jim Kenney and Philadelphia Police Commissioner Danielle Outlaw, and we discussed a full spectrum of strategies to address the crisis of gun violence and what can be done to stem the flood of violence we are seeing throughout the city. Today, we would like to update you on some recent steps we have taken to curb violence in and around campus. Security upgrade grant program: Any landlord in the area can apply for a grant of up to $2,500 that can be used for installing either lighting and/or cameras to improve security. To apply for a grant, landlords should contact securitygrants@temple.edu, provide proof of ownership of a neighboring residence and outline how the funds would be used. Reimbursement of up to $2,500 will be provided to all landlords with proof of installation. Increased patrols: The university has invested hundreds of thousands of dollars in overtime to ensure patrols meet or exceed all historic norms. Through the new officers that have been hired as well as the increased Philadelphia Police Department supplemental patrols, the university has more than doubled the number of officers actively patrolling the patrol zone at any given time. Establishment of a neighborhood watch program: The university has begun discussions with neighborhood groups to establish a neighborhood watch program for the areas around campus. Through this new partnership, public safety ambassadors will regularly patrol through the neighborhoods in and around campus. Trained in crime prevention, these ambassadors will help amplify the efforts of the Temple University Police Department and the Allied Security Officers. Housing on and near campus is available: The university will help students relocate to campus and can secure them housing for the remainder of the semester in either a university-owned residence hall or in a private complex near campus well within the university’s patrol borders. There will be a bed available for any student who needs one. Additionally, former Philadelphia Police Commissioner Charles Ramsey will begin his audit of Campus Safety Services early next month. Further details on all of our latest campus safety enhancements can be found here. We will continue to share updates regarding campus safety in the weeks to come. We remain deeply committed to working with the community, our partners and stakeholders to find a solution. Sincerely, Ken Kaiser Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Temple University Strategic Marketing & Communications Bell Building 1101 W. Montgomery Avenue Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Directory Maps and Directions Contact RSS Facebook Twitter Pinterest LinkedIn.com YouTube Flickr TUPortal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Temple Now: The official source for Temple news. Copyright 2015, Temple University. All rights reserved.