Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Close Search Tulane Search form Search this site Search search tulane.edu search news only Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home News Tulanian Magazine Events Experts Press Releases On Good Authority Podcast Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... News HomeHome Inline CSS for Tulane News Articles Peter Ricchiuti Director, Burkenroad Reports Senior Professor of Practice TulaneUniversity pricchi@tulane.edu 504-862-8489 A. B. Freeman School of Business Peter Ricchiuti is the business professor you wish you had back in college. His humor and insight have twice made him the top professor at Tulane University’s Freeman School of Business. In a worldwide competition, Peter’s teaching delivery skills placed him atop a field of professors from 500 universities representing 43 countries. Peter is a graduate of Babson College, started his career at the investment firm of Kidder Peabody & Co and later served as the assistant state treasurer for Louisiana. There he successfully managed the State’s $3 billion investment portfolio. He went on to earn his MBA from the Univeristy of New Orleans. In 1993 he founded Tulane’s nationally acclaimed Burkenroad Reports student stock research program (www.burkenroad.org). Here he leads 200 business students in search of overlooked and underpriced stocks in six southern states. He and his program have been featured widely in the financial press including; The Wall Street Journal, BARRON'S and The New York Times. From Vancouver to Jupiter, Peter has addressed over 1000 groups in 47 states. These include groups of nuns, tin can manufacturers, money managers, waterpark owners, insurance professionals and NFL players. He has even done a couple of TED TALKS. He is also an author, husband and a dad who has attended baseball games at all 30 current major league ballparks. The New Orleans economy; what's up down here | Peter Ricchiuti | TEDxNewOrleans Tulane Affiliation Faculty Education and Affiliations Babson College, Massachusetts University of New Orleans Research Wall Street, Financial Markets, Stocks, US Economy, Unemployment, the Dollar, Personal Finance, Securities Trading, Entrepreneurship, Small Business, Louisiana Economy, Energy, the Rise of New Orleans Entrepreneurship Post-Katrina Tulane Tip On Willow Street we actually have a bocce court. It is a wonderful old sport and a terrific way to relax. In the News NBC News: Oil companies to bid on newly released federal Gulf leases The Advocate: The price of oil and gas is the highest since 2014. Here's how that may impact Louisiana WWL TV: Small investors make big money on GameStop stock Courthouse News Service: Nasdaq Hits New High as Tech, Clorox Shine for Investors Forbes: Here’s Who Gets The Money On Further Covid-19 Relief Fox News: New Orleans artists struggle to survive as coronavirus causes tourism dip Fortune: As the yield curve slips towards inversion, the recession warning light blinks red—again CNBC: Trump aims to make tight Louisiana governor race a referendum on his economy CNBC: Trump aims to make tight Louisiana governor race a referendum on his economy The Advocate: Pelican State Portfolio continues to slump on oil prices, Waitr troubles Load more more Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane Home Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University