Skip to content University Home Academics Admissions Campus Life Research About Apply Giving Clemson News Search Topics OUR Clemson Impact and Innovation Student Success Faculty and Staff Achievements Alumni Accomplishments All Stories Clemson In The News Celebrating the Class of 2022 Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Divisions Office of the President Office of the Provost Advancement Clemson Computing Information Technology External Affairs Finance and Operations Inclusion and Equity Public Service and Agriculture Research Student Affairs Athletics For Journalists Our Experts Clemson.edu Resources University Home Academics Admissions Campus Life Research About Search for: Search Search Clemson News Search for: Search About Clemson News Who We Are Clemson News is the go-to source for stories and news about the innovations, research and accomplishments of the Clemson Family. Designed as a resource for faculty, staff, students, friends and fans of the University, Clemson News is maintained by University Relations’ Strategic Communications team and updated daily through aggregated content across campus. Clemson News is dedicated to showcasing content highlighting why Clemson is one of the nation’s leading public institutions. Published stories showcase faculty scholars and scientists, student and alumni accomplishments, and the innovations and research positively impacting South Carolina, the nation and the world. Working With Us If you have a story idea, would like to become an expert resource for media or just want to say hi, feel free to reach out to University Relations’ Strategic Communications team by clicking here. Talk to an Expert See All Experts Whether you’re looking for commentary on breaking trends shaping the world or a background briefing, our experts are available to help. E-mail us to request an interview. Roy Jones The visionary behind Call Me MISTER®, Jones has grown the program into a nationally renowned model. Today it serves more than 33 colleges and universities across 10 states and has more than 600 program participants driving change in the classroom. Read More about Roy Jones Shontavia Johnson An expert in digital brand building, intellectual property law and entrepreneurship, Johnson is a recognized leader throughout the country. She has led national discussions about the science of going viral, digital literacy, patents and Black inventors. Read More about Shontavia Johnson Dustin Albright As a founding member of Clemson University’s Wood Utilization + Design Institute, Albright’s work contributes to wood-based construction materials’ design advancements. His research focuses on different applications of prefabricated light-framing and mass timber systems, including those with cross-laminated timber. Read More about Dustin Albright TV Studio A state-of-the-art studio with the ability to facilitate live shots for television via a Vyvx connection. Offering 1080p high-definition video with an 80-inch digital or live-keyed background with Ross Kryptonite video switcher. Live radio connects are facilitated over IP audio via a Comrex Access codec. Field recording capability includes 4K footage as well as the ability to shoot 4K/120 fps for b-roll purposes. Contact Us The Strategic Communications team is here to help. Whether you’re with a media organization or a member of the Clemson Family with have a great story you want to share, please use this form to get in touch – or you can email us at news@clemson.edu. Your Name Your Email Your Message This form is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Clemson News Clemson News is the go-to source for stories and news about the innovations, research and accomplishments of the Clemson Family. Contact Us Media Resources For Journalists Find an Expert Clemson Publications Clemson World Decipher IDEAS magazine Student Affairs Experience Magazine Orange. The Experience. Clemson TV Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022. All Rights Reserved. Clemson University Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson