Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All Posts in #Students Campus & Community Preparing Students for a Life of Success Friday, May 27, 2022, By Caroline K. Reff Selecting a major and choosing a career path don’t have to be daunting experiences. While some students come to Syracuse University’s College of Arts and Sciences (A&S) or the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs (Maxwell) ready to declare… STEM Bringing ‘CSI’ Into the Classroom Thursday, May 26, 2022, By Dan Bernardi Dusting for fingerprints, documenting blood stain patterns and measuring bullet trajectory—you might think this is a description of a recent episode from the popular television series “CSI.” While this may be true, these are also the daily lessons students are… Media, Law & Policy Newhouse Creative Advertising Students Win 195 Awards in 1 Year, Setting a New School Record Thursday, May 26, 2022, By News Staff Creative advertising students at the Newhouse School have set the program record by winning an impressive 195 awards in one year. “What most impressed me about the awards the Newhouse creative advertising students won was not the amount but the… Campus & Community 2022 Graduates Reflect on Service as Academic Coaches Thursday, May 19, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Josh Eimbinder ’22 struggled during his sophomore year at Syracuse. The sport management major wasn’t earning the grades he needed. “In high school, they didn’t teach me how to study—they just hand you the work. I went to my advisor… Media, Law & Policy As the School of Education’s Italy Program Returns, Sara Jo Soldovieri ’18, G’19 Reflects on Its Influence Tuesday, May 17, 2022, By Martin Walls Now a doctoral student researching inclusive education, Sara Jo Soldovieri ’18, G’19 was a sophomore when she took Literacy, Inclusion and Diversity in Italy, a study abroad short course offered by the School of Education and Syracuse Abroad. Soldovieri matriculated… Campus & Community Center for Fellowship and Scholarship Advising Team Helps Match Students With Unique Experiences That Enhance Their Studies Tuesday, May 17, 2022, By Jen Maser When it comes to applying for nationally competitive scholarships and fellowships, the team at the Center for Fellowship and Scholarship Advising (CFSA) offers a wealth of knowledge and resources for undergraduate and graduate students and recent alumni. Located on the… Media, Law & Policy New Law Scholarship Honors the Ongoing Legacy of the Hon. Theodore A. McKee L’75 Tuesday, May 17, 2022, By Robert Conrad Syracuse University College of Law is pleased to announce the establishment of the Hon. Theodore A. McKee L’75 Endowed Law Scholarship with a generous gift from Syracuse University Trustee and College of Law Board of Advisors Member Richard M. Alexander… Campus & Community Student Speaker Ghael Fobes Mora Shared Highlights of the Class of 2022 Monday, May 16, 2022, By News Staff As the student speaker, University Scholar Ghael Fobes Mora ’22 shared memories of the past four years during Syracuse University’s 2022 Commencement on Sunday, May 15, 2022. “While today might seem like the closing of our collective Syracuse chapter, fear… Campus & Community Maxwell Prepared Mike Tirico ’88 for His ‘Most Challenging Assignment’ Monday, May 16, 2022, By Jessica Youngman A bachelor’s degree from the Maxwell School and the College of Arts and Sciences helped prepare famed sports broadcaster Mike Tirico ’88 to take on one of the toughest assignments of his storied career: the 2022 Winter Olympics in Bejing,… Campus & Community ‘You Will Do Marvelous Things in the Future’: Chancellor Kent Syverud Speaks to Class of 2022 During Commencement (Video) Monday, May 16, 2022, By News Staff Syracuse University Chancellor and President Kent Syverud addressed the Class of 2022 during Commencement exercises. “Today, I ask that we all thank in particular one subset of our Orange community. These last two years have been extraordinarily challenging for the… 12345 Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.