Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links University of Miami Division of University Communications Office of Media Relations Miller School of Medicine Communications Hurricane Sports UM Media Experts Emergency Preparedness Home Search Latest Headlines Instrumental Performance Keyboard Performance Studio Music & Jazz Vocal Performance Musicology Music Education Music Therapy Music Media & Industry Music Theory & Composition Music Engineering Henry Mancini Institute Frost Band of the Hour Stamps Frost Online Events Social Score Frost School About Us Admissions Degrees & Programs Faculty Frost Music Live Giving & Alumni Latest Headlines Events Social Score Frost School News@TheU Latest Headlines Life@TheU Events Subscribe to News@TheU Newsletter Search Latest Headlines Instrumental Performance Keyboard Performance Studio Music & Jazz Vocal Performance Musicology Music Education Music Therapy Music Media & Industry Music Theory & Composition Music Engineering Henry Mancini Institute Frost Band of the Hour Stamps Frost Online Events Social Score Frost School About Us Admissions Degrees & Programs Faculty Frost Music Live Giving & Alumni News@TheU Latest Headlines Life@TheU Events Subscribe to News@TheU Newsletter UM NEWS HOME Home Stories 2021 August Frost Music Live is “live” again! AAA Frost Music Live is “live” again! Pictured clockwise: NEA Jazz Master and multi-GRAMMY®-winner Terri Lyne Carrington, three-time GRAMMY winner Miami native Cécile McLorin Salvant with Sullivan Fortner, seven-time GRAMMY®-winning bassist Christian McBride, Avery Fisher Career Grant award-winning JACK Quartet, and 2020 National Chopin Competition Grand Prize winner Avery Gagliano. By UM News 08-20-2021 Pictured clockwise: NEA Jazz Master and multi-GRAMMY®-winner Terri Lyne Carrington, three-time GRAMMY winner Miami native Cécile McLorin Salvant with Sullivan Fortner, seven-time GRAMMY®-winning bassist Christian McBride, Avery Fisher Career Grant award-winning JACK Quartet, and 2020 National Chopin Competition Grand Prize winner Avery Gagliano. Frost Music Live is “live” again! By UM News 08-20-2021 The critically acclaimed concert series returns September 11, 2021 with 108 multi-genre concerts featuring GRAMMY®, Latin GRAMMY®, Pulitzer and MacArthur Fellow award-winning faculty and guest artists along with brilliant Frost students and alumni. The Frost School of Music at the University of Miami is excited to announce the FROST MUSIC LIVE concert series, as it returns to “live,” with a dazzling array of performances for the 2021-22 season. September 11th launches the season with an All Chopin Recital featuring guest pianist Avery Gagliano, the 2020 Grand Prize winner of the National Chopin Foundation Competition and concludes on April 27, 2022 with Frost faculty multi GRAMMY® winners Dafnis Prieto and Brian Lynch performing with the Frost Latin Jazz Orchestra. FROST MUSIC LIVE brings world-class music to our community with performances by renowned and award-winning Frost School of Music faculty, alumni and guest artists, performing with our brilliant students. The series also provides students with priceless real-world performance experiences and masterclasses with the visiting artists. While most concerts continue to be presented in UM Gusman Concert Hall on the school’s Coral Gables campus, this year’s schedule also features concerts off-campus. They include three at the Adrienne Arsht Center, two of which are in conjunction with the Jazz Roots Series for which Frost School Dean Shelly Berg is artistic advisor: one will feature famed Cuban pianist Chucho Valdés and the second with Brazilian vocalist Luciana Souza. During Art Basel, Maestro Gerard Schwarz and the Frost Symphony Orchestra will perform “Pictures at an Exhibition” at the Arsht Center for a special event combining music and visual arts. A world premiere opera will take place at the South Miami Dade Cultural Arts Center with the Frost Opera Theater, and several choir performances will take place at area churches. “Words cannot express how much I missed seeing our patrons in our concert halls,” states Dean Shelly Berg. “This year’s Frost Music Live series brings the music back to live attendees in stunning, Frost-worthy fashion, with an array of music from established masterpieces to cutting-edge world premieres. I look forward to seeing audiences, safely, in person, at our performance halls. Their attendance means the world to all of us at Frost, especially, our students.” COVID GUIDELINES The Frost School of Music is deeply committed to the health and safety of our guests, performing artists, students, and concert staff. We are abiding by the guidelines created by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the Florida Department of Health, local health officials, and the University of Miami. As COVID-19 limitations allow, Frost Music Live will determine seating capacity for each concert. Please visit frost.miami.edu/safety for the most up-to-date COVID guidelines. TICKETS AND FURTHER INFORMATION Please visit www.frostmusiclive.com or call 305-284-2400. MEDIA You can access photos for all performances via the link below. For interview requests, credentials, and further information contact sheryl@eastwestmedia.net Photos: https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/114PwWHVpjpcjvY8k6HEiBhnw3ZYbEDUt Below you will find the schedule for the 2021 Frost Music Live Signature Series concerts. For the complete list of all Frost Music Live events please visit www.frostmusiclive.com. Please note: Concerts that take place on the University campus, will be live-streamed on the Frost School of Music YouTube channel. SCHEDULE Signature Series and Chopin Foundation of the U.S. Presents Saturday, September 11, 2021, 7:30 p.m. UM Gusman Concert Hall Avery Gagliano—All Chopin Recital Avery Gagliano, guest pianist With the generous support of the Chopin Foundation of the U.S., pianist Avery Gagliano performs an all-Chopin piano recital. Gagliano won the 2020 National Chopin Competition Grand Prize and will be competing shortly in the 18th International Chopin Competition in Warsaw. At just 20, she captures audiences with her sensitivity, emotional depth, and musical expression. She will also be joined by Frost faculty for a special chamber arrangement of Chopin’s Andante spianato et Grande Polonaise brillante. ﬦ Ticket Required https://youtu.be/G4foeTnAuGQ https://events.miami.edu/event/avery_gaglianoall_chopin_recital Wednesday, September 15, 2021, 7:30 p.m. UM Gusman Concert Hall Frost Concert Jazz Band & Frost Studio Jazz Band with Christian McBride John Daversa and Etienne Charles, directors Christian McBride, guest bassist Seven-time GRAMMY®-winning bassist Christian McBride is a force of nature. “In his hands, an acoustic bass can shamelessly expose the human heart,” JazzTimes said in an article. He brings virtuosic fire, relentless energy, depth, and the grounding of a seasoned journeyman to his performances. He will join the multiple DownBeat award-winning Frost Concert Jazz Band and Frost Studio Jazz Band, which are renowned for their outstanding musicianship, inspired performances, soloists, and well-crafted arrangements. ﬦ Ticket Required https://youtu.be/M42Nygfld2E https://events.miami.edu/event/frost_concert_jazz_band_frost_studio_jazz_band_with_christian_mcbride Monday, September 20, 2021, 7:30 p.m. UM Gusman Concert Hall At the Ballet—Prokofiev's Romeo and Juliet, and Cinderella Aaron Tindall, director Renowned Frost tuba professor and Sarasota Orchestra’s principal tubist, Aaron Tindall, lights up the stage with two of the most famous ballet masterpieces of all time. Tindall shares his virtuoso talent performing Suite No.1 from Romeo and Juliet and selections from Cinderella – by Russian Soviet composer Sergei Prokofiev, one of the giants of 20th century music. Enjoy a night “At the Ballet” with a tuba and fabulous music! ﬦ Ticket Required https://youtu.be/TnHfVQXy5Ic https://events.miami.edu/event/at_the_balletprokofievs_romeo_and_juliet_and_cinderella Friday, September 24, 2021, 7:30 p.m. Pre-concert talk, 6:30 p.m. UM Gusman Concert Hall The Musical Legacy of Melton Mustafa—Frost Studio Jazz Band Etienne Charles, director Jesse Jones Jr. and Melton Mustafa Jr., guest saxophonists The DownBeat Awarding-winning Frost Studio Jazz Band celebrates GRAMMY®-nominated Melton Mustafa Jr., a pillar of South Florida's musical community. His uncle, South Florida Jazz Hall of Famer Jesse Jones Jr., joins them. Melton Mustafa Sr. played with Count Basie, Duke Ellington, and Woody Herman orchestras, wrote an expansive oeuvre of music reflecting his experiences, and later established the jazz program at Florida Memorial University. ﬦ Ticket Required https://youtu.be/zKb8jx42jzQ https://events.miami.edu/event/the_musical_legacy_of_melton_mustafafrost_studio_jazz_band Saturday, October 2, 2021, 7:30 p.m. Pre-concert talk: 7:00 p.m. UM Gusman Concert Hall All Without Words—Henry Mancini Institute Orchestra Scott Flavin, conductor John Daversa, trumpet Experience the gripping music of composer Justin Morell, featured on John Daversa’s latest recording, All Without Words: Variations Inspired by Loren. Inspired by his non-verbal autistic son, Morell builds a series of emotional variations – sometimes painful, sometimes joyful – but always full of hope. “For beauty and heart, this music is above and beyond anything else today,” says All About Jazz. ﬦ Ticket Required https://youtu.be/YJgJkThjBKY https://events.miami.edu/event/all_without_wordshenry_mancini_institute_orchestra Sunday, October 3, 2021, 7:30 p.m. UM Gusman Concert Hall Percussion Collective The Hartford Courant says the Percussion Collective, “worked together so seamlessly that they almost seemed to share a kind of psychic connection. Seeing them perform was a pure joy.” Legendary performer and pedagogue Robert van Sice assembled a stunning collection of some of the world’s most esteemed and dynamic voices in the percussion world. They display precise execution, sonic refinement, and dynamic onstage communication performing works by Garth Neustadter, Alejandro Viñao, and Astor Piazzolla. ﬦ Ticket Required https://youtu.be/Ps22CiIyFvI https://events.miami.edu/event/percussion_collective Tuesday, October 12, 2021, 7:30 p.m. UM Gusman Concert Hall GRAMMY®-Winning Jazz Vocalist Cécile McLorin Salvant and Tribute to Antônio Carlos Jobim Frost Jazz Vocal Ensemble Kate Reid, director Cécile McLorin Salvant, guest vocalist Sullivan Fortner, guest pianist Three-time GRAMMY winner Miami native Cécile McLorin Salvant named “finest jazz singer to emerge in the last decade” (The New York Times) highlights this special evening with guest pianist Sullivan Fortner, who partnered with Salvant on the duo release The Window. The Frost Jazz Vocal Ensemble opens the concert celebrating the music of Antônio Carlos Jobim, one of the great exponents of Brazilian music and the father of the bossa nova with classics like The Girl from Ipanema and Desafinado. ﬦ Ticket Required https://youtu.be/jZtEmhvzOG8 https://events.miami.edu/event/celebrating_the_magnificence_of_antonio_carlos_jobimfrost_jazz_vocal_ensemble Friday, November 5, 2021, 8:00 p.m. Adrienne Arsht Center, 1300 Biscayne Blvd., Miami Jazz Roots—Chucho Valdés with the Yoruban Orchestra Hilario Durán and John Beasley, musical directors The great Cuban pianist and composer Jesús “Chucho” Valdés presents the world premiere of La Creación (The Creation), which explores the story of creation according to the Regla de Ocha, the Afro-Cuban religion known as Santería. The piece includes elements of Santería ritual music, African music, the blues and what Valdés describes as “an atmosphere in the style of Miles Davis’ Bitches Brew.” In partnership with the Frost School’s Henry Mancini Institute Big Band. More information at arshtcenter.org. Saturday, December 4, 8:00 p.m. Adrienne Arsht Center, Frost School of Music, and Lowe Art Museum present Pictures at an Exhibition Frost Symphony Orchestra Gerard Schwarz, conductor Lowe Art Museum Experience an immersive evening of music and art at this Art Week 2021 capstone event. Composed in 1874 and orchestrated by Maurice Ravel in 1922, Pictures at an Exhibition was inspired by a posthumous show of more than 400 paintings and drawings by Modest Mussorgsky’s close friend, architect and artist Viktor Hartmann, who died in 1873. In this dynamic presentation, each of the work’s ten movements and five “promenades” will be paired with projected images created by leading contemporary artists (Doug Argue, Omar Ba, María Magdalena Campos-Pons, Claudia DeMonte, Juan Roberto Diago, Michele Oka Doner, Carlos Estévez, Karen LaMonte, Yassi Mazandi, Ed McGowin, Gladys Nilsson, Virgil Ortiz, Carlos Quintana, Alexis Rockman, Arthur Simms, and Agnieszka Traczewska) as well as key works from the Lowe’s permanent collection. The evening also includes music by Aaron Copland, Julia Perry, and others. Co-presented by the Adrienne Arsht Center, Frost School of Music, and Lowe Art Museum. More information at arshtcenter.org Sunday, January 30, 2022, 4:00 p.m. Monday, January 31, 2022, 7:30 p.m. UM Gusman Concert Hall Schubertiade, Part I and II Jeanette Thompson, host; Frost Chamber Players; Kevin Kenner, piano; Frank Ragsdale, tenor; Margaret Donahue, clarinet; Rafael Padron, guitar; Richard Todd, French horn; Scott Flavin, violin; Jodi Levitz, viola; Ross Harbaugh, cello; Brian Powell, bass; Amanda Quist, mezzo-soprano The Schubertiade is a tradition that began in 1815 when composer Franz Schubert was 18 years old. It originated as unpublicized, informal concerts of his music, but quickly spread throughout Europe, and eventually to the United States. The tradition remains. Schubertiade festivals and concerts now happen globally. To commemorate Schubert’s 225th birthday, Frost faculty and Frost Chamber Players perform Octet D. 72 in F major, Variations on Trockne Blumen, Arpeggione Sonata, Auf dem Strom (On the River), Der Hirt auf dem Felsen (The Shepherd on the Rock), his famous Trout Quintet, and more. ﬦ Ticket Required https://youtu.be/OLecMoZWozk / https://events.miami.edu/event/schubertiade_part_i https://youtu.be/xk7iBo0FHMA / https://events.miami.edu/event/schubertiade_part_ii Monday, February 14, 2022, 7:30 p.m. UM Gusman Concert Hall An Italian Valentine Bettina Mussumeli, violin Jodi Levitz, viola Ross Harbaugh, cello Miami’s newest chamber ensemble, I Solisti di Miami, takes us on a romantic musical journey to Vivaldi’s Venice. Led by Frost faculty Bettina Mussumeli, Jodi Levitz, and Ross Harbaugh, the ensemble also features Frost alumni and current students. ﬦ Ticket Required https://youtu.be/tGH1uv7UWnM https://events.miami.edu/event/an_italian_valentine Saturday, February 19, 2022, 7:30 p.m. UM Gusman Concert Hall JACK Quartet Hailed by The New York Times as “our leading new-music foursome,” the JACK Quartet is one of the most acclaimed, renowned, and respected groups performing today. They maintain an unwavering commitment to performing and commissioning new works, giving voice to underheard composers, and cultivating an ever-greater sense of openness toward contemporary classical music. WQXR included the Quartet in its 2019 “19 for 19 Artists to Watch,” and they were awarded the prestigious Avery Fisher Career Grant. ﬦ Ticket Required https://youtu.be/YhtlzFd1Dss https://events.miami.edu/event/jack_quartet Thursday, March 3, 2022, 7:30 p.m. UM Gusman Concert Hall Frost Concert Jazz Band with Terri Lyne Carrington John Daversa, director Terri Lyne Carrington, guest drummer Frost Concert Jazz Band joins forces with drummer, producer, and educator Terri Lyne Carrington. She is also an NEA Jazz Master, multi-GRAMMY®-winner, Doris Duke Award recipient, and Founder and Artistic Director for the Berklee Institute of Jazz and Gender Justice. Carrington has recorded and toured with countless jazz luminaries including Herbie Hancock, Wayne Shorter, Stan Getz, and Dianne Reeves. In 2013, she made history as the first woman to win a GRAMMY® in the Best Jazz Instrumental Album category. ﬦ Ticket Required https://youtu.be/emCW3UBj9tE https://events.miami.edu/event/frost_concert_jazz_band_with_terri_lyne_carrington Saturday, March 5, 2022, 3:00 p.m. Sunday, March 6, 2022, 3:00 p.m. South Miami-Dade Cultural Arts Center, 10950 SW 211 St., Cutler Bay, 33189 The World Premiere of The Leopard—Frost Opera Theater and Frost Symphony Orchestra Music by Michael Dellaira and Libretto by J.D. McClatchy Gerard Schwarz, conductor Alan Johnson, music director Jeffrey Buchman, stage director Kim Josephson, baritone; Robynne Redmon, mezzo-soprano; Frank Ragsdale, tenor A world premiere opera presented in Frost Opera Theater and Frost Symphony Orchestra's inaugural appearance at the South Miami-Dade Cultural Arts Center. The Leopard, by composer Michael Dellaira and librettist J.D. McClatchy, was adapted from Giuseppe Tomasi di Lampedusa’s internationally acclaimed novel Il Gattopardo and made famous with the film version starring Burt Lancaster (1963 Cannes Film Festival Palme d'Or winner). Conducted by Maestro Gerard Schwarz, this production features faculty baritone Kim Josephson in the title role, sharing the stage with Frost students, alumni, and faculty. More information at smdcac.org or call 786.573.5300. Friday, March 11, 2022, 7:30 p.m. UM Gusman Concert Hall Music of Mason Bates—Frost Wind Ensemble Robert Carnochan, conductor Composer of the GRAMMY®-winning opera, The (R)evolution of Steve Jobs, Mason Bates was named the most-performed composer of his generation in a recent survey of American music. As a composer, DJ, and curator, he is transforming how classical music is created and experienced. Legendary conductors from Riccardo Muti to Michael Tilson Thomas have championed him, and his symphonic music received widespread acceptance for its unique integration of electronic sounds. Bates’ Bootleggers Break makes its world premiere. ﬦ Ticket Required https://youtu.be/DAiSupvjGog https://events.miami.edu/event/music_of_mason_batesfrost_wind_ensemble Saturday, March 26, 2022, 7:30 p.m. UM Gusman Concert Hall American Brass Quintet The New York Times says, “Positively breathtaking,” and Newsweek calls them, “The high priests of brass.” The American Brass Quintet is internationally recognized as one of the leading chamber ensembles of our time. Winners of multiple awards including the 2013 recipient of Chamber Music America’s highest honor and the Richard J. Bogomolny National Service Award, the Quintet’s plentiful legacy includes performances around the world, nearly sixty recordings, and the premieres of more than one hundred fifty contemporary brass works. ﬦ Ticket Required https://youtu.be/zltiOEYwzWc https://events.miami.edu/event/american_brass_quintet Friday, April 8, 2022, 8:00 p.m. Adrienne Arsht Center, 1300 Biscayne Blvd., Miami Storytellers—Luciana Souza and Vince Mendoza Featuring Frost Concert Jazz Band John Daversa Quintet, opening act Melding Brazilian pop and American jazz, GRAMMY® Award-winning vocalist Luciana Souza brings her deeply personal, colorful, and illuminated musicality to big-band arrangements of songs by her fellow Brazilians Chico Buarque, Ivan Lins, Gilberto Gil, and more. Souza’s work transcends traditional musical boundaries, offering solid roots in jazz, a sophisticated lineage in world music and an enlightened approach to the latest sounds. She will be joined onstage by GRAMMY® winner Vince Mendoza and the Frost Concert Jazz Band. More Information at arshtcenter.org. https://events.miami.edu/event/storytellersluciana_souza_and_vince_mendoza Monday, April 11, 2022, 7:30 p.m. UM Gusman Concert Hall US Coast Guard Band Formed in 1925, the 55-member United States Coast Guard Band is the premier band representing the United States Coast Guard and Department of Homeland Security. They have performed at Lincoln Center, Carnegie Hall, and internationally. The repertoire includes a variety of music, from wind ensemble classics to swinging jazz charts. ﬦ Ticket Required https://youtu.be/8b5Hde-x2_g https://events.miami.edu/event/us_coast_guard_band Friday, April 22, 2022, 7:30 p.m. UM Gusman Concert Hall Maria Schneider Celebrates Earth Day!—Henry Mancini Institute Orchestra Maria Schneider and Scott Flavin, conductors The Frost School’s Henry Mancini Institute artistic director and multi-GRAMMY®-winner Maria Schneider present an evening of music, art, and science to honor Earth Day. Join us for this groundbreaking experience. ﬦ Ticket Required https://youtu.be/i4JWrWQqjkA https://events.miami.edu/event/maria_schneider_celebrates_earth_dayhenry_mancini_institute_orchestra Sunday, April 25, 2022, 7:30 p.m. UM Gusman Concert Hall A Familiar Stage—Sandra Lopez and Alan Johnson Sandra Lopez, soprano Alan Johnson, piano The New York Times calls her voice, “meltingly beautiful.” Opera News says it is “a dark-hued lyric instrument capable of considerable emotional power.” Lopez has performed internationally to great acclaim. She shares the stage with Drama Desk winner and Frost Professor Alan Johnson. The program includes operatic repertoire drawn from signature roles created by Lopez's MET Opera performances. They will perform Italian repertoire and songs by women composers in honor of March Women's History Month. This is Lopez’s first faculty voice recital since her 2019 Frost appointment. ﬦ Ticket Required https://youtu.be/FwaB06sKIF8 https://events.miami.edu/event/a_familiar_stagesandra_lopez_and_alan_johnson Wednesday, April 27, 2022, 7:30 p.m. UM Gusman Concert Hall Frost Latin Jazz Orchestra Dafnis Prieto, drums, director Brian Lynch, trumpet MacArthur “Genius” Fellowship and GRAMMY®-winner Dafnis Prieto conducts the DownBeat Award-winning Frost Latin Jazz Orchestra. The program will highlight music from the GRAMMY®-winning album, The Omni-American Book Club, by Frost professor and GRAMMY®-winner Brian Lynch. DownBeat said the album “has elevated Lynch’s vast oeuvre to ambitious new heights of accomplishment and acclaim.” Lynch joins on trumpet and Prieto on drums. NPR says Prieto, who is Cuban, “stretches and often shatters the expectations of straight-ahead jazz.” Don’t miss this special night. ﬦ Ticket Required https://youtu.be/jyiiteGKeks https://events.miami.edu/event/frost_latin_jazz_orchestra_2193 About Frost Music Live! The Frost School of Music at the University of Miami proudly launched its annual Frost Music Live Series in September 2017. The series offers more than 100 concerts each year, providing for people of all ages the chance to be enriched by live musical performances. It is unrivaled in its scope of musical presentations and contributions while expanding academic opportunities and cultural enrichment to all of South Florida and its visitors. The series features the Frost School of Music’s widely known artist-faculty and student ensembles, and world-renowned guest artists. Visit www.frostmusiclive.com and @FrostSchoolUM for additional information. Frost School of Music Programs Undergraduate and Graduate Events Calendar Visit Us FROST School of Music Apply Now Get Started Make a Gift Donate Today topics: Arts and Humanities Music Frost School of Music Programs Undergraduate and Graduate Events Calendar Visit Us FROST School of Music Apply Now Get Started Make a Gift Donate Today University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Frost School of Music Messinger Music Executive Building 5501 San Amaro Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-2241 305-284-2241 UM Network About UM UM News and Events Admissions Alumni Association UHealth Hurricane Sports 'Cane Watch UM Culture Tools and Resources Academic Calendar People Search Department Search MyUM CaneLink Blackboard Workday Employment Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices Title IX & Gender Equity Website Feedback