Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia News Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Featured News Topics Video Books Podcasts All News Media Resources Awards & Milestones Arts & Humanities Politics & Social Justice Research & Discovery Photo of the Week Commencement 2022 Columbia News You are here: Home Awards & Milestones Awards & Milestones Awards & Milestones Columbia faculty, students, and staff are on the cutting edge of advancements in all fields and their work is thus justly awarded and recognized. Below, find recent accomplishments and milestones as well as bi-monthly lists of recent awards. Want your accomplishment to be included? Email [email protected]. Want these announcements in your inbox? Subscribe to Columbia News newsletters. SPOTLIGHT Four Columbians Win Guggenheim Fellowships Columbia’s 2022 Truman Scholars 14 Columbia University Affiliates Awarded Fulbright U.S. Student Grants Recent Awards & Milestones Columbia professors Maureen Ryan, Daniel Alarcón, Marilyn Ness, and Harris Wang. Awards & Milestones A MacArthur ‘Genius’ Winner, Emmys, Tonys, and More Awards Go to Columbians October 13, 2021 Here’s a roundup of awards and milestones granted to Columbians from September 1 to October 13, 2021. Awards & Milestones Columbia Filmmakers Shine in 2021 Emmy Nominations July 15, 2021 Numerous projects helmed by Columbia University faculty and alumni have been nominated for the 73rd Primetime Emmy Awards. Dr. Laura Duvall is one of 22 early-career researchers who have been selected to join the Pew Scholars Program in the Biomedical Sciences. Awards & Milestones Dr. Laura Duvall Has Been Named a 2021 Pew Scholar in Biomedical Sciences June 15, 2021 Duvall's research focuses on the neural and molecular pathways that regulate biting and mating in mosquitoes. From left: Elena Aprile, Joan Birman, Sankar Ghosh, and Robert Jervis. Awards & Milestones Four Faculty Members Join the Ranks of the National Academy of Sciences April 29, 2021 Elena Aprile, Joan Birman, Sankar Ghosh, and Robert Jervis were elected by their peers in recognition of their outstanding achievements in research Top, left to right: Hilton Als, Kimberle Crenshaw, Virginia Fortna; middle, left to right: David Henry Hwang, Gillian Lester, Michele Moody-Adams; bottom, left to right: Frederick Neuhouser, Gayatri Spivak, Mabel O. Wilson. Awards & Milestones The American Academy of Arts and Sciences Inducts Nine Columbia Faculty Members April 22, 2021 A group of diverse Columbians join other scholars, artists, scientists, and leaders in the public, nonprofit, and private sectors. Top, left to right: Farah Jasmine Griffin, Jason Nieh, Askhan Behzadi, and Paige West. Bottom, left to right: Sidney R. Hemming, Miya Masaoka, Zosha Di Castri, and Kate Zambreno. Awards & Milestones Meet the New Crop of 2021 Guggenheim Fellows April 12, 2021 Eight Columbians have been awarded the prestigious fellowships. The Alfred P. Sloan Foundation’s 2021 class of fellows include 128 scientists and scholars from more than 60 colleges and universities in the United States and Canada. Awards & Milestones Four Columbia Scientists Named 2021 Sloan Research Fellows February 16, 2021 Ana Asenjo-Garcia, Jacqueline Austermann, Samory Kpotufe, and Jesse Schreger are early-career scholars considered rising stars in their fields, whi Chien-Shiung Wu's experimental work is considered one of the most important developments in the field of atomic and nuclear physics. Credit stamp illustration: Ethel Kessler, design/ Kam Mak, art Awards & Milestones Columbia Physicist Honored With a Commemorative U.S. Postage Stamp February 10, 2021 Chien-Shiung Wu’s pioneering work altered the way scientists view the structure of the universe. Brian Metzger delivers a presentation on his research at the 235th American Astronomical Society meeting. Photo: Courtesy of AAS Awards & Milestones Columbia Astrophysicist Brian Metzger Named 2020 Blavatnik Laureate July 22, 2020 Research on the origins of gold and other heavy metals garners the nation's largest unrestricted scientific prize for young scientists. Rafael Yuste is one of eight recipients, out of more than 200 applicants, to receive the Vannevar Bush Faculty Fellowship. Awards & Milestones Columbia's Rafael Yuste Wins Vannevar Bush Fellowship May 18, 2020 The prestigious award supports top-tier researchers at U.S. universities whose work is of strategic importance to the Department of Defense. At the end of April, the National Academy of Sciences announced the election of its new members. Awards & Milestones Five Columbia Faculty Join the Ranks of the National Academy of Sciences May 02, 2020 Dmitri Basov, Angela M. Christiano, Andrew Millis, Molly Przeworski and Lorraine S. Awards & Milestones The American Academy of Arts and Sciences Inducts 12 Columbia Faculty Members April 27, 2020 A group of diverse Columbians join other scholars, artists, scientists and leaders in the public, nonprofit and private sectors. Pagination First page« First Previous page‹ Previous Page 1 Page 2 Current page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 Next pageNext › Last pageLast » Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close