Skip to main content Visit Temple.edu Toggle Utility Menu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Search Site Search Temple Now Navigation - Go To - News by topic - Arts & Culture - Athletics - Campus News - Community Engagement - Global Temple - Research - Staff & Faculty - Student Success - Sustainability - Return to Campus - Visualize TempleAnnouncementsNewsletters - Temple Now subscriptionPublicationsTemple in the newsSocial MediaSpecial SeriesTemple MagazineAboutAccolades News by topic Announcements Newsletters Special Series About Arts & Culture What to read, listen to and watch to learn more about AAPI communities Athletics Introducing a new head coach of women’s basketball Campus News New General Education course to focus on AAPI identity and experiences Community Engagement President Wingard highlights Center City Business Association’s “Lunch with the City's Leaders” Global Temple Serving the American media from the Far East Research Temple-headquartered STARS Computing Corps receives a $3 million National Science Foundation grant Return to Campus Student community health ambassadors look out for their fellow Owls Staff & Faculty Temple thought leaders lend their voices to national conversation surrounding Roe v. Wade Student Success Temple Made for … building community Sustainability Charles Library earns LEED Gold certification Visualize Temple Charles Library shapes the future at Temple and beyond View Archives Home / Announcements announcement Introducing the Temple Task Force on Violence Reduction Posted Feb 18, 2022 To the Temple community: As you know, President Wingard recently announced the creation of a Task Force on Violence Reduction. The goal of the task force is to bring together representatives from our campuses and our community to collectively assess the many efforts already in place at Temple to address violence, consider best practices as well as innovative initiatives and make recommendations to leadership on how best to move our university forward. Today, we are pleased to introduce the individuals who will be driving this project. The task force will be chaired by Associate Dean Jennifer Ibrahim of the College of Public Health. She will be joined by a diverse group of faculty, staff, students, parents and members of our community who will bring with them a wealth of expertise and years of experience. The task force membership is listed below. We are very grateful to each member for giving their time and energy to support this important effort. For the task force, the important work starts now. We have asked the task force to examine the variety of existing efforts at Temple related to violence reduction and to make recommendations on coordinating and integrating existing efforts; identifying additional potential initiatives; and defining what role Temple should play in violence reduction in our community, our city and beyond. The task force is one of many efforts designed to enhance the safety of our campus and our community so that we can all live, learn and work together. We look forward to hearing the recommendations of the task force and are confident that their collective wisdom will benefit our university, our community and our city. Sincerely, Valerie Harrison Vice President for Public Affairs Gregory Mandel Senior Vice President and Provost University Task Force on Violence Reduction Chair Jennifer Ibrahim, College of Public Health Faculty Quaiser Abdullah, Communication and Social Influence, Klein College of Media and Communication Maia Cucchiara, Teaching and Learning, College of Education and Human Development Caterina Roman, Criminal Justice, College of Liberal Arts Krista Schroeder, Nursing, College of Public Health Kimmika Williams-Witherspoon, School of Theater, Film and Media Arts and president, Faculty Senate Celeste Winston, Geography and Urban Studies, College of Liberal Arts Staff Shawn Abbott, Admissions, Financial Aid and Enrollment Management Marla Davis Bellamy, Philadelphia Ceasefire, Lewis Katz School of Medicine Scott Charles, Temple University Health System Olan Garrett, Student Affairs Charles Leone, Campus Safety Services Shirley Moy, Lenfest North Philadelphia Workforce Initiative Students Nash Baria, Political Science, College of Liberal Arts Joju Somoye, Health Professions, College of Public Health Bradley Smutek, History, College of Liberal Arts and president, Temple Student Government Gabrielle Spence, Criminal Justice, College of Liberal Arts Parents Karla Brown, parent of 2022 student Ken Giunta, parent of 2024 student Community Members John Athanasiadis Greg Bonaparte Jewell Williams Temple University Strategic Marketing & Communications Bell Building 1101 W. Montgomery Avenue Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Directory Maps and Directions Contact RSS Facebook Twitter Pinterest LinkedIn.com YouTube Flickr TUPortal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Temple Now: The official source for Temple news. Copyright 2015, Temple University. All rights reserved.