Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation News Center Main navigation Calendar Categories Business and Economic Development Campus and Community Earth and Environment Health and Medicine Science and Technology Society and Culture Media Contacts Experts Guide Featured expert Find an expert Daily Digest Whistle Whistle Whistle archives Whistle classifieds Social Media Subscribe Features Features Features Archive Open Search Search Search Take It Outside Breadcrumb Home Features Victor Rogers May 19, 2022 Spending time outdoors benefits wellness Going outside for just a few minutes each day can improve your overall wellness, from relieving stress to improving your sleep. Joi Alexander, director of Health Initiatives in the Division of Student Engagement and Well-Being, cites some of the mental health and physical benefits of being outdoors. “Getting some fresh air is a simple way to improve your mood,” Alexander said. “The fresh air can help raise oxygen levels in your brain, which increases serotonin levels.” Serotonin is the neurotransmitter that alters your mood. Being outside encourages physical activity, which releases endorphins that boost your mood. “Whether it is going for a walk, hiking, or even gardening, there are countless ways you can increase your exercise by being outdoors,” she said. “Spending 20 to 30 minutes outside has been proven to reduce stress levels. Even for a short period, being outdoors can reduce cortisol levels, which is the natural chemical in your body that causes stress.” The body needs sunlight to make vitamin D. “Being in the sun for 5 to 15 minutes, 2 to 3 times a week, will help you get the vitamin D and sunshine your body needs,” Alexander said. Spending time outdoors also helps regulate your sleep cycle. “Your body runs on an internal clock or circadian rhythm. When you spend time outside during the day, the exposure to sunlight regulates this internal clock and allows you to sleep longer and better.” Georgia Tech’s campus is filled with gardens and green spaces that are perfect for studying, eating lunch, having a meeting, or catching a few winks between classes. Whether you prefer sun or shade, remember to wear sunscreen. Go outside to one of your favorite spots or discover a new one to promote and explore your own wellness. Steven Koskey in the courtyard of the Centergy Building and the Tech Square Research Building. Grayson Nour (left) and Aubrey DeAugustinis in Jennings Courtyard at the Scheller College of Business. Jennifer Povinelli and her dog Buster in the park on the Fifth Street Bridge. Vaishu Adimulam and Elijah Hopper having lunch near Crecine Hall on West Campus. Lunch time at the Collective Food Hall at Coda. Kam Brown next to the Einstein Statue. Students picking up lunch at a food truck on Tech Green. Stephanie Prince in the Cisco Amphitheater near the Biotech Quad. Michael Pham on the West Architecture Building Lawn at the College of Design. Emmanuel Mate-Kole (foreground) and Cherlyl Heib in the courtyard of the Boggs Building. Catherine Conley and Angel Ramirez relax in a hammock on Tech Green. The EcoCommons Hammocks Area is located on the corner of Ferst Drive and Hemphill Avenue. Jacob Varner in Paul Mayer Memorial Gardens. Jesus Mata having lunch in the EcoCommons. Amanda West (foreground) and Johnathan O'Neil at The Kendeda Building for Innovative Sustainable Design. The EcoCommons, a lush green space along Ferst Drive, has wide pathways for walking. Jeannie Zhang on the roof of the Library. Truman Yardley and Lauren Harris on the roof of Clough Undergraduate Learning Commons. Taylor Sherwood near the Savant Building on The Hill. Julia Bush, Chelsey Odendahl, and Lydia Kenney on Tech Lawn. Credits Writer: Victor Rogers Photographer: Joya Chapman Editor: Stacy Braukman Design: Kristen Bailey Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites and Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Art Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education