Skip to main content Toggle navigation Search Cornell University Cornell.edu Media Relations Search Cornell University Cornell Chronicle Topics Architecture & Design Arts & Humanities Business, Economics & Entrepreneurship Computing & Information Sciences Energy, Environment & Sustainability Food & Agriculture Global Reach Health, Nutrition & Medicine Law, Government & Public Policy Life Sciences & Veterinary Medicine Physical Sciences & Engineering Social & Behavioral Sciences Coronavirus Campus & Community News & Events Public Engagement New York City Staff News Photos of the Day Big Red Sports Diversity In Memory Features NYS Impact Student Life Around Cornell All Stories In the News Expert Quotes Cornellians Event to provide resources, insight on war in Ukraine By Megan DeMint March 15, 2022 Faculty experts and Ukrainian students will speak about how the Russian invasion of Ukraine threatens lives, the post–Cold War international order and the stability of the global economy at an event March 17 at 4:30 p.m. Hosted by Global Cornell, the virtual event will offer Cornell faculty, staff and students a chance to come together and learn more about the unprovoked invasion, and stand with the Ukrainian people. Following a panel discussion, participants will have the opportunity to engage with each other in breakout room sessions and receive further resources. “As a university, we can do certain things in a situation like this,” said Vice Provost for International Affairs Wendy Wolford in a statement on March 4. “We can educate ourselves about the history, politics and economics in the region, we can learn together. We can engage in our studies and in the world around us to make a meaningful difference. And as a community, here in New York and around the world, we can stand together, as a refuge and a bridge. As a community, we can take a stand for learning as the means to support the foundations of a better life.” The Russian invasion of Ukraine constitutes the first major land war in Europe in decades. At the event, speakers will share their predictions for the future and what the Cornell community can do to support Ukrainians. “Here in Ithaca, we are physically far removed from the war,” Wolford said. “But we have Cornell students, staff, faculty and alumni who are from both Ukraine and Russia or who have loved ones in the region. This is the most uncertain of times, with what is certainly gut-wrenching fear for family and friends in danger’s path. We acknowledge and share in their sorrow.” Resources and statements on the ongoing crisis in Ukraine can be found on the Global Cornell website. The event is open to only the Cornell community and is closed to media. Megan DeMint is a communications specialist supporting Global Cornell. Global Reach News & Events Media Inquiries Media Contact Jeffrey Martin jkm243@cornell.edu (607) 882-4418 Get Cornell news delivered right to your inbox. Subscribe You might also like Experts: Ukraine war puts world in ‘uncharted territory’ Cornell’s UN climate author warns of ‘rapidly closing window’ Gallery Heading × Previous Next Links About the Chronicle Media Relations Office Copyright Web Accessibility Assistance Contact Cornell Chronicle 312 College Ave Ithaca, NY 14850 607-255-4206 cunews@cornell.edu SUBSCRIBE Daily and weekly newsletters Feeds - RSS & JSON