Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation News Center Main navigation Calendar Categories Business and Economic Development Campus and Community Earth and Environment Health and Medicine Science and Technology Society and Culture Media Contacts Experts Guide Featured expert Find an expert Daily Digest Whistle Whistle Whistle archives Whistle classifieds Social Media Subscribe Features Features Features Archive Open Search Search Search Georgia Tech's 2022 Commencement Speakers Breadcrumb Home Features May 05, 2022 The Georgia Institute of Technology conferred degrees in four separate Commencement ceremonies May 6-7, featuring speeches from Andre Dickens, mayor of Atlanta; Nashlie Sephus, computer engineer and entrepreneur; Raphael Bostic, Atlanta Federal Reserve president; and Google researcher Krishna Bharat. The 2022 Georgia Tech Ph.D. Commencement ceremony featured the traditional hooding of the candidates and a keynote address by Nashlie Sephus, who works as an applied science manager for Amazon's artificial intelligence initiative. Amazon had acquired Partpic, the visual recognition technology startup where she was chief technology officer. In 2018, she founded the Bean Path, an incubator and technology consulting nonprofit in Jackson, Mississippi, that has helped more than 400 local businesses and individuals with their tech needs. What do you remember about your own graduation day? Nashlie Sephus speaks at Georgia Tech's Spring 2022 Ph.D. Commencement Ceremony. Watch Nashlie Sephus speak at Georgia Tech's Spring 2022 Ph.D. Commencement Ceremony Raphael Bostic delivered the keynote address for the master's ceremony on May 6. Bostic is president and chief executive officer of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. He is a participant on the Federal Open Market Committee, the monetary policymaking body of the Federal Reserve System. Which of Georgia Tech’s current strategic focus areas resonate with your own career or experience? Raphael Bostic speaks at Georgia Tech's Spring 2022 Master's Commencement Ceremony. Watch Raphael Bostic speak at Georgia Tech's Spring 2022 Master's Commencement Ceremony. The two bachelor’s ceremonies took place May 7. Google research scientist Krishna Bharat delivered the keynote address at the morning bachelor's ceremony. Bharat received a Ph.D. from Georgia Tech in human computer interaction. He is the creator of Google News, a service that automatically indexes over 25,000 news websites in more than 25 languages to provide a summary of the news resources. What excites you about addressing Georgia Tech students on their graduation day? Krishna Bharat speaks at Georgia Tech's Spring 2022 Morning Bachelor's Commencement Ceremony. Watch Krishna Bharat speak at Georgia Tech's Spring 2022 Morning Bachelor's Commencement Ceremony. The Saturday afternoon bachelor’s ceremony featured an address from Atlanta mayor and Georgia Tech alumnus Andre Dickens. He was elected Atlanta’s 61st mayor in November 2021, making him the first Black alumnus of Georgia Tech to be elected mayor and only the second Tech alumnus to hold the position, following in the footsteps of the late Ivan Allen Jr. A member of Tech’s Alumni Association board of trustees, Dickens holds a bachelor’s degree in chemical engineering from Tech and a Master of Public Administration in economic development from Georgia State University. He also served as the assistant director of Outreach Initiatives for Institute Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion, and led Tech’s African-American Male Initiative. Andre Dickens recalls how he started developing his leadership on Georgia Tech's campus. Mayor Andre Dickens speaks at the Georgia Tech Spring 2022 Afternoon Bachelor's Commencement Ceremony. Watch Andre Dickens speak at Georgia Tech's Spring 2022 Afternoon Bachelor's Commencement Ceremony. View ceremony details, a list of all graduating students, and more about this year's Commencement exercises here. Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites and Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Art Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education