Skip to content The Harvard Gazette Search for: Arts & Humanities Business & Economy Campus & Community Commencement 2022 The Coronavirus Update Events Health & Medicine National & World Affairs News & Announcements Photography The Quest for Racial Justice Science & Technology The Solutions Series News + About Accessibility Athletics News and Scores For Media & Journalists Privacy Policy Trademark The Daily Gazette Sign up for daily emails to get the latest Harvard news. Harvard University National & World Affairs World Taken out of context GenSci Lab scholars urge researchers to take care crafting definitions of sex as language can make its way into law, public policy World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Health & Medicine Health Don’t let latest COVID surge overshadow progress, says Hanage Epidemiologist explains how to stay on guard against subvariants, noting role of protective measures in transition to new pandemic phase Health Researchers find sleep benefit in higher dose of melatonin Supplements show promise in small study of older adults Featured National & World Affairs Health & Medicine Arts & Humanities Science & Technology Business & Economy Campus & Community Experience Commencement 2019 © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College The Harvard Gazette A community health advocate finds her voice Teaching caregivers the language of anti-racism Campus & Community A community health advocate finds her voice Campus & Community A community health advocate finds her voice Brett Dennis-Duke, A.L.M. ’21, was working at a medical center in Seattle when COVID-19 first hit. “Over half of our floor got infected within just a few days,” she recalled. Courtesy of Brett Dennis-Duke The crises of 2020 taught Brett Dennis-Duke ‘It’s not about data. It’s about people.’ By Mary Elizabeth Sharp Emerson Harvard Correspondent DateMay 22, 2021May 24, 2021 Share Email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Also in the Series Many happy returns Triple the joy A call to public service Merrick Garland to speak at Commencement for Classes of 2020 and 2021 Global alumni community gather for first virtual annual meeting View all of Honoring the Class of 2021 This is one in a series of profiles showcasing some of Harvard’s stellar graduates. In February 2020, Brett Dennis-Duke, A.L.M. ’21, was working in a Seattle medical respite center for unhoused individuals with acute health needs. She was finishing up coursework for a master of liberal arts in the field of archaeology and anthropology at Harvard Extension School (HES). And she was finalizing her thesis proposal focused on community health workers and disease prevention in vulnerable populations in the United States. When the COVID-19 pandemic struck Seattle, one of the first American cities to feel the deadly impact of the virus, the medical center, already dedicated to individuals susceptible to communicable disease, felt like ground zero. Dennis-Duke was devastated. “Over half of our floor got infected within just a few days,” Dennis-Duke recalled. “It made and still makes me so angry. It’s the same pattern over and over again.” Just a few months later, while still dealing with the impact of the pandemic, Seattle — and Dennis-Duke — found themselves at the center of anti-racism protests over the murder of George Floyd. After working long hours at the respite center, Dennis-Duke volunteered at the medical tents set up to support the protests in her neighborhood. These two frontline experiences gave Dennis-Duke’s ongoing thesis work both urgency and perspective. She had long believed that access to healthcare and social justice were closely connected, but the crises of 2020 brought new passion to that belief. “I was reading about community health while seeing actual suffering and hearing about people’s lives. I realized that it’s not about data. It’s about people. For me, everything I was doing was totally wrapped up together,” Dennis-Duke said. These experiences empowered her as well. Working on her thesis, titled “Meet Them Where They Are: Achieving Health Equity for People Experiencing Homelessness with Community Health Workers,” gave her the confidence to grow her advocacy role at work. “I found a part of myself that I knew was there, but I didn’t know how to access it. I learned that I can access my voice through advocating. That’s where I really feel in my element. It was a coming-of-age discovery, in a way.” Dennis-Duke’s interest in the connection between global health and social justice began with a goal of becoming a medical provider. In pursuit of that, she completed the premedical program at HES in 2015. When she finished, she realized that she wanted additional theoretical grounding in social justice before becoming a practitioner. The archaeology and anthropology graduate program offered the social justice theory and critical thinking she wanted. It also offered the flexibility to design a course of study she calls “medical anthropology.” Courses such as “Case Studies in Global Health” and “Global Health Challenges” helped Dennis-Duke piece together the philosophical and theoretical connections between social justice and health care, as well as hone her thesis topic. One of her most exciting opportunities at HES was working with her thesis director, Joia Mukherjee, chief medical officer of Partners In Health (PIH), a Harvard affiliate. “It was incredibly meaningful to me that Dr. Mukherjee took me on as a student. It meant that someone I greatly respected saw the same connections that I did. And it enabled me to communicate my passion for people experiencing homelessness to a like-minded organization and potentially champion this cause. It made me feel heard and seen, and hopeful that change might be possible,” she said. With her thesis finished and graduation just around the corner, Dennis-Duke has begun the emotional work of processing and unpacking the traumatic events of the past year. She admits that her destination is still unclear — counseling, advocacy, or returning to school for a Ph.D. or a nursing degree are all potential options. But her experiences have bolstered her belief that she is moving in the right direction. “I am now — more than ever — committed and driven and passionate about folks living homeless. This is the community I beat my drum for.” Editor's Picks Campus Triple the joy Photographers capture the festive rites and poignant moments as three classes celebrate Commencement World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Campus A call to public service Merrick Garland tells grads to get involved, warns democracy in peril, cites Capitol attack, rise in mass shootings, stifling of voting rights Also in the Series Many happy returns Triple the joy A call to public service Merrick Garland to speak at Commencement for Classes of 2020 and 2021 Global alumni community gather for first virtual annual meeting View all of Honoring the Class of 2021 Up Next Campus & Community Teaching caregivers the language of anti-racism The pilot run of the ‘GCP Family Book Club: Exploring Race and Identity’ won kudos from participants. Campus & Community Teaching caregivers the language of anti-racism A program participant shows off her artwork inspired by GCP's family book club program. Photos courtesy of GCP