Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia News Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Featured News Topics Video Books Podcasts All News Media Resources Awards & Milestones Arts & Humanities Politics & Social Justice Research & Discovery Photo of the Week Commencement 2022 Columbia News You are here: Home Experts for the Media Experts for the Media FIND AN EXPERT Journalists can search the list below broken down by general topics and/or more refined focus areas to find an expert. If you need more information about a faculty member for a news piece, please email our Office of Communications and Public Affairs at [email protected]. Zach Parolin Postdoctoral Research Scientist, Center on Poverty and Social Policy Zach Parolin is a post-doctoral research scientist at the Center on Poverty & Social Policy at Columbia University. His research focuses on the measurement and determinants of poverty and social inequality in high-income countries. Read Zach Parolin's full bio here. Walter Baethgen Director of Research, International Research Institute for Climate and Society Baethgen works to improve climate risk assessment and risk management in agriculture, water resources, and natural ecosystems. He also co-leads a Columbia World Project called Adapting Agriculture to Climate Today, For Tomorrow. Read Walter Baethgen's full bio here. Wafaa El-Sadr University Professor, Director of Columbia World Projects, Director of ICAP, and Director of the Global Health Initiative at the Mailman School of Public Health Wafaa El-Sadr, MD, MPH, MPA is a University Professor of Epidemiology and Medicine at Columbia University, the director of ICAP at Columbia University, and director of the Global Health Initiative at the Mailman School of Public Health. Dr. El-Sadr is a prominent researcher and has led numerous epidemiological, clinical, behavioral, and implementation science research studies that have furthered the understanding of the prevention and management of HIV, TB, and non-communicable diseases. Read Wafaa El-Sadr's full bio here. W. Ian Lipkin Professor, Mailman School of Public Health W. Ian Lipkin is the John Snow Professor of Epidemiology, professor of neurology and pathology and cell biology and director of the Center for Infection and Immunity. He is internationally recognized as an authority on the use of molecular methods for pathogen discovery. Dr. Lipkin has over 30 years of experience in diagnostics, microbial discovery and outbreak response. Read W. Ian Lipkin's full bio here. Valerii Kuchynskyi Adjunct Professor, School of International and Public Affairs Valerii Kuchynskyi is a career diplomat from Ukraine and a leading expert on the United Nations. From 2000 to 2006, he held the position of Permanent Representative of Ukraine to the United Nations with a diplomatic rank of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary. Kuchynskyi has been closely associated with the United Nations, as a staff-member of the UN Secretariat, as a member and head of Ukrainian delegations to numerous UN fora, as Director-General of the International Organizations, as Ukraine's representative to the UN Commission on Human Rights. Read Valerii Kuchynskyi's full bio here. Timothy Frye Professor, Department of Political Science Timothy Frye (PhD, Columbia, 1997) is the Marshall D. Shulman Professor of Post-Soviet Foreign Policy. His research and teaching interests are in comparative politics and political economy with a focus on the former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe. His most recent book is Weak Strongman: The Limits of Power in Putin's Russia Read Timothy Frye's full bio here. Thomas Kent Adjunct Associate Professor, School of International and Public Affairs Thomas Kent teaches about the world information war and international journalism at the Harriman Institute. His focus areas are journalism, disinformation, propaganda, Russian affairs and international broadcasting. Read Thomas Kent's full bio here. Steven Cohen Professor, School of International and Public Affairs and Columbia Climate School Steven Cohen, is a professor at the School of International and Public Affairs who serves as a senior advisor for The Earth Institute. A former EPA official, he has long studied how urban communities can make themselves more resilient to disasters and longer-term challenges. Read Steven Cohen's full bio here. Stephen Sestanovich Professor, School of International and Public Affairs Stephen Sestanovich joined the faculty of Columbia's School of International and Public Affairs in the fall of 2001 as the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Professor of International Diplomacy. He is also the director of the International Fellows Program and the author, most recently, of Maximalist: America in the World from Truman to Obama. Read Stephen Sestanovich's full bio here. Stephen Morse Professor, Mailman School of Public Health Stephen Morse is a professor of epidemiology at the Columbia University Irving Medical Center and the director of the Infectious Disease Epidemiology Certificate Program. Dr. Morse's interests focus on epidemiology and risk assessment of infectious diseases (particularly emerging infections, including influenza), and improving disease early warning systems. He is also affiliated with the Mailman School of Public Health. Read Stephen Morse's full bio here. Stephen Ferrara Associate Dean, School of Nursing Stephen Ferrara, associate dean of clinical affairs at the School of Nursing, oversees the ColumbiaDoctors Primary Care Nurse Practitioner Group. His focus areas are Obamacare, the Affordable Care Act, vaccine acceptance among anti-vaxers and nurse practitioners in health care. Read more about Stephen Ferrara here. Stephen Biddle Professor, School of International and Public Affairs Stephen Biddle is Professor of International and Public Affairs at Columbia University, a member of the Arnold A. Saltzman Institute of War and Peace Studies, and Adjunct Senior Fellow for Defense Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations. Biddle lectures regularly at the U.S. Army War College and other military schools, and has presented testimony before congressional committees on issues relating to the wars in Iraq, Afghanistan, and Syria; force planning; conventional net assessment; and European arms control. Read Stephen Biddle's full bio here. Sonya Douglass Horsford Associate Professor, Teachers College Sonya Douglass Horsford is Associate Professor of Education Leadership in the Department of Organization & Leadership; Founding Director of the Black Education Research Collective (BERC); and Co-Director of the Urban Education Leaders Program (UELP), at Teachers College, Columbia University. Horsford examines the problem of racial inequality in K-12 schools and how race is conceptualized and understood by leaders for equity and social justice in the U.S. Read Sonya Douglass Horsford's full bio here. Simon Mason Climate Scientist, International Research Institute for Climate and Society Simon Mason is a climate scientist at the International Research Institute for Climate and Society and The Earth Institute whose research focus is seasonal climate forecasting. He works closely with the World Meteorological Organization to promote the definition and adoption of forecasting and verification standards. Read Simon Mason's full bio here. Sharyn O'Halloran Professor, School of International and Public Affairs Sharyn O'Halloran is the George Blumenthal Professor of Political Economy and Professor of International and Public Affairs. A political scientist and economist by training, O’Halloran has written extensively on issues related to the political economy of international trade and finance, regulation and institutional reform, economic growth and democratic transitions, and the political representation of minorities. Read Sharyn O'Halloran's full bio here. Shang-Jin Wei Professor, School of International and Public Affairs and Columbia Business School Dr. Shang-Jin Wei is N.T. Wang Professor of Chinese Business and Economy and Professor of Finance and Economics at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs and Graduate School of Business, and he is affiliated with the Weatherhead East Asian Institute. Dr. Wei is a noted scholar on international finance, trade, macroeconomics, and China. Read Shang-Jin Wei's full bio here. Seth Cluett Lecturer in Music, Assistant Director, Computer Music Center & Sound Art Program Seth Cluett is the Assistant Director of the Computer Music Center and Sound Art Program at Columbia, and Artist-in-Residence with Experiments in Art and Technology at Nokia Bell Labs, where he maintains a studio and is active in research on virtual and augmented reality acoustics and multi-sensory communication. Read Seth Cluett's full bio here. Sebastian Will Assistant Professor, Department of Physics Sebastian Will creates quantum systems from ultracold atoms and molecules in order to perform quantum simulations of strongly interacting matter, and work towards single atom and single molecule control. His research focuses on fundamental questions in many-body quantum physics, quantum simulation, and quantum optics, and contributes to the development of modern quantum technologies. Visit Sebastian Will's website here. Sarah Haley Associate Professor, Department of History Sarah Haley, associate professor, has research interests in the history of gender and women, carceral history, Black feminist history and theory, prison abolition, and feminist archival methods. Read Sarah Haley's full bio here. Sara Abiola Assistant Professor, Mailman School of Public Health Sara Abiola is an assistant professor of health policy and management. Her research focuses on the relationship between public policy and population health with an emphasis on food law and noncommunicable diseases, overweight, and obesity among children, adolescents, and young adults. Read Sara Abiola's full bio here. Samuel K. Roberts Associate Professor, Department of History and the Mailman School of Public Health Dr. Samuel Kelton Roberts, Jr. is an associate professor of history (department of history) and sociomedical sciences (Mailman School of Public Health). Dr. Roberts writes, teaches, and lectures widely on African-American urban history, especially medicine, public health, and science and technology. Read Samuel K. Robert's full bio here. Ruth DeFries Co-Founding Dean, Columbia Climate School and University Professor Ruth DeFries is a University Professor and a professor of ecology and sustainable development. She uses images from satellites and field surveys to examine how the world’s demands for food and other resources are changing land use throughout the tropics. Her research quantifies how these land use changes affect climate, biodiversity and other ecosystem services, as well as human development. Read Ruth DeFries's full bio here. Robin Bell Professor, Columbia Climate School Robin Bell is a professor of marine geology and geophysics at the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory. As the Palisades Geophysical Institute Lamont Research Professor, Bell directs research programs in Antarctica and Greenland, and focuses on developing new technologies to monitor our rapidly changing planet. Bell is affiliated with The Earth Institute. Read Robin Bell's full bio here. Robert Y. Shapiro Professor, Department of Political Science and School of International and Public Affairs Robert Y. Shapiro is a professor and former chair of the department of political science at Columbia University. He specializes in American politics with research and teaching interests in public opinion, policymaking, political leadership, the mass media, and applications of statistical methods. Read Robert Y. Shapiro's full bio here. Robert Paul Hartley Assistant Professor, School of Social Work and Research Scientist, Center on Poverty and Social Policy Rob Hartley is an assistant professor of social work and is a research scientist at the Center on Poverty and Social Policy. He is an applied micro-economist working in the fields of labor and public economics. His research addresses the role of social policy on the persistence of poverty and dependence, particularly through childhood exposure or labor market outcomes. Read Robert Paul Hartley's full bio here. Rishi Goyal Assistant Professor, Emergency Medicine at the Columbia University Irving Medical Center Dr. Rishi Goyal is an Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine (in Medical Humanities and Ethics and in the Institute for Comparative Literature and Society). He is board-certified in emergency medicine. Goyal is also a co-project lead on Columbia World Project's "Increasing COVID-19 Vaccine Confidence," a project that aims to reduce vaccine hesitancy. Read Rishi Goyal's full bio here. Richard R. John Professor, Columbia Journalism School Richard R. John is a historian who specializes in the history of business, technology, communications, and American political development. He teaches and advises graduate students in Columbia’s Ph.D. program in communications, and is member of the core faculty of the Columbia history department, where he teaches courses on the history of capitalism and the history of communications. Read Richard R. John's full bio here. Richard Nephew Senior Research Scholar, Center on Global Energy Policy Richard Nephew is the author of The Art of Sanctions and an expert on the use of sanctions for deterrence and impact. Nephew most recently served as the deputy special envoy for Iran in the Biden-Harris administration. Read Richard Nephew's full bio here. Richard Briffault Professor, Columbia Law School Richard Briffault is the Joseph P. Chamberlain Professor of Legislation at Columbia Law School. Since joining the Columbia Law School faculty in 1983, Richard Briffault has combined public and government service with teaching, research, and scholarship. He is the Law School’s authority on state and local government; the news media often turns to him for his expert insight into and analysis of issues central to democracy and the political process such as campaign finance reform, government ethics, gerrymandering, and fair elections. Read Richard Briffault's full bio here. Rafael Yuste Professor, Department of Biological Sciences Rafael Yuste works on deciphering the function of the cerebral cortex, the largest part of the brain in mammals. The cortex is responsible for all higher cognitive functions and is affected in most neurological and mental diseases. Yuste’s lab has pioneered many optical methods to study the function of the cortex in animals that are now widely used in neuroscience, such as calcium imaging and two-photon microscopy. Read Rafael Yuste's full bio here. Radley Horton Research Professor, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Radley Horton is a Lamont Research Professor at Columbia University’s Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory. His research focuses on climate extremes, tail risks, climate impacts, and adaptation. Read Radley Horton's full bio here. Rachel Adams Professor, Department of English and Comparative Literature Professor Adams specializes in 20th- and 21st-century literatures of the United States and the Americas, disability studies and health humanities, media studies, theories of race, gender, and sexuality, and food studies. Read Rachel Adams's full bio here. Qin Gao Professor, School of Social Work Qin Gao is a Professor of Social Policy and Social Work, the founding director of Columbia University’s China Center for Social Policy, and an affiliated of Weatherhead East Asian Institute. Dr. Gao’s research examines the changing nature of the Chinese welfare system and its impact on poverty and inequality; effectiveness of Dibao, China’s primary social assistance program; social protection for rural-to-urban migrants in China and Asian American immigrants; and cross-national comparative social policies and programs. Read Courtney Cogburn's full bio here. Premilla Nadasen Professor, Barnard University, Department of History Premilla Nadasen is a professor of history at Barnard University and is affiliated with the American Studies and Women's, Gender and Sexuality Studies programs. She teaches, researches, and writes about race, gender, social policy, and organizing. Read Premilla Nadasen's full bio here. Pierre Noël Global Research Scholar, Center on Global Energy Policy Pierre Noël's research interests sit at the intersections between international energy markets and public policy choices. He has worked on energy security policy in Europe, with special reference to Russia-dependent central and eastern European countries. He specialized in changing natural gas market structures and how they impacted policy choices. Read Pierre Noël's full bio here. Peter Clement Senior Research Scholar/Adjunct Professor, School of International and Public Affairs Peter Clement is a senior research scholar/adjunct professor at the Saltzman Institute of War and Peace Studies in the School of International and Public Affairs (SIPA). He teaches courses on Contemporary Russian Security Policy and Intelligence and US Foreign Policy. Clement comes to SIPA from CIA, where he served as Deputy Assistant Director of CIA for Europe and Eurasia since 2015. Read Peter Clement's full bio here. Nobuhisa Ishizuka Lecturer in Law, Columbia Law School and Executive Director, Center for Japanese Legal Studies Nobuhisa Ishizuka is the executive director of the Center for Japanese Legal Studies at Columbia Law School, which has been an intellectual hub between the U.S. and Japan for over 30 years. He oversees the Center's programming and strategy, and promotes scholarly exchanges between faculty and practitioners in the field. Read Nobuhisa Ishizuka's full bio here. Nabila El-Bassel University Professor and Professor, School of Social Work Nabila El-Bassel is a University Professor and the Willma and Albert Musher Professor of Social Work. She is director of the Social Intervention Group, which was established in 1990 as a multi-disciplinary center focused on developing and testing prevention and intervention approaches for HIV, drug use, and gender–based violence, and disseminating them to local, national, and global communities. Read Nabila El-Bassel's full bio here. Michelle Georgia Knight-Manuel Professor, Teachers College Michelle Georgia Knight-Manuel is Professor of Education and Executive Editor of the Teachers College Record at Teachers College, Columbia University. Her work focuses on equity in the areas of urban education, culturally relevant teacher education, and qualitative research methodologies. Her interests bridge the intersections of formal/informal education in youth studies (college readiness and access, immigrant education, and civic engagement), feminist theories (black, multicultural and critical race feminisms), and culturally-grounded research methodologies involving youth and community collaborations. Read Michelle Georgia Knight-Manuel's full bio here. Michael Witgen Professor, Department of History Michael Witgen is a professor in the department of history and is affiliated with the Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity. He specializes in Indigenous and Early North American history, comparative borderlands, and the history of the early American Republic. Witgen is a citizen of the Red Cliff Band of Lake Superior Ojibwe. Read Michael Witgen's full bio here. Michael Rebell Professor, Teachers College Michael Rebell is Professor of Law and Educational Practice and Executive Director, Center for Educational Equity (CEE), at Teachers College, Columbia University. Rebell is an educational law scholar specializing in equity in education, the role of courts in institutional reform litigations, civic education, and comprehensive educational opportunity for underserved students. Read Michael Rebell's full bio here. Michael Nutter Professor, School of International and Public Affairs Michael Nutter is the David N. Dinkins Professor of Professional Practice in Urban and Public Affairs. Professor Nutter focuses on cities, ethical and transparent government, politics, development of effective national urban policy. He was the 98th Mayor of Philadelphia serving from 2008-2016. Read Michael Nutter's full bio here. Michael Graetz Professor, Columbia Law School Michael Graetz is the Columbia Alumni Professor of Tax Law. A leading expert on national and international tax law, Michael J. Graetz joined the faculty in 2009, after 25 years at Yale Law School, where he is a professor of law emeritus and a professorial lecturer. He has written on a wide range of tax, international taxation, health policy, and social insurance issues. Read Michael Graetz's full bio here. Michael Gerrard Professor, Columbia Law School and Founder and Director, Sabin Center for Climate Change Law Michael Gerrard is the Andrew Sabin Professor of Professional Practice at Columbia Law School. The founder and faculty director of the groundbreaking Sabin Center for Climate Change Law and one of the foremost environmental lawyers in the nation, he is an advocate, litigator, teacher, and scholar who has pioneered cutting-edge legal tools and strategies for addressing climate change. He writes and teaches courses on environmental law, climate change law, and energy regulation. He was the chair of the faculty of Columbia University’s renowned Earth Institute from 2015 to 2018. Read Michael Gerrard's full bio here. Merlin Chowkwanyun Assistant Professor, Mailman School of Public Health Merlin Chowkwanyun is the Donald H. Gemson Assistant Professor in the Department of Sociomedical Sciences in Columbia's Mailman School of Public Health. His work centers on the history of community health; environmental health regulation; racial inequality; and social movement/activism around health. Read Merlin Chowkwanyun's full bio here. Melissa Stockwell Associate Professor, Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Melissa Stockwell is an associate professor of Pediatrics and Population and Family Health. Dr. Stockwell is Chief of the Division of Child and Adolescent Health and an Associate Professor of Pediatrics (Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons) and Population and Family Health (Mailman School of Public Health). Her research, which concentrates on underserved children and adolescents, focuses on translational interventions to improve vaccinations with an emphasis on health technology and health literacy. Read Melissa Stockwell's full bio here. Maureen Raymo Co-Founding Dean of the Columbia University Climate School Maureen Raymo is the co-founding dean of the Columbia University Climate School and the director of Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory. A geologist who studies climate, her wide-ranging research has centered on climates of the past, and particularly how sea level has changed dramatically, and what this may presage for the future. She appears frequently in the media. Read Maureen Raymo's full bio here. Mariusz Kozak Professor, Department of Music Professor Kozak's research centers on the relationship between music, cognition, and the body. Read Mariusz Kozak's full bio here. Maria Victoria Murillo Professor, Department of Political Science and School of International and Public Affairs and Maria Victoria Murillo holds a joint appointment with the department of political science and the School of International and Public Affairs and is currently the director of the Institute for Latin American Studies. Murillo's research on distributive politics in Latin America has covered labor politics and labor regulations, public utility reform, education reform, agricultural policies and economic policy. Read Maria Victoria Murillo's full bio here. Mae Ngai Professor, Department of History Mae M. Ngai, Lung Family Professor of Asian American Studies and Professor of History, is a U.S. legal and political historian interested in questions of immigration, citizenship, and nationalism. Read Mae Ngai's full bio here. Mabel O. Wilson Professor, Graduate School of Architecture, Planning, and Preservation (GSAPP) and the African American and African Diaspora Studies department Mabel O. Wilson (’91 M.Arch) is the Nancy and George Rupp Professor of Architecture, Planning, and Preservation , a Professor in African American and African Diasporic Studies, and the Director of the Institute for Research in African American Studies (IRAAS) at Columbia University. At GSAPP she co-directs the Global Africa Lab. She is trained in Architecture and American Studies, two fields that inform her scholarship, curatorial projects, art works and design projects. Read Mabel O. Wilson's full bio here. Lincoln Mitchell Adjunct Research Scholar, School of International and Public Affairs Lincoln Mitchell is an adjunct research scholar in the Arnold A. Saltzman Institute of War and Peace Studies and an adjunct associate professor of political science. He is also a political analyst, pundit and writer based in New York City and San Francisco. Lincoln works on democracy and governance related issues in the former Soviet Union, Eastern Europe, the Caribbean, the Middle East, Africa and Asia and writes and speaks on U.S. politics as well. Read Lincoln Mitchell's full bio here. Kyle Pope Editor in Chief, Columbia Journalism Review Kyle Pope is the editor in chief and publisher of the Columbia Journalism Review (CJR). He previously has worked as an editor at Condé Nast, The Wall Street Journal, and the New York Observer, and in 2017 testified before Congress about threats to the press. Read a selection of Kyle Pope's articles in CJR here. Kimberly Marten Professor, Department of Political Science at Barnard Kimberly Marten is a Professor of Political Science at Barnard College, and a faculty member of Columbia's Harriman Institute for Russian and East-Central European Studies, and Saltzman Institute of War and Peace Studies. She specializes in international relations and international security, with a keen interest in Russia. Read Kimberly Marten's full bio here. Khatchig Mouradian Lecturer, Department of Middle Eastern, South Asian, and African Studies Khatchig Mouradian teaches courses on Urban Space and Conflict in the Middle East; War, Genocide, and Aftermath; Apologies and Non-Apologies; Literature of the Great War in the Middle East; and A Social History of Concentration Camps. Read Khatchig Mouradian's full bio here. Kevin Fellezs Professor, Department of Music and the Department of African American and African Diaspora Studies Professor Fellezs focuses on ethnomusicology, and also has a joint appointment in the Department of African American and African Diaspora Studies. Read Kevin Fellezs's full bio here. Kenneth Prewitt Professor, Department of Political Science and School of International and Public Affairs Kenneth Prewitt is the Carnegie Professor of Public Affairs. Prewitt's professional career also includes: director of the United States Census Bureau, director of the National Opinion Research Center, president of the Social Science Research Council, and senior vice president of the Rockefeller Foundation. Read Kenneth Prewitt's full bio here. Kellie Bryant Assistant Professor, School of Nursing Kellie Bryant is an assistant professor of nursing and executive director of the Simulation Center at the School of Nursing. Her focus areas are global pandemic response, nursing on the frontlines, nursing training and redeployment for treating COVID patients, diversity in nursing and naloxone training. Read more about Kellie Bryant here. Kathleen Sikkema Professor, Mailman School of Public Health Kathleen J. Sikkema, Ph.D., is the Stephen Smith Professor and Chair of the Department of Sociomedical Sciences at Columbia's Mailman School of Public Health. She conducts community based intervention research focused on HIV prevention and mental health treatment in the U.S. and in low and middle income countries. She is a clinical psychologist who specializes in health and community psychology. Read Kathleen Sikkema's full bio here. Katherine Franke Professor, Columbia Law School Katherine M. Franke is the James L. Dohr Professor of Law at Columbia Law School, where she also directs the Center for Gender and Sexuality Law and is the faculty director of the Law, Rights, and Religion Project. She is a member of the Executive Committee for the Institute for Research on Women, Gender and Sexuality, and the Center for Palestine Studies. Read Katherine Franke's full bio here. Kate Orff Professor, Graduate School of Architecture, Planning, and Preservation Kate Orff is a professor and director of the Urban Design Program. As a professor at Columbia and as a practicing professional, she has advanced concepts of sustainable planning and urban design at multiple scales. Read Kate Orff's full bio here. Judith Scott-Clayton Associate Professor, Teachers College Judith Scott-Clayton is Associate Professor of Economics and Education; Senior Research Scholar, Community College Research Center (CCRC); and Research Associate, National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER), at Teachers College, Columbia University. She examines the intersection of labor economics and higher education, with a focus on financial aid, community colleges, and student loans. Read Judith Scott-Clayton's full bio here. Jonathan Elkind Senior Research Scholar, Center on Global Energy Policy Jonathan Elkind came to the Center after a long and distinguished career devoted to energy and environment policy in the private and public sectors. Early in his career, Elkind focused on energy, environment, and economic issues in the post-Soviet nations in a variety of posts with the Joint Global Change Research Institute, the U.S. National Security Council, Office of the Vice President of the United States, the Department of Energy, and the Council on Environmental Quality. Read Jonathan Elkind's full bio here. John Furlow Deputy Director, International Research Institute for Climate and Society John Furlow is deputy director at the International Research Institute for Climate and Society. He previously led the Climate Change Adaptation Program in USAID’s climate change office. He now helps researchers apply their research and expertise to decision making in public health, agriculture, infrastructure planning, and other vital sectors. Read John Furlow's full bio here. Jennifer Lee Professor, Department of Sociology Jennifer Lee is a professor of sociology who has published award-winning books and articles about immigration, the new second generation, education and race relations. Strongly committed to public engagement, Jennifer Lee has written opinion pieces for The New York Times, San Francisco Chronicle, The Seattle Times, CNN, The Guardian,TIME, Los Angeles Magazine, The Conversation, and Zocalo Public Square, and has done interviews for NPR, CBS2 News, Fusion TV, and Tavis Smiley. Read Jennifer Lee's full bio here. Jeffrey Shaman Professor, Mailman School of Public Health Jeffrey Shaman is a professor of Environmental Health Sciences (in the International Research Institute for Climate and Society/Earth Institute) and the director of the Climate and Health Program. Professor Shaman focuses on climate, atmospheric science and hydrology, as well as biology, and studies the environmental determinants of infectious disease transmission and infectious disease forecast. Read Jeffrey Shaman's full bio here. Jeffrey Schlegelmilch Director, National Center for Disaster Preparedness at Columbia Climate School Jeffrey Schlegelmilch is the director for the National Center for Disaster Preparedness at Columbia Climate School. He oversees the operations and strategic planning for the center and projects related to the practice and policy of disaster preparedness. His areas of expertise includes public health preparedness, community resilience, and the integration of private and public sector capabilities. Read Jeffrey Schlegelmilch's full bio. Jeffrey Lax Professor, Department of Political Science Jeffrey Lax is a professor of political science and the department's deputy chair. He studies American politics, focusing on judicial politics, with projects on bargaining in the Supreme Court, legal doctrine on collegial courts, compliance in the judicial hierarchy, the influence of law on Supreme Court decision-making, and the impact of court decisions. Read Jeffrey Lax's full bio here. Jeffrey Henig Professor, Teachers College Jeffrey Henig is Professor of Political Science and Education, and Director of the Politics & Education Program, in the Department of Education Policy and Social Analysis at Teachers College, Columbia University. His expertise and interests include: privatization and school choice; race and urban politics; the politics of urban education reform; the politics of education research; local school boards; and philanthropic contributions to educational institutions and programs. Read Jeffrey Henig's full bio here. Jason Smerdon Professor, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory and Columbia Climate School Professor Jason E. Smerdon is a Lamont Research Professor at the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory of Columbia University. He also holds appointments at Columbia University as an Earth Institute Faculty Member and as Co-Director of the Undergraduate Program in Sustainable Development. He teaches courses on climate, environmental change and sustainable development to undergraduate and graduate students. Read Jason Smerdon's full bio here. Jason Bordoff Co-Founding Dean, Columbia Climate School and Founding Director, Center on Global Energy Policy Jason Bordoff is a professor of professional practice in international and public affairs. Bordoff's research and policy interests lie at the intersection of economics, energy, environment, and national security. He is a frequent commentator on TV and radio, including NPR, Bloomberg, CNBC and BBC, has appeared on the Colbert Report, and has published in the New York Times, Wall Street Journal, Financial Times and other leading news outlets. Read Jason Bordoff's full bio here. Jameel Jaffer Executive Director, Knight First Amendment Institute at Columbia University Jameel Jaffer is the Executive Director of the Knight First Amendment Institute at Columbia University. Under his leadership, the Institute has filed precedent-setting litigation, undertaken major interdisciplinary research initiatives, and become an influential voice in debates about the freedoms of speech and the press in the digital age. Read Jameel Jaffer's full bio here. Ioana Literat Assistant Professor, Teachers College Ioana Literat is Assistant Professor of Communication, Media, and Learning Technologies Design at Teachers College, Columbia University, and has expertise in media literacy, social media, youth online political expression and civic education. Studying the intersection of civic and creative practices in online spaces, she is particularly interested in how social media and online communities facilitate (or sometimes constrain) young people’s political voice, activism and civic participation. Read Ioana Literat's full bio here. Gregory Wawro Professor and Chair, Department of Political Science Gregory J. Wawro is a professor of political science and department of political science chair. Wawro specializes in American politics (including Congress, elections, campaign finance, judicial politics, and political economy) and political methodology. Read Gregory Wawro's full bio here. Gillian Metzger Professor, Columbia Law School Gillian Metzger is the Harlan Fiske Stone Professor of Constitutional Law. Metzger’s recent work covers topics ranging from constitutional attacks on the administrative state to administrative constitutionalism and the role of administrative agencies in a polarized world. Read Gillian Metzger's full bio here. Gerald Leon Curtis Professor Emeritus, Department of Political Science and Special Research Scholar, Weatherhead East Asian Institute Gerald L. Curtis is Burgess Professor Emeritus of Political Science at Columbia University, former Director of Weatherhead East Asian Institute, and Distinguished Research Fellow at the Tokyo Foundation. Read Gerald L. Curtis's full bio here. Fredrick C. Harris Dean, Social Sciences and Professor, Department of Political Science Fredrick C. Harris is Dean of Social Science and Professor of Political Science. He also serves as Director of the Center on African American Politics and Society. Professor Harris’s research interests are primarily in American politics with a focus on race and politics, political participation, social movements, religion and politics, political development, and African American politics. Read Fredrick C. Harris's full bio here. Ester Fuchs Professor, Department of Political Science and School of International and Public Affairs Ester R. Fuchs is a Professor of International and Public Affairs and Political Science and is the Director of the Urban and Social Policy Program at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs. Professor Fuchs is an expert in urban politics and policy; American politics; and American parties and elections. She consults for governments, NGOs and businesses. She is a frequent political commentator in print, broadcast and new media and lectures internationally. Read Ester Fuchs's full bio here. Elora Mukherjee Professor, Columbia Law School Elora Mukherjee is the Jerome L. Greene Clinical Professor of Law. A globally recognized advocate, practitioner, and voice for immigrants, asylum seekers, and unaccompanied migrant children, she is also the director of the Immigrants’ Rights Clinic at Columbia Law School. Read Elora Mukherjee's full bio here. Ellen Meier Professor, Teachers College Ellen Meier is Professor of Computing and Educational Practice in the Communication, Media, & Learning Technologies Design Program; Director of the Center for Technology and School Change (CTSC); and Coordinator of the Educational Technology Specialist Program at Teachers College, Columbia University. She works with education leaders and schools on creating effective learning environments using technology, and researches the pedagogical shifts needed to create innovative learning environments in which technology can help transform instruction. Read Ellen Meier's full bio here. Elizabeth Blackmar Professor, Department of History Elizabeth Blackmar, Mary and David Boies Professor of American History, specializes in social history of American property relations and the built environment. Read Elizabeth Blackmar's full bio here. Elise Giuliano Lecturer, Department of Political Science and School of International and Public Affairs Elise Giuliano is a lecturer in the political science department and director of graduate studies of the MA program at The Harriman Institute. Her research focuses on the politics of ethnic identity, especially the question of how ethnicity impacts popular attitudes and political mobilization. Her award-winning book, Constructing Grievance: Ethnic Nationalism in Russia’s Republics (Cornell University Press, 2011), examines minority support for nationalist separatism in Russia’s ethnic republics. Read Elise Giuliano's full bio here. Edward Morrison Professor, Columbia Law School Edward R. Morrison is the Charles Evans Gerber Professor of Law. Morrison’s scholarship has addressed corporate reorganization, consumer bankruptcy, the regulation of systemic market risk, and foreclosure and mortgage modification. His recent work studies patterns in inter-creditor agreements, valuation disputes in corporate bankruptcies, racial disparities in Chapter 13 bankruptcy filings, and the relationship between financial distress and mortality rates. Read Edward Morrison's full bio here. Eddie Fishman Adjunct Professor, School of International and Public Affairs, and Fellow, Center on Global Energy Policy Edward Fishman’s career spans business, public policy, and technology. He is currently a Director at Via, a Nonresident Senior Fellow at the Atlantic Council, and an Adjunct Fellow at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS). His research focuses on sanctions and the evolving ways states use economic power to advance their foreign policy interests. Fishman was the Russia and Europe Lead in the State Department’s Office of Economic Sanctions Policy and Implementation, where he played a central role in designing and negotiating international sanctions in response to Russia’s aggression in Ukraine. Read Eddie Fishman's full bio here. Donald Green Professor, Department of Political Science Donald Green is the Burgess Professor of Political Science. Professor Green's research interests span a wide array of topics: voting behavior, partisanship, campaign finance, hate crime, and research methods. Much of his current work uses field experimentation to study the ways in which political campaigns mobilize and persuade voters. Green is advising Connect the Vote, an organization that aims to leverage preexisting social networks to promote voter registration and turnout. Read Donald Green's full bio here. Dmitri Basov Professor, Department of Physics Dimitri Basov works on nano-optics, developing new methods for applying strong radiation fields to materials and measuring their effects—all on the smallest length scales. His current research focus is on van der Waals materials like graphene and transition metal dicalcogenide, two-dimensional compounds as thin as a single layer of atoms that exhibit remarkable electronic properties. These materials could provide new means to convert waste heat into usable energy, build accurate sensors, transmit power over long distances, and serve as a basis for new kinds of quantum and classical computers. Visit Dmitri Basov's website here. Detra Price-Dennis Associate Professor, Teachers College Detra Price-Dennis is associate professor of education in the Communication, Media, & Learning Technologies Design Program, and Co-Director of the Reimagining Education Online Advanced Certificate Program, at Teachers College, Columbia University. She specializes in the sociopolitical and sociocultural aspects of literacy learning in early and middle childhood education, digital literacies, literacy teacher education, and critical perspectives on children’s and young adult literature. Read Detra Price-Dennis's full bio here. Desmond Patton Associate Professor, School of Social Work Associate Professor Desmond Upton Patton’s research uses qualitative and computational data collection methods to examine the relationship between youth and gang violence and social media; how and why violence, grief, and identity are expressed on social media; and the real-world impact these expressions have on well-being for low-income youth of color. Read Desmond Patton's full bio here. Dennis Tenen Associate Professor, Department of English and Comparative Literature Dennis Tenen's research happens at the intersection of people, texts, and technology. He is the co-project lead for Columbia World Project's "Increasing COVID-19 Vaccine Confidence," a project that aims to reduce vaccine hesitancy. Read Dennis Tenen's full bio here. David Stark Professor, Department of Sociology David Stark is Arthur Lehman Professor of Sociology at Columbia University where he directs the Center on Organizational Innovation. He is also Professor of Social Science at the University of Warwick. His is also Stark uses a variety of methods to study problems of valuation, innovation, and observation. Read David Stark's full bio here. David Kipping Assistant Professor, Department of Astronomy David Kipping studies moons and planets beyond our solar system, and leads the Cool Worlds Lab at Columbia. His research interests include the study and characterization of transiting exoplanets, the development of novel detection and characterization techniques, exoplanet atmospheres, Bayesian inference, population statistics, and understanding stellar hosts Read David Kipping's full bio here. David Ho Professor, Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons David Ho, the Clyde ’56 and Helen Wu Professor of Medicine at Columbia University Irving Medical Center, was at the forefront of AIDS research. He is currently leading a team that is doing research on a vaccine to fight COVID-19. Read David Ho's full bio here. David E. Weinstein Professor, Department of Economics and Columbia Business School David E. Weinstein is the Carl S. Shoup Professor of the Japanese Economy at Columbia University. He is also the director of the Center on Japanese Economy and Business. His teaching and research interests include international economics, corporate finance, and the Japanese economy. Read David W. Weinstein's full bio here. Craig Spencer Assistant Professor, Columbia University Irving Medical Center Craig Spencer is an assistant professor of Emergency Medicine and Population and Family Health at the Columbia University Irving Medical Center. Dr. Spencer is also the Director of Global Health in Emergency Medicine. Read Craig Spencer's full bio here. Courtney Cogburn Associate Professor, School of Social Work Associate Professor Courtney D. Cogburn employs a trans-disciplinary approach to examining the role of racism in the production of racial inequalities in health. She has focused on examining the effects of cultural racism in the media on acute physiological, psychological, and behavioral stress responses as well as associations between chronic psychosocial stress exposure and Black/White disparities in cardiovascular health and disease. Read Courtney Cogburn's full bio here. Cory Dean Professor, Department of Physics Cory Dean works with a unique class of two-dimensional materials called van der Waals heterostructure materials—very thin materials made of single atomic layers stacked and held together by weak forces. His techniques have sparked a completely new field of study known as “twistronics.” His work has enabled the exploration of new areas in quantum physics, including superconductivity, topology, and magnetism. Visit Cory Dean's website here. Christopher Brown Professor, Department of History Christopher Brown is a historian of Britain and the British empire, principally in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, with special emphasis on the comparative history of slavery and abolition, and with secondary interests in the Atlantic Slave Trade and the Age of Revolutions. Read Christopher Brown's full bio here. Chris Washburne Chair and Professor, Department of Music Professor Washburne is the founder of Columbia’s Louis Armstrong Jazz Performance Program. He has published numerous articles on jazz, Latin jazz, and salsa. Read Chris Washburne's full bio here. Charles Branas Professor and Chair, Department of Epidemiology, Mailman School of Public Health Dr. Branas has conducted research that extends from urban and rural areas in the U.S. to communities across the globe, incorporating place-based interventions and human geography. Read Charles Branas's full bio here. Carol Gluck Professor, Department of History Carol Gluck, George Sansom Professor of History, specializes in modern Japan, from the late 19th century to the present; international relations; World War II; history-writing; and public memory in Asia and the West. Read Carol Gluck's full bio here. Bruce Western Professor, Department of Sociology Bruce Western is the Bryce Professor of Sociology and Social Justice and director of the Justice Lab at Columbia University. His research has examined the causes, scope, and consequences of the historic growth in U.S. prison populations. Read Bruce Western's full bio here. Brad Garton Professor, Department of Music and Director, Computer Music Center Professor Garton's research focuses on the modeling and enhancement of acoustic spaces, as well as the modeling of human musical performance on various virtual "instruments". He is also the primary developer (with Dave Topper) of RTcmix, a real-time music synthesis/signal-processing language. Read Brad Garton's full bio here. Bernard E. Harcourt Professor, Columbia Law School and Department of Political Science Bernard E. Harcourt is the Isidore and Seville Sulzbacher Professor of Law and Professor of Political Science at Columbia Law School. He is a distinguished contemporary critical theorist, justice advocate, and prolific writer and editor. In his books, articles, and teaching, his scholarship focuses on social and critical theory with a particular interest in punishment and surveillance. Read Bernard E. Harcourt's full bio here. Benjamin L. Liebman Professor, Columbia Law School Benjamin L. Liebman leads Columbia Law School’s Hong Yen Chang Center for Chinese Legal Studies, the first institution of its kind at a U.S. law school. Widely known as a preeminent scholar of contemporary Chinese law, Liebman studies Chinese court judgments, the roles of artificial intelligence and big data in the Chinese legal system, Chinese tort law, Chinese criminal procedure, and the evolution of China’s courts. Read Benjamin L. Liebman's full bio here. Anya Schiffrin Director, Technology, Media, and Communications at the School of International and Public Affairs Anya Schiffrin is the director of the Technology, Media, and Communications at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs. She focuses on media, development, innovation, media in Africa and the extractive sector. Read Anya Schiffrin's full bio here. Anne-Sophie Corbeau Global Research Scholar, Center on Global Energy Policy and School of International and Public Affairs Anne-Sophie Corbeau's research focuses on hydrogen and natural gas. Anne-Sophie has over 20 years of experience in the energy industry and is a recognized expert on natural gas Read Anne-Sophie Corbeau's full bio here. Andrew Nathan Professor, Department of Political Science Andrew J. Nathan is Class of 1919 Professor of Political Science, and he is affiliated with the Weatherhead East Asian Institute. His teaching and research interests include Chinese politics and foreign policy, the comparative study of political participation and political culture, and human rights. Read Andrew J. Nathan's full bio here. Andrew Gelman Professor, Statistics and Political Science and Director, Applied Statistics Center Andrew Gelman is Higgins Professor of Statistics, Professor of Political Science and director of the Applied Statistics Center at Columbia University. Recently, he has teamed with The Economist to create a model to predict the presidential election. Read Andrew Gelman's full bio here. Ana Cepin Assistant Professor, Obstetrics and Gynecology at CUIMC Ana Cepin, MD, is the Director of Community Women's Health for the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology and an Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology at CUMC. Dr. Cepin is a board certified obstetrician-gynecologist who joined the Columbia faculty in 2003. Dr. Cepin can conduct interviews in Spanish. Read Ana Cepin's full bio here. Amra Sabic-El-Rayess Associate Professor, Teachers College Amra Sabic-El-Rayess is Associate Professor of Practice in the Department of Education Policy and Social Analysis, and Project Director at the Center for Benefit-Cost Studies in Education, at Teachers College, Columbia University. She is an affiliated faculty member at the Harriman Institute for Russian, Eurasian and Eastern European Studies. Sabic-El-Rayess is an interdisciplinary scholar who leverages the fields of economics, sociology, and political science to address questions of radicalization, discrimination, Islamophobia, social mobility, corruption, social transformations, and exclusion of women. Read Amra Sabic-El-Rayess's full bio here. Alexander A. Cooley Professor, Department of Political Science at Barnard and Director of the Harriman Institute Alexander Cooley is the Claire Tow Professor of Political Science at Barnard College and Director of Columbia University's Harriman Institute. His research examines how external actors—emerging powers, international organizations, multinational companies, NGOs, and Western enablers of grand corruption—have influenced the development, governance, and sovereignty of the former Soviet states, with a focus on Central Asia and the Caucasus. Read Alexander Cooley's full bio here. Alex Halliday Founding Dean, Columbia Climate School and Director, Earth Institute Alex N. Halliday is the founding dean of the Columbia Climate School and the director of Columbia University’s Earth Institute. He joined the Earth Institute in April 2018, after spending more than a decade at the University of Oxford, during which time he was dean of science and engineering. Read Alex Halliday's full bio here. Aimee Barnes Fellow, Center on Global Energy Policy and School of International and Public Affairs Aimee Barnes is a non-resident fellow at the Center on Global Energy Policy. She has over 15 years of experience in climate, energy and sustainability, spanning the state, federal and international levels, and the public, private, and non-profit sectors. Read Aimee Barnes's full bio here. Adam Tooze Professor, Department of History Adam Tooze is the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Professor of History in Columbia's department of history. He teaches and researches widely in the fields of twentieth-century and contemporary history. From a start in modern German history with a special focus on the history of economics and economic history his interests have widened to take in a range of themes in political, intellectual, and military history, across a canvass stretching from Europe across the Atlantic. Read Adam Tooze's full bio here. Adam Sobel Professor, Department of Engineering Adam Sobel is a professor of applied physics and applied mathematics and of earth and environmental sciences. He studies weather and climate, with a focus on extreme weather events and a particular interest in the tropics. Phenomena include tropical cyclones, intra-seasonal variability, precipitation, severe convection and climate change. Read Adam Sobel's full bio here. Aaron Pallas Professor, Teachers College Aaron Pallas is Arthur I. Gates Professor of Sociology and Education and Chair of the Department of Education Policy and Social Analysis at Teachers College, Columbia University. Pallas uses a variety of research tools to inform the public about the relevance and usability of educational research for policy and practice. He educates stakeholders—including representatives of the media—about the complexities and unexpected consequences of accountability and resource distribution policies in public schools. Read Aaron Pallas's full bio here. Sort Department Group Area Keyword filter: Filter Filter Filter Filter AllLetter Profiles, showing - Clear filtersFilterFilterFilterFilter no photo photo of edit edit Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close