Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of the Provost Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Offices Resources Announcements Provost Mary C. Boyce Vice Provosts Past Provosts About the Office Advisory Committees University Leadership Vice Provost Offices Academic Programs Communications and Engagement Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Senior Vice Provost Faculty Advancement Faculty Affairs Fourth Purpose and Strategic Impact Teaching, Learning, and Innovation University Libraries Other Reporting Units Educational Programs Educational Agreements Educational Programs Approval Policies and Appointments Faculty Handbook Selected Faculty Policies University Policy Library Faculty Life Housing Parenting Well-Being New Faculty Awards, Fellowships, and RFPs For Faculty For Graduate Students Research at Columbia Teaching Resources Library Tools Academic Calendar CourseWorks Registrar CUIT Services for Faculty SSOL Office of the Provost You are here: Home News and Announcements Working Group Submits Anti-Bullying Recommendations Working Group Submits Anti-Bullying Recommendations May 09, 2022 Anti-Bullying Working Group Report Download the Report Dear members of the Columbia community, Last September I convened a Working Group to discuss bullying and other abusive behavior and to prepare a summary report and to make recommendations regarding how we as an institution should address this issue. The Anti-Bullying Working Group report has been completed and is now online. The Working Group was drawn from across the University and included faculty, researchers, postdocs, students, and administrators. It was co-chaired by Dennis Mitchell, Executive Vice President for University Life, Senior Vice Provost for Faculty Advancement, and Professor of Dental Medicine; and Gordana Vunjak-Novakovic, University Professor and Mikati Foundation Professor of Biomedical Engineering, Medicine and Dental Medicine. My charge to them stressed the importance of providing “an environment for learning, research, living, and working that is free from discrimination and harassment and that does not tolerate abusive or intimidating behavior.” With that goal in mind, I asked them to “make recommendations to the University on how to address complaints about workplace misconduct that does not constitute a violation of the University’s current policies on sexual and gender-based harassment or other forms of prohibited discrimination, but which nonetheless may be abusive and/or intimidating.” The Working Group has developed a comprehensive set of recommendations that addresses three major points: the definition of bullying and other abusive behavior, a remedial framework, and changes in culture and climate to help prevent such behavior. These are recommendations: The measures described, including the suggestion to create an Office of Conflict Resolution, are proposals of the Working Group, not an agreed-upon plan. But the recommendations are thoughtful, well-reasoned, and they draw on the experience of other universities that have addressed these issues. They merit careful consideration, and I and my colleagues in the University’s administration are already at work reviewing them. The University Senate has a key role to play here, particularly with respect to the proposed establishment of a new, University-wide Standard of Professional Conduct, as described in Section 3.1 of the report. I know there will be robust discussion of the recommendations in the report and look forward to it. This is an important subject for the University as a whole and for every member of our community. Sincerely, Mary C. Boyce Provost Professor of Mechanical Engineering Tags Announcements Report Anti-Bullying Working Group News May 12, 2022 2022 Faculty Mentoring, Service, and Diversity Awards Announced May 09, 2022 Working Group Submits Anti-Bullying Recommendations May 02, 2022 2022-23 Salary Guidelines for Officers of Research April 26, 2022 Enhancements to Undergraduate Financial Aid for 2022-2023 Academic Year March 24, 2022 Updated COVID Language for Offer/Reappointment Letters for Academic Personnel Office of the Provost535 W. 116th Street, 205 Low Memorial Library, Mail Code 4313 · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2403 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close