UNM A-Z StudentInfo FastInfo myUNM Directory Research Campus Life Academics About UNM UNM Newsroom Toggle search About Us Welcome Mission About UNM Campuses UCAM UCAM Staff News Topics Front Page Inside UNM Lobo Hub Latest News Alumni Announcements Athletics Events Calendar For the Record HSC News In The News Research UNM Live UNM Proud Schools and Colleges Anderson School of Management School of Architecture & Planning School of Engineering School of Law School of Public Administration College of Arts & Sciences College of Fine Arts College of Education and Human Sciences Honors College College of University Libraries & Learning Sciences University College For News Media About UNM Campus Maps Fast Facts Faculty Experts B-Roll Images Advisories Media Relations Media Guide UNM Newsroom on Twitter Search Newsroom Submit search UNM Newsroom / News / Estrada named 2022 Udall Scholar Estrada named 2022 Udall Scholar Honors College student plans to become water lawyer By Rachel Whitt May 16, 2022 Categories: Front Page History Political Science Honors College Latest News The Udall Foundation announced recipients of the 2022 Undergraduate Scholarship, and among them is UNM student Nicolas Estrada. Estrada is a UNM Honors College student with a Regents Scholarship. Born and raised in Albuquerque, N.M., he is a junior studying political science and history. The scholarship facilitated through the Udall Foundation honors the legacies of Morris Udall and Stewart Udall, whose careers had a significant impact on Native American self-governance, health care, and the stewardship of public lands and natural resources. Estrada is passionate about equitable resource management and is working as a UNM Water Resources Fellow to create a public-facing, interactive model of riparian ecosystem challenges in the Middle Rio Grande. He previously interned in the office of U.S. Senator Ben Ray Luján and the Albuquerque Office of Civil Rights, where he helped connect constituents with government resources and learned about current environmental issues. I am extremely thankful for the mentors, friends, and family that have helped me throughout my life,” Estrada said. “I am particularly thankful for my parents, who took me on the hikes, bike rides, and road trips that sparked my love for the environment.” The scholarship comes with access to the Udall Alumni Network: an association of change-makers. It also supports recipients attending a five-day orientation and networking event, and up to $7,000 for eligible academic expenses. This year, 55 scholars were chosen from 382 nominations representing 181 institutions. After graduation, Estrada hopes to earn his law degree so he can facilitate water rights adjudication. “As a future water lawyer, I look forward to giving back to my home state of New Mexico by ensuring that water and other vital resources are sustainably managed,” he said. Tags: Udall Foundation Scholarship Related News UNM group participates in prestigious Venice art exhibition New study suggests using Cannabis can make you a nicer person UNM researchers find climatic backdrop shows Pueblo cultural development was coeval with drier conditions It’s electrifying: UNM’s FSAE team to compete in its first EV contest News Minute Subscribe to the UNM News Minute for up to the latest campus news and information. Your E-mail Address Submit A Story Do you have a suggestion for a story that illustrates excellence at UNM? Submit A Story Academics Academic Calendars Class Schedule Colleges & Schools Course Catalog Degrees & Certificates Graduate Studies Campus Life Arts & Entertainment Athletics Diversity Recreational Services Student Activities Student Union Resources Bookstore Computing Continuing Education Employment Libraries UNM Newsroom Information for… Alumni Faculty Parents & Families Patients Public Records - IPRA Staff APPLY Now Visit UNM Give to UNM © The University of New Mexico Albuquerque, NM 87131, (505) 277-0111 New Mexico's Flagship University UNM on Facebook UNM on Instagram UNM on Twitter UNM on Tumblr UNM on YouTube more at social.unm.edu Website Comments Accessibility Legal Contact UNM New Mexico Higher Education Dashboard