Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia News Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Featured News Topics Video Books Podcasts All News Media Resources Awards & Milestones Arts & Humanities Politics & Social Justice Research & Discovery Photo of the Week Commencement 2022 Columbia News You are here: Home All News 35 Places Columbians Should Visit in Morningside Heights (and Beyond) Campus & Community 35 Places Columbians Should Visit in Morningside Heights (and Beyond) Check out these restaurants, markets, pastry shops, pet stores, and more when you return to campus this fall. August 26, 2021 Heading back to campus for the first time in a while? Or maybe you’re a brand new member of the Columbia community? Either way, try some of these suggestions for classic restaurants, useful stores, and plenty of places to indulge yourself. We’ve only scratched the surface on this list of great places to patronize in the neighborhood. If you’re looking for even more information on local and locally owned businesses, don’t miss the Columbia Neighbors Shop & Dine Local guide. The sandwich has come a long way from the time when the Fourth Earl of Sandwich instructed his servant to bring him meat stuffed between two slices of bread. Get a great modern-day sandwich today. Milano Market Westside Bring a hearty appetite to this Italian food specialty store. Their sandwiches are delicious and about the size of your face. Pret Find healthy made-that-day sandwiches and salads at this chain store originally based in London. Subconscious If Freud lived in Morningside Heights today, he would probably go to this deli for his sandwiches. Cooking at home? You’ll find a great selection of grocery stores near Morningside campus. Appletree Market Find prepared foods, everyday food items, and health products at this grocery store on Amsterdam and 120th Street. HMart Find a huge selection of Korean speciality items, as well as all the staples for your pantry, including Hello Kitty toilet paper! Morton Williams Conveniently located across the street from College Walk on Broadway, you can stock up on essential and weekly groceries here. Westside Market Located on 110th Street and Broadway, Westside Market offers a wide variety of fresh produce, specialty items, and all your food needs. “Anyone who says that money cannot buy happiness has clearly never spent their money on pizza.” — Andrew W.K. Koronet You can’t go wrong with a delicious slice from this New York City establishment. And if you need a boost while doing some late night studying, it’s open until 2 a.m. everyday. Mama's Too This lunch favorite offers something a little different — square pizza. Check it out! Roberta’s (coming soon!) With names like Crispy Glover and Normcore, you’re going to love the wood-fire oven pizza at the soon-to-be-open Morningside Heights outpost of the Bushwick original. Looking for a nice sit-down meal? Check out these Columbia favorites. Community Food & Juice Brunch is calling! Enjoy a mimosa along with your brioche french toast. They have a wide selection of vegetarian and gluten-free options. Le Monde Try a niçoise salad or steak frites at this classic French brasserie. Treat yourself. Chocolates, pastries, ice cream, and more. Blue Marble One of the forerunners of the niche Brooklyn ice cream scene, co-founder Jeanne Dundas recently opened a location near her Upper West Side home. The strawberry is a must-have! The Hungarian Pastry Shop A Morningside Heights institution and refuge for Columbia students since the 1960s, this old-fashioned cafe (no WiFi!) has coffee, pastries, and a great ambiance. Insomnia Cookies When it’s midnight, where can you satisfy your warm cookie craving? This place. Mondel Chocolates Established in 1943, this shop is the perfect place to get special handmade chocolates for a loved one or maybe just for yourself. Pinkberry Original tart or any of the flavors of the day will satisfy your frozen yogurt cravings. Various bubble tea shops. Bubble tea lovers, rejoice! Last count, Broadway, between 108th Street and 116th Street, had five stores where you can imbibe your favorite drink. Try them all! Stock up on allergy meds, tissues, first aid supplies or PPE at local pharmacies. Hartley Pharmacy Get caring, personalized service at this mom-and-pop pharmacy on Amsterdam and 120th. Town Drug Pharmacy This locally owned pharmacy can fill your prescriptions and has medical equipment, including canes, walkers, and nebulizers. Columbia Classics Bus Stop Diner A bit further uptown, don’t miss this diner with great service, prices, and portions. Dinosaur Bar-B-Que Bring your motorcycle and your dog to this award-winning barbeque restaurant located under Riverside Drive Viaduct. Tom’s Restaurant Take a selfie outside and enjoy diner food inside in a classic setting that you will probably recognize from "Seinfeld" series. Need to hang some shelves? Here are a couple of neighborhood hardware stores that can help. Clinton Supply Co. From having your keys copied to getting plumbing advice, this hardware store can help you out. University Hardware & Housewares Since 1938, this family-run business has provided a large selection of kitchen, bath, bedroom, and hardware home goods, and they offer student discounts. On the go? Grab a quick meal from a food truck on Broadway (these are subject to change). Jan's Express Are you working in the Northwest Corner building? Check out this Halal truck on 120th and Broadway for a terrific meal. Kalbi Do you need a delicious meal in the hurry? Visit this food truck that serves Korean dishes, fast. Miracle Thai Express It’s a miracle how great this Thai food truck is. Uncle Luoyang This popular food truck serves Chinese dishes at reasonable prices. Expect a line! Don’t forget about Buddy! Here are some local pet stores. Pet Central It’s a little further south, down on 100th Street and Broadway, but with great prices and customer service, it’s worth the trip. The Pet Market This pet store specializes in organic and natural products for cats, dogs, guinea pigs, and other small animals. If you’re lucky, you might get a glimpse of the store’s tabby. Get Columbia News In Your Inbox Tags Students New York News June 01, 2022 Eric Kandel, Nobel Prize Winner and University Professor, to Retire June 01, 2022 Faculty Named Fulbright U.S. Scholars, Other Institutional Milestones June 01, 2022 Columbia Physicist Tanya Zelevinsky Wins 2022 Brown Investigator Award June 01, 2022 Celebrating Pride Month 2022 at Columbia May 31, 2022 A Cultural Critic Publishes Her Second Memoir Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close