Keyword Search Campus Directory Maps Jobs at SDSU TOPICS OF INTEREST How to become an Aztec How to become a mentor Need an intern? Campus Events Calendar Take a campus tour Use the library's resources SDSU NewsCenter Sexual Assault Resouces Smoke Free SDSU Student Enrollment Characteristics SDSU By the Numbers 1897 Founded 34,000 Students (Fall 2019) 3,076 Students Studying Abroad (2017-18) 400,000+ Alumni 3.77 Average Incoming High School GPA 93,704 Total Applications for Fall 2020 10,300 Graduates (Spring 2019) Keyword Search Campus Directory Maps Jobs at SDSU Topics of InterestHow to become an Aztec How to become a mentor Need an intern? Campus Events Calendar Take a campus tour Use the library's resources SDSU NewsCenter Sexual Assault Resouces Smoke Free SDSU Student Enrollment Characteristics SDSU By the Numbers 1897 Founded 34,000 Students (Fall 2019) 3,076 Students Studying Abroad (2017-18) 400,000+ Alumni 3.77 Average Incoming High School GPA 93,704 Total Applications for Fall 2020 10,300 Graduates (Spring 2019) Monday, May 30, 2022 Return to home Students Natalie King-Shaw (right) hopes to launch her A.M.A.N.I. Project in the upcoming 2022-23 school year. (SDSU) Wednesday, May 25, 2022 'It’s Elementary' for SDSU Student's A.M.A.N.I. Project Natalie King-Shaw earns scholarship, seed money for new program based on Henrietta Goodwin Scholars to help Black grade school students thrive. By Aaron Burgin Story Keywords: Community, Students Please enter your info below Your name * Your Email address * * Recipient Email Address * * Tweet San Diego State junior Natalie King-Shaw said it wasn’t uncommon for her to be the only black face in her classes while growing up in Sparks, Nev. It wasn’t until she arrived at SDSU in fall 2019 that she experienced what it was like to be in a classroom where everyone was a person of color — in the Henrietta Goodwin Scholars program, which supports students of the African diaspora to achieve academic and social success at San Diego State University. King-Shaw’s contrasting educational experiences were the inspiration for a program she is developing to provide academic, creative and identity support to Black kids in predominantly white schools that recently received a huge lift through the Donald A. Strauss Scholarship Foundation’s $15,000 scholarship — $7,000 in educational support and $8,000 designated as a grant for her A.M.A.N.I. project. King-Shaw is the first SDSU student to receive the Strauss Scholarship in the first year that SDSU students were invited to apply for the 25-year-old award. The annual awards of $15,000 to 10-15 California college sophomores or juniors from pre-selected institutions finance innovative student projects in the education and preparation of future leaders. “I am so excited, it seems surreal,” King-Shaw said. “I’m so grateful to the Strauss Foundation for their endorsement of this project that is very important to me.” SDSU officials shared King-Shaw’s excitement about the announcement. Kari Hooker, assistant director in the Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships, helped King-Shaw with her scholarship application and said it was impressive from the start. “Over the past several months, she developed an awe-inspiring program,” said Hooker. “It was a sincere pleasure for me to work with Natalie and watch her project grow from its earliest stages to submission. … I'm so proud of her accomplishments.” King-Shaw said the A.M.A.N.I. Project will start in the 2022-23 school year, and in the first year she hopes to pair 20 San Diego elementary school students with 20 SDSU student mentors on three elementary school campuses. The program will take place after school once a week for two hours, with the first hour featuring group activities with mentors and students revolving around topics such as Black history, racial identity development and community building. The second hour will be one-to-one sessions between pupils and mentors. King-Shaw said the scholarship funds will provide a creative and academic interest fund from which a student will be able to choose what they do with their mentor. King-Shaw said they will be recruiting mentors over the spring and summer. She describes it as a “Henrietta Goodwin Scholars for kids.” “I see it as an early intervention program, similar to the way HGS has provided support on the college end,” King-Shaw said. Community service and volunteerism are not new to King-Shaw, a psychology major who wants to be a speech pathologist. Since arriving at SDSU, she has amassed an impressive resume of service-related activities and causes, including feeding the homeless, volunteering with children and adults with differing abilities and advocating for natural hairstyles, among others. But the genesis of the A.M.A.N.I. (Affirming, Mentoring, Actualizing, Nurturing, and Imagining) Project was near to her heart. Growing up in Northern Nevada, she said, she was often the only black student in her classes and she went to predominantly white schools her entire life. Then, there was an incident during the summer when she returned to Sparks between SDSU classes that set her mind in motion. She and her sister volunteer each summer at a camp for kindergartners through eighth-graders, and in 2021, a 5-year-old there used a racial slur to describe another student, she said. “That really affected me and made me realize at how young of an age racism gets reproduced, and how do we have an earlier intervention to stop it,” King-Shaw said. With that experience fresh in her consciousness and word that the Strauss Scholarship was available to SDSU students, King-Shaw began to develop the concept of her program. “Over quarantine, I had the time to think about my experiences and started to brainstorm and work with Kari Hooker, and when I came back to campus in early November, I met with Ahliyah Chambers at the Black Resource Center. She was such a great support helping me talk through things and made me think deeper and fill everything in,” King-Shaw said. Through those meetings and discussions with Chambers and Hooker, King-Shaw developed the following mission and vision statement for the project: “Based on the five key tenets of Affirming, Mentoring, Actualizing, Nurturing, and Imagining a limitless future for young Black scholars, the A.M.A.N.I. Project will provide racial identity development and academic and creative support through mentorship to Black students attending predominantly white elementary schools (PWES) in San Diego. Through intentional community support, young Black scholars will explore and grow in a creative and academic area of interest and build emotional skills while sharing their experiences. By participating in this program, A.M.A.N.I. Project scholars and mentors will build Amani (Swahili for peace and tranquility) in their multidimensional identities as Black students.” Chambers, who works alongside King-Shaw at the Black Resource Center, said she is excited to see the A.M.A.N.I. Project took off under King-Shaw, whom she praised as “thoughtful, diligent and compassionate.” "The Black Resource Center is so proud of Natalie King-Shaw for her innovative nature as she is continuously finding new ways to create a safe and collaborative space that supports the overall development and success of marginalized students at all levels,” Chambers said. “Natalie is a thoughtful, diligent, and compassionate student-leader that San Diego State University has supported so many students here at the Black Resource Center. As a Strauss Foundation Scholar, I have no doubt that the A.M.A.N.I. Project will expand the magnitude of Ms. King-Shaw's impact on the San Diego community-at-large.” Related Stories Latest Stories Events Say It Loud: I'm Curly and I'm Proud Henrietta Goodwin Scholars Program Inspires Graduates to Continue Education The Word is Out: Ashtyn Won Big on ‘Wheel of Fortune’ For Undergrad Research Opportunities, Go to the Hub Gam- Show F-atur-s SDSU Stud-nt Student Scholarship Shines at the 2022 Student Research Symposium Explore SDSU 2022 to Offer Virtual, In-Person Sessions Pandemic, Equity Among Topics Addressed at SDSU Leadership Summit 2022 New Student Club Creates Community Through Comics Olympic Dream Come True A Day in the Life of Grace Coulter The Right Help at the Right Time BROWSE ALL RELATED Exploring Crime, Punishment, and Pleasure in Reality TV After Childhood Rife With Post-9/11 Racism, Daughter of Immigrants Strives to Shape Policy SDSU Imperial Valley Launches New, Accelerated Pre-Licensure BSN Program SDSU to Host Mountain West Baseball Championship SDSU Management Professor Takes a Hard Look at Inclusion in the Workplace California Shellfish Farmers Adapt to Climate Change Money Magazine’s Best Colleges for Value Ranks SDSU Banned Contaminants Still Threaten Endangered California Condors ‘Incredibly Competitive’ Fulbright Grants Awarded to Six Students Softball: Aztecs Draw LSU at NCAA Tempe Regional Gov. Newsom Proposes $80M Investment in SDSU Imperial Valley Site Say It Loud: I'm Curly and I'm Proud BROWSE ALL LATEST BROWSE ALL EVENTS ONLINE COMMUNITIES ADDITIONAL RESOURCES Campus Directory Maps Parking Jobs Media Web Portal CSU Land Acknowledgement NEWSLETTER SIGN UP Sign up for the SDSU NewsCenter weekly newsletter. 5500 Campanile Drive San Diego, CA 92182 Tel: 619-594-5200