Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Tactical Navigation - New Wave Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Close Search Tulane Search form Search this site Search search tulane.edu search news only Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Tulane News Primary Navigation - New Wave News Tulanian Magazine Events Experts Press Releases On Good Authority Podcast Tactical Navigation - New Wave Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Public Relations Team: tel 504-865-5210, @tulanenews, pr@tulane.edu Health, News Releases, Research in Real Time, Science Study examines why the memory of fear is seared into our brains May 27, 2022 A team of Tulane neuroscientists have been studying the formation of fear memories in the emotional hub of the brain – the amygdala — and think they have a mechanism. Science Study examines why kidneys can’t regenerate after birth May 26, 2022 Tulane University researchers discovered a new mechanism that may explain why human kidneys, which are comprised of almost a million filter units, stop creating new filter cells after birth. Research in Real Time, Science, World Tulane geologist honored by National Academies of Sciences May 13, 2022 Geologist Cynthia Ebinger has been named one of 14 Jefferson Science Fellows by the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine. Research in Real Time, Science, World Tulane math professor receives international research award May 12, 2022 Tulane University math professor Lisa Fauci has won a prestigious research grant from an international organization that funds basic research in life sciences. Health, Research in Real Time, Science Team Fleur FemTech wins annual Novel Tech Challenge May 11, 2022 Team Fleur FemTech, four students from the School of Science and Engiineering, won the annual Novel Tech Challenge for their at-home test kit for detection of endometriosis. Health, Science Researcher awarded $2 million grant to study biology of “jumping genes” May 09, 2022 Dr. Jeffrey Han and his team aim to better understand how DNA damage caused by the transposon L1 causes infertility in a mouse model. A better understanding of the biology of L1 could also help researchers make connections to other diseases associated with transposon activity, including cancer. On Campus, Science Luminescent specimen May 06, 2022 A visitor to the Royal D. Suttkus Fish Collection, housed within the Tulane University Biodiversity Research Institute, examines a specimen during a recent workshop. News Releases, Research in Real Time, Science Tulane scientists develop powerful family of two-dimensional materials May 05, 2022 A team of Tulane scientists has developed a new family of two-dimensional materials that researchers say has promising applications in everything from advanced electronics to high-capacity batteries. Culture, Health, Research in Real Time, Science Researchers study impact of college personality course on personality understanding April 28, 2022 Tulane researchers conducted a study that looked at the connection between students taking an introductory personality course and their dispositional intelligence. Research in Real Time, Science, World Tulane team a national semifinalist in energy technology competition April 12, 2022 A team of Earth and Environmental Sciences students has been named a national semifinalist in the U.S. Department of Energy's inaugural EnergyTech University Prize competition. Culture, Health, Research in Real Time, Science, World Tulane professor among international experts to produce landmark U.N. climate change report April 05, 2022 Tulane professor Jesse M. Keenan is among dozens of scholars and scientists involved in the writing and editing of a newly released United Nations report on the state of climate change. News Releases, Research in Real Time, Retirements, Science Tulane study shows COVID-19’s lingering impacts on the brain April 01, 2022 COVID-19 patients commonly report having headaches, confusion and other neurological symptoms, but doctors don’t fully understand how the disease targets the brain during infection. Now, researchers at Tulane University have shown in detail how COVID-19 affects the central nervous system, according to a new study published in Nature Communications. News Releases, Research in Real Time, Science Tulane researcher wins NSF award to study Earth’s ‘explosive’ tectonic reactions March 31, 2022 Tulane researcher Colin Jackson has won a National Science Foundation Early Career Award to further his research on the chemistry of planets. Culture, Event, Health, People, Science, World Tulane neuroscientist among women honored in Smithsonian’s If/Then exhibit March 17, 2022 This March the Smithsonian is adding to the excitement of Women’s History Month with the opening of “#IfThenSheCan – The Exhibit”, a collection of 120 life size 3D-printed statues honoring groundbreaking women in STEM. Elizabeth “Liz” Engler-Chiurazzi, Tulane assistant professor of neurosurgery at the Clinical Neuroscience Research Center at the School of Medicine, was chosen as one of the 120 If/Then ambassadors.This March the Smithsonian is adding to the excitement of Women’s History Month with the opening of “#IfThenSheCan – The Exhibit”, a collection of 120 life size 3D-printed statues honoring groundbreaking women in STEM. Elizabeth “Liz” Engler-Chiurazzi, Tulane assistant professor of neurosurgery at the Clinical Neuroscience Research Center at the School of Medicine, was chosen as one of the 120 If/Then ambassadors. Health, News Releases, Research in Real Time, Science Tulane awarded $14 million NIH grant to study why heart disease, diabetes may blunt brain benefits of estrogen therapy March 04, 2022 The National Institutes of Health has awarded a $14.17 million grant to the Tulane University Brain Institute for a five-year study to understand why the brain-protecting benefits of estrogen don’t apply to all women, especially those with hypertension and Type 2 diabetes. Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next › last » Subscribe to Tulane Today Tulane Today Archive News Archive Submit Your News Submission Guidelines Tulane in the News On Good Authority Podcast Statements Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane Home Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University