Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors menu Find: A to Z Index People Directory Search Brown.edu Learn More: About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Search form Search About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory News from Brown Superfund Research Program earns $10.8M for five-year renewal News from Brown Main menu Featured Events News For Journalists Featured Events Search News Main menu Featured Events News For Journalists Featured Events More Environmental science Computer visualizations bring new perspective to science October 3, 2017 Study projects deaths from heat and cold for 10 U.S. metros through 2090 July 25, 2017 Galápagos waters illustrate ecological drama of climate change December 21, 2016 Significant deforestation in Brazilian Amazon goes undetected, study finds October 12, 2016 On the bay with BELL, a call to environmental action August 18, 2016 Tweet Next: Applied Mathematics building: Open for occupancy September 23, 2015 Points of pollution With a new grant, researchers can continue to address basic scientific issues raised by the potential for toxicant exposures at sites around the state. Brown University SRP Superfund Research Program earns $10.8M for five-year renewal September 24, 2015 Media contact: David Orenstein 401-863-1862 The National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences has renewed the Superfund Research Program for a third multiyear period of support. The funding of more than $2.1 million a year for five years will enable Brown University scientists to further pursue studies of contamination at several sites around Rhode Island and effective ways to detect and prevent its adverse health effects. PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — With a new federal grant of nearly $10.8 million over the next five years, Brown University researchers and students in the Superfund Research Program (SRP) will be able to advance their work studying how toxicant exposures affect health, how such exposures occur, how nanotechnologies could contain contamination, and how to make sure those technologies are safe. “There is more research to be performed,” said Kim Boekelheide, program director, professor of pathology and laboratory medicine, and fellow of the Institute at Brown for Environment and Society (IBES). “Our scientific theme is integrated biomedical and engineering solutions to regulatory uncertainty, using interdisciplinary approaches to attack the really difficult contamination problems that matter.” The program is pursuing four integrated projects. In one led by Boekelheide, a team is looking at the physiological effects of exposure to toxicants like trichloroethylene on the male reproductive system. In particular he hopes to find the subtle differences in biomolecular markers in sperm that could allow for very early detection of exposure. Meanwhile in another line of research, Eric Suuberg, professor of engineering, is studying how vapors from toxic material releases can re-emerge from the soil entering into buildings built at or near the polluted sites — and why it is hard to predict the level of exposure that inhabitants of these buildings may suffer. In another project, Robert Hurt, an IBES fellow, SRP co-primary investigator and professor of engineering, is studying how graphene, an atomically thin carbon material, can be used to block the release and transport of toxicants to prevent human exposures. Hurt is also collaborating with Agnes Kane, an IBES fellow and chair and professor of pathology and laboratory medicine, who is leading a study of nanomaterial effects on human health, so they can be designed and used safely in environmental and other applications. The program will also continue the program’s community outreach efforts in which they work and share information with communities near the state’s Superfund-designated and Brownfield contaminated sites. Scott Frickel, an IBES fellow and associate professor of sociology, is the new leader of community engagement. The Community connections A key component of the Superfund Research Program is outreach to affected communities. SRP representatives have begun to attend the Narragansett tribe's annual Powwow. Photo: Marcella Thompson/SRP program also includes a research translation core in which researchers share their findings and expertise with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, state agencies, and professionals involved in contamination management and cleanup. A training core provides opportunities for interdisciplinary research, field work, and industry “externships” for graduate students in engineering, pathobiology, and social sciences at Brown. The National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences of the National Institutes of Health provided the grant (number P42ES013660). The content is solely the responsibility of the authors and does not necessarily represent the official views of the National Institutes of Health. Note to Editors: Editors: Brown University has a fiber link television studio available for domestic and international live and taped interviews, and maintains an ISDN line for radio interviews. For more information, call (401) 863-2476. Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: Social Media @ Brown Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Giving to Brown Giving to Brown