Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All Posts in #Library Arts & Culture Special Collections Research Center to Host Spring Listening Parties Wednesday, February 7, 2018, By Pamela Whiteley McLaughlin The Special Collections Research Center at Syracuse University Libraries, in conjunction with La Casita Cultural Center, will host two spring listening parties this month featuring recordings from the Bell Brothers Collection of Latin American and Caribbean Recordings, which contains over… Media, Law & Policy Celebrating 140 Years of U.S. Government Documents at Syracuse University Libraries Monday, January 22, 2018, By Pamela Whiteley McLaughlin Syracuse University Libraries will celebrate 140 years of membership in the U.S. Government Publishing Office’s (GPO) Federal Depository Library Program (FDLP) with a program and exhibition in February. The FDLP ensures that the public has access to federal documents in… Campus & Community Libraries’ Study Room Bookings Move Online Tuesday, January 16, 2018, By Pamela Whiteley McLaughlin Syracuse University and SUNY ESF-affiliated students can now book study rooms in Bird and Carnegie libraries through an online reservation system, available on the web 24/7 at goo.gl/3h9yN6. The new self-service system shows real-time room availability and can be used… Arts & Culture Wet Book Rescue Video a Hit Wednesday, January 3, 2018, By Pamela Whiteley McLaughlin In the midst of hurricane season this year, the blog “Open Culture” shared the “Wet Book Rescue” video created by Syracuse University preservation librarian Marianne Hanley and former Preservation Department employee Sarah Kim. Here’s how they described it: “After the… Business & Economy Award-Winning Author, VP of Mozilla, Speaks at Bird Library Sept. 28 Tuesday, September 26, 2017, By Pamela Whiteley McLaughlin Experienced marketing executive, futurist and award-winning author Alex Salkever will speak about his new book, “Driver in the Driverless Car,” on Thursday, Sept. 28, at 7 p.m. in the Peter Graham Scholarly Commons, 114 Bird Library. The event is co-sponsored… STEM STEM Publishers and Products Showcase Friday, September 22, 2017, By Pamela Whiteley McLaughlin Join the Syracuse University Libraries on Tuesday, Oct. 3, from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. for a showcase of resources from STEM collections. Representatives from each of the following publishers and products will be available in the Life Sciences Complex… Health & Society New Book Co-Edited by Gorovitz, Newton Reveals Untold Stories of Three Medical Pioneers Thursday, September 21, 2017, By Rob Enslin When Sharon Brangman ’77 attended SUNY Upstate Medical University, she had a professor who puffed on a pipe in class. During tests, he would stand by her desk and blow smoke over her head to distract her. He did this to other… Health & Society Historian Finds Gritty Story of Child’s Life Documented in Special Collections Tuesday, November 29, 2016, By Sean Kirst “The Muckers,” published by Syracuse University Press and found among the papers in the Special Collections Research Center, tells of boys living life rough in New York City over a century ago. Business & Economy Social Impact Investing: Global Entrepreneurship Week Event Nov. 16 at Bird Library Monday, November 14, 2016, By Pamela Whiteley McLaughlin Social Impact investing is the topic of a featured panel at Global Entrepreneurship Week, Wednesday, Nov. 16, from 10-11 a.m. in the Peter Graham Scholarly Commons, Bird Library. The event features Peter Dunn, president and CEO, Central New York Community… Veterans ‘Our Doors Opened Wide: Syracuse University and the GI Bill, 1945-1950’ Wednesday, August 31, 2016, By Pamela Whiteley McLaughlin Syracuse University Libraries’ fall exhibition, “Our Doors Opened Wide: Syracuse University and the GI Bill, 1945-1950,” will open Sept. 15 in Bird Library. Curated by University Archivist Meg Mason, the exhibition explores the dramatic impact of the GI Bill and… 12 Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.