Skip to main content Toggle navigation Search Cornell University Cornell.edu Media Relations Search Cornell University Cornell Chronicle Topics Architecture & Design Arts & Humanities Business, Economics & Entrepreneurship Computing & Information Sciences Energy, Environment & Sustainability Food & Agriculture Global Reach Health, Nutrition & Medicine Law, Government & Public Policy Life Sciences & Veterinary Medicine Physical Sciences & Engineering Social & Behavioral Sciences Coronavirus Campus & Community News & Events Public Engagement New York City Staff News Photos of the Day Big Red Sports Diversity In Memory Features NYS Impact Student Life Around Cornell All Stories In the News Expert Quotes Cornellians Global Reach Cornell celebrates bumper crop of Fulbright students May 25, 2022 The Fulbright U.S. Student Program, administered at Cornell by the Mario Einaudi Center for International Studies, allows recipients to define and carry out their own research projects in host countries. June launch for NASA-Cornell tool to view dust from space May 19, 2022 Scientists soon will see Earth’s atmospheric dust in high-resolution, thanks to new spectrometer expected to launch June 7 aboard a SpaceX rocket to the International Space Station. Inaugural Cornell RANA Prize winner tackles energy issues in Indonesia May 18, 2022 Doctoral student Timothy Ravis earned the first RANA Prize winner at Cornell for research focused on uncovering the social, political, and economic impediments to a green energy transition in Indonesia. Around Cornell Einaudi awards fund global research and activities May 17, 2022 Awards from the Mario Einaudi Center for International Studies will support faculty-led research and international events, send graduate students to research destinations around the world and connect undergraduates with in-person and virtual internships from Ecuador to Zambia and beyond. Around Cornell ILR outlines global severance pay program May 16, 2022 When apparel factories shut down due to COVID-19, many workers lost their incomes. ILR’s New Conversations Project proposes a model to protect laborers. Around Cornell The 2030 Project to marshal faculty to solve climate crisis May 12, 2022 Declaring this the “decisive decade” for climate action, Cornell launched The 2030 Project: A Climate Initiative, which will mobilize world-class faculty to develop and accelerate tangible solutions to the climate challenge. With $400, students turn ideas into impact May 12, 2022 The Contribution Project’s Student Showcase on May 5 recognized nearly 100 undergraduates who each came up with an idea to change the world – with only a $400 budget. Migrations grants fund worldwide interdisciplinary projects May 11, 2022 Funded projects this cycle reflect the Migrations initiative’s interdisciplinary priorities of racism, dispossession and migration in the United States and international, multispecies migration. Around Cornell Ukrainians to discuss war, economy, rebuilding May 11, 2022 On May 13, a panel of Ukrainian experts will converge at Cornell for a hybrid event to discuss the civil and economic upheaval in their country. The event “Ukraine: War, Economy, Path to Rebuilding” features a panel of Ukrainian government officials, academics and business experts with insights into the state of the economy and postwar plans. Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 Next page » Last page Last » Gallery Heading × Previous Next Links About the Chronicle Media Relations Office Copyright Web Accessibility Assistance Contact Cornell Chronicle 312 College Ave Ithaca, NY 14850 607-255-4206 cunews@cornell.edu SUBSCRIBE Daily and weekly newsletters Feeds - RSS & JSON