Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: Syracuse Views Spring 2022 Sunday, May 15, 2022, By News Staff Share Photo by Rob Rivera (G’19) Photography We want to know how you experience Syracuse University. Take a photo and share it with us. We select photos from a variety of sources. Submit photos of your University experience using #SyracuseU on social media, fill out a submission form or send directly to Syracuse University News at newsphoto@syr.edu. You might see it featured here. Graduates celebrate during Commencement 2022 in the stadium on May 15, 2022. Photo by Jeremy Brinn, photographer in the Division of Marketing Spring blossoms usher in a new season on campus. Photo by Scarlett Benson ’24, photography intern in the Division of Marketing Chancellor Kent Syverud celebrates National Orange Day with Otto and members of The Mandarins a capella group on March 24, 2022. Photo by John Boccacino, senior internal communications specialist in the Division of Communications Otto the Orange celebrates National Orange Day with a slice of cake on March 24, 2022. Photo by John Boccacino, senior internal communications specialist in the Division of Communications. Campus buildings are lit up in blue and yellow this week in support of Ukraine. Photo by Qianzhen Li, photography intern in the Division of Marketing Several campus buildings, including the stadium, are lit up in blue and yellow this week in honor of Ukraine. Photo by Natia Javakhishvili (Instagram user @natiaj) Photo by Instagram user @mikaminarumi Photo by Ellen Mintzer (@ellenemintzer on Instagram), graduate student in the Newhouse School of Public Communications Photo by Jeremy Brinn, senior photographer in the Division of Marketing David Barbier ’23, co-chair of the 37th Annual Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Celebration, interviews Martin Luther King III from the stage in Hendricks Chapel as part of the virtual event, which aired Jan. 30. Photo by Ross Knight, executive director of photography, Division of Marketing Author News Staff Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi More In Uncategorized “Syracuse University to rename the Carrier Dome – what name would fans choose?” Beth Egan, associate professor of advertising in the Newhouse School, was quoted in the CNY Central story “Syracuse University to rename the Carrier Dome – what name would fans choose?” Egan, who specializes in strategic communications and advertising, discussed why… “Can the Working Class End PMC Environmentalism?” Matthew Huber, professor of geography and the environment in the Maxwell School, was interviewed for the Diet Soap Media Podcast episode “Can the Working Class End PMC Environmentalism?” Huber, who studies climate politics, discussed his new book that unpacks the failures… Breen authors piece on Samuel Alito Jenny Breen, associate professor of law in the College of Law, authored the Common Dreams opinion piece “The ‘Raw Judicial Power’ of Samuel Alito Is an Attack on Dignity, Autonomy, and Progress.” Breen, who teaches Constitutional law, discussed the leak… “Governors Island’s New Orchard Is a Treasure Trove of Rare Fruits” An art installation created by Sam Van Aken, associate professor of studio arts in the College of Visual and Performing Arts, was featured in the Thrillist story “Governors Island’s New Orchard Is a Treasure Trove of Rare Fruits.” Van Aken, who… “Experts: Roe v. Wade radically alters NY election dynamics” Grant Reeher, professor of political science and director of the Campbell Public Affairs Institute in the Maxwell School, was quoted in the Newsday article “Experts: Roe v. Wade radically alters NY election dynamics.” Reeher, who studies American legislative politics, discussed… Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.