Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia News Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Featured News Topics Video Books Podcasts All News Media Resources Awards & Milestones Arts & Humanities Politics & Social Justice Research & Discovery Photo of the Week Commencement 2022 Columbia News You are here: Home News News News January 20, 2022 John McWhorter Talks About His New Book, 'Woke Racism' The Columbia professor argues that neoracism, disguised as antiracism, is hurting Black communities in America, and says that his book offers a roadmap to change. January 20, 2022 They Found a Way to Thematically Sort All of Wikipedia on a Laptop Computer scientist David Blei, with co-authors Matthew Hoffman and Francis Bach, is recognized with a Test of Time Award at NeurIPS, the world’s top machine learning conference, for scaling his topic modeling algorithm to billions of documents. January 19, 2022 The Cuttlefish Is a Master of Disguise. Tessa Montague Wants to Get Inside Its Head. Tessa Montague, a postdoc in Richard Axel’s lab at Columbia’s Zuckerman Institute, studies the neural basis of camouflage in cuttlefish, a cephalopod related to squid and octopuses. Columbia News spoke with Montague about what she hopes to learn from a creature that hides in plain sight by changing the patterns on its skin, and what goes into creating new tools for studying its brain. January 19, 2022 Epidemiologists Develop Advanced Tool for Measuring the Pace of Aging A new tool developed at Columbia's Mailman School of Public Health that measures how fast someone is aging could help epidemiologists understand the factors driving accelerated aging in vulnerable populations. January 19, 2022 A Safe Harbor for Platform Research The Knight First Amendment Institute proposes legal protection for certain research and news-gathering projects focused on social media platforms. January 19, 2022 Take a Peek Inside Columbia's Newest Dining Establishment: Chef Mike's Sub Shop in Uris Hall The Spring 2022 semester kicks off with a brand new Columbia Dining spot: Chef Mike's Sub Shop in Uris Hall. January 13, 2022 Astronomers Find Evidence for a Second Supermoon Beyond Our Solar System Astronomer David Kipping and his Cool Worlds Lab at Columbia find an exomoon signal in archival data, hinting at the possibility of more exomoon discoveries to come. January 12, 2022 Uncovering the Stories of Free and Enslaved Africans in the Colonial Era Abraham Liddell, a postdoc at Columbia’s Data Science Institute, is developing data science tools to uncover personal and community narratives among free and enslaved Africans in the early modern Atlantic economy. January 12, 2022 Pharmacists' Role to Expand Amid Pandemic and Provider Shortages U.S. pharmacists are well-trusted by patients and projected to play an increasingly integral role in health care, says a new study by Columbia’s Mailman School of Public Health and ExpressScripts. January 11, 2022 How to Avoid Cost Overruns and Delays When Building Big Infrastructure Projects President Biden has pledged to overhaul the nation's fraying infrastructure, but big public works projects in the United States are notorious for delays and cost overruns. Columbia News spoke with three experts at Columbia Engineering about how to ensure that projects finish on time and on budget. January 11, 2022 NYC Budget Cuts Aggravated Flooding and Deaths The deadly flooding in NYC caused by Hurricane Ida in September was made worse by drainage networks clogged with trash due to city budget cuts, say researchers at Columbia Engineering and Columbia Climate School. January 11, 2022 Babies Born During Pandemic’s First Year Score Slightly Lower on a Developmental Screening Test The cause of slightly lower scores on tests of motor and social skills could be the huge amount of stress felt by pregnant mothers, Columbia researchers suggest. January 10, 2022 Can We Feed 7 Billion People Without Wrecking the Planet? Columbia ecologist Shahid Naeem explains where the Green Revolution went wrong and what we can do about it. January 10, 2022 Researchers Publish Girl's Guide to Puberty and Periods Researchers affiliated with Columbia’s Mailman School of Public Health have written a book that incorporates real-life stories of girls living across America about the first time they got their periods. January 10, 2022 First Day of Attempt to Quit Smoking Is Especially Tough for Women Women have a harder time staying off cigarettes on that first day than men in 12 low and middle-income countries, where about 60 percent of the world’s smokers live, says new Columbia Mailman School of Public Health research. Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 Next page Next › Last page Last » Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close