Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation News Center Main navigation Calendar Categories Business and Economic Development Campus and Community Earth and Environment Health and Medicine Science and Technology Society and Culture Media Contacts Experts Guide Featured expert Find an expert Daily Digest Whistle Whistle Whistle archives Whistle classifieds Social Media Subscribe Features Features Features Archive Open Search Search Search Breadcrumb Home Student Team Wins Department of Energy EcoCAR Mobility Challenge A team of Georgia Tech students and faculty members has won the U.S. Department of Energy’s (DOE) EcoCAR Mobility Challenge. Credit: Dept. of Energy May 26, 2022 — Atlanta, GA A team of Georgia Tech students and faculty members has won the U.S. Department of Energy’s (DOE) EcoCAR Mobility Challenge. The four-year competition tasked 11 universities with transforming a 2019 Chevrolet Blazer by adding advanced propulsion systems and automated vehicle technology. The goal was to improve the car’s energy efficiency while balancing emissions, safety, and consumer acceptability factors. Originally a six-cylinder, the Georgia Tech team converted its Blazer to a four-cylinder hybrid vehicle with adaptive cruise control. Its vehicle-to infrastructure communication technology allows it to “talk” to stoplights and adjust its speed for optimization. The team of approximately 60 graduate and undergraduate students represent six of the College of Engineering’s eight schools. The group also includes students from the College of Computing, Scheller College of Business, and Georgia State University. Read the entire story on the College of Engineering website. Contact Jason Maderer College of Engineering maderer@gatech.edu Email maderer@gatech.edu Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites and Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Art Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education