Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation News Center Main navigation Calendar Categories Business and Economic Development Campus and Community Earth and Environment Health and Medicine Science and Technology Society and Culture Media Contacts Experts Guide Featured expert Find an expert Daily Digest Whistle Whistle Whistle archives Whistle classifieds Social Media Subscribe Features Features Features Archive Open Search Search Search Tech Lawn and Garden Breadcrumb Home Features Victor Rogers April 05, 2022 Georgia Tech's main campus, with 400 acres and more than 13,000 trees, has a team of landscape professionals maintaining its beauty year-round. Tech Lawn and Garden taps into the knowledge of the lawn and garden experts in Landscape Services, showing how they do what they do and sharing tips that you can use at home. Taking Care of Houseplants By Don Read, tree surgeon assistant with Landscape Services in Infrastructure and Sustainability. As a former manager of a greenhouse, Read is experienced in caring for plants. Houseplants can bring the outside in, help purify the air, and add natural beauty to your home — whether it’s a house or a dorm room. Selecting the right plants for the location and learning how to take care of them are two key steps to successfully growing houseplants. Before purchasing plants, walk through your home and make note of the sunlight in each room. Is the sunlight direct or indirect? Can you control the amount of sunlight by adjusting the blinds or curtains? Also, is the room generally warm or drafty? The sunlight and temperature are important because some plants are heat tolerant and others prefer a cooler environment. Now that you understand the conditions in each room you can purchase plants that are likely to thrive in those areas. Talk to a houseplant specialist at a garden center and ask for help selecting plants suitable for your specific needs. You can also contact your county’s extension office or consult a gardening website with plant care tips. It’s important to read and follow the plant care instructions that come with the plant. Giving the plant exactly what it needs can mean the difference between having a thriving or wilted plant. Most houseplants are happy being watered once a week. Over-watering is common, especially with succulents or cacti, and it can be the kiss of death. If the instructions say the plant likes humidity, use a spray bottle to mist the plant instead of watering it at the roots. In addition to the proper amount of sunlight and water, good soil is another factor in growing healthy plants. It’s worth spending a few extra dollars for quality potting soil that contains fertilizer. The cost is minimal because you won’t need much soil for your plants. If you follow the plant care instructions and do everything you’re supposed to do, the plant still may die. But don’t give up. Most garden centers will give you a refund or replace the plant within a certain amount of time if you return it with your receipt. Remember, you can learn from your mistakes and try again. It’s a great feeling when you get it right and your plants thrive. Don Read, tree surgeon assistant with Landscape Services. More Tech Lawn and Garden Campus in Bloom Wildlife at Home on Campus Preparing Your Lawn for Winter Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites and Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Art Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education