Skip to navigation Skip to content MU Logo University of Missouri Search search New Student Programs menu About Us Orientationarrow_drop_down Summer Welcome Orientation & Advising Reservations & Dates How to: Summer Welcome August Orientation Winter Welcome Reservations & Dates Resourcesarrow_drop_down Webinars Parent & Family Resources General Resources Frequently Asked Questions Quick Linksarrow_drop_down Summer Welcome Orientation Schedule What to Bring Travel, Parking, and Check-In Accessibility IT Quick Guide for New Students Placement Tests & Civics Exam Reservations & Dates To reserve your space at orientation, sign in to our online reservation system using your myZou username and password. View our Frequently Asked Questions page for help with logging in. Note: space for each session is limited. Wait to make hotel and travel reservations until after your orientation reservation is confirmed. Checklist After you’ve reserved your spot, you can log back in to reference your orientation and advising checklist. This will help you stay up-to-date and make sure you’re prepared for each step of the orientation and advising process. These steps and other details are outlined on our How-To: Summer Welcome page. Reservation Changes If you need to change the date of your session, please log back into the reservation portal and select from any of the open dates that are displayed. If the session date that you want is no longer available, please select another date that works for you. After that, you can check the reservation portal regularly to see if any spots have opened up on the date you preferred. Please complete any changes prior to three business days before your scheduled session. Reservations & Checklist Summer Welcome Orientation 2022 Sessions are open to all freshmen and transfer students unless otherwise marked. Dates marked with an asterisk(*) are open to Tiger Pathways students. In-Person Sessions (Transfer students only) Tuesday, June 7 (Transfer students only) Thursday, June 16 Wednesday, June 8 Thursday, June 9 Sunday, June 12 Monday, June 13* Tuesday, June 14* Wednesday, June 15* Tuesday, June 21* Wednesday, June 22* Thursday, June 23* Sunday, June 26 Monday, June 27* Tuesday, June 28 Wednesday, June 29 Tuesday, July 5 Wednesday, July 6 Virtual Sessions Friday, June 3 (Transfer students only) Friday, July 8 Friday, June 24 Thursday, June 30 Thursday, July 7 August Orientation 2022 2022 orientation session dates will be announced in July 2022. Winter Orientation 2022-23 2022 orientation session dates will be announced in fall of 2022. Orientation Reservations & Dates Summer Welcome Orientation & Advising How to: Summer Welcome Summer Welcome Orientation Schedule Meet the Summer Welcome Leaders International Students Placement Tests & Civics Exam Parent & Family Resources August Orientation Winter Welcome MU Logo University of Missouri Contact information summerwelcome@missouri.edu G106 MU Student Center Columbia, MO 65211 Phone: 573-884-9868 MU is an equal opportunity/access/affirmative action/pro-disabled and veteran employer and does not discriminate on the basis of sex in our education programs or activities, pursuant to Title IX and 34 CFR Part 106. For more information, visit MU’s Nondiscrimination Policy or the Office of Institutional Equity. © 2022 — Curators of the University of Missouri. All rights reserved. DMCA and other copyright information. Privacy policy