Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Shining a Light on Foreign Influence facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Tag: research and innovation Apr 22, 2022 Research Through an Equitable Lens Recognizing the importance of a fair and just society, researchers at NC State prioritize equity in their diverse fields. Apr 20, 2022 Back from the Brink: NC State’s Key Role in Red Wolf Recovery The College of Veterinary Medicine is at the center of a nationwide effort to help the canid survive, providing medical care, conducting research and tending its own pack of the critically endangered species. Nov 29, 2021 NC State Tree Experts Grow Oaks to Honor Marines Forestry experts at NC State are growing young oaks to honor Marines who fell at Belleau Wood. Sep 2, 2021 NC State and BASF: Dedicated to a Sustainable Future As partners, NC State and BASF have completed more than 100 research projects together, including plant sciences innovation and crop protection. Jun 2, 2021 Turning Tree Residue Into Smart Hydrogels NC State researchers are turning wood byproducts into sensory hydrogels and sustainable, biodegradable smart materials. May 7, 2021 Local Company Donates Innovative, Breathable Face Masks for Commencement For spring commencement, a local entrepreneur is donating thousands of masks using material created at NC State. May 4, 2021 Buttigieg, Emhoff Visit NC State U.S. Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg and U.S. second gentleman Doug Emhoff recently toured Centennial Campus labs and spoke with NC State researchers about the university’s infrastructure-related research and innovation. Mar 10, 2021 NC State Shows Top Gains in Federal Research Expenditures University priorities have powered NC State's research funding growth over the past decade. Feb 12, 2021 Show Us What NC State Research Looks Like Help us highlight the beauty and importance of the work being done at the bench and in the field. Aug 11, 2020 NC State Joins SEA Change Initiative as Charter Member NC State commits to building a culture of inclusion across campus and a scientific enterprise where everyone can thrive. Aug 5, 2020 To Bond With Nature, Kids Need Solitary Activities Outdoors A new study found solitary activities like hunting, fishing or exploring outside are key to building strong bonds between children and nature. Aug 3, 2020 Study Finds Diseases In N.C. Otters, an Important Species for Tracking River Health A new study from North Carolina State University detected evidence of otter diseases associated with pets. Jul 2, 2020 Flexible Material Shows Potential for Use in Fabrics to Heat, Cool Researchers reported that a material made of carbon nanotubes may be key in developing clothing that can heat or cool the wearer on demand. Jun 22, 2020 Positive YouTube Videos of Wolves Linked to Greater Tolerance NC State researchers saw in a new study that people showed increased tolerance for wolves after watching positive videos of them. Sep 23, 2019 Shining a Light on Foreign Influence NC State employees who file conflict of interest forms are asked to report professional activities involving foreign entities. The new scrutiny comes in response to growing concern about undue foreign influence in federally funded research. Posts navigation 1 2 Next Page Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.