Skip to main content Visit Temple.edu Toggle Utility Menu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Search Site Search Temple Now Navigation - Go To - News by topic - Arts & Culture - Athletics - Campus News - Community Engagement - Global Temple - Research - Staff & Faculty - Student Success - Sustainability - Return to Campus - Visualize TempleAnnouncementsNewsletters - Temple Now subscriptionPublicationsTemple in the newsSocial MediaSpecial SeriesTemple MagazineAboutAccolades News by topic Announcements Newsletters Special Series About Arts & Culture What to read, listen to and watch to learn more about AAPI communities Athletics Introducing a new head coach of women’s basketball Campus News New General Education course to focus on AAPI identity and experiences Community Engagement President Wingard highlights Center City Business Association’s “Lunch with the City's Leaders” Global Temple Serving the American media from the Far East Research Temple-headquartered STARS Computing Corps receives a $3 million National Science Foundation grant Return to Campus Student community health ambassadors look out for their fellow Owls Staff & Faculty Temple thought leaders lend their voices to national conversation surrounding Roe v. Wade Student Success Temple Made for … building community Sustainability Charles Library earns LEED Gold certification Visualize Temple Charles Library shapes the future at Temple and beyond View Archives Home / News by topic Posted April 4, 2022 Football, National Football League Owl takes the helm of Tampa Bay Buccaneers Former Temple football standout Todd Bowles named Buc’s head coach Photography By: USA Today Tampa Bay defensive coordinator Todd Bowles will replace Bruce Arians as head coach. On March 30, the Tampa Bay Buccaneers announced that defensive coordinator Todd Bowles, CLA ’86, will be taking on the role of head coach following the retirement of Bruce Arians, who will move into a front office position at the organization. The pair have been linked for more than 40 years since Arians served as Bowles’ head coach during his tenure as a player at Temple from 1982 to 1985. Bowles was enshrined into the Temple Athletics Hall of Fame in 2001. “I am appreciative of the family and Jason Licht for having faith in me to take on this role, and to Coach Arians for his support and guidance over the past four decades,” Bowles said in a statement. “Tampa has become home for my family, and we are excited to remain part of this community for years to come. As an organization, we have all the pieces in place to continue the winning standard that has been established here in recent years. I am eager to get started with our players, coaching staff and front office in preparation for the 2022 season.” This is the second head coaching job for Bowles, who was the New York Jets’ head coach from 2015 to 2018 compiling a 24-40 record. He also served as interim head coach of Miami in 2011 and posted a 2-1 ledger. Read the full story. Anonymous Related Stories espnW Campus Conversations celebrates and inspires Temple student-athletes Owls in the NFL are carrying on Temple’s mission and spirit Owl athletes break record for academic success Temple University Strategic Marketing & Communications Bell Building 1101 W. Montgomery Avenue Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Directory Maps and Directions Contact RSS Facebook Twitter Pinterest LinkedIn.com YouTube Flickr TUPortal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Temple Now: The official source for Temple news. Copyright 2015, Temple University. All rights reserved.