Skip to content The Harvard Gazette Search for: Arts & Humanities Business & Economy Campus & Community Commencement 2022 The Coronavirus Update Events Health & Medicine National & World Affairs News & Announcements Photography The Quest for Racial Justice Science & Technology The Solutions Series News + About Accessibility Athletics News and Scores For Media & Journalists Privacy Policy Trademark The Daily Gazette Sign up for daily emails to get the latest Harvard news. Harvard University National & World Affairs World Taken out of context GenSci Lab scholars urge researchers to take care crafting definitions of sex as language can make its way into law, public policy World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Health & Medicine Health Don’t let latest COVID surge overshadow progress, says Hanage Epidemiologist explains how to stay on guard against subvariants, noting role of protective measures in transition to new pandemic phase Health Researchers find sleep benefit in higher dose of melatonin Supplements show promise in small study of older adults Featured National & World Affairs Health & Medicine Arts & Humanities Science & Technology Business & Economy Campus & Community Experience Commencement 2019 © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College The Harvard Gazette Elevating people of color and women in the workplace Breaking ground with new degree Campus & Community Elevating people of color and women in the workplace Campus & Community Elevating people of color and women in the workplace “I believe that when you have a trained and skilled workforce, it brings about economic development in a community and ultimately creates the community development that we need to see — especially in places like Mississippi,” said Deeneaus “D” Polk, M.P.P. '20. Photo by Michael B. Jordan Deeneaus ‘D’ Polk, M.P.P. ’20, found his way from Mississippi to Harvard Kennedy School with plans to return to the South By Nora Delaney HKS Communications DateMay 8, 2020 Share Email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Also in the Series Many happy returns Triple the joy A call to public service Victory of perseverance, vision over more than decade of challenges Merrick Garland to speak at Commencement for Classes of 2020 and 2021 View all of Honoring the Class of 2020 This is one in a series of profiles showcasing some of Harvard’s stellar graduates. Growing up in the small, blue-collar Mississippi town Pascagoula, Deeneaus Polk could not have predicted that his path would take him to Harvard Kennedy School (HKS). Or that it would run by way of Germany. As the oldest of three children, Polk — who goes by “D” — was responsible for keeping an eye on his brother and sister while his mother worked multiple jobs to support the family. But in high school, he got the opportunity to move to Germany for his junior year and fell in love with the country, a world away from the American South. “That experience changed my whole life,” Polk says. “I really think I’d be either dead or in prison had I not gone when I was in high school. It sent me on a trajectory of wanting to become an ambassador to Germany and wanting to do more for my community. But even more than all those things, it gave me a new lease on life.” At first, Polk thought he would become a foreign service officer, and after completing community college in Mississippi and attending the University of Mississippi, he returned to Germany on a Fulbright Scholarship. But as much as he loved the country and the German people, he felt the pull of home. Deeneaus ‘D’ Polk, M.P.P. ’20, at the 11th German American Conference at Harvard Kennedy School. Photo by Laura Morton “I got tired of being the only person in the room who looked and sounded like me,” Polk said, “so I decided to go back to Mississippi and try to impact my state. I decided to get into politics and policy.” This interest eventually led Polk to the Kennedy School. Just as important as the hard skills he would learn in his classes, however, would be the people that he met on campus. Polk took part in activities that, he says, “really spoke to my heart.” He founded the Moderates Caucus to bring people together for thoughtful political discourse. He also served as a chair of the German American Conference and as a panel organizer for the Black Policy Conference. But probably the most significant thing, Polk says, was his involvement with the Social Innovation + Change Initiative (SICI) as an Adrian Cheng Fellow. The Cheng Fellowship allowed Polk to delve into a social issue that he was passionate about: workforce development. “I believe that when you have a trained and skilled workforce,” Polk says, “it brings about economic development in a community and ultimately creates the community development that we need to see — especially in places like Mississippi.” Right now, Polk is using this knowledge and his SICI experience to create a startup called 3LEVATE “to build the workforce of the future — one that’s more equitable, more centered around people of color and women,” he says. Its aim is to bridge the skills gap and make the U.S. labor force more competitive. “I’m just this small-town black man from Mississippi who somehow found his way to Harvard. And I really do believe that if I can do it, anyone else can do it.” — Deeneaus Polk After graduating, Polk plans on returning to Germany for a year through a Robert Bosch Fellowship. There he will continue his planning for 3LEVATE by studying the country’s apprenticeship model, which allows trainees to combine vocational training with on-the-job experience. He hopes to find German businesses willing to work with his startup, which he will pilot back in the United States, most likely in Birmingham, Ala. “I have a connection base there,” Polk says, “and my pilot would be centered on finding German companies and helping them build out a workforce in Birmingham through apprenticeship programs.” Polk is uniquely placed for this project. “I know the German system well, and I know the United States, especially the South, and its workforce development system, so I think I can serve as a liaison between those different worlds.” A program like 3LEVATE would potentially help people like Polk’s own brother, Desmond, who had been incarcerated while Polk was at the Kennedy School. (Polk and his brother wrote a paper about this experience and the carceral system for the Kennedy School Review). Polk reflects on the challenging times he had at HKS — not only was his brother incarcerated, but his sister passed away this year. One thing that kept him going, though, was an outpouring of support from the Kennedy School community. He recalls people he hardly knew coming up and hugging him in the hallway. “I am totally grateful and indebted to this institution,” he says. “I’m just this small-town black man from Mississippi who somehow found his way to Harvard. And I really do believe that if I can do it, anyone else can do it. I look forward to being an ambassador for HKS as well, to help uplift whoever wants to come here and uplift communities.” With graduation around the corner, Polk is thinking about his family. “This year they’ll all be online, cheering and rooting for me from home,” Polk says. “But I really, really want to thank my momma. She sacrificed so much to see me get to where I am today.” Editor's Picks Campus Triple the joy Photographers capture the festive rites and poignant moments as three classes celebrate Commencement World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Campus A call to public service Merrick Garland tells grads to get involved, warns democracy in peril, cites Capitol attack, rise in mass shootings, stifling of voting rights Also in the Series Many happy returns Triple the joy A call to public service Victory of perseverance, vision over more than decade of challenges Merrick Garland to speak at Commencement for Classes of 2020 and 2021 View all of Honoring the Class of 2020 Up Next Campus & Community Breaking ground with new degree Campus & Community Breaking ground with new degree Juan Reynoso’s interest in the intersection of health and design traces back to his parents, who were born in rural Mexico and immigrated to California. Photo by Kent Dayton