Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search University of Notre Dame Notre Dame News Latest News Experts ND in the News Subscribe About Us Home Contact Search Menu Home › News › Eleven Notre Dame students, alumni awarded NSF Graduate Research Fellowships Eleven Notre Dame students, alumni awarded NSF Graduate Research Fellowships Published: April 18, 2022 Author: Erin Blasko Graduate Research Fellowship Program The National Science Foundation has selected 11 University of Notre Dame students and alumni for its 2022 Graduate Research Fellowship Program (NSF GRFP), which supports students in NSF-backed STEM disciplines to pursue research-based master’s and doctoral degrees at accredited U.S. institutions. Another 10 Notre Dame students and alumni were singled out for honorable mention for the program. Established in 1952, the NSF GRFP offers financial support to graduate students in the form of a $34,000 annual stipend and a $12,000 cost-of-education allowance, as well as professional development and international research opportunities. The application process is extensive. Applicants work in conjunction with their advisers to create compelling personal statements and research plans. Notre Dame students can also consult experts with the Flatley Center for Undergraduate Scholarly Engagement (CUSE) or the Graduate School’s Office of Grants and Fellowships. Jeffrey Thibert is the Paul and Maureen Stefanick Director of CUSE. “As every fellowship applicant knows, preparing an application is a team effort, and so in addition to congratulating the 21 Notre Dame students and alumni recognized by the NSF this year, I would also like to thank the many mentors and advisers who worked with them along the way,” Thibert said. “I would especially like to thank the CUSE NSF GRFP adviser, Emily Hunt, for her outstanding work. I encourage any current undergraduates planning to apply to a research-based graduate program in an NSF-supported STEM field (including the social sciences) to visit cuse.nd.edu/nsf and learn more about the advising services that CUSE offers.” Laura Carlson, vice president, associate provost and dean of the Graduate School, highlighted the ongoing success that Notre Dame students have had in applying for these programs. “We’re so proud to see our students continue to be recognized by the NSF year after year,” Carlson said. “Their success truly reflects the sustained excellence of our graduate programs and our graduate students, and these fellowships empower our students to follow their intellectual curiosity and passion to pursue research that matters in the world.” The 11 fellows are: Thomas Best, engineering Robert Frei, engineering Jessamine Kuehn, chemistry Andrew Langford, engineering Meredith Lochhead, engineering Lauren McGiven, engineering Maria Pope, psychology John Sayut, engineering Emily Selland, life sciences Helen Streff, engineering Ethan Williams, engineering The 10 honorable mentions are: Samantha Barlock, chemistry Gabriel Brown, computational science and engineering Andrew Burke, mathematical sciences Luke Piszkin, chemistry Charlotte Probst, life sciences Theodore Reed, life sciences Nico Robalin, chemistry Mika Schievelbein, life sciences Timothy Seida, social sciences Simon Weaver, chemistry For more on this and other scholarship opportunities, email gradgrants@nd.edu (graduate students) or visit cuse.nd.edu (undergraduate students and alumni). Posted In: Research Home Latest News Experts ND in the News Subscribe About Us Related May 31, 2022 Multi-decade research links fathers’ testosterone production to their adolescent experiences with their own fathers May 31, 2022 Operational transparency mandates help reduce drug shortages, research finds May 27, 2022 Berthiaume family’s $20 million gift endows Institute for Precision Health May 24, 2022 Team researches how COVID pivot affected students and faculty at more than 80 universities May 09, 2022 Follow the science? Consumers aren’t always impressed with scientifically developed products, study shows For the Media Contact Office of Public Affairs and Communications Notre Dame News 500 Grace Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Pinterest © 2022 University of Notre Dame Search Mobile App News Events Visit Accessibility Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn