Skip to content News Menu Search form Search term Home Find Stories For Journalists Contact May 27, 2021 An academic journey – accompanied by song Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email By Andrew Brodhead, Kurt Hickman, Julia James, Kathleen J. Sullivan Stanford senior John Okhiulu, who grew up in the Oak Cliff neighborhood in Dallas, Texas, will graduate in June with bachelor’s degrees in African and African American studies and in human biology. This fall, he’ll begin an 11-month fellowship at a philanthropic organization as a Tom Ford Fellow, a program of the Haas Center for Public Service at Stanford. (Image credit: Andrew Brodhead) In his honors thesis, an album of original poetry, music and essays titled Tributary, John Okhiulu reflected on the legacy of creative expression as a tool for African American resistance and as a means for understanding, interpreting and making sense of their lives. He decided to create the album, which also explores the shared legacies of art-making and spiritual practice within the African diaspora, after writing “Ain’t Nobody,” a 2020 tribute to the Black folks killed by police in the United States. The poem concludes: Dance in your blackness Shake, shout, cry You are the miracle of life Mama rock me, slow Let the fear in my heart know They persisted, I persist They resisted, I resist They existed. I exist. they kneeled and stood and marched And that march continues. Okhiulu created the album while pursuing a bachelor’s degree with honors in African and African American studies, the field that reflects his primary personal and academic interests. At Stanford, he also explored the health and psychosocial development within marginalized communities as a human biology major. He also found joy and community as a member – and eventually, director – of the a cappella group, Stanford Talisman. Last year, Okhiulu, a bass singer, helped organize an Instagram campaign with other a cappella groups on campus to raise money for civil rights groups. In the fall, Okhiulu will begin an 11-month fellowship at a philanthropic organization as a Tom Ford Fellow, a program of the Haas Center for Public Service at Stanford. Okhiulu said his public-service mindset was inspired by his parents, a nursing assistant mother and a minister father who have been taking in and caring for people in their Oak Cliff neighborhood in Dallas since he was a child. “I want to work with youth from marginalized communities – like the one I came from – and help them find the best ways to thrive within the tensions that exist in our world,” Okhiulu said. “That’s what I want to do with my art. That’s what I want to do with my community engagement – work with youth to be able to uplift us to our highest selves.” (Image credit: Andrew Brodhead) Share this card Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email Watch Video In The Spotlight Campus Life Commencement 2021 Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email What to read next: Science & Technology Small modular reactors produce high levels of nuclear waste Small modular reactors, long touted as the future of nuclear energy, will actually generate more radioactive waste than conventional nuclear power plants, according to research from Stanford and the University of British Columbia. Science & Technology Q&A: How the aging immune system impacts brain health Katrin Andreasson, professor of neurology and neurological sciences, talks about the role the aging immune system plays in the development of age-related brain diseases. Science & Technology What the humble planarian teaches us about the building blocks of life A bioengineer studies the flatworms' ability to regenerate nerves, muscle, and other tissue. “One of the big questions we want to answer is how it does this on a genetic level?” Stanford Report To receive Stanford news daily, subscribe to Stanford Report. For Journalists Press Releases Media Contacts Stanford Experts See Also Contact Stanford News Faculty / Staff Resources Events Events calendar Stanford News is a publication of Stanford University Communications Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.