Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All Posts in #Forever Orange Campus & Community Daniel ’68, H’20 and Gayle D’Aniello Donate $10M to Invigorate Syracuse Abroad Florence Program, Expand Access for Students Monday, May 16, 2022, By Kathleen Haley In support of academic excellence and the University’s expansion as a global institution, Life Trustee Daniel D’Aniello ’68, H’20 and his wife, Gayle, are gifting $10 million toward significantly enhancing the Syracuse Abroad Florence program. The transformational nature of this… Campus & Community Investing in the Bedrock of Discovery: New Endowed Professorship in Quantum Science Wednesday, May 11, 2022, By News Staff Kathy Walters ’73 and her husband, Stan ’72, can look back over 50 years and easily track the impact Syracuse University had on their lives, but their newest gift to their alma mater looks far into the future, for generations… Campus & Community An Endowed Gift That Improves Prospects for the ‘Onlys’ Wednesday, May 11, 2022, By Eileen Korey Throughout much of her adulthood, Christine (Chris) A. Carona ’85 has either experienced or witnessed the “Onlys”—a term used to describe what it feels like to be the only woman or member of an unrepresented group in the room at… Campus & Community Lauren R. Villanueva Named Vice President of Alumni Engagement Friday, May 6, 2022, By News Staff As Syracuse University continues to advance several priorities related to its fundraising and alumni engagement efforts, Matt Ter Molen, senior vice president and chief advancement officer, announced the appointment of Lauren R. Villanueva as the University’s next vice president of… Media, Law & Policy The Gift of a Professorship to Inspire Generations of Engaged Citizens Tuesday, January 25, 2022, By Eileen Korey When the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs opened in 1924, it included a citizenship curriculum for all undergraduates in the liberal arts. Thirty years later, Merle Goldberg traveled from her home in Maryland to Syracuse University, hoping for… Campus & Community Consider Giving of Your Time, Talent and Treasure Wednesday, December 15, 2021, By News Staff The Faculty, Staff, Emeritus and Retiree Giving Committee has been working to spread an important message: the importance of giving back to Syracuse University. Syracuse has shaped our lives and careers in many ways, just as it does for our… Health & Society Jillian Scheer Named Inaugural Cobb-Jones Professor of Clinical Psychology Thursday, December 2, 2021, By Dan Bernardi When Janet Gretchen Jones’ wife Faith (“Chris”) Maltby Cobb ’51, G’66, G’74 (Ph.D.) passed away in 2018, Jones considered different ways to honor her partner’s legacy. Out of all the different institutions and organizations her wife was involved with throughout… Veterans Syracuse University Announces Transformative $30 Million Gift to Secure the Future and Long-Term Success of the Institute for Veterans and Military Families Thursday, November 4, 2021, By News Staff This week the Syracuse University community came together to dedicate and formally open the National Veterans Resource Center (NVRC) at the Daniel and Gayle D’Aniello Building, and to celebrate the 10-year anniversary of the Institute for Veterans and Military Families… Campus & Community Making History and Exceeding Goals: What It Means to Be Forever Orange Thursday, October 21, 2021, By Eileen Korey Forever Orange: The Campaign for Syracuse University is a clarion call “to show the world what Orange can do.” The response so far has been spirited and inspiring: Syracuse University has raised more in private philanthropy than at any other… Media, Law & Policy Gift to Newhouse Students: Providing Opportunities for the Curious and the Adventuresome Tuesday, September 21, 2021, By Eileen Korey Opportunity is defined as a situation that makes it possible to do something you want to do. For Henrietta “Etta” Fielek ’70, G’77, the opportunity to attend her dream school—Syracuse University—was made possible by scholarship support and financial aid. Now,… 1234 Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.