Skip to Content Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Indiana University Indiana University IU Menu News at IU Bloomington News at IU All Campuses Close dropdown Topics for All Campuses Arts & Humanities Business & Innovation Campus Life Health & Wellness Global Law & Policy Science & Technology Administration News For Students Faculty & Staff IU Community Media Campus Newsrooms Trending Tags IU South Bend Community Engagement Kelley School of Business View all tags IU Bloomington Close dropdown IU Bloomington Topics Arts & Humanities Business & Innovation Campus Life Health & Wellness Global Law & Policy Science & Technology Administration News For Students Faculty & Staff IU Community Media Trending Tags Kelley School of Business Indiana Business Research Center News Release View all tags IUPUI Close dropdown IUPUI Topics Arts & Humanities Business & Innovation Campus Life Health & Wellness Global Law & Policy Science & Technology Administration News For Students Faculty & Staff IU Community Media Trending Tags View all tags Search Campus Life The most-read IU Bloomington news of 2021 By Amanda Roach Dec. 15, 2021 As we near the end of 2021, let's look back at some of the most read stories of the year both on our campus as well as across IU. In Bloomington View print quality image IU Bloomington climbs US News rankings; IUPUI ranks high in innovation, service learning IU Bloomington is 26th among public national universities, while IUPUI ties for 21st for service learning, and the Kelley School of Business is eighth overall. View print quality image Take a shot at Simon Skjodt Assembly Hall with campus's first COVID-19 vaccine clinic At the end of March, the COVID-19 vaccine clinic site at the Monroe Convention Center moved to Simon Skjodt Assembly Hall on the IU Bloomington campus. View print quality image IU enrolls record number of students of color; IU Bloomington shatters enrollment records IU Bloomington welcomed a record incoming class of 9,482, and degree-seeking students of color reflect a record enrollment level of 29 percent across IU. View print quality image Nighttime films at Memorial Stadium among IU Cinema fall events IU Cinema's fall semester lineup included movies at Memorial Stadium, films tied to actress Glenn Close's costume collection, a series featuring actress Gene Tierney and a new program honoring IU Cinema's former director. View print quality image IMU unveils new restaurants, including Pan-Asian fare and Napolese pizza Four new restaurants opened Feb. 15 in the Indiana Memorial Union as part of the IMU dining renovation project, including Pan-Asian fare, buffet-style bars and Napolese pizza. Across IU View print quality image Pamela Whitten named 19th president of Indiana University In April, the IU Board of Trustees named Pamela Whitten as the university's 19th president. Whitten is a visionary scholar and accomplished educator and researcher who has held a variety of leadership roles. View print quality image Indiana University plans for in-person fall 2021 semester As IU approached the one-year anniversary of having to adapt to the challenges of the COVID-19 pandemic, the university announced it was planning for an in-person fall 2021 semester and a return to mostly normal operations. View print quality image COVID-19 vaccine will be required for all at Indiana University As part of its ongoing and successful response to and management of the COVID-19 pandemic, IU announced in May that it would require the vaccine for all students, faculty and staff beginning with the fall 2021 semester. View print quality image Indiana University mourns passing of trustee Melanie Walker In August, the IU community mourned the passing of trustee Melanie S. Walker, who was appointed to the IU Board of Trustees by then-Gov. Mike Pence in 2016. More unique stories from our campus View print quality image Making the Madness Bloomington and IUPUI were two hosts of the NCAA Division I men's basketball tournament. Meet the faces and places behind the scenes.Read about IU's role View print quality image A Close look at 'The Art of the Character' Bringing Glenn Close's costumes to life for their first exhibition at IU Bloomington took months of collaboration.Learn about the exhibit View print quality image Hoosiers making Olympic splash Take a deep dive into the stories behind the Indiana University athletes who went for gold in the 2020 Tokyo Olympics.Read about the athletes View print quality image Taking collaboration to the next level The IU Regional Academic Health Center includes the IU Bloomington Health Sciences Building as well as IU Health Bloomington.Learn about the center Filed Under: Campus Life COVID-19 Famous Visitors Indiana Memorial Union IU Cinema IU Community Pamela Whitten Top Stories More from the newsroom Recommended from the newsroom IU Bloomington a top producer for Fulbright U.S. Student Program for 2021-22 Indiana University | Feb. 28, 2022 Health care wage growth has lagged behind other industries, despite pandemic burden Indiana University | Feb. 25, 2022 IU partners with Native American tribe to expand COVID-19 study Indiana University | Feb. 17, 2022 Afghan violinist pursues dream at Jacobs School with help of alumnus Indiana University | Feb. 22, 2022 Trending Articles Nearly 1 in 3 young men in the US report having no sex, study finds Blood test for depression, bipolar disorder offers promise of personalized treatment Pulitzer-winning alumni reflect on insurrection coverage, career preparation at IU Granfalloon returns this summer with headliners Japanese Breakfast and Car Seat Headrest Westfield set pace for Indiana's population growth in 2021 News at IU social media channels Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Contact, Address and Additional Links TEAM About News & Media Specialists RESOURCES For the Media For Faculty & Staff Media Studios Archive IU Experts SUBSCRIBE Email Newsletters & Press Releases RSS feeds INDIANA UNIVERSITY NEWS & MEDIA 517 E. Kirkwood Avenue Von Lee Second Floor Bloomington, IN 47408 newsroom@iu.edu Accessibility | Privacy Notice | Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Indiana University IU IU Bloomington IUPUI IU Topics Arts & Humanities Business & Innovation Campus Life Health & Wellness Global Law & Policy Science & Technology Administration News For Students Faculty & Staff IU Community Media Trending Tags IU South Bend Community Engagement Kelley School of Business View all tags