Skip to content The Harvard Gazette Search for: Arts & Humanities Business & Economy Campus & Community Commencement 2022 The Coronavirus Update Events Health & Medicine National & World Affairs News & Announcements Photography The Quest for Racial Justice Science & Technology The Solutions Series News + About Accessibility Athletics News and Scores For Media & Journalists Privacy Policy Trademark The Daily Gazette Sign up for daily emails to get the latest Harvard news. Harvard University National & World Affairs World Taken out of context GenSci Lab scholars urge researchers to take care crafting definitions of sex as language can make its way into law, public policy World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Health & Medicine Health Don’t let latest COVID surge overshadow progress, says Hanage Epidemiologist explains how to stay on guard against subvariants, noting role of protective measures in transition to new pandemic phase Health Researchers find sleep benefit in higher dose of melatonin Supplements show promise in small study of older adults Featured National & World Affairs Health & Medicine Arts & Humanities Science & Technology Business & Economy Campus & Community Experience Commencement 2019 © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College The Harvard Gazette Explain your thesis in 3 minutes Sibling on a mission Campus & Community Explain your thesis in 3 minutes Campus & Community Explain your thesis in 3 minutes Hakeem Angulu delivers his award-winning pitch on the topic of gerrymandering. Seniors awarded for pithy presentations on topics ranging from gerrymandering to the psychology of schadenfreude By Manisha Aggarwal-Schifellite Harvard Staff Writer DateJune 4, 2020June 4, 2020 Share Email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn College seniors spend months researching and writing their senior theses, becoming experts on niche topics in a broad range of fields, from physics to philosophy. Those who entered the Pitch Your Thesis Competition, held by the Harvard College Writing Center, distilled those hours of work and hundreds of pages of analysis into a digestible, three-minute oral presentation. Unlike last year’s inaugural Three-Minute Thesis event on campus, the 2020 Pitch Your Thesis Competition was a digital affair. Entrants each sent in a video presentation for judging, explaining their thesis topic and findings. The presentations, much like they would have been in person, were required to be logical, succinct, and without excessive jargon or unexplained terminology. Hakeem Angulu ’20, a joint concentrator in computer science and statistics, won first prize for the video explaining his thesis, “The Voting Power Gap: Identifying Racial Gerrymandering with a Discrete Voter Model.” Second place went to Kelsey Ichikawa ’20, a neurobiology and philosophy concentrator, for a presentation on “The Reward of Others’ Pain: Imaging the Brain, and the Ethics of Schadenfreude,” and government concentrator Brandon Martinez ’20 received the third-place prize for a presentation on “The Politics of Electoral Reform in American Cities.” Kelsey Ichikawa won second-place for her presentation on schadenfreude. Brandon Martinez won third-place for his talk on electoral reform. Related Whew, that’s done! With senior theses turned in, students can celebrate a major academic achievement Once on this island Marvin Merritt's show about growing up in a small, isolated community explores how the stories of a family shape the history of a life The Daily Gazette Sign up for daily emails to get the latest Harvard news. Editor's Picks Campus Triple the joy Photographers capture the festive rites and poignant moments as three classes celebrate Commencement World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Campus A call to public service Merrick Garland tells grads to get involved, warns democracy in peril, cites Capitol attack, rise in mass shootings, stifling of voting rights Up Next Campus & Community Sibling on a mission Campus & Community Sibling on a mission Harvard graduate Nathan Grant and his twin brother, Nik, who has Hunter syndrome. Photos by Kate Cooley