Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program ‘We’re Stuck’ — Meet #NCState22 Best Friends Niambé and Kourtni facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Students ‘We’re Stuck’ — Meet #NCState22 Best Friends Niambé and Kourtni Best friends say 'goodbye' to NC State in the field where they first said 'hello' and started a lifelong friendship. May 16, 2022 Megan Ellisor Play Video They met on the Court of North Carolina at a Goodnight Scholars event, only to find out they both lived in Bragaw Hall. Niambé James and Kourtni Curry have been inseparable ever since. As they prepare to graduate with degrees in sustainable materials and technology and animal science, respectively, Niambé and Kourtni return to the location where it all started to reflect on how their friendship shaped their time at NC State and helped them persevere through the pandemic. “I am a big believer in everything happens for a reason,” Niambé said. “People come into your life for a reason, and I really do believe God put you in my life for a reason.” More from Best of Friends #NCState22 In our graduation video series, we meet friends who helped one another through an unprecedented college career. ‘Whatever You Need, I’m There’ — Meet #NCState22 Best Friends Emily and Alyssa Brought together by the saxophone section, best friends reminisce on their time in Carter-Finley Stadium. ‘I Feel So Blessed’ — Meet #NCState22 Best Friends Parker and Noah As part of our graduation video series, these elementary school friends reflect on how NC State brought them closer together. See all in current issue Categories: Alumni Best of Friends Bulletin Board Students Tags: animal science college of agriculture and life sciences college of natural resources commencement graduation sustainability View Comments 0 total responses Leave a Response Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. All fields are required. Comment * Name * Email * More From NC State News The Gift of a Student’s Trust AnnE Ford's Final Student Chronicle: Graduation ‘Whatever You Need, I’m There’ — Meet #NCState22 Best Friends Emily and Alyssa Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.