Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links University of Miami Division of University Communications Office of Media Relations Miller School of Medicine Communications Hurricane Sports UM Media Experts Emergency Preparedness Home Search News@TheU Explore Topics Latest Headlines Academics Arts and Humanities People and Community Research University All Topics A to Z Related Links Subscribe to Daily Newsletter Special Reports Social Networks For the Media Find University Experts Contact Us Life@TheU News and Info People and Culture Benefits and Discounts More Life@TheU Topics About Life@the U Connect and Share Contact Life@theU Events All Events Faculty and Staff Events Student Events TheU Creates (Arts and Culture Events) Undergraduate Students: Important Dates and Deadlines Submit an Event Miami Magazine News@TheU Life@TheU Events Miami Magazine More News Sites Admissions Alumni College of Arts and Sciences College of Engineering DCIE Frost School of Music Miami Herbert Business School Miller School of Medicine School of Architecture School of Communication School of Education and Human Development School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science School of Nursing and Health Studies The Graduate School Student Affairs Search News@TheU Explore Topics Latest Headlines Academics Arts and Humanities People and Community Research University All Topics A to Z Related Links Subscribe to Daily Newsletter Special Reports Social Networks For the Media Find University Experts Contact Us Life@TheU News and Info People and Culture Benefits and Discounts More Life@TheU Topics About Life@the U Connect and Share Contact Life@theU Events All Events Faculty and Staff Events Student Events TheU Creates (Arts and Culture Events) Undergraduate Students: Important Dates and Deadlines Submit an Event Miami Magazine More News Sites Admissions Alumni College of Arts and Sciences College of Engineering DCIE Frost School of Music Miami Herbert Business School Miller School of Medicine School of Architecture School of Communication School of Education and Human Development School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science School of Nursing and Health Studies The Graduate School Student Affairs News Home Stories 2020 07 UMTV’s The Culture sheds light on the Black Lives Matter movement AAA Arts and Humanities People and Community UMTV’s The Culture sheds light on the Black Lives Matter movement “Black Voices Matter,” a UMTV special presentation, can be viewed online Friday, July 31. By Ashley A. Williams 07-29-2020 “Black Voices Matter,” a UMTV special presentation, can be viewed online Friday, July 31. UMTV’s The Culture sheds light on the Black Lives Matter movement By Ashley A. Williams 07-29-2020 A group of University of Miami students take a deep dive through film, photography, and journalism into the history of police brutality and social justice issues Black people are facing in the United States. As many students around the nation and globe engage in protesting violence by police against Black communities, a group of students at the University of Miami is documenting as much of it as possible. Jayda Graham and KiAnna Dorsey, executive producers of The Culture, UMTV’s award-winning channel which highlights the Black experience at and beyond the University of Miami, have banded together during the summer to lead the charge on a special edition project titled “Black Voices Matter.” UMTV produces nine different shows, including a weekly live sports show and newscast, a late-night comedy program, and two Spanish-language programs. “We felt like it was really important for us to talk about the issues that Black people are facing in America,” said Jayda Graham, a senior majoring in broadcast journalism. “I think this is a very unique time in history. Not only are we dealing with these social issues, but we’re also dealing with a pandemic that’s disproportionately affecting black people.” Graham said it feels like an explosion of issues all at once and the U.S. is being forced to recognize what Black people have “always been dealing with.” The 30-minute special project will highlight the history of the Black Lives Matter organization and its mission after the killing of teen Trayvon Martin. Members of The Culture will also share their personal perspectives of protests and rallies from their respective cities and towns. “Even though we’re in the midst of a hard time and everybody is social distancing, I feel like that’s what’s making this project extra special,” said Dorsey, a sophomore majoring in motion pictures with a minor in Spanish. “I also think it’s really special to know people from all over the University are on board.” UMTV station manager Gianna Sanchez, a senior majoring in broadcast journalism, frequently met virtually with Dorsey and Graham to assist with the planning and visual aspects of the project. Sanchez coordinated with every show under the UMTV umbrella so that they would be a part of the project. “It was important for UMTV to show its support of Black voices rather than just make one simple post about it,” Sanchez said. “All nine shows came together to make one united project, but it was important for The Culture to lead and to have this experience.” The unique project captures voices from across the University, including President Julio Frenk, Black student leaders, and faculty and staff members. “It’s a combination of national and UM news, while also putting the focus on Black stories,” Sanchez said. “While showcasing those difference aspects, we end the show on a positive note by showcasing the things that have changed because of the protests—tips on how you can be proactive, self-care advice, and helpful ways you can be an ally.” As Graham and Dorsey return to campus this fall semester, they plan to keep consistently creating similar content to keep their followers and supporters aware of Black community news. “We are pushing the envelope and telling the stories that need to be told,” Graham said. “Black Voices Matter” can be viewed online Friday, July 31, on the UMTV website. topics: Arts and Humanities People and Community Journalism Social Impact University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 UM Network About UM UM News and Events Admissions Alumni Association UHealth Hurricane Sports University Hotline UM Culture Tools and Resources Academic Calendar People Search myUM CaneLink Blackboard Workday Employment Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices Title IX & Gender Equity Website Feedback