Skip to content University Home Academics Admissions Campus Life Research About Apply Giving Clemson News Search Topics OUR Clemson Impact and Innovation Student Success Faculty and Staff Achievements Alumni Accomplishments All Stories Clemson In The News Celebrating the Class of 2022 Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Divisions Office of the President Office of the Provost Advancement Clemson Computing Information Technology External Affairs Finance and Operations Inclusion and Equity Public Service and Agriculture Research Student Affairs Athletics For Journalists Our Experts Clemson.edu Resources University Home Academics Admissions Campus Life Research About Search for: Search Search Clemson News Search for: Search Category: Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Website The Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business is educating students with the knowledge, skills and values to enable them to drive and succeed in a dynamic global economy. Through immersive education, research and outreach programs that are globally competitive and committed to economic and social advancements, our students become empowered, market-ready leaders, poised to shape the future. Read more about the College. Featured New business building receives construction industry recognition Read More Our Experts View All Experts Whether you’re looking for commentary on breaking trends shaping the world or a background briefing, our experts are available to help. Angeline Close Scheinbaum A scholar of consumer behavior and integrated brand promotion with a focus on sport, e-commerce and social media, Scheinbaum’s work includes theoretical rigor and industry relevance and is used in many business schools and communication programs. Read More about Angeline Close Scheinbaum Craig Wallace Wallace has spent two decades applying his knowledge in organizational psychology to deliver lifesaving strategy to businesses. He is a pioneer in high-involvement leadership, a strategy harnessing the power of teamwork by empowering employees. Read More about Craig Wallace Jennifer Siemens Siemens helps marketers and consumer advocates understand consumer experiences during major life transitions, how consumers might be vulnerable and what resources can be provided to help them. With an understanding of consumer behavior, her research benefits consumer welfare and quality of life as it relates to consumption. Read More about Jennifer Siemens Latest Friendship connects winners of Clemson’s highest student award for service Three stones to be added to Scroll of Honor during Memorial Day ceremony Army and Air Force ROTC Commission 33 Lieutenants in Joint Ceremony The Clemson MBA delivers on its innovation promise to create the most valuable degree for students in a changing world Faculty, staff recognized for 2021-22 academic year excellence Clemson Libraries recognizes undergraduate research with new award Military Heritage Plaza rededicated after significant improvements Clemson student selected for Posters on the Hill research forum Agenda now available for Sonoco FRESH Food, Packaging & Sustainability Summit Military Heritage Plaza rededication Thursday Students’ achievements recognized at awards ceremony 7 things to know before filing 2021 taxes Clemson University earns 2022-2023 Military Friendly School designation Clemson data science and analytics master’s program ranked among top in the nation Bomber guidance: WWII hero Capt. Dick Nelms visits Clemson ROTC cadets SAS makes $3.3M gift to Clemson University to aid in education and research Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business adds Leadership Certificate to long list of opportunities for its students Alumnus Daniel McLeod Coble Elected 5th Circuit Judge Clemson MBA grad Nicole Andrews recognized in Top 100 Under 50 Corporate Executive and Emerging Leaders by Diversity MBA Media Remnant Trust exhibit brings rare historical documents to Clemson Sonoco FRESH Food, Packaging & Sustainability Summit Rescheduled for September, Virtual Event Scheduled for March Clemson answers market demand with new MBA in digital brand communications Clemson MBA in business analytics ranked among top in the nation $2.5M Academic Cornerstone gift to John E. Walker Department of Economics will drive future success and honor past foundation A year in review: Clemson’s largest philanthropic gift makes lasting changes Seven faculty receive inaugural Powers Fellows awards Clemson alum knocks baseball team’s rebranding out of the park Two Upstate Honors College students named Rhodes Scholar finalists Mars, Walt Disney World Resort to keynote second annual Sonoco FRESH Food, Packaging & Sustainability Summit Clemson senior named finalist for Marshall Scholarship Clemson’s revised graduate marketing program to offer real-world experience; applications now accepted Building entrepreneurial ventures: $2.5M gift to launch first-of-its-kind entrepreneurship space at Clemson University New business building receives construction industry recognition Inaugural Department of Marketing Advisory Board convenes Researchers to fight online disinformation by creating digital literacy tools Four students selected as this year’s National Scholars Posts navigation 1 2 … 11 Clemson News Clemson News is the go-to source for stories and news about the innovations, research and accomplishments of the Clemson Family. Contact Us Media Resources For Journalists Find an Expert Clemson Publications Clemson World Decipher IDEAS magazine Student Affairs Experience Magazine Orange. The Experience. Clemson TV Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022. All Rights Reserved. Clemson University Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson