Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Tactical Navigation - New Wave Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Close Search Tulane Search form Search this site Search search tulane.edu search news only Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Tulane News Primary Navigation - New Wave News Tulanian Magazine Events Experts Press Releases On Good Authority Podcast Tactical Navigation - New Wave Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Public Relations Team: tel 504-865-5210, @tulanenews, pr@tulane.edu Research in Real Time, Science, World Tulane geologist honored by National Academies of Sciences May 13, 2022 Geologist Cynthia Ebinger has been named one of 14 Jefferson Science Fellows by the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine. Research in Real Time, Science, World Tulane math professor receives international research award May 12, 2022 Tulane University math professor Lisa Fauci has won a prestigious research grant from an international organization that funds basic research in life sciences. NOLA, People, Podcast, World Tulane alumni reimagining glass recycling May 03, 2022 Glass Half Full, which is co-founded by Tulane alumni Franziska Trautmann and Max Steitz, is endeavoring to increase Louisiana’s climate resilience and disaster readiness by recycling its glass. COVID-19, Culture, Event, On Campus, People, World Psychologist explores history of anti-API racism and advocates for a united community May 03, 2022 In time for Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month in May, the Office of Equity, Diversity and Inclusion invited Sherry Wang, an associate professor of counseling psychology at Santa Clara University, a licensed psychologist, researcher and anti-racist educator, to present her research on anti-Asian violence and racism in the lecture “Asian American/Pacific Islander Mental Health Amidst the Twin Pandemics: Lessons Beyond COVID-19.” Culture, News Releases, NOLA, World Newcomb Dance Company presents "Cassandra Machine" April 18, 2022 The Newcomb Dance Company presents the premiere of Cassandra Machine, a contemporary dance work, beginning April 26 at Tulane. Culture, News Releases, Research in Real Time, World Tulane study explores academic success among Jewish girls April 14, 2022 A Tulane study concludes that girls raised by at least one Jewish parent acquire a particular way of viewing the world that influences their education choices, career aspirations and various other experiences. Research in Real Time, Science, World Tulane team a national semifinalist in energy technology competition April 12, 2022 A team of Earth and Environmental Sciences students has been named a national semifinalist in the U.S. Department of Energy's inaugural EnergyTech University Prize competition. World State Department visit underscores Tulane’s commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion in international education April 08, 2022 Tulane collaborates with the U.S. State Department to encourage students to apply for international fellowships and scholarships and improve access to such programs. The goal is to enhance global learning opportunities for all interested students. Information sessions about one such program, the Fulbright, will be held in person, on campus on April 12. Culture, Health, Research in Real Time, Science, World Tulane professor among international experts to produce landmark U.N. climate change report April 05, 2022 Tulane professor Jesse M. Keenan is among dozens of scholars and scientists involved in the writing and editing of a newly released United Nations report on the state of climate change. Culture, Event, Health, People, Science, World Tulane neuroscientist among women honored in Smithsonian’s If/Then exhibit March 17, 2022 This March the Smithsonian is adding to the excitement of Women’s History Month with the opening of “#IfThenSheCan – The Exhibit”, a collection of 120 life size 3D-printed statues honoring groundbreaking women in STEM. Elizabeth “Liz” Engler-Chiurazzi, Tulane assistant professor of neurosurgery at the Clinical Neuroscience Research Center at the School of Medicine, was chosen as one of the 120 If/Then ambassadors.This March the Smithsonian is adding to the excitement of Women’s History Month with the opening of “#IfThenSheCan – The Exhibit”, a collection of 120 life size 3D-printed statues honoring groundbreaking women in STEM. Elizabeth “Liz” Engler-Chiurazzi, Tulane assistant professor of neurosurgery at the Clinical Neuroscience Research Center at the School of Medicine, was chosen as one of the 120 If/Then ambassadors. COVID-19, Culture, Health, News Releases, Research in Real Time, Science, World Tulane wins $2.27 million grant to combat burnout among health care workers March 04, 2022 The Tulane School of Social Work has been awarded a $2.27 million grant from the U.S. Health Resources and Services Administration to develop and implement a plan to address retention, burnout and overall wellbeing and resiliency of the health care workforce. Research in Real Time, Science, World Tulane study uncovers mystery of the invasive common reed March 03, 2022 A Tulane study has uncovered the mystery of an invasive common reed known as Phragmites australis enabling researchers to determine the genomic bases driving its invasive success, compared to native plants. COVID-19, Culture, Health, News Releases, Research in Real Time, Science, World Anxiety and alcohol misuse among pandemic-related mental health challenges Americans face February 02, 2022 Mental health issues continue to be a crucial concern as the pandemic enters a recovery phase, according to a Tulane study. Culture, Research in Real Time, Science, World Archaeologist offers a new look at ancient Rome January 24, 2022 Allison Emmerson, archaeologist and associate professor in the Department of Classical Studies at the School of Liberal Arts, has published an award-winning new book, Life and Death in the Roman Suburb, which challenges the idea presented by past scholarship that the Romans were uncomfortable with the dead and as a result kept the dead outside the city, away from the living within the city walls. Culture, World Connecting the past, present, self and community through the humanities and service learning January 18, 2022 Mallory Monaco Caterine, senior professor of practice in the Department of Classical Studies at the School of Liberal Arts, and Greenberg Family Professor of Social Entrepreneurship at the Phyllis M. Taylor Center for Social Innovation and Design Thinking, views the study of ancient Mediterranean civilizations and languages as not only an opportunity to gain knowledge of history, but also as a guide to understanding human behavior that assists in informing our decisions today. Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next › last » Subscribe to Tulane Today Tulane Today Archive News Archive Submit Your News Submission Guidelines Tulane in the News On Good Authority Podcast Statements Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane Home Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University