Skip to main content University of Nebraska–Lincoln Visit Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Log In Search Search Form Search Submit Close Nebraska Today Menu Search Log In Agriculture & Environment Arts Business & Law On Campus Science & Technology Society & Culture Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Nebraska Newsroom Nebraska Today Nebraska ranked among best for student Fulbrights Nebraska ranked among best for student Fulbrights February 18, 2021 · 2 min read Nebraska ranked among best for student Fulbrights by Troy Fedderson | University Communication and Marketing The University of Nebraska–Lincoln is again among the top institutions within the United States for producing students who earn Fulbright awards. The ranking was announced Feb. 15. The University of Nebraska–Lincoln is again ranked among the nation’s best for total Fulbright awards earned by students. Announced by the U.S. State Department on Feb. 15, Nebraska finished with 10 student Fulbright awards for the 2020-21 academic year. The total earned the university a Top Producing award among the U.S. State Department’s list of doctoral-granting institutions. “It was a difficult year, but we successfully worked through challenges and Nebraska is again counted among the best in the entire United States,” said Laura Damuth, director of national and international fellowship. “This is further proof that Nebraska is, in terms of Fulbright awards, a center for student success.” The Top Producing Institution lists traditionally counts students who were awarded Fulbrights and completed the international experience. Due to COVID-19, the 2020-21 Top Producing data reflects the total number of awards offered, rather than the number of awards accepted. Overall, Nebraska had 30 students submit Fulbright applications to be considered for the 2020-21 grants. Of the 30 applications, 16 were named semi-finalists with 10 selected to participate in the international program. Nebraska’s 33 percent yield in application to final award was one of the best in the nation. Among the institutions ranked ahead of Nebraska on the Fulbright program’s Top Producing Institutions list, only Michigan State University (24) had fewer applications submitted. Nebraska was also a top producer of student Fulbright awards in 2012, 2013 and 2019. The Fulbright Program was created to increase mutual understanding between the people of the United States and the people of other countries. More than 2,200 U.S. Students and 900 U.S. college and university faculty and administrators are awarded Fulbright awards annually. In addition, some 4,000 Fulbright Foreign Students and Visiting Scholars come to the United States annually to study, lecture, conduct research, or teach their native language in U.S. institutions of higher education. Learn more about the Fulbright Program and how Huskers can apply for the award. Share Related Links Nebraska's 2019-20 Student Fulbright awards Tags Fulbright U.S. Student Program Fulbright awards honors Laura Damuth faculty outreach International Engagement undergraduate education student success Recent News Mixed signals: Male wolf spiders get luckier following complex courtships 4 days ago Science & Technology 'Bell Affair' making its premiere in D.C. June 2 4 days ago Arts Society & Culture Students gain nonprofit experience through honors, foundry collaboration 4 days ago On Campus Lincoln wins big at National Bass Championship 4 days ago On Campus Interdisciplinary program takes long-range view of visual impairment instruction 4 days ago On Campus Kishore endeavors to leave a footprint 6 days ago On Campus Raikes School student projects solve real-world problems, aid clients 6 days ago Science & Technology On Campus Nebraska’s leading economic indicator continues to rise 6 days ago On Campus Address University of Nebraska–Lincoln 1217 Q St. Lincoln, NE 68588 US About the UComm News Team Submit a Story Related Links University Communication Athletic Department Communications Office Campus Links Directory Employment Events Libraries Maps News Office of the Chancellor Report an Incident Policies & Reports Accessibility Statement Emergency Planning and Preparedness Institutional Equity and Compliance Notice of Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Security and Fire Safety Report Student Information Disclosures UNL web framework and quality assurance provided by the Web Developer Network · QA Test University of Nebraska–Lincoln Established 1869 · Copyright 2022 Some parts of this site work best with JavaScript enabled.