Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: Faculty Experts Back To All Experts Brian Taylor Professor and Chair of the Political Science Department 315.443.3713 bdtaylor@maxwell.syr.edu Field Russia Expertise comparative politics Russia Russian politics Vladimir Putin Brian Taylor is a professor of political science at the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs. Taylor’s geographic area of specialization is Russia and the post-Soviet region. Additionally, Dr. Taylor is the author of State Building in Putin’s Russia: Policing and Coercion After Communism and Politics and the Russian Army: Civil-Military Relations, 1689-2000. His new book The Code of Putinism, which is released in June 2018, examines how Putin has shaped Russia for the past 20 years. His courses include the Politics of Russia, Russian and Post-Soviet Politics, Comparative Civil-Military Relations and Politics and the Military. Read Full Bio Related Stories and Coverage Foreign Affairs Taylor authors “The Power Struggle After Putin” Tuesday, April 26, 2022, By Lily Datz Radio Free Europe Taylor discusses Russian Liberals Sunday, April 24, 2022, By Lily Datz WETM “Exploring history between Russia and Ukraine” Friday, February 25, 2022, By Lily Datz WSYR-TV “Syracuse professor helps makes sense of Russia-Ukraine conflict” Friday, February 25, 2022, By Lily Datz New York Daily News “Biden slaps Putin with sanctions over invasion of Ukraine while Russia considers next move” Friday, February 25, 2022, By Lily Datz The Washington Post “Trump largely isolated in praise for Putin as GOP condemns Russian invasion” Thursday, February 24, 2022, By Lily Datz WHYY “The crisis in Ukraine: Russian aggression, U.S. sanctions, and the future of the region” Wednesday, February 23, 2022, By Lily Datz BBC Brazil “How power, isolation and the quest for legacy led Putin to risk further incursion into Ukraine” Wednesday, February 23, 2022, By Lily Datz Australian Broadcasting Company “Can tough words and sanctions stop Putin’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine?” Wednesday, February 23, 2022, By Lily Datz New York Daily News “As the prospect of war looms over Europe, N.Y. officials assess local cyberthreat.” Monday, February 21, 2022, By Lily Datz 123 Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.