Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: Campus & Community 5 Things to Know About the JMA Wireless Dome Wednesday, May 25, 2022, By Jen Maser Share community partnersDomeJMA Wireless Otto helps usher in the JMA Wireless Dome era. Home to countless athletic competitions, five Orange teams, some of the most memorable moments in collegiate sports history and cherished University traditions. Host to Commencement, iconic performers, family-friendly entertainment, high school athletic events and graduations for local districts, and even serving as a temporary classroom and testing center amidst the COVID-19 pandemic. The University’s on-campus stadium may be “just a building”—but for the hundreds of thousands of students, athletes, fans, alumni and employees who have played, performed, cheered, made friends and made history under its roof, it is part of the fabric of this University and the Syracuse community at large. Last week, the University announced that JMA Wireless, a global leader in the wireless industry and 5G technology headquartered in Syracuse, has entered a 10-year naming rights partnership, ending the 40-year legacy of the Carrier Dome name and ushering in the JMA Wireless Dome era (or JMA Dome for short). Chancellor Kent Syverud, JMA Wireless Founder and CEO John Mezzalingua, Director of Athletics John Wildhack, Women’s Basketball Coach Felisha Legette-Jack and Chief Facilities Officer Pete Sala spoke at a press event May 19 about the continuing transformation of the JMA Dome, the exhilarating partnership between two organizations committed to the Central New York region, and how it will always be “Dome Sweet Dome.” Left to right: Director of Athletics John Wildhack, JMA Wireless Founder and CEO John Mezzalingua, Women’s Basketball Coach Felisha Legette-Jack, Chancellor Kent Syverud and Chief Facilities Officer Pete Sala Here are five takeaways from the event. 1. The technology transformation will be unlike anything we’ve seen before. As the company that was recently tapped to help prepare SoFi Stadium, home of the NFL’s Los Angeles Rams and host of Super Bowl LVI, with 5G technology, JMA has outfitted venues with some of the most advanced technology available. According to Mezzalingua, “There’s a revolution brewing in sports and 5G is at the heart of it.” Connectivity enhancements within the JMA Dome will help optimize performance (e.g., augmented reality sensors; advanced coaching tools; and ultra-fast communication between players and coaches) and create an elite fan experience that seamlessly integrates the in-person experience with fans’ digital worlds. “This partnership will give the JMA Dome the first and most advanced 5G network of any collegiate stadium in the world,” Mezzalingua said. “It will not only transform the experiences of fans, players and coaches, but it has the potential to supercharge the competitiveness of Syracuse University and create excellence at the level that we all expect.” 2. Our Athletics program will benefit tremendously from this partnership and ongoing investments in the building. “This announcement, combined with the upcoming renovations to the JMA Dome, sends a very clear message about the future,” Wildhack said. “Syracuse University is committed to its athletics program. We are committed to providing the best experience, competitively and academically, for our student-athletes to compete successfully in the ACC and on a national level.” Or as Coach Legette-Jack put it, “We’re coming and we’re putting you on notice right now, we’re ready to go!” 3. The entire Central New York community will also get a boost. In addition to being the venue for hundreds of athletic competitions, the JMA Dome will continue to be a hub of activity and catalyst for economic impact for the greater Syracuse community. Chancellor Syverud shared that the Dome brings upwards of 935,000 visitors and more than $240 million in economic activity to the Central New York region each year. “We think these improvements will make it one of the most attractive venues in the world for large crowds to attend, not just for sporting events but for many types of competitions and concerts,” Chancellor Syverud said. “I’ve learned to be very careful in making predictions, but we expect the economic impact to the region to grow significantly with these enhancements.” 4. The University and JMA Wireless both have deep roots in and an unwavering commitment to Syracuse. The University has long prioritized a mutually beneficial relationship with the City of Syracuse and its surrounding areas—and JMA Wireless is also firmly rooted in Syracuse, founded locally by Central New York native Mezzalingua a decade ago. Earlier this year, the company opened its new campus and the first U.S.-owned 5G manufacturing facility on the city’s South Side. “We hope to see this as just the beginning of a revitalization of Central New York as a national tech hub,” said Mezzalingua. Chancellor Syverud thanked the people of Syracuse and Central New York, saying, “Our communities have never been more intertwined and aligned than they are right now. The JMA Dome is as much a part of Syracuse and Central New York as it is a part of our campus. 5. The historic building will never lose ‘that special feeling.’ “I’ve seen everything that’s happened in this Dome, big and small, exciting, heartbreaking, thrilling, historic,” said Sala. “When we first opened the doors of this building in 1980, I don’t think any of us imagined how special, how sacred, how iconic this venue would become.” Whether you’re there to watch one of your favorite musicians bring down the house, sway and sing the alma mater with friends at Commencement, or cheer on the football team alongside 35,000 of your closest friends, the JMA Dome will continue to deliver those uniquely Orange experiences—now with a new name, a transformative partner, and more power, speed and connectivity than ever before. Author Jen Maser Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi More In Campus & Community Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59 was only 5 years old when he developed a work ethic that would last a lifetime. The Syracuse University graduate and longtime member of the Board of Trustees first demonstrated his entrepreneurial spirit as a… COVID-19 Update: Effective Wednesday, June 1, Masking Level Returns to Yellow Dear Students, Families, Faculty and Staff: Recently the Onondaga County Health Department has reported a notable decline in new COVID infections and hospitalizations across the Central New York region. This positive trend, combined with significantly reduced population density on our… Preparing Students for a Life of Success Selecting a major and choosing a career path don’t have to be daunting experiences. While some students come to Syracuse University’s College of Arts and Sciences (A&S) or the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs (Maxwell) ready to declare… Eugene ‘Gene’ Anderson to Depart Syracuse, Tapped to Lead University of Pittsburgh’s Business School Eugene “Gene” Anderson, dean of the Martin J. Whitman School of Management since 2017, today announced he will conclude his time at Syracuse University next month. After more than five years at the Whitman School, Anderson will return home to… Digital Badges at Syracuse University: Recognizing and Authenticating Microcredential Moments in Higher Education As higher education continues to anticipate and react to the needs of an evolving workforce, new programs and various modalities have been introduced to provide just-in-time learning opportunities that meet the needs of hard and soft skills sought by employers…. Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.