Skip to content University Home Academics Admissions Campus Life Research About Apply Giving Clemson News Search Topics OUR Clemson Impact and Innovation Student Success Faculty and Staff Achievements Alumni Accomplishments All Stories Clemson In The News Celebrating the Class of 2022 Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Divisions Office of the President Office of the Provost Advancement Clemson Computing Information Technology External Affairs Finance and Operations Inclusion and Equity Public Service and Agriculture Research Student Affairs Athletics For Journalists Our Experts Clemson.edu Resources University Home Academics Admissions Campus Life Research About Search for: Search Search Clemson News Search for: Search Inclusion and Equity; OUR Clemson Clemson Libraries names Cromartie associate dean for organizational performance and inclusion Share: Download image May 18, 2022May 18, 2022 Clemson Libraries has named Shamella Cromartie, associate dean of libraries at Western Carolina University, as its new associate dean for organizational performance and inclusion. Cromartie will start at Clemson on July 1. Cromartie will oversee the libraries’ diversity, equity and inclusion efforts, as well as assessment, marketing and communications, digital strategies and learning environments. She is one of three new associate deans joining the libraries as part of its reorganization being implemented in July. Cromartie served at Western Carolina for nearly three years, leading areas such as strategic planning, assessment, user services and accreditation and serving as chair of the Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Committee. She also served as the inaugural chair of the Black Faculty and Staff Assembly at Western Carolina. Prior to that, she served as head of public services for the library at Fayetteville State University and has held positions at both academic and public libraries. “Shamella will be an outstanding addition to the Clemson Libraries leadership team,” said Libraries Dean Chris Cox. “She will play a critical role as we implement our reorganization, and her experience and past leadership in assessment, strategic planning and change management will be an incredible asset for us. I am also excited to have her leading our diversity, equity and inclusion efforts as we continue to strive to make the libraries a welcoming place for everyone at Clemson.” Cromartie earned a Bachelor of Arts in political science and a Bachelor of Science in criminal justice both from Fayetteville State University. She earned her Master of Library Science with an academic concentration from North Carolina Central University, and she is currently working towards her Doctor of Education in educational leadership at Western Carolina University. She is a member of the Black Caucus of the American Library Association and the American Association of University Women. She has held various leadership positions in the North Carolina Library Association, which recognized her with the Roadbuilders Award from the Roundtable on Ethnic Minority Concerns in 2019. Earlier this year, she received the I Love My Librarian Award from the American Library Association for her inclusive approach to supporting research and scholarship at Western Carolina. She was selected from more than 1,300 nominations from library users across the country. Want to Discuss? Get in touch and we will connect you with the author or another expert. Or email us at news@clemson.edu Your Name Your Email Your Message This form is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Related Posts Nursing professor tapped to CBSHS faculty fellowship advancing inclusive excellence Sims named Clemson Libraries Employee of the Year Experiments and Experiences Cox named president of Association of Southeastern Research Libraries Clemson LibrariesFacultyOffice of Inclusion and Equity Clemson News Clemson News is the go-to source for stories and news about the innovations, research and accomplishments of the Clemson Family. Contact Us Media Resources For Journalists Find an Expert Clemson Publications Clemson World Decipher IDEAS magazine Student Affairs Experience Magazine Orange. The Experience. Clemson TV Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022. All Rights Reserved. Clemson University Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson