Skip to content University Home Academics Admissions Campus Life Research About Apply Giving Clemson News Search Topics OUR Clemson Impact and Innovation Student Success Faculty and Staff Achievements Alumni Accomplishments All Stories Clemson In The News Celebrating the Class of 2022 Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Divisions Office of the President Office of the Provost Advancement Clemson Computing Information Technology External Affairs Finance and Operations Inclusion and Equity Public Service and Agriculture Research Student Affairs Athletics For Journalists Our Experts Clemson.edu Resources University Home Academics Admissions Campus Life Research About Search for: Search Search Clemson News Search for: Search Read More about celebrating the class of 2022 Scientists study links between obesity, age and body chemistry May 9, 2022May 9, 2022 A team of Clemson University scientists is making inroads in understanding the relationship between certain enzymes that are normally produced in the body and their role in regulating obesity and controlling liver diseases. According to Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) […] Read More about Scientists study links between obesity, age and body chemistry A consortium to create the next-generation of innovation and talent for the electric vehicle industry April 27, 2022April 28, 2022 The unprecedented need to develop a workforce that can build and service electric and autonomous vehicles and develop the cybersecurity to protect them is the driving force behind a new consortium based in South Carolina. Read More about A consortium to create the next-generation of innovation and talent for the electric vehicle industry Our Experts See All Whether you’re looking for commentary on breaking trends shaping the world or a background briefing, our experts are available to help. Kimberly Baker Whether it’s food safety, shelf stability or the creation of nutrition fact panels, Baker’s expertise in food science, nutrition and the culinary arts addresses food safety from a unique scientific and health-conscious perspective – without sacrificing flavor. Read More about Kimberly Baker Srikanth Pilla An advanced lightweight and sustainable materials researcher within the Department of Automotive Engineering, Pilla’s experience is in high-performance advanced materials including fundamental science and material synthesis to functional prototyping and manufacturing planning. Read More about Srikanth Pilla Angeline Close Scheinbaum A scholar of consumer behavior and integrated brand promotion with a focus on sport, e-commerce and social media, Scheinbaum’s work includes theoretical rigor and industry relevance and is used in many business schools and communication programs. Read More about Angeline Close Scheinbaum Clemson scientists discover new tools to fight potentially deadly protozoa that has pregnant women avoiding cat litter boxes May 9, 2022May 11, 2022 Many doctors caution their pregnant patients to avoid cat feces; even the family pet’s litter box is off-limits. Now, a group of researchers from Clemson University have discovered a promising therapy for those who suffer from toxoplasmosis, a disease caused […] Read More about Clemson scientists discover new tools to fight potentially deadly protozoa that has pregnant women avoiding cat litter boxes Latest Stories See All Friendship connects winners of Clemson’s highest student award for service Pandemic babies with development delays can be helped to make up for lost social interaction – 5 tips for parents The fight against school segregation began in South Carolina, long before it ended with Brown v. Board Clemson in the News More Clemson Headlines Popular Mechanics – May 25, 2022 Earth Will Become One Big Supercontinent Again, And It Will Probably Kill Us, Scientists Say Al Jazeera – May 25, 2022 How ‘alternative facts’ threaten US democracy Euro News – May 24, 2022 Lithium battery crisis: what are the alternatives? Reason – May 24, 2022 Study: Jersey Girls’ Refusal To Pump Gas Is Costing Everyone a Lot of Money Work With Us Get in touch with the Clemson News team. Connect Clemson News Clemson News is the go-to source for stories and news about the innovations, research and accomplishments of the Clemson Family. Contact Us Media Resources For Journalists Find an Expert Clemson Publications Clemson World Decipher IDEAS magazine Student Affairs Experience Magazine Orange. The Experience. Clemson TV Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022. All Rights Reserved. Clemson University Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson