Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program NC State Named Best Large Employer in North Carolina facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program NC State Named Best Large Employer in North Carolina Forbes surveyed 60,000 Americans to find the best places to work across the nation. In North Carolina, the top choice is NC State. February 21, 2022 David Hunt With a record number of workers switching jobs, employers are locked in a fierce competition to attract and retain top employees. So, it’s welcome news that NC State employees overwhelmingly endorsed the university as a great place to work, positioning NC State as the best large employer in North Carolina and the 54th best in the nation. NC State ranked fourth last year and ninth in 2020 among North Carolina companies. The annual survey, conducted by Forbes and the market research company Statista, ranks America’s best large and mid-size employers. The list is based on anonymous surveys of 60,000 Americans working for businesses with at least 1,000 employees. Respondents were asked to rate their employers on a variety of criteria, including working conditions, development opportunities and compensation. Statista also asked respondents how likely they’d be to recommend their employer to others. Chancellor Randy Woodson says he’s pleased NC State employees remain enthusiastic about the university and praised their resilience through challenging times. “Although the COVID-19 pandemic has received a lot of attention and certainly remains a concern, NC State’s faculty and staff are focused on our shared mission as a land-grant university,” he says. “Whether they’re in research, teaching, extension, student services, or other positions, NC State employees are simply the best and most committed professionals anywhere.” Advancing Together The dramatic jump in the ranking this year comes on the heels of other good news for employees. The state legislature approved back-to-back raises for faculty and staff in 2021 and 2022 along with one-time bonuses ranging from $1,000 to $1,500 in 2021. The legislature also approved the “Engineering North Carolina’s Future” initiative to fund the enrollment of about 4,000 more students in engineering and computer science at NC State. The initiative includes $20 million in state funds over the next two years to hire additional faculty and staff and $30 million for facility upgrades. The Forbes survey results are consistent with a survey of faculty and staff conducted by the UNC System in 2020, in which 84% agreed they are “proud to be a part of this institution” and 89% said they understand how their work contributes to the university’s mission. A follow-up survey is slated for March 28. Other North Carolina employers on the Forbes list of the best large employers include Duke University, Bank of America and Duke Energy. Nationwide, NC State ranked above Apple, SpaceX, Sony and Tesla. Forbes defines large employers as those with 5,000+ employees. Related We Are the Wolfpack Get to know some of the 9,000 faculty and staff who work in a wide variety of ways — in every corner of campus and beyond — to make NC State a great university. Learn more Categories: Awards and Honors Faculty and Staff Service and Community Tags: human resources rankings View Comments 2 total responses Leave a Response Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. All fields are required. Comment * Name * Email * Debbie Crawford says: February 24, 2022 at 2:12 pm Proud to be #1 in NC and proud to be part of the NC State family-Go Pack! Reply John says: February 24, 2022 at 1:55 pm What part is great? It’s definitely not the salaries. It’s definitely not the benefits. It’s definitely not the quality of infrastructure. So I ask again what part is great? Reply More From NC State News A School of Fishes NC State Names 42 Students to Park Scholarships Program Twisted Soft Robots Navigate Mazes Without Human Or Computer Guidance Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.