Skip to main content Visit Temple.edu Toggle Utility Menu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Search Site Search Temple Now Navigation - Go To - News by topic - Arts & Culture - Athletics - Campus News - Community Engagement - Global Temple - Research - Staff & Faculty - Student Success - Sustainability - Return to Campus - Visualize TempleAnnouncementsNewsletters - Temple Now subscriptionPublicationsTemple in the newsSocial MediaSpecial SeriesTemple MagazineAboutAccolades News by topic Announcements Newsletters Special Series About Arts & Culture What to read, listen to and watch to learn more about AAPI communities Athletics Introducing a new head coach of women’s basketball Campus News New General Education course to focus on AAPI identity and experiences Community Engagement President Wingard highlights Center City Business Association’s “Lunch with the City's Leaders” Global Temple Serving the American media from the Far East Research Temple-headquartered STARS Computing Corps receives a $3 million National Science Foundation grant Return to Campus Student community health ambassadors look out for their fellow Owls Staff & Faculty Temple thought leaders lend their voices to national conversation surrounding Roe v. Wade Student Success Temple Made for … building community Sustainability Charles Library earns LEED Gold certification Visualize Temple Charles Library shapes the future at Temple and beyond View Archives Home / Jazz Band Jazz Band Jazz trumpeter Terell Stafford is focused on mentoring the next generation of musicians Type: News Story Temple professor Terell Stafford’s career has included a Grammy award, chart-topping albums and collaborations with jazz greats. April 12, 2022 The Temple University Jazz Band celebrates the legacy of jazz great Jimmy Heath Type: News Story The band’s new album honors luminaries including Heath, John Chaney and Bootsie Barnes. October 15, 2021 All together now: The making of Temple University Jazz Band's 'Covid Sessions' Type: News Story Produced during the pandemic and assembled from individual recordings students made separately, the album is one of the first of its kind. November 16, 2020 Student and faculty musicians are Grammy hopefuls Type: News Story “Love, A Beautiful Force,” penned by superstar composer and arranger Vince Mendoza, features the Temple University Studio Orchestra. January 17, 2020 Temple University Strategic Marketing & Communications Bell Building 1101 W. Montgomery Avenue Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Directory Maps and Directions Contact RSS Facebook Twitter Pinterest LinkedIn.com YouTube Flickr TUPortal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Temple Now: The official source for Temple news. Copyright 2015, Temple University. All rights reserved.