UNM A-Z StudentInfo FastInfo myUNM Directory Research Campus Life Academics About UNM UNM Newsroom Toggle search About Us Welcome Mission About UNM Campuses UCAM UCAM Staff News Topics Front Page Inside UNM Lobo Hub Latest News Alumni Announcements Athletics Events Calendar For the Record HSC News In The News Research UNM Live UNM Proud Schools and Colleges Anderson School of Management School of Architecture & Planning School of Engineering School of Law School of Public Administration College of Arts & Sciences College of Fine Arts College of Education and Human Sciences Honors College College of University Libraries & Learning Sciences University College For News Media About UNM Campus Maps Fast Facts Faculty Experts B-Roll Images Advisories Media Relations Media Guide UNM Newsroom on Twitter Search Newsroom Submit search UNM Main Campus COVID-19 Operations Updates UNM researchers find climatic backdrop shows Pueblo cultural development was coeval with drier conditions New research from a stalagmite collected from Hidden Cave in the Guadalupe Mountains in southeastern New Mexico shows the overall climatic backdrop for Pueblo cultural development in relation to climate before and after when it was drier. The stalagmite... El Puente guides students through research process Students don’t come to The University of New Mexico with the innate knowledge of how to conduct research. The idea of choosing a topic and carrying it through to completion can be daunting and some students are ready to give up before they even try. As... It’s electrifying: UNM’s FSAE team to compete in its first EV contest There is a quiet hum in the Dana C. Wood FSAE Racing Lab and Garage these days. Not only is it the end of the semester, but it’s also crunch time. Competition is about a month away, and there is a lot left to do. Since 1998, The University of New... Computer science changed UNM grad’s tune on a career Brendan Mulkern’s background would suggest that he was on track to play in a philharmonic. Instead, he is starting a full-time position as a software engineer at Sandia National Laboratories. Mulkern earned a master’s degree in computer science from The... UNM Army ROTC commissions 11 new officers Under brilliant blue skies, the bright New Mexico sunshine and the majestic Sandia Mountains in the background to the east, Friday, May 13 was a day that won’t soon be forgotten for 11 newly commissioned 2nd Lieutenants for The University of New Mexico’s... Engineering grad succeeds after pursuing degree for 12 years Derric Romero compares his student experience at The University of New Mexico to the film Van Wilder. In the movie, the Wilder takes seven years to complete his degree and graduate. “I started UNM in the fall of 2010, fresh out of high school, 17 years old,... Video Playlist Anna Janicek | Class of 2022 Michelle Lee | Class of 2022 Shannen Gonzales | Class of 2022 Scott Sanchez | Class of 2022 Karlee Maes | Class of 2022 In Her Own Words: Alex Webster Latest News Latest Popular UNM group participates in prestigious Venice art exhibition May 30, 2022 A team from The University of New Mexico created a project titled a Library, a Classroom, and the World currently on display at the prestigious 2022 Venice Biennial Art exhibition Personal Structures organized and hosted by the European Cultural Centre... UNM professors' proposals win grant competition By Mary Beth King May 27, 2022 Three University of New Mexico professors are winners of the Crossing Latinidades Collaborative, Cross Institutional, and Comparative Research Working Groups and Latino Humanities Studies Grant Competition, sponsored by the Mellon Foundation. The... New study suggests using Cannabis can make you a nicer person May 27, 2022 Investigators at The University of New Mexico (UNM) analyzed the psychological functioning of healthy college students with varying levels of tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) in their urine. Compared to nonusers, young adults with recent exposure to cannabis... UNM researchers find climatic backdrop shows Pueblo cultural development was coeval with drier conditions By Steve Carr May 26, 2022 New research from a stalagmite collected from Hidden Cave in the Guadalupe Mountains in southeastern New Mexico shows the overall climatic backdrop for Pueblo cultural development in relation to climate before and after when it was drier. The stalagmite... NMiF features primary election preview and national efforts fighting N.M. wildfires May 26, 2022 This week on New Mexico in Focus, the Line Opinion Panel dives into the key races in the primary election and dissects the recent barrage of attack ads. Plus, the Panel explores the possibilities for native tribes after two New Mexico Pueblos reached an... UNM increases building safety with Land Mobile Radio system May 24, 2022 It was April 2006 when a fire in the basement of The University of New Mexico's Zimmerman Library destroyed 30,000 volumes of periodicals as well as furnishings, shelving and fixtures in the path of the flames. An earlier flood in the underground... UNM poised to become an epicenter for fossil collection with opening of Natural History Science Center By Breanna Kappel May 24, 2022 One of UNM’s many historical buildings has been given new life again – and it will serve as an educational resource to future scientists throughout our community. Situated at the southern edge of main campus, the Natural History Science Center (NHSC) is... Florvil receives prize for work on bio of Black activist, poet May 23, 2022 Tiffany Florvil, associate professor of History at The University of New Mexico, is one of 20 recipients of the Berlin Prize for fall 2022 from the American Academy in Berlin, Germany. Florvil will work on a biography of the prominent Black German poet... Director of UNM Public Events, Thomas Tkach, announces retirement May 23, 2022 Director of UNM Public Events Thomas Tkach has announced his retirement from The University of New Mexico effective June 30, 2022. UNM Public Events is the department that manages Popejoy Hall. Tkach started at Popejoy in October 1996 as Business... Cannabis offers immediate relief from symptoms of nausea, but product use matters May 30, 2021 Researchers at The University of New Mexico examined the effects of consuming cannabis on nausea symptoms from five minutes to one-hour post-cannabis consumption and showed that using Cannabis results in an average symptom improvement of nearly 4 points... Ghostly ‘mirror world’ might be cause of cosmic controversy By Steve Carr May 19, 2022 New research suggests an unseen ‘mirror world’ of particles that interacts with our world only via gravity that might be the key to solving a major puzzle in cosmology today – the Hubble constant problem. The Hubble constant is the rate of expansion of... Hispanics progress against racism but have long way to go By Mary Beth King September 25, 2020 The Spanish arrived from Europe in what would eventually become the United States nearly 500 years ago and began to mix with indigenous people they met and conquered. Native Americans, Mexicans, Central Americans, South Americans, Caribbean islands, and... The complicated history of environmental racism By Victoria Peña-Parr August 04, 2020 Many people understand the environment as a force of nature that cannot favor or disfavor different populations. However, similar to all things on Earth, the environment is subject to human influences. Unfortunately, these influences often tend to lower... Saving a language, preserving a culture By Natalie Rogers November 30, 2020 Language matters—spiritually, culturally, emotionally. Written and spoken words are an art form, a way for values and traditions to be passed down for generations. When a language is lost, part of that culture is lost. By the same measure, when language... Traditions deeply rooted in Hispanic culture By Marissa Lucero October 09, 2020 “The Hispanic culture is rich in tradition. That’s what makes us unique – New Mexico is a perfect example of that.” The University of New Mexico Vice President for Student Affairs Eliseo "Cheo" Torres said it best, pointing to the array of traditions... What we can learn from Canada’s Multiculturalism Policy By Rachel Whitt October 29, 2021 How do we even begin to compare immigration policies of countries in the world? The lenses through which we view one another are as vastly different as our skin colors, cultural traditions, and histories. So, when attempting to write a comparison of... UNM poised to become an epicenter for fossil collection with opening of Natural History Science Center By Breanna Kappel May 24, 2022 One of UNM’s many historical buildings has been given new life again – and it will serve as an educational resource to future scientists throughout our community. Situated at the southern edge of main campus, the Natural History Science Center (NHSC) is... The teaching of Curanderismo traditional medicine through a free online course By Cheo Torres May 13, 2019 Although my mother wasn’t a curandera — or traditional healer — she should have been one. Growing up on a rural farm away from populated areas made healthcare harder to come by. “Don’t you dare get sick,” she would say to me and my siblings. “And if you... + More news Campus Life Spring time at UNM The UNM campus is blooming with a variety of beautiful flowers illustrating signs of spring. Snowfall at UNM The cactus garden near Zimmerman Library was blanketed by snow after a recent storm brought much-needed moisture to the desert Southwest. Fall Commencement 2021 The University of New Mexico celebrated the graduating Classes of 2020 and 2021 inside University Arena, The Pit for the first time in two years due to the pandemic. Congratulations to one and all!! The 'U' The "U" shines brightly during UNM's 2021 Homecoming festivities. S’mores Roastin' Lobo Lucy and students kicking off Homecoming 2021 at the annual Lobo S’mores Roast. Alternative use for Smith Plaza This Lobo found a new way to enjoy Smith Plaza, carving a pupmkin right on the grass! Happy HOWLoween! News Minute Subscribe to the UNM News Minute for up to the latest campus news and information. Your E-mail Address Submit A Story Do you have a suggestion for a story that illustrates excellence at UNM? Submit A Story UNM Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube RSS Academics Academic Calendars Class Schedule Colleges & Schools Course Catalog Degrees & Certificates Graduate Studies Campus Life Arts & Entertainment Athletics Diversity Recreational Services Student Activities Student Union Resources Bookstore Computing Continuing Education Employment Libraries UNM Newsroom Information for… Alumni Faculty Parents & Families Patients Public Records - IPRA Staff APPLY Now Visit UNM Give to UNM © The University of New Mexico Albuquerque, NM 87131, (505) 277-0111 New Mexico's Flagship University UNM on Facebook UNM on Instagram UNM on Twitter UNM on Tumblr UNM on YouTube more at social.unm.edu Website Comments Accessibility Legal Contact UNM New Mexico Higher Education Dashboard