Skip to main content Toggle navigation Search Cornell University Cornell.edu Media Relations Search Cornell University Cornell Chronicle Topics Architecture & Design Arts & Humanities Business, Economics & Entrepreneurship Computing & Information Sciences Energy, Environment & Sustainability Food & Agriculture Global Reach Health, Nutrition & Medicine Law, Government & Public Policy Life Sciences & Veterinary Medicine Physical Sciences & Engineering Social & Behavioral Sciences Coronavirus Campus & Community News & Events Public Engagement New York City Staff News Photos of the Day Big Red Sports Diversity In Memory Features NYS Impact Student Life Around Cornell All Stories In the News Expert Quotes Cornellians $5M endowment gift supports student access By Kaitlin Provost May 26, 2022 A $5 million gift from Irene Rosenfeld ’75, MS ’77, PhD ’80 and Richard Illgen will establish the Rosenfeld/Illgen Scholarship and support the university’s efforts to make Cornell even more affordable for students from all backgrounds. This gift, Irene says, aligns perfectly with the couple’s passion for education. “Cornell played a key role in shaping the person I am today,” Irene says. “It nourished my intellectual curiosity and led to lifelong friendships. I am happy to give back to an institution that gave so much to me.” Irene has been heavily involved with the university for many years. She served on the President’s Council of Cornell Women (PCCW) and the Cornell University Board of Trustees, and she returns to campus as often as possible to teach students about marketing and strategy, drawing on her extensive business experience. Read the full story from Alumni Affairs and Development. Around Cornell Media Inquiries Media Contact Media Relations Office mediarelations@cornell.edu 607-255-6074 Get Cornell news delivered right to your inbox. Subscribe You might also like Robert F. Smith gift expands STEM access for underrepresented students $10M gift to A&S boosts College Scholar Program, scholarships Gallery Heading × Previous Next Links About the Chronicle Media Relations Office Copyright Web Accessibility Assistance Contact Cornell Chronicle 312 College Ave Ithaca, NY 14850 607-255-4206 cunews@cornell.edu SUBSCRIBE Daily and weekly newsletters Feeds - RSS & JSON