Skip to main content Visit Temple.edu Toggle Utility Menu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Search Site Search Temple Now Navigation - Go To - News by topic - Arts & Culture - Athletics - Campus News - Community Engagement - Global Temple - Research - Staff & Faculty - Student Success - Sustainability - Return to Campus - Visualize TempleAnnouncementsNewsletters - Temple Now subscriptionPublicationsTemple in the newsSocial MediaSpecial SeriesTemple MagazineAboutAccolades News by topic Announcements Newsletters Special Series About Arts & Culture What to read, listen to and watch to learn more about AAPI communities Athletics Introducing a new head coach of women’s basketball Campus News New General Education course to focus on AAPI identity and experiences Community Engagement President Wingard highlights Center City Business Association’s “Lunch with the City's Leaders” Global Temple Serving the American media from the Far East Research Temple-headquartered STARS Computing Corps receives a $3 million National Science Foundation grant Return to Campus Student community health ambassadors look out for their fellow Owls Staff & Faculty Temple thought leaders lend their voices to national conversation surrounding Roe v. Wade Student Success Temple Made for … building community Sustainability Charles Library earns LEED Gold certification Visualize Temple Charles Library shapes the future at Temple and beyond View Archives Home / Football Football Owl takes the helm of Tampa Bay Buccaneers Type: News Story Temple Hall of Famer Todd Bowles named Buc’s head coach April 4, 2022 Temple excels in diverse leadership of collegiate athletics Type: News Story Temple is the only FBS school to have a Black president, Black athletic director and Black coaches in football and men’s and women’s basketball. February 28, 2022 Rod Carey selected as Temple’s head football coach Type: News Story His teams at Northern Illinois won two conference championships and four division titles in six seasons. January 11, 2019 Major success: Owls study more than the playbook Type: News Story Temple University’s football program is among the nation’s leaders in diversity of its players’ academic majors. December 17, 2018 Receiver snags surprise scholarship Type: News Story A Q&A with a Temple walk-on who’s hitting his stride December 13, 2018 Owls join celebration of Eagles' Super Bowl win Type: News Story Owls were out in full force during the parade to celebrate the Eagles' Super Bowl victory. Relive the day in photos. February 12, 2018 Temple experts can discuss this year’s NFL Draft in Philadelphia Type: News Story With the NFL Draft quickly approaching, Temple experts are your go-to source for numerous topics on this year’s draft. April 11, 2017 Cherry On Type: News Story This weekend marks an epic weekend for Temple sports—football vs. USF, two soccer games and Temple lacrosse will host the 10th annual Philly 5 Tournament. October 20, 2016 Matt Rhule to remain as Temple football coach Type: News Story Matt Rhule agrees to lead the Temple football team through the 2021 season. December 7, 2015 Football players earn honors Type: News Story Temple scores more first-team all-conference honors than any other team in the AAC. December 4, 2015 Relive Homecoming 2015 Type: News Story To experience the excitement of Homecoming 2015, watch our highlight video. October 12, 2015 Terrance Knighton: From Temple Made to the Super Bowl Type: News Story The Super Bowl is going to get some #CherryOn—again. When defensive tackle Terrance Knighton, CLA '09, takes the field for the Denver Broncos on Sunday evening at MetLife Stadium in New Jersey, he'll be the sixth former Owl to play in a Super Bowl in the last 10 years. "Temple molded…the character I have now," said Knighton, the Owls' captain in his senior year. January 29, 2014 Lessons on American football help international students become part of the crowd Type: News Story To help Temple's growing international student population get acclimated to their new home, the Office of International Admissions offered "Football 101," an hour-long tutorial designed to introduce new students to the rules the game and increase international student participation in sports-related activities. September 17, 2013 Keep Calm and Cherry On: Owls ready for home opener Type: News Story Temple Student Government has launched Cherry On Fridays, a student-driven effort to encourage all members of the Temple community to wear cherry and white on Fridays. The idea is gaining momentum, with several events planned in advance of the football team’s American Athletic Conference debut at noon Saturday vs. Houston. September 5, 2013 Matt Rhule named new head football coach Type: News Story During a Dec. 17 press conference, Temple Athletics Director Bill Bradshaw officially introduced Matt Rhule as the Owls' new head football coach. Rhule, who has 15 seasons of coaching experience, is returning to Temple after serving as assistant offensive line coach with the NFL's New York Giants. He has served as an assistant coach at Temple from 2006-2011. December 19, 2012 Temple and Villanova rivalry among the area’s best Type: In the Media August 31, 2012 Temple-Villanova game is more important for Owls this year Type: In the Media August 31, 2012 Spirit reaches tipping point with Temple Mayor's Cup victory Type: News Story Cherry and White dominated Lincoln Financial Field Friday as 32,000 gathered to watch Temple football capture a decisive victory over crosstown rival Villanova in the final installment of the Mayor's Cup series. Temple fans, clearly constituting a majority of the crowd, filled much of the stadium's lower level and crowded the parking lot for tailgating prior to the game. September 4, 2012 Owls kick off football season with "Temple TUFF" Type: In the Media August 26, 2011 Addazio brings Temple football to the next era Type: In the Media August 31, 2011 Temple football's "landmark" win at Maryland earns national coverage Type: In the Media September 24, 2011 New York Times: Coach Addazio sells "Temple tough and Philadelphia proud" Type: In the Media September 23, 2011 Passion is in the playbook for new head football coach Type: News Story As the Owls prepare for their season opener, Coach Addazio reflected on his coaching philosophy, Temple’s rising appeal and efforts to grow the Owls' fan base. August 24, 2011 Football makes headlines as program on the rise Type: News Story Three decades after its last bowl appearance — a 28-17 victory over California on Dec. 15, 1979 in the now-defunct Garden State Bowl — Temple’s football team stands on the brink of a return trip to college football’s version of the postseason. November 19, 2009 Owls spread holiday cheer Type: News Story They’re a little bigger than Santa’s elves, but 11 Temple football players still had fun spreading holiday cheer to children in the oncology wing at St. Christopher’s Hospital in North Philadelphia on Wednesday evening. December 19, 2008 Temple University Strategic Marketing & Communications Bell Building 1101 W. Montgomery Avenue Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Directory Maps and Directions Contact RSS Facebook Twitter Pinterest LinkedIn.com YouTube Flickr TUPortal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Temple Now: The official source for Temple news. Copyright 2015, Temple University. All rights reserved.