Skip to main content Giving News Menu Close Stories of Impact Podcast Video Gift Announcements Featured Series Donor Recognition Giving Home Introducing the NC State Philanthropy Podcast facebook twitter linked in email Stories of Impact Podcast Video Gift Announcements Featured Series Donor Recognition Giving Home Give Now Podcast NC State is proud of its land-grant roots, but being a public university doesn’t mean our only funding comes from the state of North Carolina. It takes the commitment of our entire Pack to help us create dynamic new approaches to teaching and learning, fuel industries and breakthroughs, and guide our students to impactful post-graduate lives. Now, we’re inviting scholarship recipients, distinguished professors, donors and more to the airwaves so they can tell you their own philanthropic stories, complete with the kind of inspirational details that can only occur at NC State. Join us as we tell the world how we Think and Do together! May 17, 2022 Podcast: ‘Think and Do’ In Review With Brian Sischo On this episode of the NC State Philanthropy Podcast, we’re talking with Brian Sischo, vice chancellor for University Advancement, about our recent Think and Do the Extraordinary Campaign and how it has set the university up for a big, bold future. Recent Stories From Farm to Flight: O.K. Moore ’59 Follows His North Star Senior Vice Provost for Global Engagement Returning to Faculty After 16 Years of Leadership New Endowment Established to Honor Forestry Alumnus Bob Jordan May 3, 2022 Podcast: Planned Giving With Jennifer Peavey On this episode of the NC State Philanthropy Podcast, we’re talking with the College of Design’s Jennifer Peavey about how she plans to support the university through a special gift from her 401(k) plan following her passing. Apr 19, 2022 Podcast: Caldwell Fellow Kourosh Salamati, Pt. 2 On this episode of the NC State Philanthropy Podcast, we’re finishing our two-part talk with Kourosh Salamati about how the Caldwell Fellows program and other campus support systems have helped him succeed beyond his wildest dreams as a member of the Pack. Apr 5, 2022 Podcast: Caldwell Fellow Kourosh Salamati, Pt. 1 On this episode of the NC State Philanthropy Podcast, we’re talking to Kourosh Salamati about how the Caldwell Fellows program and other campus support systems are helping him think and do. Mar 22, 2022 Podcast: Inside the Memorial Belltower With Dr. Tom Stafford On this episode, NC State’s unofficial Belltower historian gives listeners a rundown of this hallowed landmark’s history, complete with information on how private support helped complete the project a century after it began. Mar 15, 2022 Introducing the NC State Philanthropy Podcast NC State’s newest podcast, produced by the Office of Development Communications and Stewardship, is now live! Join us as we tell the world how the support of our friends, alumni and more makes the extraordinary possible all across campus. Giving Home Campus Box 7474 Raleigh, NC 27695-7474 Email Us 919-515-7827 Campus Map Accessibility Advancement Services Giving News Make a Gift NC State Call Center NC State Website NC State University Foundation Policies Privacy Statement Share Your Story Strategic Plan Update Your Information University Advancement Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.