Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program ‘I Feel So Blessed’ — Meet #NCState22 Best Friends Parker and Noah facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Students ‘I Feel So Blessed’ — Meet #NCState22 Best Friends Parker and Noah Elementary school friends reflect on how their friendship shaped their undergrad experience as part of our graduation video series. May 16, 2022 Megan Ellisor Play Video “Some people watch ‘The Office’ over and over again when they’re sad,” Parker Mitchell said. “I just go talk to Noah.” For nearly their entire lives, Parker Mitchell and Noah Weaver have been there for each other. They’ve known one another since elementary school. They navigated the Exploratory Studies program together, each trying to find the right major. Noah found his passion in design studies and landscape architecture. Parker pursued a communication degree with a concentration in media/video production and a minor in arts entrepreneurship. “Despite ending up in very different majors with very different post-grad plans, we both have a fundamental love of doing creative work that makes us happy,” Parker said. “We always are working on vastly different projects, but always know that at the end of the day we can turn to each other for support and ideas outside of our field.” A house fire, a pandemic, countless late nights, and many notes of encouragement later, these best friends are ready to graduate. “I know that regardless of where Parker and I go, we’re still going to be best friends, even if we’re on, like, separate sides of the country or even the planet,” Noah said. More from Best of Friends #NCState22 In our graduation video series, we meet friends who helped one another through an unprecedented college career. ‘We’re Stuck’ — Meet #NCState22 Best Friends Niambé and Kourtni Best friends say ‘goodbye’ to NC State in the field where they first said ‘hello’ and started a lifelong friendship. ‘Whatever You Need, I’m There’ — Meet #NCState22 Best Friends Emily and Alyssa Brought together by the saxophone section, best friends reminisce on their time in Carter-Finley Stadium. See all in current issue Categories: Alumni Best of Friends Students Tags: college of design college of humanities and social sciences commencement communication graduation landscape architecture View Comments 0 total responses Leave a Response Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. All fields are required. Comment * Name * Email * More From NC State News The Gift of a Student’s Trust AnnE Ford's Final Student Chronicle: Graduation ‘Whatever You Need, I’m There’ — Meet #NCState22 Best Friends Emily and Alyssa Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.