Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All Posts in #Events Campus & Community Women in Leadership Initiative Announces Resilient Leadership and Change Program Wednesday, March 2, 2022, By News Staff After kicking off the spring 2022 semester with the highly engaging Conversation With Provost Ritter, the Women in Leadership Initiative announces another program offering this spring. The Resilient Leadership and Change program is designed to help participants cultivate positive mindset… Campus & Community Conventional Wisdom: Humanities Center’s Syracuse Symposium Events to Investigate Evolving Norms Tuesday, February 22, 2022, By Dan Bernardi From COVID-19’s transformative impact on people’s daily lives to the global reckoning against histories of colonialism and racism, norms are constantly evolving. The Syracuse University Humanities Center’s yearlong Syracuse Symposium [PDF], entitled Conventions, explores the ever-changing political, social and cultural… Campus & Community Black Health and Wellness Expo Events Promote Balance of Mental and Physical Well-Being Friday, February 18, 2022, By News Staff This year’s national Black History Month theme is health and wellness to help encourage the balance of mental health and physical health, share different lessons about the Black experience, and celebrate achievements in different areas of life. In alignment with… Campus & Community Celebrating Black History Month Tuesday, February 1, 2022, By Shannon Andre As the month of February begins, the campus community is invited to celebrate Black History Month. The Black History Month planning committee, comprising students, faculty and staff, and led by Multicultural Affairs, Barnes Center at The Arch, Student Activities and… Campus & Community Activities for the Weekend of Oct. 7-10 and Indigenous Peoples’ Day Thursday, October 7, 2021, By News Staff Dear Students and Families: This weekend marks another busy and exciting time on campus as we welcome parents and families for Family Weekend 2021. If you will be on campus, I hope you will partake in the many events scheduled… Campus & Community Activities for the Weekend of Sept. 30-Oct. 3 Thursday, September 30, 2021, By News Staff Dear Students and Families: With the start of October this weekend, the fall season will be in full swing in Syracuse. I hope you have enjoyed participating in the many activities and opportunities offered on and off campus so far,… Campus & Community Celebrating the Past and the Future with LGBTQ+ History Month Monday, September 27, 2021, By Gabrielle Lake This October, join the campus community in celebrating LGBTQ+ History Month and the 20th Anniversary of the LGBTQ Resource Center. Syracuse University and SUNY College of Environmental Science and Forestry (SUNY ESF) students, faculty and staff are invited to participate… Arts & Culture Syracuse University Humanities Center Announces 2021-22 Syracuse Symposium Monday, September 13, 2021, By Dan Bernardi “Timely and timeless” is how Vivian May, director of the Syracuse University Humanities Center, describes “Conventions,” the theme of this year’s Syracuse Symposium. In the political sense, she says a convention can be a gathering or convening, as in political… STEM Celebrating Earth Day and Earth Month in April Monday, April 5, 2021, By Melissa Cadwell Around the world, April is a month of celebrating and increasing awareness about climate change and the environment. The Sustainably Management team’s goal this year is to inspire the campus community to learn how they can participate in helping protect… Campus & Community Celebrating, Uniting and Creating Change With AAPI Heritage Month Monday, March 29, 2021, By News Staff Celebrated nationally in May, Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) Heritage Month honors and celebrates Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders who have enriched America’s history and are instrumental in its future success. Syracuse University honors the month in April while… 12345 Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.