Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program 2022-2023 Internationalization Seed Grants Announced facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Tag: faculty and staff May 26, 2022 Bob Franks Tapped to Lead Applied Ecology Professor Bob Franks says he looks forward to serving as the interim department head for Applied Ecology while the college and department search for a permanent leader. May 20, 2022 Poultry Science’s Curtis Praised for Transformative Leadership After more than 30 years working in higher education, 15 of those years at North Carolina State University, Patricia Curtis, department head for the Prestage Department of Poultry Science, is retiring beginning July 1. May 19, 2022 Evans Wins Back-to-Back Awards for Community Service, Diversity and Inclusion Efforts Staff member Raven Evans recently won two awards, including the Office of Finance and Administration’s Award for Excellence in Human Relations. May 19, 2022 Where’s the Wolf? At NC State’s Global Courtyard Graduate School staffer Katie Homar makes the correct guess in the latest installment of our contest for NC State employees. May 19, 2022 The Gift of a Student’s Trust Monica Osburn is executive director of the Counseling Center, where thousands of students turn each year to find help with anxiety, depression and other problems. May 18, 2022 Keeping Students Engaged in Asynchronous Lectures What makes the learning active or passive is not the modality (Zoom vs. pre-recorded videos vs. text-based lessons), but the structure of the lesson the instructor creates. Faculty Fellow Claire Gordy share tips for keeping students engaged. May 16, 2022 Nearly 2,000 Employees Attend Appreciation Event University Human Resources hosted a Staff and Faculty Appreciation Event on May 2. Apr 20, 2022 Back from the Brink: NC State’s Key Role in Red Wolf Recovery The College of Veterinary Medicine is at the center of a nationwide effort to help the canid survive, providing medical care, conducting research and tending its own pack of the critically endangered species. Apr 12, 2022 Laura Clarke Wins UNC Board of Governors Award for Excellence in Teaching The NC State physics professor has received the university system’s most prestigious teaching award for her extraordinary teaching contributions. Apr 12, 2022 Lisa Bullard Receives Inaugural Provost’s Award for Excellence in Teaching Lisa Bullard, a teaching professor in the Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, was honored for being a nationally-recognized teacher and advisor in engineering education. Mar 31, 2022 Duncan Lascelles to Receive Distinguished Professorship The professor of translational pain research and management at the NC State College of Veterinary Medicine is regarded as a world leader in his field. Mar 22, 2022 NC State Names New Dean of the College of Education With more than 30 years of experience in education, Paola Sztajn takes the helm April 1. Mar 21, 2022 5 Faculty Win Holladay Medal Meet the faculty members who received the Alexander Quarles Holladay Medal for Excellence, the highest honor bestowed by NC State and the university’s Board of Trustees. Mar 17, 2022 NC State Honors 10 Faculty Members with Outstanding Research Award, Induction into Research Leadership Academy Get to know the newest recipients of the university's top award for research and mentorship. Mar 16, 2022 2022-2023 Internationalization Seed Grants Announced Meet the newest recipients of the grants that help promote international partnerships and foster global scholarship and engagement. Posts navigation 1 2 … 29 Next Page Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.