Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program NC State Ranked One of Nation’s Elite Technology Transfer Universities facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Research and Innovation NC State Ranked One of Nation’s Elite Technology Transfer Universities May 18, 2022 Deborah Strange NC State University ranks second among all U.S. public universities in research technology transfer and commercialization according to a comprehensive analysis recently released. NC State also ranks second among universities — public and private — without medical schools, and seventh among all U.S. universities. “Research to Renewal: Advancing University Tech Transfer,” was published by Heartland Forward, a nonprofit and nonpartisan organization focused on improving economic performance in the central United States. The analysis evaluated which American universities are most proficient at creating new knowledge; ingraining it in their science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) graduates; and transferring it both to new and existing enterprises. “Research and discovery have always been at the heart of NC State’s mission. But the effectiveness of how this university moves that knowledge into the marketplace through new startups, patents, products, treatments and our graduates is truly remarkable,” said Mladen Vouk, NC State’s vice chancellor for research. “NC State’s unique technology transfer ecosystem benefits students with unsurpassed experiences, efficiently moves research from the lab to the community, and provides a tremendous economic impact for North Carolina.” The study examined universities’ invention disclosures, issued licenses and options, gross licensing income, formed startups, cited patents and graduates in STEM fields. It also highlighted the importance of research universities as knowledge assets and economic drivers for cities, states, regions and the nation. NC State is the only North Carolina university named in the nation’s top 10 overall; it surpassed Duke University, ranked 15th. NC State was ranked the top ACC university and ahead of such other research peers as MIT, Purdue, Northwestern, Ohio State and the University of Texas at Austin. The report states that NC State anchors the Research Triangle and “demonstrates a public university that believes commercialization is central to its mission can be a top performer.” It also lauds Chancellor Randy Woodson for elevating NC State’s position “by improving STEM programs and elevating support of entrepreneurship and tech transfer,” since joining the university in 2010. A powerhouse in research and innovation, NC State reported $547 million in research expenditures for fiscal year 2021. More than 70 corporate, government and nonprofit partners on Centennial Campus work alongside the university’s faculty members and students. NC State research has led to more than 1,500 patents and 600 products reaching the market. Related Results Magazine Your source for the latest research and innovation coming out of NC State. Discover more stories Categories: Faculty and Staff Research and Innovation Results Archive Tags: commercialization intellectual property office of research and innovation Office of Research Commercialization technology transfer View Comments 0 total responses Leave a Response Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. All fields are required. Comment * Name * Email * More From NC State News New Studies Shed Light on Election-Related Stress A School of Fishes Twisted Soft Robots Navigate Mazes Without Human Or Computer Guidance Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.