Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia News Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Featured News Topics Video Books Podcasts All News Media Resources Awards & Milestones Arts & Humanities Politics & Social Justice Research & Discovery Photo of the Week Commencement 2022 Columbia News You are here: Home Research and Discovery Research and Discovery Health, Medicine, and Wellness Screening Program Could Identify 1 Million Americans with Genetic Heart Disease A screening program that combines genetic and lab testing could identify 1 million Americans who are at risk of early death from heart disease because they carry a gene that causes high cholesterol, says new research by Columbia University Irving Medical Center. Skin Cancer in People of Color Columbia dermatologist Dr. Dawn Queen runs through the facts on skin color, skin cancer, and other effects of ultraviolet rays. Asia and Africa Have Similar Aging Burden as the West A new metric devised by Columbia’s Mailman School of Public Health shows that health is more important than age for determining dependency ratios and a more accurate assessment of the aging burden across countries. The Brain and Psychology A Hunger for Specific Information Opens Minds, Study Shows When motivated to seek specific information, say, about a newly arrived infectious virus, people tend to also become receptive to a much wider range of information types, a new Zuckerman Institute study suggests. A New Microscope Could Make Biopsies History By imaging living tissue, a high-speed 3D microscope developed at Columbia Engineering and Columbia’s Zuckerman Institute could transform surgery and tissue analysis, potentially leading to better care. Uncovering the Genetic History of the Colorful Betta Fish Researchers at Columbia’s Zuckerman Institute identify the genes responsible for the colors and shapes that make domesticated bettas more flamboyant than their wild cousins. Earth, Climate, and Environmental Science Researchers Discover Extensive Groundwater System Beneath Antarctica’s Ice The previously unmapped reservoirs, reported in the journal Science, could speed the flow of glaciers to the sea and release additional carbon into the atmosphere. 2022 World Food Prize Awarded to Columbia Climate Scientist Cynthia Rosenzweig Climatologist and agronomist Cynthia Rosenzweig has been named the 2022 World Food Prize Laureate for her pioneering work in modeling the impact of climate change on food production worldwide. First Long-term Air Pollution Monitoring in Togo Reveals Concerning Levels People in Togo’s capital city are often exposed to unsafe levels of small particles in the air they breathe, says a new Columbia Climate School study. The data come from the Clean Air Toolbox for Cities, a Columbia-led project to identify and address the causes of air pollution in cities. Science, Technology, and Engineering An AI that Blocks Your Phone from Eavesdropping Researchers at Columbia Engineering have developed an algorithm that generates a soft whisper to block smart devices from listening in on conversations. Tiny human organs cloned on chip to mimic patient’s body Researchers at Columbia Engineering have built a human tissue-chip system that physically and genetically links a heart, liver, bone, and skin tissue modules. Toward a Quantum Computer That Calculates Molecular Energy A new algorithm uses the most quantum bits to date to calculate ground state energy, the lowest-energy state in a quantum mechanical system. The discovery could help make it easier to design new materials. Columbia in the News Making New Climate Data from Old Timber New Yorker May 6, 2022 'Giant MRI of Antarctica' Reveals 'Fossil Seawater' Under Ice Sheet Live Science May 5, 2022 Intermittent Fasting: Is It Better Than Typical Weight-Loss Diets? U.S. News and World Report April 27, 2022 Sewage may be New Jersey's early warning system for Covid NJ.com April 26, 2022 Books What Would Nature Do: A Guide for Our Uncertain Times Unexpected: Parenting, Prenatal Testing, and Down Syndrome Music, Math, and Mind: The Physics and Neuroscience of Music The Ascent of Information: Books, Bits, Genes, Machines, and Life's Unending Algorithm edit edit edit edit Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close