Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program NCICS to Host NOAA Cooperative Institute facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Partners May 9, 2022 Design Students Develop Compostable Take-Out Container Prototypes in Project Sponsored by Eastman To combat packaging waste, NC State’s College of Design worked alongside Eastman to create food packaging with a new compostable material. Recent Stories New Studies Shed Light on Election-Related Stress Wicked Problems, Wolfpack Solutions Focuses on Future of Food Bob Franks Tapped to Lead Applied Ecology Mar 18, 2022 Spotit Opens First U.S. Location on Centennial Campus Spotit, a Belgium-based company that offers a portfolio of cybersecurity technologies and services, has opened its first U.S. office on NC State’s Centennial Campus. Nov 9, 2021 PAWR Program Announces Launch of AERPAW Testbed for Advanced Research on Wireless Connectivity and Unmanned Aerial Vehicles WASHINGTON – November 9, 2021 – The Platforms for Advanced Wireless Research (PAWR) Project Office announces general availability of the AERPAW wireless testbed for network communications and unmanned aerial systems (UAS) research. Located in Raleigh, North Carolina, the AERPAW – or Aerial Experimentation and Research Platform for Advanced Wireless – testbed is designed to accelerate the… Oct 27, 2021 NC State’s Partnership With FUJIFILM Diosynth Supports North Carolina’s Growing Economy FUJIFILM Diosynth's expansion to Holly Springs is the largest life sciences investment in North Carolina's history — and NC State helped make it a reality. Sep 2, 2021 NC State and BASF: Dedicated to a Sustainable Future As partners, NC State and BASF have completed more than 100 research projects together, including plant sciences innovation and crop protection. Apr 19, 2021 Industry Expansion Solutions Leads Local Businesses to Success NC State’s Industry Expansion Solutions helps North Carolina businesses face challenges head-on, offering deep, engineering-based expertise that sparks success. Jan 27, 2021 NC State Leads New UNC System Partnership With Military A new partnership between the XVIII Airborne Corps and the UNC System will offer new opportunities to encourage and enhance education, research and innovation in STEM and other disciplines. Oct 7, 2020 Kenan Fellows Take STEM Education to the Next Level The Kenan Fellows Program for Teacher Leadership brings together educators across North Carolina for an immersive experience in STEM fields. Sep 22, 2020 Inside ABB and NC State’s Decadeslong Partnership ABB was the first corporate partner to move onto Centennial Campus. Now, 30 years later, the company is still working with NC State to improve the reliability and reduce the cost and environmental impact of electric power systems. Aug 25, 2020 NC State Partner Bandwidth Helps Students Move From College to Careers Bandwidth, based on NC State's Centennial Campus, will expand its headquarters and create 1,100 new jobs and $100 million in capital investment over the next eight years. Feb 18, 2020 Grant From the U.S. Dept. of Labor to Support AI Apprenticeships NC State receives a four-year, $6 million grant to support 5,000 workers in artificial intelligence. Sep 11, 2019 A Refrigeration Revolution — Advanced on Centennial Campus An innovative partnership with NC State helped startup Phononic disrupt the refrigeration industry. Jul 22, 2019 From the Lab and Greenhouse to Farmers’ Fields New soybean research with roots in the North Carolina Plant Sciences Initiative aims to protect the crop from climate change. Jun 6, 2019 NC State Queues Up to Advance Quantum Computing We're joining forces with industry and academic partners to lead the way in quantum computing — and train the field's next generation. Jun 5, 2019 NCICS to Host NOAA Cooperative Institute The Cooperative Institute for Satellite Earth System Studies will be dedicated to expanding our understanding of the full Earth system and its interactions with human activities. Posts navigation 1 2 … 7 Next Page Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.