Skip to main content Stanford University Stanford Report Search this site Submit Search Menu Students Faculty Staff About Search this site Submit Search Wu Tsai Neurosciences Institute Wu Tsai Neurosciences Institute — May 28, 2022 The immune system and brain health Katrin Andreasson, professor of neurology and neurological sciences, talks about the role the aging immune system plays in the development of age-related brain diseases. Read More Wu Tsai Neurosciences Institute — May 17, 2022 Secrets of brain health may be hidden in nerve cells’ insulation Two interdisciplinary postdocs working at the heart of a burgeoning field discuss the overlooked cells that speed signaling between neurons by wrapping nerve fibers with myelin, and the surprising recent discovery about aging brains. Read More Wu Tsai Neurosciences Institute — May 10, 2022 Andrew Olson Scientific Image Awards winners Judges considered scientific importance, technical prowess, and artistic merit when selecting the 10 winners of the inaugural Andrew Olson Scientific Image Awards. Read More Wu Tsai Neurosciences Institute — May 9, 2022 High-throughput brain mapping – a barcode for every synapse Postdoc Boxuan Zhao explains his new tool to create a "blueprint" for the brain and the surprising common ground between his passions for chemical biology, triathlons, and scuba diving. Read More Wu Tsai Neurosciences Institute — April 1, 2022 Researchers control brain circuits from a distance using infrared light Stanford neuroscientists have developed the first non-invasive technique for controlling targeted brain circuits in behaving animals from a distance. Read More Wu Tsai Neurosciences Institute — March 25, 2022 Awards advance life-changing technologies The Neuroscience: Translate grant program funds researchers across the university whose projects include devices, medications and VR for the treatment of autism, depression, Parkinson’s disease and more. Read More Wu Tsai Neurosciences Institute — March 3, 2022 Alzheimer’s risk genes linked to brain vasculature by new genetic atlas To understand what causes brain degeneration, neuroscientists are looking beyond the brain's neurons and synapses to explore the vast infrastructure that supports them. Read More Wu Tsai Neurosciences Institute — February 3, 2022 ‘Mixed reality’ in medicine From teaching the fine art of the spinal tap to gamifying at-home physical therapy for stroke survivors, creative uses of virtual and augmented reality technology in medicine were on display at an open-house held in December at the Wu Tsai Neurosciences Institute. Read More Wu Tsai Neurosciences Institute — October 8, 2021 Serotonin stabilizes social memories Neuroscientists have discovered how the brain forms memories of new acquaintances, and that targeted drugs can strengthen or dampen these memories in mice. Read More Wu Tsai Neurosciences Institute — July 20, 2021 Skilled actions snap cerebellar circuits into sharp synchrony A dramatic shift in brain activity may act as a neural “conductor” to orchestrate the precise timing of skilled movements, according to research by Mark Schnitzer’s group at the Wu Tsai Neurosciences Institute. Read More « Older stories Stanford Report News and information for the Stanford community. COVID-19 info & resources Re-Approaching Stanford Contact Stanford News Subscribe to Stanford Report Stanford Report is sent automatically to all Stanford faculty, staff and students. Others are invited to subscribe to Stanford Report. Stanford University Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.