Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Back from the Brink: NC State’s Key Role in Red Wolf Recovery facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Faculty and Staff Connect with the wider campus and culture of NC State. Discover our world-leading faculty and staff, learn about their successes — in teaching, research and outreach — and stay up to date with the latest news and appointments from across the university community. May 25, 2022 A School of Fishes At a research center in the port town of Morehead City, 18 veterinary medicine students get hands-on experience operating on fish. Recent Stories New Studies Shed Light on Election-Related Stress Wicked Problems, Wolfpack Solutions Focuses on Future of Food Bob Franks Tapped to Lead Applied Ecology May 23, 2022 Twisted Soft Robots Navigate Mazes Without Human Or Computer Guidance The soft robots demonstrate a concept called "physical intelligence." May 23, 2022 Applications for Admission Soar as NC State Grows to Meet Workforce Needs Demand for an NC State degree is at an all-time high as the university prepares to welcome its largest and most diverse first-year class. May 19, 2022 Where’s the Wolf? At NC State’s Global Courtyard Graduate School staffer Katie Homar makes the correct guess in the latest installment of our contest for NC State employees. May 19, 2022 The Gift of a Student’s Trust Monica Osburn is executive director of the Counseling Center, where thousands of students turn each year to find help with anxiety, depression and other problems. May 18, 2022 NC State Ranked One of Nation’s Elite Technology Transfer Universities NC State ranks second among all U.S. public universities in research technology transfer and commercialization according to a comprehensive analysis. May 11, 2022 A Profitable Pivot When COVID-19 nearly shut down NC State’s compost facility, Matt Ball made the best of the situation — to the tune of $35,000 in cost savings for the university. May 9, 2022 Quantifying Cognitive Decline in Dogs Could Help Humans With Alzheimer’s Disease Diagnosing canine cognitive decline in a clinically safe and relevant way could lead to working with dogs as a model for Alzheimer’s disease in humans. May 4, 2022 The Hard Times and Good Life of Mohamed Mansour As an undergraduate in the 1960s, Mohamed Mansour struggled academically and financially. With the help of family, friends and supportive faculty, the young man went on to build one of Egypt's most successful businesses. Mansour shares his story at NC State's spring commencement ceremony. May 3, 2022 National Inventors Hall of Fame Honors 3 With Ties to NC State Three innovators who have served on NC State's faculty are inducted into the prestigious organization at a two-day event in Washington, D.C. May 2, 2022 How Universal Design Can Inform Inclusive Fashion What does it mean for fashion to be inclusive or adaptive? We asked an NC State fashion expert. Apr 27, 2022 Retiring From ‘Dream Job,’ Boney Eyes Future After reimagining the Emerging Issues Forum and leading NC State's outreach and engagement efforts, Leslie Boney contemplates a retirement crowded with possibilities. Apr 27, 2022 Helen Chen Named Senior Vice Provost for Instructional Programs Helen Chen of the University of Cincinnati officially joins NC State on August 1, pending Board of Trustees approval. Apr 25, 2022 NC State Announces 2021-22 Goodnight Early Career Innovators The program recognizes and rewards promising NC State early-career faculty whose scholarship is in STEM or STEM education. Apr 20, 2022 Back from the Brink: NC State’s Key Role in Red Wolf Recovery The College of Veterinary Medicine is at the center of a nationwide effort to help the canid survive, providing medical care, conducting research and tending its own pack of the critically endangered species. Posts navigation 1 2 … 203 Next Page Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.