Skip to Content (Press Enter) CSUF News lock Portal Login Give Search search Menu Topics Campus and Community Arts Business and Economics Communications Education Engineering and Computer Science Health and Human Development Humanities and Social Sciences Natural Sciences and Mathematics Athletics Topics A-Z CSUF In the News Titan Spotlight People & Voices Faculty and Staff Students Alumni Titans of Academia Titans of Promise Titan Voices Titans of Tassel Events Resources E-Newsletter Subscription RSS Feeds Photos For Journalists Publications Press Room | Resources for Journalists Trending Topics Faculty Experts Russia/Ukraine Crisis Election/Recalls Economy Climate Crisis Gravitational Waves Mira Farka Associate Professor of Economics Mira Farka is a leading economist, specializing in financial, macro, and global economics. She is widely known for developing and presenting the CSUF Economic Forecasts for the nation, Southern California, and Orange County. Prior to joining Cal State Fullerton, she worked as a senior economist for Deutsche Bank, New York, where she was responsible for developing economic forecast models for key national and international macroeconomic variables, currency forecasts, and financial market analyses. Contact Mira Farka | Alexei Shevchenko Professor of Political Science Alexei Shevchenko‘s research and teaching interests include International Relations theory, American foreign policy, Russian and Chinese foreign policy, and domestic politics. Contact Alexei Shevchenko | David J. Traven Assistant Professor of Political Science David J. Traven is an expert in International relations specifically in law and ethics of armed conflict. Traven completed his Postdoctoral Fellow in Nuclear Security at the Center for International Security and Cooperation at Stanford University. He is currently working on a book manuscript that examines how moral emotions shaped the evolution of the laws of armed conflict. Contact David J. Traven | Mikhail Gofman Associate Professor of Computer Science, Director of the Center for Cybersecurity Dr. Mikhail Gofman is a sought-after leader in the field of access control policy analysis, biometrics, virtualization, and cloud security. His work has been published in top-tier security conferences and journals. He is the director of CSUF’s College of Engineering and Computer Science Center for Cybersecurity. Contact Mikhail Gofman | MATTHEW JARVIS Associate professor of political science Matthew Jarvis studies elections, congress, voting technology, public opinion, campaign finance and the evolution of veto threats. Contact MATTHEW JARVIS | VALERIE O'REGAN Professor of political science Valerie O’Regan has authored many book chapters on women in politics. She can speak to female policy makers’ influence in industrial nations, women in state and national politics, European and Latin American politics and political behavior. Contact VALERIE O'REGAN | STEPHEN STAMBOUGH Professor of political science Stephen Stambough studies political behavior, campaigns and elections and gender politics. He can speak to term limits and women’s representation, political experience and the success of female gubernatorial candidates, culture war politics, and partisan differences. Contact STEPHEN STAMBOUGH | Mira Farka Associate professor of economics Expert in financial and monetary economics, forecasting and applied econometrics and applied macroeconomics. Co-director of CSUF’s Woods Center for Economic Analysis and Forecasting. Contact Mira Farka | Anil Puri Professor of economics Expert in economic forecasts and policy analysis, economic impacts and environmental issues. Director of CSUF’s Woods Center for Economic Analysis and Forecasting. He also speaks Hindi and Punjabi. Contact Anil Puri | MATTHEW W. KIRBY Professor of geological sciences Matthew Kirby researches global climate change with expertise in California’s geological past history of droughts, floods, fires, and vegetation using lake and wetland sediments. Contact MATTHEW W. KIRBY | MOJGAN SAMI Assistant professor of public health Expert in global and urban health, urban planning, health equity, social justice in health, and the structural determinants of health including projects on active transportation, park access, food sovereignty and environmental justice. Contact MOJGAN SAMI | JOE CARLIN Assistant professor of geological sciences “Research like ours is important to establish a baseline for natural climate change that was not caused by humans, then we can compare it to climate change today — and ultimately pinpoint the impact by humans, and how we may fix this situation.” Contact JOE CARLIN | DARREN R. SANDQUIST Professor of biological science Expert in how the brittlebush, a desert shrub, is responding to climate change in water availability and temperatures, even in Death Valley. His research on water stress spans 20 years. Contact DARREN R. SANDQUIST | Joshua Smith Professor of physics Expert in optics and gravitational-wave astronomy. He is the Dan Black Director of the Nicholas and Lee Begovich Center for Gravitational-Wave Physics and Astronomy. Contact Joshua Smith | Jocelyn Read Associate professor of physics A neutron star astrophysicist expert in black holes, astronomy and physics. Contact Jocelyn Read | Geoffrey Lovelace Associate professor of physics A computational astrophysicist specializing in numerical relativity. His research focuses on using supercomputer simulations to model colliding black holes. Contact Geoffrey Lovelace | Featured Press Releases Mellon Foundation Awards CSUF $1.2 million for ‘The Latinx Lab for Storytelling and Social Justice’ May 12, 2022 Cal State Fullerton received a $1.2 million grant from the Mellon Foundation for The Latinx Lab for Storytelling and Social Justice led by faculty in the Chicana and Chicano Studies Department in the College of Humanities and Social Sciences (H&SS), which aims to transform communities and address structural racism through the art of storytelling. The […] How Cal State Fullerton is Striving Towards Inclusive and Equity-Mindset by Removing Criminal Language in University Operations May 2, 2022 When Delilah La Pietra was placed on Academic Probation for her grades during the spring term of her freshman year at Cal State Fullerton, she felt defeated leading to a dislike for the term “probation.” During the same time, Dr. Elizabeth Boretz, assistant vice president for student success and the director of the academic advisement […] Ukrainian Student Found Comfort from Her Ukrainian Professor April 18, 2022 As if being an international student isn’t hard enough alone, Mariia Nikitash has gone through the unimaginable since the crisis in Ukraine began. The international student from Ukraine is in her first year at Cal State Fullerton, where she received a scholarship to play tennis. But challenges on the court aren’t the only adversity facing […] Ukrainian Professor Addresses Cybersecurity Threats March 21, 2022 Born in eastern Ukraine and raised in the city of Artemovsk (recently renamed Bakhmut), Cal State Fullerton’s Associate Professor of Computer Science, Mikhail Gofman, is the director of the Center for Cybersecurity and a certified information systems security professional. As the conflict in Eastern Europe continues, Gofman, himself a Ukrainian refugee, offers his thoughts on the cybersecurity threat […] International Security and Political Science Experts on Russia/Ukraine Conflict March 8, 2022 As tensions rise, expert in international security and ethics of conflict, assistant professor of political science at Cal State Fullerton David Traven, offers his expertise on the ongoing crisis involving Russia and Ukraine. “I do think the Biden administration was too late in recognizing the threat and ruling out U.S. forces,” he continued. “When facing […] The Economic Impact from the Russia/Ukraine Crisis March 7, 2022 Cal State Fullerton’s Anil Puri and Mira Farka, co-directors of the Woods Center for Economic Analysis and Forecasting at the university’s College of Business and Economics say the implications of the Russia/Ukraine conflict will be felt by the economies here in the U.S. as well as Europe. “Russia’s economy makes up only 3% of the world’s economy; […] US News Online Rankings 2022 February 17, 2022 U.S. News Names CSUF Online Graduate Programs Among the Nation’s ‘Best’ Three Cal State Fullerton online graduate programs —business, engineering, and engineering for veterans — are in the top 30 schools ranked nationwide by U.S. News & World Report’s 2021 Best Online Programs list. The university’s online master’s in business, offered through the College of […] Supportive Texts Can Improve College Students’ Mental Health February 14, 2022 New research shows college students receiving a check-in text message from a friend or family member are more likely to thrive away from home. The supportive texts can help reduce feelings of isolation and depression, says Tara Suwinyattichaiporn (Dr. Tara), Cal State Fullerton associate professor of human communication studies. Academic pressure, independence from one’s family, […] What Can We Learn about Racism and Mental Health from Cheslie Kryst’s Suicide? February 4, 2022 Holistic well-being advocate Portia A. Jackson Preston, DrPH, MPH, says former Miss USA suicide should remind us all to practice sustainable self-care, and seek help via therapy. Preston is an Assistant Professor for the Department of Public Health at Cal State Fullerton and is available to speak to media about topics related to the death of […] Cal State Fullerton Faculty Reflects on Lunar New Year February 1, 2022 Celebration and festivities brings beauty and richness to both American and global communities. Over 1.5 billion people worldwide will celebrate the Lunar New Year on February 1st. Unlike the western New Year that lasts one night or day, in China, the celebration lasts 15 days. In Vietnam, the New Year celebration (also known as TET) […] CSUF Facts CSUF Facts Photos Tuition Rankings Budget Leadership Map and Directions Visitor Parking Media Contacts Chi-Chung Keung Director, News Media Services 657-278-8487 ckeung@fullerton.edu Kendra Morales Associate Director, News Media Services (657)278-4852 kamorales@fullerton.edu Tweets Tweets by csuf Featured Stories CSUF in the Top 5 Percent of ‘Best Colleges in America’ Browse All News Topics A-Z Athletics Follow Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube About CSUF Facts Contact Media Relations Find an Expert Privacy Policy Subscribe / Download Subscribe to our eNewsletters Submit a Story Do you have news you’d like to share with the campus? Submit Your Story This site is maintained by Strategic Communications. To report problems or comments, please contact strategiccomm@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility Learn about web accessibility Report a web accessbility problem Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Microsoft Viewers Some page features may require javascript to run.