COVID-19 and return to campus information. × Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search UC Riverside News Search Home Latest Articles Arts / Culture Athletics Business Health Science / Technology Social Science / Education Students University Calendar Experts In the News Info for Media Inside UCR UCR Magazine Spring 2022 Winter 2022 Fall 2021 Breadcrumb News May 24th, 2022 UCR spotlighted in discussion of mental health on campus Follow US: May 24, 2022 UCR spotlighted in discussion of mental health on campus The U.S. Department of Education's chief paid a 'virtual visit' during The Well's Public Health Fair Author: UCR News May 24, 2022 Share This: The widely circulated publication Inside Higher Ed published a story this past week that features a "virtual roundtable" at UC Riverside with the secretary of the U.S. Department of Education. During the Zoom visit on May 19, the secretary, Miguel Cardona, asked four UCR students about programs that offered mental health support during the pandemic. The visit occurred the same day the department issued new guidelines on how to use Higher Education Emergency Relief Funds, or HEERF, to provide care. The Well at UCR hosted a public health fair on the Hinderaker lawn as the Zoom call took place. Cardona referenced UCR's investment in crisis support, teletherapy, and expanded wellness resources. "If we can do what you're doing at UC Riverside, I know our students, our campuses, will be on the path, not only to academic recovery, but to mental health recovery, and be stronger than ever," Cardona said. Above, students participate in a May 19 health fair hosted by The Well at UCR. Photo by Stan Lim Share this Article Media Contacts Tags HEERF Miguel Cardona mental health University||Students Related Articles University A drunk driver killed her parents. Now she’s graduating to honor them University Money magazine ranks UCR No. 40 among 623 colleges University Fundraising head at HBCU Morehouse to lead Advancement University Remembering ‘isotope queen’ Marilyn Fogel, pioneering scientist, beloved mentor Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 tel: (951) 827-0000 email: webmaster@ucr.edu Find Us Related Links UCR News Archive Science Today Servicio de Información en Español UC Agricultural and Natural Resources news UC Newsroom Available Feeds Creator State Podcast Follow Us: Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California Search × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search All UCR Search This Site Cancel