Skip to main content Toggle navigation Search Cornell University Cornell.edu Media Relations Search Cornell University Cornell Chronicle Topics Architecture & Design Arts & Humanities Business, Economics & Entrepreneurship Computing & Information Sciences Energy, Environment & Sustainability Food & Agriculture Global Reach Health, Nutrition & Medicine Law, Government & Public Policy Life Sciences & Veterinary Medicine Physical Sciences & Engineering Social & Behavioral Sciences Coronavirus Campus & Community News & Events Public Engagement New York City Staff News Photos of the Day Big Red Sports Diversity In Memory Features NYS Impact Student Life Around Cornell All Stories In the News Expert Quotes Cornellians News & Events Merrill Scholars honor their mentors May 31, 2022 Each spring the Merrill scholars are asked to recognize the high school teacher who impacted their early education and the Cornell faculty or staff member who contributed most significantly to their college experience. Undergrads launch peer-reviewed journal May 31, 2022 The Cornell Undergraduate Research Journal, a biannual digital and print publication, received 20 submissions for its inaugural issue. From those, the editorial board selected nine articles featuring a wide range of topics. Pollack to grads: ‘Have an influence that will matter’ May 28, 2022 The Class of 2022 will make contributions to the world that Ezra Cornell could never have imagined, President Martha E. Pollack said at Commencement, held May 28 at Schoellkopf Field. Commissioned ROTC seniors embrace change, uncertainty May 27, 2022 A dozen graduating ROTC seniors were among 19 members of Cornell's Tri-Service Brigade who earned commissions in the Army, Navy, Air Force and Marines during a May 27 ceremony in Alice Statler Auditorium. Jayawardhana reappointed A&S dean, named Bethe professor May 26, 2022 Ray Jayawardhana, the Harold Tanner Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences, has been appointed to a second five-year term, beginning July 1, 2023, and named the Hans A. Bethe Professor, an appointment that begins July 1, 2022. Staff News Men’s lacrosse set to face Rutgers in NCAA semifinals May 26, 2022 Seventh-seeded Cornell will meet sixth-seeded Rutgers on May 28 in the NCAA Division I men's lacrosse national semifinals. Gametime is noon in East Hartford, Connecticut; the winner advances to the national championship game, May 30. Instrument-building festival challenges, inspires May 26, 2022 The FutureSounds Festival extended the existing sound world with presentations by guest builders and performers and newly designed instruments and compositions by Cornell students. Cornell, US Navy raise bar for autonomous underwater imaging May 25, 2022 The team created and tested a new imaging approach which integrates information about where objects might be located with sonar processing algorithms that decide the optimal views. Cornell celebrates bumper crop of Fulbright students May 25, 2022 The Fulbright U.S. Student Program, administered at Cornell by the Mario Einaudi Center for International Studies, allows recipients to define and carry out their own research projects in host countries. Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 Next page » Last page Last » Gallery Heading × Previous Next Links About the Chronicle Media Relations Office Copyright Web Accessibility Assistance Contact Cornell Chronicle 312 College Ave Ithaca, NY 14850 607-255-4206 cunews@cornell.edu SUBSCRIBE Daily and weekly newsletters Feeds - RSS & JSON