Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Communications Training facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Communications Training University Communications offers a training program tailored to the needs of NC State faculty and staff. Whether you're a researcher trying to communicate your work to the public or a communications specialist interested in creating top-notch content, we're here to help. Our training sessions take place on a regular basis throughout the year, as well as on demand as needed. To request a custom training for an individual or group, please contact Tracey Peake. To register for a course, check out our current listings: Communicating Science to the Public Gain hands-on practice in explaining your research without using jargon. You’ll learn how to craft an elevator pitch to help you get the attention of people outside your field — including potential supporters of your work. Register Media Relations Basics Get ready to publicize your work. You’ll learn how to build relationships with reporters, prepare for interviews and handle difficult questions. Register Storytelling 101 Learn the fundamentals of what a story is, how stories work, why humans find them compelling and how to tell a good one. Register Feature Writing Process Conquer writer’s block and eliminate some of the anxiety associated with crafting a story through this step-by-step process for approaching your feature writing. Register Crisis Communication 101 Don’t panic! We’ll show you how to effectively navigate emergencies, issues and crisis communications by sharing best practices and real case studies. Register (Coming Soon) Writing on Brand Master NC State’s editorial style, including AP style basics. (Coming Soon) Voice and Tone Learn why voice and tone are important, what makes them different from each other, and how to shape the voice and tone of your writing in accordance with NC State’s brand. Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.