Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Being Near Pollinator Habitat Boosts Soybean Size facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Tag: college of agriculture and life sciences May 26, 2022 Bob Franks Tapped to Lead Applied Ecology Professor Bob Franks says he looks forward to serving as the interim department head for Applied Ecology while the college and department search for a permanent leader. May 20, 2022 Poultry Science’s Curtis Praised for Transformative Leadership After more than 30 years working in higher education, 15 of those years at North Carolina State University, Patricia Curtis, department head for the Prestage Department of Poultry Science, is retiring beginning July 1. May 16, 2022 ‘Whatever You Need, I’m There’ — Meet #NCState22 Best Friends Emily and Alyssa Brought together by the saxophone section, best friends reminisce on their time in Carter-Finley Stadium. May 16, 2022 ‘We’re Stuck’ — Meet #NCState22 Best Friends Niambé and Kourtni Best friends say 'goodbye' to NC State in the field where they first said 'hello' and started a lifelong friendship. May 12, 2022 Sugar Aversion Hampers Cockroach Coupling How does a cockroach's aversion to sugar turn into an aversion to mating? NC State researchers discover the mechanism behind this behavior. May 10, 2022 Researchers Conduct First Assessment of Metabolites in African Savanna Elephants The work advances our understanding of the relationship between metabolism and health in these endangered animals. May 3, 2022 National Inventors Hall of Fame Honors 3 With Ties to NC State Three innovators who have served on NC State's faculty are inducted into the prestigious organization at a two-day event in Washington, D.C. Apr 19, 2022 Four Helpful Tips to Reduce Food Waste Up to 40% of the food grown, prepared or sold in the United States is wasted. Apr 13, 2022 Where’s the Wolf? In Ice Cream Paradise In our contest for NC State employees, Titilayo Osho with University Housing makes the correct guess — and unlocks a special memory. Apr 8, 2022 What Shapes Gut Microbiomes of Alaska’s Brown Bears? Location, Location, Location The finding helps us understand the relationship between wildlife habitat, diet and gut microbiome diversity. Apr 4, 2022 In Food Safety Study, 25% of Participants Contaminated Salad with Raw Chicken The study highlights the importance of hand-washing and cleaning and sanitizing the kitchen. Mar 30, 2022 Graduate Programs Rise in Rankings This year's U.S. News rankings bring good news for graduate programs across the university. Three programs place in the top 10 nationwide while numerous other graduate programs advance. Mar 23, 2022 What Does ‘Endemic’ Mean? And Can Omicron End the Pandemic? Does it matter if COVID becomes endemic? And what does that even mean, anyway? Feb 24, 2022 Erin McKenney: A Microbe Love Story From an internship with Disney’s Animal Kingdom to carnivore gut microbiome research, Erin McKenney has a diverse set of experiences revolving around microbes. Feb 23, 2022 Being Near Pollinator Habitat Boosts Soybean Size The finding could make a meaningful difference in a grower’s profit margin. Posts navigation 1 2 … 28 Next Page Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.