Skip to main content Toggle navigation Search Cornell University Cornell.edu Media Relations Search Cornell University Cornell Chronicle Topics Architecture & Design Arts & Humanities Business, Economics & Entrepreneurship Computing & Information Sciences Energy, Environment & Sustainability Food & Agriculture Global Reach Health, Nutrition & Medicine Law, Government & Public Policy Life Sciences & Veterinary Medicine Physical Sciences & Engineering Social & Behavioral Sciences Coronavirus Campus & Community News & Events Public Engagement New York City Staff News Photos of the Day Big Red Sports Diversity In Memory Features NYS Impact Student Life Around Cornell All Stories In the News Expert Quotes Cornellians Arts & Humanities Student films document Cornell’s LGBTQ history June 1, 2022 Students in an Introduction to LGBTQ Studies class this semester brought key events in Cornell’s history to light through short documentaries. Jayawardhana reappointed A&S dean, named Bethe professor May 26, 2022 Ray Jayawardhana, the Harold Tanner Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences, has been appointed to a second five-year term, beginning July 1, 2023, and named the Hans A. Bethe Professor, an appointment that begins July 1, 2022. Staff News First class of Milstein students heads toward graduation May 26, 2022 Twenty seniors in the Milstein Program in Technology & Humanity will graduate this year with degrees in everything from biology to linguistics to computer science to physics. Around Cornell Instrument-building festival challenges, inspires May 26, 2022 The FutureSounds Festival extended the existing sound world with presentations by guest builders and performers and newly designed instruments and compositions by Cornell students. Mong fellowship advances neuroimaging collaboration May 25, 2022 The discovery made by two doctoral students could have future implications for human health, setting a path for research into understanding brain function. Students tackle community projects in moral psychology course May 24, 2022 Students in a new moral psychology class spent the semester working with local non-profits to tackle issues from migrant family justice to food insecurity to sustainable agriculture. Around Cornell Contemporary and ancient art exhibit enlivens Ithaca mall May 24, 2022 A new exhibition displays selections from Cornell’s plaster cast collection of Greco-Roman sculptures alongside – and sometimes within – contemporary artists’ responses to cast culture and classical art. UK-based public art project offers any person ‘key to the city’ May 19, 2022 Starting May 28, Paul Ramírez Jonas’ “Key to the City 2022” will transform a symbolic honor into one enabling thousands to access diverse sites across Birmingham, England. Humanities students present diverse research projects May 18, 2022 From philosophy to music to archaeology to Africana studies, humanities scholars presented their senior projects at the A.D. White House. Around Cornell Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 Next page » Last page Last » Gallery Heading × Previous Next Links About the Chronicle Media Relations Office Copyright Web Accessibility Assistance Contact Cornell Chronicle 312 College Ave Ithaca, NY 14850 607-255-4206 cunews@cornell.edu SUBSCRIBE Daily and weekly newsletters Feeds - RSS & JSON