Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Researchers Devise Cheaper, Faster Way to Continuously Produce Amines facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program News Releases May 31, 2022 New Studies Shed Light on Election-Related Stress Anticipating stress related to elections can affect your emotional well-being before anything has even happened. Recent Stories Wicked Problems, Wolfpack Solutions Focuses on Future of Food Bob Franks Tapped to Lead Applied Ecology A School of Fishes May 23, 2022 Twisted Soft Robots Navigate Mazes Without Human Or Computer Guidance The soft robots demonstrate a concept called "physical intelligence." May 23, 2022 New Tech Aims to Drive Down Costs of Hydrogen Fuel The new tech for extracting hydrogen gas from liquid carriers is faster, less expensive than previous approaches. May 18, 2022 Researchers Use Galaxy as a ‘Cosmic Telescope’ to Study Heart of the Young Universe A new instrument and powerful telescope have let researchers peer into galactic nurseries. May 16, 2022 New Approach Allows for Faster Ransomware Detection The approach detects a broad range of ransomware far more quickly than previous systems. May 13, 2022 Study Finds Soil Composition Isn’t Key to Southeast Raleigh Flooding Findings from a recent study suggest the soil is unlikely the culprit behind recurrent flooding in the Walnut Creek watershed. May 12, 2022 Study Finds Realism a Key Factor in Driving Engagement with Virtual Reality Videos And engagement is a key factor in determining whether viewers will watch more VR videos in the future. May 12, 2022 What Caused This Megatooth Shark’s Massive Toothache? Big shark, bad day. A damaged O. megalodon tooth points to an injury received while feeding. May 12, 2022 Sugar Aversion Hampers Cockroach Coupling How does a cockroach's aversion to sugar turn into an aversion to mating? NC State researchers discover the mechanism behind this behavior. May 10, 2022 Researchers Conduct First Assessment of Metabolites in African Savanna Elephants The work advances our understanding of the relationship between metabolism and health in these endangered animals. May 9, 2022 Quantifying Cognitive Decline in Dogs Could Help Humans With Alzheimer’s Disease Diagnosing canine cognitive decline in a clinically safe and relevant way could lead to working with dogs as a model for Alzheimer’s disease in humans. May 9, 2022 Loyalty Program Members, Regular Customers Respond Differently to Social Media Marketing The finding could inform how best to craft social media marketing campaigns. May 5, 2022 Researchers Find Way to Make Traffic Models More Efficient The models are used for everything from traffic-light patterns to apps for driving directions. May 4, 2022 Stem Cell-Derived Model Offers Insights on Gene Activity and Addiction The work also offers a blueprint for related research moving forward. May 4, 2022 Researchers Devise Cheaper, Faster Way to Continuously Produce Amines Hindered amines are used as building blocks in products ranging from pharmaceuticals to LEDs. Posts navigation 1 2 … 108 Next Page Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.