Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation News Center Main navigation Calendar Categories Business and Economic Development Campus and Community Earth and Environment Health and Medicine Science and Technology Society and Culture Media Contacts Experts Guide Featured expert Find an expert Daily Digest Whistle Whistle Whistle archives Whistle classifieds Social Media Subscribe Features Features Features Archive Open Search Search Search Wildlife at Home on Campus Breadcrumb Home Features Victor Rogers October 26, 2021 Atlanta is often called the “city in a forest” because of its lush canopy of trees, uncommon for a major city. In the heart of that forest sits Georgia Tech’s 400-acre campus. And within campus lies a variety of wildlife that has made Georgia Tech its home. “I don’t think most people are aware of wildlife on campus,” said Emily Weigel, senior academic professional in the School of Biological Sciences. “They might see a feral cat here or there, but they don’t really think about all the other animals that live on campus. Georgia Tech is the animals’ home base, and they probably don’t know anything other than they were born in this area. They don’t know they’re in the middle of a city.” A possum spotted in the Mayer Garden in 2020. Photo by Victor Rogers Included in the biodiversity surveys of the area are squirrels, possums, raccoons, rats, and birds. Several months ago a couple of coyotes were spotted, but they were just passing through campus. At least two foxes live in the glade, a densely forested area behind the president’s residence on the north side of campus. Ben Seleb, a Ph.D. student in quantitative biosciences, is developing an open source camera for studying the foxes and other wildlife. He and his colleagues at Tech4Wildife, a course and campus organization devoted to the conservation of wildlife, have been monitoring the foxes. “We had some suspicions that foxes were in the glade,” Seleb said. “It’s a very secluded area with dense vegetation, so it’s a great spot for campus wildlife to hide during the day and then come out at night.” To confirm their suspicions, they set up cameras inside the glade and left them for a couple of weeks. When they reviewed the images, they had captured two foxes on camera at the same time. “We know there could be more, but we’ve only seen two foxes at one time. They’re difficult to tell apart, but we’re working on identifying individuals,” he said. “There are a number of other animals on campus, and the glade is where many of them live. We have seen raccoons, possums, and a couple of feral cats that travel in and out of the glade.” A fox is spotted on camera in the glade area near the EcoCommons in October 2020. The glade connects to Tech’s new EcoCommons, a lush 8-acre woodland area near the center of campus, providing a pathway for wildlife to travel into campus at night, while still giving them the cover of vegetation. Georgia Tech generally offers a handful of classes related to wildlife or ecology, but the amount of wildlife on campus is creating new research opportunities. “I’m happy to see programs giving students opportunities that they may not have been aware of,” Seleb said. A mockingbird on campus near the Krone Engineered Biosystems Building. Photo by Yumiko Sakurai A red-tailed hawk captured a squirrel on Atlantic Drive. Photo by Yumiko Sakurai A barred owl on a tree in green space between the IBB and IEN buildings. Photo by Yumiko Sakurai Birds, Birds, Birds The lush vegetation on campus provides birds with a source of nutrition as well as a good place to build nests. Horticulturalist Steve Place, who can usually be found working near The Kendeda Building for Innovative Sustainable Design, helps to create a native habitat to support the birds. “We’re reintroducing native plants to recreate the habitat for the native birds,” Place said. “When you move away from the native landscape it encourages ‘generalist’ birds that are more tolerant of what they can eat. We want to encourage the reemergence of the rarer species of birds that are dependent on particular grasses and berries.” The campus landscape team is removing ivy and other invasive non-native plants near The Kendeda Building. They’re building a sustainable and regenerative ecosystem that can support itself and the endemic species in the area. Place said that people who visit the area regularly will begin to notice the variety of birds. Steve Place near The Kendeda Building for Innovative Sustainable Design. Photo by Allison Carter “If you’re observant and patient enough you’ll see different behaviors, hear different songs, and observe mating rituals,” he said. “There is a lot going on with the birds. It’s just a matter of being quiet and paying attention.” The Kendeda Building and the adjacent EcoCommons are part of a wildlife sanctuary certified by the Georgia Audubon Society, making Georgia Tech the first university in the state to receive the designation. GTkb · Steve Place and the Birds A cardinal perches near the Ferst Center for the Arts. Photo by Yumiko Sakurai Green space near The Kendeda Building for Innovative Sustainable Design. Photo by Allison Carter Tips for Co-existing With Campus Wildlife Emily Weigel, senior academic professional in the School of Biological Sciences, offers the following guidance. In general, if you see wildlife on campus, keep your distance and just observe. Take in the sights and sounds. If possible, record the encounter and post it to iNaturalist, noting when and where the animal was spotted, for Tech’s students and team of scientists studying wildlife. Many animals will purposefully avoid you, but if an animal seems to be unafraid or approaches you, do not interact. Keep yourself and any children or pets away. Do not feed wildlife. This can cause some animals to stray too far into high traffic areas (in search of food) and potentially get hit by cars. In some cases feeding the animals robs the adults of the ability to teach their young to forage effectively. If you find what appears to be “abandoned” young, do not handle them; just monitor them until their parent returns. Most of the time the parent has not really abandoned them, but if you handle the young they may then do so. Wildlife rehabbers are legally able to perform any recovery and recouping necessary. Should you find a dead bird on campus, you can help get the information logged for Georgia Audubon’s windows strike data collection by emailing Emily.Weigel@biosci.gatech.edu. If you act quickly, the bird can be recovered for educational purposes through Audubon. An open-mouthed robin in a green area near the Lamar Allen Sustainable Education Building. Photo by Yumiko Sakurai Credits Writer: Victor Rogers Photography and Audio: Allison Carter Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites and Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Art Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education