Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: Faculty Experts Back To All Experts Lynne Vincent Assistant Professor of Management 315-443-4821 lcvincen@syr.edu Field Business Industrial and Labor Relations management Organizational Behavior Expertise creativity employee voice and creativity labor relations management organizational behvavior Lynne Vincent is an Assistant Professor of Management at the M.J. Whitman School of Management at Syracuse University. Professor Vincent teaches undergraduate management classes at Whitman. Vincent’s research examines the moral and social implications of creativity. In contrast to the status quo view of creativity as inherently positive, she investigates the potential dark side and the unexpected consequences of creativity. Her research reveals that creativity and the perception of creativity influences decisions to engage in dishonest behaviors, how people handle negative experiences and even how people judge others. These processes affect how organizations encourage creativity, how organizations design jobs and how hiring decisions are made. Her research has appeared in Academy of Management Journal, Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, Journal of Experimental Social Psychology, Journal of Experimental Psychology: General and Psychological Science. Vincent earned her B.S. in industrial and labor relations and her M.S. and Ph.D. in organizational behavior from Cornell University. Read Full Bio Related Stories and Coverage Bloomberg TV “Historic Labor Union Win Against Amazon In New York” Friday, April 1, 2022, By Lily Datz Media Tip Sheets Amazon Sticks to Its Playbook in Latest Unionization Push in NYC Monday, November 1, 2021, By Lily Datz Media Tip Sheets A Second Union Vote for Amazon Would Acknowledge Workers’ Rights Wednesday, August 4, 2021, By Daryl Lovell WAER “Amazon Union Vote in Alabama Could Catch Attention of Syracuse Workers” Tuesday, March 16, 2021, By Lily Datz Media Tip Sheets Amazon Union Efforts Part of Bigger Conversation of Racial, Economic Reckoning Facing US Wednesday, March 3, 2021, By Daryl Lovell Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.