Skip To Content Future Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Disability Services Campus Directory Future Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Disability Services Campus Directory Keyword Search International Affairs Complex Home Page - International Students - Global Education Students INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS COMPLEX HOME ABOUT US INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS GLOBAL EDUCATION STUDENTS SDSU PASSPORT OFFICE CONTACT Keyword Search International Affairs Complex Home Page - International Students - Global Education Students » Contact » Director's Welcome » Location, Map, Directions » Staff » Student Assistants » Mission » In the News » Calendar » Forms » Employment » Immigration » Living in the U.S. » International Travel » Finances & Taxes » Sponsored Students » Programs, Events & Activities » International Health & Safety » New Students » F-1 Degree-seeking Students » J-1 Exchange Students » Parents & Family » Faculty & Staff » Process » Programs » Academics » Finance & Scholarships » Health & Safety » Diversity, Identity & Culture » Travel » About Global Education What to Bring During Your Visit Location, Hours & Parking Passport Fees HOME ABOUT US » Contact » Director's Welcome » Location, Map, Directions » Staff » Student Assistants » Mission » In the News » Calendar » Forms INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS » Employment » Immigration » Living in the U.S. » International Travel » Finances & Taxes » Sponsored Students » Programs, Events & Activities » International Health & Safety » New Students » F-1 Degree-seeking Students » J-1 Exchange Students » Parents & Family » Faculty & Staff GLOBAL EDUCATION STUDENTS » Process » Programs » Academics » Finance & Scholarships » Health & Safety » Diversity, Identity & Culture » Travel » About Global Education SDSU PASSPORT OFFICE What to Bring During Your Visit Location, Hours & Parking Passport Fees CONTACT Future Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Disability Services Campus Directory Keyword Search International Affairs Complex Home Page - International Students - Global Education Students INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS COMPLEX GLOBAL EDUCATION begin the journey... Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information for the SDSU Community: San Diego State University is following the guidelines of county, state and federal public health officials and other authorities as it continues its academic and research mission during the COVID-19 pandemic. Visit the university’s COVID-19 site and SDSU Flex site for more information. Welcome to Global Education We're now the Global Education office! Please note the former Study Abroad office is now the Global Education office. We appreciate your patience as we transition to our new name. General office hours Monday-Friday 9:00 am to 4:00 pm Phone (619) 594-2475 Email globaleducationoffice@sdsu.edu Drop in hours (complete online Advising phase prior to visiting us) Tuesday (only during fall and spring semesters) 1:00 pm to 3:30 pm Visit us in-person in the Global Education office, part of the International Affairs Complex Zoom-by virtual drop-in hours (complete online Advising phase prior to visiting us) Wednesday (only during fall and spring semesters) 1:00 pm to 3:30 pm Visit us virtually at Zoom meeting ID 619-594-2475 Advising Appointments (complete online Advising phase prior to visiting us) Monday-Friday Phone (619) 594-2475 Email globaleducationoffice@sdsu.edu San Diego State University has a strong commitment to preparing its students to succeed in a globally interconnected and culturally diverse world. SDSU international programs provide students with the knowledge, understanding and skills that are essential to a 21st century college education. An international program is an exciting, challenging and rewarding experience that transforms students and opens doors to new opportunities in life. We encourage you to explore this site and learn more about the global education process. Global Education Essentials SDSU offers hundreds of international programs in over 50 countries Satisfy major, minor and/or general education requirements Participate any time after your first full-time semester at SDSU from one week to a whole academic year Take courses taught in English or in another language It’s more affordable than you may think Participate and still graduate on time — just talk to a global education advisor! Learn more and explore EXPLORE SDSU PROGRAMS IN OVER 50 COUNTRIES SDSU offers over 600 international programs in more than 50 countries. INTERNATIONAL EXPERIENCE Each year, students from numerous academic majors and minors study abroad to gain valuable international experience and work towards graduation. FINANCING & SCHOLARSHIPS Students can pay SDSU tuition and fees, receive resident credit, and use their financial aid while abroad. A wide array of scholarships are also available to help cover costs. Connect with us online! » Process » Programs » Academics » Finance & Scholarships » Health & Safety » Diversity, Identity & Culture » Travel » About Global Education Study Abroad Calendar Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. &amp;lt;a href='http://www.trumba.com'&amp;gt;Events calendar powered by Trumba&amp;lt;/a&amp;gt; I'm seeking information for: Faculty Parents & Family Returnees & Alumni Military-Affiliated Students Students with Disabilities Non-Traditional Students CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) INFORMATION San Diego State University is following the guidelines of county, state and federal public health officials and other authorities as it continues its academic and research mission during the COVID-19 pandemic. Visit the university’s COVID-19 site and SDSU Flex site for more information. COVID-19 RESOURCES Virtual Support and Resources for Students page SDSU Coronavirus (COVID-19) Virtual Instruction Resources for Faculty page SDSU COVID-19 Testing for Students San Diego County COVID-19 Testing Report a Positive COVID-19 Case SDSU COVID-19 Case Alert Protocol SDSU Health Commitment your browser does not support iframes GLOBAL EDUCATION begin the journey... CATEGORIES » Process » Programs » Academics » Finance & Scholarships » Health & Safety » Diversity, Identity & Culture » Travel » About Global Education Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information for the SDSU Community: San Diego State University is following the guidelines of county, state and federal public health officials and other authorities as it continues its academic and research mission during the COVID-19 pandemic. Visit the university’s COVID-19 site and SDSU Flex site for more information. Welcome to Global Education We're now the Global Education office! Please note the former Study Abroad office is now the Global Education office. We appreciate your patience as we transition to our new name. General office hours Monday-Friday 9:00 am to 4:00 pm Phone (619) 594-2475 Email globaleducationoffice@sdsu.edu Drop in hours (complete online Advising phase prior to visiting us) Tuesday (only during fall and spring semesters) 1:00 pm to 3:30 pm Visit us in-person in the Global Education office, part of the International Affairs Complex Zoom-by virtual drop-in hours (complete online Advising phase prior to visiting us) Wednesday (only during fall and spring semesters) 1:00 pm to 3:30 pm Visit us virtually at Zoom meeting ID 619-594-2475 Advising Appointments (complete online Advising phase prior to visiting us) Monday-Friday Phone (619) 594-2475 Email globaleducationoffice@sdsu.edu San Diego State University has a strong commitment to preparing its students to succeed in a globally interconnected and culturally diverse world. SDSU international programs provide students with the knowledge, understanding and skills that are essential to a 21st century college education. An international program is an exciting, challenging and rewarding experience that transforms students and opens doors to new opportunities in life. We encourage you to explore this site and learn more about the global education process. Global Education Essentials SDSU offers hundreds of international programs in over 50 countries Satisfy major, minor and/or general education requirements Participate any time after your first full-time semester at SDSU from one week to a whole academic year Take courses taught in English or in another language It’s more affordable than you may think Participate and still graduate on time — just talk to a global education advisor! Learn more and explore EXPLORE SDSU PROGRAMS IN OVER 50 COUNTRIES SDSU offers over 600 international programs in more than 50 countries. INTERNATIONAL EXPERIENCE Each year, students from numerous academic majors and minors study abroad to gain valuable international experience and work towards graduation. FINANCING & SCHOLARSHIPS Students can pay SDSU tuition and fees, receive resident credit, and use their financial aid while abroad. A wide array of scholarships are also available to help cover costs. Connect with us online! Study Abroad Calendar Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. &amp;lt;a href='http://www.trumba.com'&amp;gt;Events calendar powered by Trumba&amp;lt;/a&amp;gt; I'm seeking information for: Faculty Parents & Family Returnees & Alumni Military-Affiliated Students Students with Disabilities Non-Traditional Students CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) INFORMATION San Diego State University is following the guidelines of county, state and federal public health officials and other authorities as it continues its academic and research mission during the COVID-19 pandemic. Visit the university’s COVID-19 site and SDSU Flex site for more information. COVID-19 RESOURCES Virtual Support and Resources for Students page SDSU Coronavirus (COVID-19) Virtual Instruction Resources for Faculty page SDSU COVID-19 Testing for Students San Diego County COVID-19 Testing Report a Positive COVID-19 Case SDSU COVID-19 Case Alert Protocol SDSU Health Commitment your browser does not support iframes INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS COMPLEX Click here for a map to the ISC 5500 Campanile Drive San Diego, CA 92182 Tel: 619-594-5200 International Affairs Complex Global Education office: globaleducationoffice@sdsu.edu International Student Services & Programs: iscreception@sdsu.edu Passport office: passports@sdsu.edu For PDF files, download Adobe Acrobat Reader if needed. For MSWord files, download Microsoft Word Viewer if needed. International Affairs Complex Global Education office: globaleducationoffice@sdsu.edu International Student Services & Programs: iscreception@sdsu.edu Passport office: passports@sdsu.edu For PDF files, download Adobe Acrobat Reader if needed. For MSWord files, download Microsoft Word Viewer if needed. 5500 Campanile Drive San Diego, CA 92182 Tel: 619-594-5200