Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: Campus & Community 2022 Graduates Reflect on Service as Academic Coaches Thursday, May 19, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Share academic coachingCenter for Learning and Student SuccessClass of 2022Falk College of Sport and Human DynamicsSport ManagementStudents Josh Eimbinder ’22 struggled during his sophomore year at Syracuse. The sport management major wasn’t earning the grades he needed. “In high school, they didn’t teach me how to study—they just hand you the work. I went to my advisor to brainstorm ways to get back on track and boost my grade point average.” Then, he saw a poster for the Center for Learning and Student Success (CLASS) in his residence hall, and decided to learn more. Eimbinder took advantage of academic coaching with CLASS and went from, “I actually might be in trouble here,” to becoming an academic coach himself, thanks to the skills he learned. “My coach, who now works in cybersecurity at a well-known company, was my role model. I made a connection with him and learned such skills as memorization techniques that I used to master the detailed information about sports commissions, rules and collective bargaining agreements that I needed to learn.” Left to right: Joao Paulo Forman Murray, Sport Management Professor Dennis Deninger and Josh Eimbinder celebrating at 2022 Commencement. Eimbinder found coaching so helpful that he wanted to get involved. He reached out to the CLASS leadership team. At the time he didn’t have the required GPA, but he was so persuasive that he was provisionally hired and trained as an academic coach—on the condition that he keep his GPA over 3.0. That’s when his fellow women’s basketball team manager and sport management major, Joao Paulo Forman Murray ’22, got interested. The native of Sao Paolo, Brazil, was looking for different things to do on campus and had helped Eimbinder study math. Forman Murray came on board because, “I saw how Josh really evolved academically in the program.” Both friends say they believe what they have learned as coaches will benefit them in their careers. “I think communicating with multiple audiences and diverse people with different backgrounds, interests, opinions and behaviors is the key to any job,” says Forman Murray. He primarily served as a coach for science and engineering students, which isn’t a field he knows well. Over the course of his time as an academic coach, he found ways to connect with students, encourage them to keep an open mind and learn to ask good questions that uncover the information they need. “As someone going through coaching, I really learned time management, prioritization and how to hold myself accountable, in addition to the specific study and review techniques,” Eimbinder says. “As a coach, I learned how to connect with all kinds of people, meet them where they are and celebrate their successes. It’s super exciting as a coach to hear from your past students that they’re succeeding.” Forman Murray is looking forward to taking his leadership skills into his summer capstone project and is hoping to find a job in the United States after he finishes. Eimbinder believes that his experience as a coach will benefit him in his post-graduate work at United Talent Agency. “In a job, you work with vague instructions. In school, every professor isn’t clear and concise. If you can understand how to ask questions and interpret vague instructions and run with them, it becomes super valuable down the road.” Author Ellen de Graffenreid Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi More In Campus & Community Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59 was only 5 years old when he developed a work ethic that would last a lifetime. The Syracuse University graduate and longtime member of the Board of Trustees first demonstrated his entrepreneurial spirit as a… COVID-19 Update: Effective Wednesday, June 1, Masking Level Returns to Yellow Dear Students, Families, Faculty and Staff: Recently the Onondaga County Health Department has reported a notable decline in new COVID infections and hospitalizations across the Central New York region. This positive trend, combined with significantly reduced population density on our… Preparing Students for a Life of Success Selecting a major and choosing a career path don’t have to be daunting experiences. While some students come to Syracuse University’s College of Arts and Sciences (A&S) or the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs (Maxwell) ready to declare… Eugene ‘Gene’ Anderson to Depart Syracuse, Tapped to Lead University of Pittsburgh’s Business School Eugene “Gene” Anderson, dean of the Martin J. Whitman School of Management since 2017, today announced he will conclude his time at Syracuse University next month. After more than five years at the Whitman School, Anderson will return home to… Digital Badges at Syracuse University: Recognizing and Authenticating Microcredential Moments in Higher Education As higher education continues to anticipate and react to the needs of an evolving workforce, new programs and various modalities have been introduced to provide just-in-time learning opportunities that meet the needs of hard and soft skills sought by employers…. Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.