Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All Posts in #athletics Campus & Community Syracuse University, JMA Wireless Announce Naming Rights Partnership, Usher in the JMA Wireless Dome Era Thursday, May 19, 2022, By News Staff Syracuse University and JMA Wireless (JMA) today announced a 10-year partnership for naming rights of the University’s iconic on-campus stadium. For the first time since the venue opened its doors in 1980, the stadium will have a new name, only… Campus & Community She Shoots, She Scores: Sarah Thompson’s ‘Sticks Together’ Project Brings Street Hockey to Children in Argentina Wednesday, May 11, 2022, By Matt Michael On Comfrey Crescent in Orléans, a suburb of Ottawa, there was one thing that always brought the children out of their yards and houses and onto the street. No, not the ice cream truck. Instead, Sarah Thompson would come out… Campus & Community Club Curling Caps Successful Season by Competing in National Championship Monday, April 25, 2022, By News Staff Spring break is often a time for college students to relax and unwind. For the Syracuse University club curling team, spring break was a time to put their skills to the test, traveling to Fargo, North Dakota to compete in… Campus & Community Syracuse University to Rename On-Campus Stadium, Readies Next Phase of Transformation Wednesday, April 20, 2022, By News Staff For more than 40 years, the Carrier Dome has been synonymous with Syracuse University and Orange Athletics. Carrier’s historic 1979 gift represented the first naming agreement for a major stadium in college sports, and one of the first in all… Campus & Community Trailblazing Women’s Lacrosse Standout Katie (Rowan) Thomson ’09, G’10 Reflects on Jersey Retirement, Teaching Next Generation of Lacrosse Standouts Tuesday, April 19, 2022, By John Boccacino Katie (Rowan) Thomson ’09, G’10 helped grow the Syracuse University women’s lacrosse program into a perennial power during her four years on campus, and in the process, she rewrote the Orange’s record books while taking the women’s lacrosse team to… Campus & Community Chancellor Calls for Nominations for New Faculty Athletic Representative Monday, April 11, 2022, By News Staff Chancellor Kent Syverud is accepting nominations from faculty interested in serving as the faculty athletic representative (FAR) beginning July 1, 2022. The FAR plays a critical role in upholding the University’s commitment to academic excellence, graduation success and the overall… Campus & Community ‘I Am Home!’: Felisha Legette-Jack ’89 Excited to Lead Women’s Basketball Program Tuesday, March 29, 2022, By John Boccacino Syracuse University has always been home for Felisha Legette-Jack ’89. Growing up in a Syracuse Housing Authority building, Legette-Jack dreamed of taking her basketball talents to only one place—Syracuse University—following a decorated career at Nottingham High School. The University was… Campus & Community Felisha Legette-Jack ’89 Named 7th Head Coach in Women’s Basketball Program History Saturday, March 26, 2022, By News Staff Felisha Legette-Jack, a 1989 graduate of Syracuse University and Orange All-American, is coming home. The Syracuse native and 20-year collegiate head coach will take the reins of the Orange basketball program immediately. Legette-Jack is synonymous with Syracuse women’s basketball success…. Campus & Community A $2 Million Gift to the John A. Lally Athletics Complex to Strengthen the Student-Athlete Experience Monday, March 7, 2022, By Eileen Korey Michael Bill ’58 was a top student-athlete at Syracuse University, a center on the highly ranked football team that went to the Cotton Bowl. After graduation, he lost touch with his alma mater, but never lost the Orange spirit. In… Campus & Community Syracuse Honors NCAA Division I Winningest Basketball Coach on Final Trip to the Stadium, Recognizes Fiserv CEO for Commitment to the University Wednesday, March 2, 2022, By Stephanie Salanger It was a busy weekend filled with anticipation as Syracuse welcomed top-ranked Duke University for another historic rival matchup, along with some special pregame activities this time around. The game was the last time that Duke’s Mike Krzyzewski would coach… 123456 Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.