Skip to content The Harvard Gazette Search for: Arts & Humanities Business & Economy Campus & Community Commencement 2022 The Coronavirus Update Events Health & Medicine National & World Affairs News & Announcements Photography The Quest for Racial Justice Science & Technology The Solutions Series News + About Accessibility Athletics News and Scores For Media & Journalists Privacy Policy Trademark The Daily Gazette Sign up for daily emails to get the latest Harvard news. Harvard University National & World Affairs World Taken out of context GenSci Lab scholars urge researchers to take care crafting definitions of sex as language can make its way into law, public policy World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Health & Medicine Health Don’t let latest COVID surge overshadow progress, says Hanage Epidemiologist explains how to stay on guard against subvariants, noting role of protective measures in transition to new pandemic phase Health Researchers find sleep benefit in higher dose of melatonin Supplements show promise in small study of older adults Featured National & World Affairs Health & Medicine Arts & Humanities Science & Technology Business & Economy Campus & Community Experience Commencement 2019 © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College The Harvard Gazette Some lessons feel like a root canal, and that’s just fine A gift to turn medical discoveries into treatments Health & Medicine Some lessons feel like a root canal, and that’s just fine Health & Medicine Some lessons feel like a root canal, and that’s just fine Photos by Stephanie Mitchell/Harvard Staff Photographer Harvard dental students’ hands-on learning helps fill gaps in care By Alvin Powell Harvard Staff Writer DateNovember 13, 2018November 9, 2018 Share Email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Trending Ardern’s forceful reminder: Democracies can die Harvard to award seven honorary degrees Humans hot, sweaty, natural-born runners Pursuit of joy starts with truth, Wu tells graduates Seven alumni elected to the Board of Overseers In 1983, Susan Pillsbury was a student at the Massachusetts College of Art and Design in Boston, a long way from her Maine hometown. Luckily, when she needed a dentist, she only had to travel around the corner, to the Harvard Dental Center on Longwood, where the care provided by student dentists still comes at a price attractive to a college kid. “I was just a broke student and someone recommended the Dental School to me,” Pillsbury recently recalled, sitting in an examination chair at the center. “I’ve been coming here since.” Pillsbury, now a Brookline resident, has collected half a dozen crowns, a bridge, and an implant at the center over the years. Cost is one factor that keeps her coming back, but there are many others. “I like getting to know the students, too,” she said. “They seem to be the cream of the crop. They do a really good job, and everything gets checked by the instructors.” The Harvard Dental Center has an active base of more than 38,000 patients. It is the only arm of Harvard that provides direct patient care (students at Harvard Medical School do their clinical studies at affiliated hospitals). The faculty group practice — dental patients are divided among three practice groups — recorded more than 18,000 visits last fiscal year. The other two practice groups — made up of the School of Dental Medicine’s 240 students and collectively known as the Teaching Practices — draw more than 26,000 patient visits a year. One practice group consists of postdoctoral students, who have already received a general dentistry degree and have advanced to one of the more than 12 specialties the School offers. The other tier of dental practice is provided by students working on their first dental degree, doctor of dental medicine. The students provide care under the guidance of instructors and after going through simulations with dummies and digital models. Students spend their first year studying with peers at the Medical School. They transition to the Dental School in their second year, with patient care beginning in year three. “The clinical experience students receive [seeing patients] is the most important to their education,” said German Gallucci, faculty chair of the dental center and the Raymond J. and Elva Pomfret Nagle Associate Professor of Restorative Dentistry and Biomaterials Science. “It is in their clinical training that they take the first steps as dental medical professionals. We see them transitioning to the different stages of their clinical experience, becoming confident clinicians at the end of their education.” Working on a patient for the first time is a watershed in dentists’ careers, Gallucci said, and a moment that sticks in the memory. In his case, the patient was entirely toothless, and needed a complete denture. “It’s a very special moment in the life of any physician,” Gallucci said. “The bonding of student to patient is something wonderful to experience. They’re helping each other.” — German Gallucci, faculty chair of Harvard Dental Center Student Tom Ferlito works on a patient. Over the course of their education, Gallucci said, students are exposed to a range of patients whose cases require different procedures, providing a wide variety of clinical experiences. The center also serves the community by providing affordable access to oral health, he said. The student teaching clinic costs less than the faculty group practice, whose rates are equivalent to those of private practices. That allows people looking for dental care at a reduced rate — including those who might otherwise forego dental care — to get the services they need. But Gallucci noted that the student-patient relationship is a two-way street, and that some patients come back because they enjoy helping students learn. “The bonding of student to patient is something wonderful to experience. They’re helping each other.” On a recent Monday at the Dental Center, a class of second-year students was focused on model teeth in a preclinical lab, while grad student Rami Albahri was working in the School’s new digital dentistry lab, designing a procedure to replace a patient’s missing tooth with a titanium implant. Albahri, who holds a doctor of dental surgery degree from New York University and is working toward a master of medical sciences in prosthodontics, said that the experience of completing a diagnosis and designing a treatment plan for a patient reminds him why he decided to become a dentist. Two floors up from the digital lab, a large, bright room is segmented into smaller cubicles. There, dozens of dental students meet with patients under the watchful eye of circulating dental residents. In a similar cubicle just off the main space, fourth-year student Tom Ferlito took a break from his examination of Pillsbury. Ferlito, who plans to start an orthodontics residency program after graduating in the spring, has met with about 60 patients during his student career. Some have come in once for a simple procedure, while others he sees regularly. “It’s cool seeing someone like Susan coming here for 35 years … knowing all the people Susan helped teach over the years as well,” he said. Winthrop Reed, a Rhode Island real estate agent, started coming to the Dental Center six years ago at the recommendation of his daughter, who works at MassArt. Reed, visiting for the final fitting of a replacement denture, said that he enjoys the center’s learning environment. “Going to the dentist isn’t supposed to be fun, but it’s a lot of fun here,” he said. “What makes it fun is the learning, the academic atmosphere, the bright young people. The professors are just outstanding. It’s just being in this environment. I really enjoy it.” Related Uncertain chapter in dental student’s life Successful brain surgery gives Lindsay D’Amato yet another story to share Making global health a collaborative effort Dental School students take lessons to heart and into the field in Costa Rica Harvard School of Dental Medicine to fête 150 years Boston City Council honors School for its many public contributions Editor's Picks Campus Triple the joy Photographers capture the festive rites and poignant moments as three classes celebrate Commencement World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Campus A call to public service Merrick Garland tells grads to get involved, warns democracy in peril, cites Capitol attack, rise in mass shootings, stifling of voting rights Trending Ardern’s forceful reminder: Democracies can die Harvard to award seven honorary degrees Humans hot, sweaty, natural-born runners Pursuit of joy starts with truth, Wu tells graduates Seven alumni elected to the Board of Overseers Up Next Health & Medicine A gift to turn medical discoveries into treatments Health & Medicine A gift to turn medical discoveries into treatments President Larry Bacow (at podium) described the Harvard Medical School gift from the Blavatnik Family Foundation as an “unprecedented act of generosity and support.” Kris Snibbe/Harvard Staff Photographer