Illinois News Bureau Menu Close Menu Research News Research Beats Agriculture Arts Behind the Scenes Business Education Engineering Health and Medicine Humanities Information Sciences Law Life Sciences Physical Sciences Social Sciences Veterinary Medicine All Research News More Research News Research Honors & Awards Videos Campus News Topics Announcements Campus Life Expert Viewpoints Honors All Campus News About About Overview Staff Services Media Training News Releases Communicating News About Faculty Search Illinois.edu blog navigation News Bureau - Research Law Sort by Title Date Popularity blog posts Expert: Secure Act regulations seek to dispel 'illusion of wealth' for older adults May 12, 2022 8:00 am530 views New disclosures on quarterly retirement account statements may alarm some workers, says Richard L. Kaplan, the Guy Raymond Jones Chair in Law at Illinois and an expert on U.S. tax policy and retirement issues. How effective have economic sanctions been against Russia? Apr 20, 2022 8:00 am4075 views Sanctions imposed against Russia and Belarus may only have meaningful consequences in the longer term, says Taisa Markus, an expert in securities law. Study examines impact of DNA evidence in sexual assault prosecutions Apr 7, 2022 8:00 am633 views DNA evidence has a dramatic relationship with sexual assault prosecutions and convictions, says a new study of one city's data co-written by U. of I. senior research specialist and social work professor Ted Cross. Will anyone be held accountable for war crimes in Ukraine? Apr 4, 2022 9:30 am841 views Russia’s invasion of Ukraine looks increasingly like a clear-cut violation of the U.N. charter and a crime of aggression, which is illegal under international law, says Illinois law professor Patrick Keenan. How vulnerable to inflation are the finances of older adults? Jan 31, 2022 8:00 am794 views Social Security’s annual cost-of-living adjustment takes some of the sting out of inflation, a University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign tax policy expert says. Are President Biden's vaccine mandates lawful? Sep 20, 2021 9:00 am9328 views The expansive new set of vaccination requirements issued by the Biden administration affecting the federal workforce will likely be upheld by the courts, but the mandate emanating from the Occupational Safety and Health Administration is on shakier legal ground, says Michael LeRoy, an expert in labor law and labor relations at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign. Paper: Use patent law to curb unethical human-genome editing Aug 30, 2021 10:30 am713 views Patent law could create an “ethical thicket” that discourages access to the medically and ethically dubious practice of heritable human-genome editing, said Jacob S. Sherkow, a professor of law at Illinois and bioethics expert. Should the government implement a vaccine passport system? Jul 29, 2021 8:00 am2130 views Vaccine passports strike the right balance between letting life go on for the vaccinated while still being realistic about the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, said Jacob S. Sherkow, a professor of law at Illinois and bioethics expert. What are the implications of the recent Supreme Court public school speech case? Jul 21, 2021 8:00 am882 views The Supreme Court affirmed that while public schools have an extra duty to protect unpopular opinions and minority speech rights, school officials still have the power to discipline students for bad behavior, says a University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign media law scholar who studies free speech issues. Are the ultrawealthy breaking the law in avoiding taxes? Jun 16, 2021 8:00 am643 views An annual wealth tax could curb tax avoidance among the ultrawealthy, a University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign tax policy expert says. Are we experiencing another unaccompanied child 'crisis' at the southern US border? Jun 11, 2021 9:00 am519 views There’s no easy solution to the problem of unaccompanied migrant children at the southern U.S. border, a U. of I. expert says. Why do we need a health care equity law? Jun 3, 2021 8:30 am892 views The Illinois Health Care and Human Services Reform Act has potential to address root causes of health disparities and foster health equity through provisions such as implicit bias training and community health workers, says Illinois professor Ruby Mendenhall. Paper: Work-refusal safety laws serve employees poorly during pandemic May 4, 2021 8:00 am880 views Current work-refusal laws are out-of-step with modern workplaces and provide meager benefits to employees who decline to work when faced with risks involving chemicals, radiation and other microscopic or invisible hazards such as COVID-19, says research from Michael LeRoy, a professor of labor and employment relations at Illinois. Expert: Public school speech case is potential watershed moment for cyberbullying Apr 19, 2021 8:00 am1818 views An upcoming U.S. Supreme Court case will be a major test of the First Amendment rights of K-12 public school students as well as the authority of school administrators to discipline students for cyberbullying, according to Benjamin Holden, a University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign journalism professor and media law scholar who studies free speech issues. New book studies intersection of psychology, environmental law Mar 22, 2021 8:00 am938 views A new book from a team of University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign legal scholars considers the unlikely intersection of environmental law and psychology. Arden Rowell, right, and Kenworthey Bilz are co-authors of “The Psychology of Environmental Law,” which explores and analyzes the theoretical and practical payoffs of pollution control, ecosystem management, and climate change law and policy when psychological insights are considered. Do labor laws need to be modernized with rise of gig economy? Mar 1, 2021 8:00 am1818 views The Protecting the Right to Organize Act would be the most significant revision of U.S. labor law since 1947, says Michael LeRoy, an expert in labor law at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign. Can Biden pass comprehensive immigration reform? Feb 15, 2021 8:00 am10511 views One of the Biden administration’s first acts was to send Congress the U.S. Citizenship Act of 2021, a long-promised immigration reform bill. But any legislative action on comprehensive immigration reform will face significant headwinds in the Senate, says Lauren R. Aronson, an associate clinical professor of law and the director of the Immigration Law Clinic at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign College of Law. Can employers legally require employees to vaccinate against COVID-19? Dec 7, 2020 8:30 am12556 views In most cases, an employer could require an employee to receive a COVID-19 vaccination. While that might seem like a violation of an employee’s personal freedom, “No one has a legally enforceable right to a specific job,” says Michael LeRoy, an expert in labor law and labor relations at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign. Does the US need to pursue transitional justice in the post-Trump era? Nov 18, 2020 8:00 am1145 views To promote accountability in government, President-elect Biden ought to pursue “transitional justice” in the aftermath of the Trump presidency, said Colleen Murphy, the Roger and Stephany Joslin Professor of Law at Illinois and an expert in political reconciliation. Paper: Congress must clarify limits of gene-editing technologies Oct 21, 2020 8:00 am591 views How the next Congress decides to handle the issue editing human sperm and eggs will affect the science, ethics and financing of genomic editing for decades to come, said Jacob S. Sherkow, a professor of law at Illinois who studies the ethical and policy implications of advanced biotechnologies. Should the Senate conduct Supreme Court hearing amid pandemic, election season? Oct 12, 2020 7:30 am847 views There is no election-year exception to the process the Constitution creates for the nomination of individuals to serve on the U.S. Supreme Court, says Jason Mazzone, the Albert E. Jenner Jr. Professor of Law and the director of the Program in Constitutional Theory, History, and Law at the College of Law at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign. Paper: Lawful discrimination by businesses creates 'customer caste' Sep 30, 2020 8:00 am567 views Judicial rulings on the leading civil rights laws have created a “customer caste” in which people of color are subject to legal, daily discrimination in retail stores, restaurants and other places of public accommodation, says Suja A. Thomas, the Peer and Sarah Pedersen Professor of Law at Illinois. Do-it-yourself COVID-19 vaccines fraught with public health problems Sep 17, 2020 1:00 pm1428 views “Citizen scientists” developing homemade COVID-19 vaccines may believe they’re inoculating themselves against the ongoing pandemic, but the practice of self-experimentation with do-it-yourself medical innovations is fraught with legal, ethical and public health issues, says a new paper co-written by University of Illinois law professor Jacob S. Sherkow. Where does the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program stand? Jun 30, 2020 7:45 am715 views Although the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in its favor, the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program remains a stopgap measure at best. The permanent fix is a comprehensive immigration bill that looks something like the former DREAM Act, says Lauren R. Aronson, an associate clinical professor of law and the director of the Immigration Law Clinic at the U. of I. College of Law. Housing instability undermines public health response to COVID-19 pandemic Jun 11, 2020 8:15 am1147 views Housing instability threatens to undermine the U.S. public health response to COVID-19, says a new working paper co-written by an interdisciplinary team of researchers at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. What effect will COVID-19 have on end-of-life and retirement issues? May 14, 2020 8:00 am1026 views The continued spread of COVID-19 ought to prompt adults to start seriously thinking about end-of-life issues such as writing a will, said University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign law professor and elder law expert Richard L. Kaplan. Will live broadcasts of oral arguments be a permanent fixture at the Supreme Court? May 6, 2020 8:00 am475 views The Supreme Court’s livestream of its oral arguments is likely a temporary measure due to COVID-19, said Jason Mazzone, the Albert E. Jenner Jr. Professor of Law and the director of the Program in Constitutional Theory, History, and Law at the College of Law at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. What effect will COVID-19 have on consumer bankruptcies? Apr 29, 2020 8:15 am3959 views Most households struggle financially for two to five years before filing for bankruptcy, making a pandemic-related surge in consumer bankruptcy filings unlikely, said University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign law professor Robert M. Lawless, a leading consumer credit and bankruptcy expert. What protections do no-show workers have during a pandemic? Mar 26, 2020 6:45 am7318 views The U.S. government can take measures to ensure that essential workers such as health care workers report to their jobs, but forced labor isn’t allowed under the Constitution, says U. of I. labor expert Michael LeRoy. Paper: Historical roots of birthright citizenship traced to demand for workers Feb 6, 2020 8:30 am891 views Birthright citizenship has served pragmatic economic purposes by giving the U.S. a competitive labor advantage, said Michael LeRoy, a professor of labor and employment relations at Illinois. Paper: Outcomes vary for workers who 'lawyer up' in employment arbitration disputes Nov 18, 2019 8:00 am842 views A worker who retains legal counsel to litigate a workplace dispute in arbitration doesn’t account for the potentially countervailing effect of employers hiring their own legal counsel, says new research co-written by U. of I. labor professor Ryan Lamare. Paper: Firm’s strategic orientation shapes how it resolves workplace disputes Oct 30, 2019 8:45 am514 views When defusing workplace conflict, firms favor alternative dispute resolution practices that align with their underlying strategic bent, says new research co-written by U. of I. labor professor Ryan Lamare. What’s behind surge in unaccompanied minors crossing southern U.S. border? Oct 17, 2019 8:30 am1148 views The surge in unaccompanied children seeking refuge across the U.S. border can be attributed to poverty, natural disasters and the rise of gang recruitment in their home countries. But the biggest factor is that their countries of origin – Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador, Mexico – are effectively as violent as war zones, says Lauren R. Aronson, an associate clinical professor of law and the director of the Immigration Law Clinic at the University of Illinois College of Law. Would changes to capital gains taxes spur the economy? Sep 4, 2019 9:00 am1801 views Indexing capital gains to inflation could be a simple fix to stimulate a teetering economy, but several significant implementation hurdles remain, said Richard L. Kaplan, an internationally recognized expert on U.S. tax policy and the Guy Raymond Jones Chair in Law at Illinois. Would cutting payroll taxes help prevent recession? Aug 26, 2019 8:30 am1044 views Cutting the payroll tax could represent the middle-class tax cut that President Trump campaigned on – although changes would need to go through the legislative process and any economic stimulus likely wouldn’t been seen until after the November 2020 election, said Richard L. Kaplan, an internationally recognized expert on U.S. tax policy and the Guy Raymond Jones Chair in Law at Illinois. Can a state copyright its own laws – and prevent citizens from republishing them? Jul 15, 2019 9:00 am676 views The pending Supreme Court case Georgia v. Public.Resource.Org will test the legality of a state copyrighting its own laws, which could pose a challenge to legal research, scholarship and public access to the law, said U. of I. copyright law expert Sara R. Benson. Scholar: Navigating parental rights in juvenile cases fraught with challenges Jun 18, 2019 8:00 am571 views Courts have consistently affirmed that parents and guardians have significant latitude in making decisions on how to raise children. But in the juvenile justice context, the traditional role of parental authority has been supplanted or nearly eliminated by the child’s attorney, said Margareth Etienne, a professor of law at Illinois. What changes should be made to modernize consumer bankruptcy law? May 8, 2019 9:00 am497 views The primary reason why current bankruptcy law doesn’t work well is that it dates back to 1978, before the explosion of consumer credit, says Robert M. Lawless, the Max L. Rowe Professor of Law at Illinois and a leading consumer credit and bankruptcy expert. Lawless served as reporter for the American Bankruptcy Institute’s Commission on Consumer Bankruptcy, which recommended several changes to the law. Tax incentives target poor neighborhoods but leave communities behind Apr 8, 2019 8:30 am846 views The development of place-based investment tax incentives such as opportunity zones can be explained as a predictable result of the “pro-gentrification legal, business and political environment that produced them,” said Michelle D. Layser, a professor of law at Illinois. Scholar: TV show 'The Wire' accurately depicted how public schools help vulnerable students Mar 11, 2019 9:00 am1204 views A new paper from University of Illinois law professor and education law expert Margareth Etienne explores the fictional portrayal of popular educational policy reforms favored by academics in the fourth season of “The Wire,” the critically acclaimed TV show on HBO from 2002-08, and reviews what the show got right and wrong in its depiction of how a large, urban public school functions in a community. Expert: Justice Department reversal on online gambling 'correct decision' Jan 17, 2019 12:00 pm1215 views In reversing an Obama-era decision that effectively allowed internet gambling, the Department of Justice has revitalized the Interstate Wire Act of 1961, an anti-gambling statute championed by then-Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy to fight organized crime, said John W. Kindt, a professor emeritus of business administration at the University of Illinois and a leading national gambling critic. Expert: Trump’s attitude toward immigrants, migratory laborers echoes past presidents Jan 14, 2019 8:45 am760 views President Trump’s approach to undocumented immigrants and migratory laborers follows the example of past presidents who relied on racial animus to scapegoat foreigners during times of cultural change, says U. of I. labor professor Michael LeRoy. Paper: Courts check presidential powers over immigration policy Jan 11, 2019 9:00 am467 views Research by Michael LeRoy, a professor of labor and employment relations at Illinois, indicates that presidential powers over immigration have been significantly hamstrung by the courts, with plaintiffs winning all or part of 89 percent of the rulings in cases that consider immigration orders that affect employment relationships. Can birthright citizenship be taken away? Nov 1, 2018 12:45 pm3968 views In adopting the 14th Amendment, Congress unambiguously intended that the children of immigrant workers would have birthright citizenship in the U.S., said University of Illinois labor and employment relations professor Michael LeRoy, an expert on immigration and employment law. New book studies friction between religion, family law Oct 15, 2018 9:00 am470 views A spate of Supreme Court decisions on the tension between religious freedom and the protective function of government has caused a sense of unease among religious people, says Robin Fretwell Wilson, the Roger and Stephany Joslin Professor of Law at Illinois and editor of the book “The Contested Place of Religion in Family Law.” What effect will Christine Blasey Ford’s testimony have on the #MeToo movement? Oct 5, 2018 1:30 pm756 views The lasting impact of Christine Blasey Ford’s testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee will be the image of a lone woman speaking truth to power, says Lesley Wexler, a University of Illinois law professor who studies anti-discrimination law. How has the #MeToo movement impacted the Kavanaugh nomination? Sep 24, 2018 1:30 pm1014 views Without the #MeToo movement and the high bar of a lifetime seat on the Supreme Court, it’s doubtful that the sexual assault allegations leveled against Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh would have surfaced, says Lesley Wexler, a University of Illinois law professor who studies anti-discrimination law. Should the age for required minimum distributions from retirement accounts be raised? Sep 6, 2018 1:00 pm1442 views Changes to the age for required minimum distributions from retirement accounts could be made after the 2018 mid-term elections, said Richard L. Kaplan, an internationally recognized expert on tax policy and retirement issues, and the Guy Raymond Jones Chair in Law at Illinois. What is Anthony Kennedy’s legacy as a Supreme Court justice? Jul 5, 2018 8:30 am824 views Supreme Court Justice Anthony Kennedy has been the court’s “pivot point” between its liberal and conservative elements since Sandra Day O’Connor’s retirement in 2006, said Vikram Amar, dean of the University of Illinois College of Law and the Iwan Foundation Professor of Law. What comes now in the wake of Justice Kennedy’s retirement? Jul 2, 2018 10:45 am450 views An Illinois political scientist talks about the politics of replacing Justice Anthony Kennedy and the future direction of the Supreme Court. view previous 1 view next additional blog information Read Next Lake Michigan water-level rise affects inland waterways, study finds Faculty members honored with Campus Awards for Excellence in Faculty Leadership Udall award honors two students for commitment to environment Three Illinois students awarded Boren Scholarships Making meat much more than a meal Illinois students offered Gilman Scholarships for study abroad Student expenditures decrease at some colleges that receive promise scholarship funds Illinois astronomers help capture first image of Milky Way's black hole Expert: Secure Act regulations seek to dispel 'illusion of wealth' for older adults History professor's book examines racism in Russia Categories Agriculture Announcements Arts Behind the Scenes Business Campus Campus Life Deaths Education Engineering Expert Viewpoints Health Honors Humanities Information Sciences Law Life Sciences Physical Sciences Social Sciences Veterinary Medicine RSS Subscribe (7) Contacts Contact News Bureau Phone: 217-333-1085 Fax: 217-244-7124 Email: news@illinois.edu Address: 507 E. Green Street, Suite 345, Champaign, IL 61820 Public Affairs | Illinois University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign BigTenNetwork CreativeServices NewsBureau WebServices RSS Subscribe Follow Us