Skip to main content University of Virginia Logo Search News Enter the terms you wish to search for. Sections Search UVA Today Videos Subscribe Sections Main navigation Main menu Series Home All News University News Arts & Culture Research & Discovery Business & Government Student Experience UVA Today Branding In The News Video Subscribe Featured Stories Research & Discovery Dungeons & Dragons and Burgers: ‘Really Bad Outcomes’ When We Don’t Grasp Fractions People rely too heavily on anecdotal evidence when looking at complex problems. Author and UVA scientist James Zimring says the solution to better understanding lies in understanding fractions. Student Experience Flying Over Final Exercises at UVA Thousands of students, family members and guests filled the Lawn during each day of Final Exercises at the University of Virginia. Check out this breathtaking drone footage of the year’s most joyous event. University News The COVID-19 Booster Shot for 5- to 11-Year-Olds: 5 Questions Answered UVA pediatrician Dr. Debbie-Ann Shirley answers some of the most commonly asked questions she has fielded from parents in her practice. The Latest Research & Discovery UVA Aims to Save Kids From Dangerous Infections Using a Single-Celled Amoeba University News Nursing Professor Remembers the Missing University News ‘Hoo? What? Where?’ Try UVA Today’s Fun, New Seek-and-Find Game Latest News View All University News Nursing Professor Remembers the Missing Research & Discovery Dungeons & Dragons and Burgers: ‘Really Bad Outcomes’ When We Don’t Grasp Fractions Student Experience Former UVA Athletes Reveal Mental Health Battles in Student-Produced Documentary Research & Discovery Brain Game: Why UVA Picked the Right Time to Expand Neuroscience Major Research & Discovery UVA Aims to Save Kids From Dangerous Infections Using a Single-Celled Amoeba University News The COVID-19 Booster Shot for 5- to 11-Year-Olds: 5 Questions Answered University News ‘Hoo? What? Where?’ Try UVA Today’s Fun, New Seek-and-Find Game Business & Government What Is NATO, and Why Is There Drama About Expanding It? Most Popular Research & Discovery Brain Game: Why UVA Picked the Right Time to Expand Neuroscience Major Student Experience When Winning the National Championship Means Missing Final Exercises Student Experience Former UVA Athletes Reveal Mental Health Battles in Student-Produced Documentary University News Jefferson Scholars Foundation Awards Record Number of Full UVA Scholarships University News UVA Awards Outstanding Teachers, Citing Empathy, Technology and Collaboration Research & Discovery Can You Ever Forgive Me? UVA Research Shows Capacity Begins in Early Childhood Must Watch View All Student Experience 0:49 Flying Over Final Exercises at UVA Student Experience 3:01 UVA Final Exercises 2022: Memories and Moments Student Experience 2:48 What’s Next for UVA’s Class of 2022? University News 1:18 How Affordable is UVA? University News View All Jefferson Scholars Foundation Awards Fellowships to 24 Graduate Students The Power of Belief Echoes Throughout the Lawn as Final Exercises 2022 Wraps Final Exercises Weekend 2022 wrapped Sunday as more than 4,500 graduates from 11 UVA schools walked the Lawn. Arts & Sciences Grads Celebrate ‘Hottest Show in Town’ During Final Exercises Graduates of the College and Graduate School of Arts & Sciences walked the Lawn on Saturday during the first of two days of Final Exercises 2022. Must Reads View All Four Reasons for Optimism from Autism Researcher Kevin Pelphrey Inspired by his daughter and many others, Pelphrey has become one of the nation’s leading autism researchers and an adviser to the federal government. He explains four key advances in understanding the disorder. A Whole New World: Mental Health at the Heart of Novel Urban Design Framework An architecture professor’s new book presents a brand-new approach to urban design that puts mental health at the forefront. A Deep Dive Into Neuroscience Discoveries at UVA The standard for stroke care and breakthrough epilepsy research. A good start for NICU babies. Optimism around autism. Erasing tremors. Mapping unknown areas of the brain. UVA researchers are responsible for all that and more. Last Looks at the Old Alderman Library UVA photographer Sanjay Suchak wandered through the shell of Alderman Library, now emptied to prepare for the building’s major renovation. Daily Report The latest UVA news, delivered to your inbox. The Daily Report is UVA Today's newsletter, delivered every weekday morning. Curated to keep you up-to-date on the latest UVA news, from breaking stories, leading research, upcoming community events and more. First Name Last Name Email Affiliation with UVA (select preferred) --Select Affiliation--StudentFacultyStaffParentAlumniFriend Leave this field blank Research & Discovery View All Amid Headlines About Disease, Important Progress in the Global Battle Against TB Brain Game: Why UVA Picked the Right Time to Expand Neuroscience Major After 10 Years, ‘Many Labs’ Comes to an End – But Its Success Is Replicable Gout Medicine Improves Survival for Heart Failure Patients, Study Finds Creating HOPE: New App Helps People Struggling With Opioids Series View All The Bigger Picture On Words In this occasional essay series, faculty members explore some of their favorite words or phrases, from the meaning of “meme” to reflections on leadership, grief and more. UVA and the History of Race UVA’s history includes some painful truths. Here are some of those stories, written by faculty members who did the research. Follow UVA On Social Media Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Student Experience View All Final Exercises 2022 From Valedictory Exercises Friday afternoon to a return of the traditional graduation ceremonies on the Lawn Saturday and Sunday, here are the stories and images of the 193rd Final Exercises. When Winning the National Championship Means Missing Final Exercises While many of their classmates celebrated Final Exercises over the weekend, members of the UVA men’s tennis team were capturing their fifth national title in nine years. UVA Launchpad Returns, Partners With Capital One This Summer UVA Launchpad is partnering with one of Virginia’s largest employers this summer to combine job training and academic instruction. Class of 2022: From Foster Child to Child Advocate, Law Grad Heads Into Public Service As a largely unsupervised youth who finally found a place to land with her grandparents, Elizabeth Harris began to think about other children who weren’t as lucky. Class of 2022: As a Tour Guide, I Learned How to Make a Big School Feel Small Striving for connection at a big state university, Caroline Challe found that community was within her grasp. Now a fourth-year student, she shares the secret with others. Arts & Culture View All The Sound of Poetry: Three Student Voices Faculty Spotlight: Personal Odyssey Made Him View Disability Differently Professor Christopher Krentz struggled to envision a future for himself after he began losing his hearing at the age of 9, but he came into his own after learning American Sign Language and making deaf friends. The Bigger Picture: Silver Linings Playbook With storm clouds encroaching, UVA photographer Sanjay Suchak snapped an ominous glimpse of Grounds from a rare vantage point. University of Virginia Logo Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube UVA About Us About Us News Releases Privacy Policy Contact © 2022 By The Rector And Visitors Of The University Of Virginia