Skip to main content Search Close Search Search this site Search Search News and Media All of Oklahoma State University Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Headlines News and Media Main Menu In this section News News Archive Topics College News In the Media Magazines Experts Directory Submit News Contact Us Home College News Center for Health Sciences Center for Health Sciences Transformative addiction research partnership announced between OSU, University of Arizona Dr. Kayse Shrum, president of Oklahoma State University and Dr. Robert C. Robbins, president of the University of Arizona announced on Friday the two institutions’ academic medical centers have joined forces to combat the opioid crisis and chronic pain through research, treatment and education. View Story The latest Wed, May 25, 2022 Shrum inducted into Oklahoma Women’s Hall of Fame Fri, May 20, 2022 OSU-CHS adds doctorate in Health Care Administration degree Tue, May 17, 2022 OSU-CHS' Operation Orange summer camp turns 10 years old View All In the Media Forbes Oklahoma State, University Of Arizona Team Up To Fight Opioid Crisis, Chronic Pain Fox 23 OSU announces partnership to help combat opioid addiction Fox 23 OSU expert says Oklahoma is in the third wave of the third opioid epidemic Fox 23 Free virtual addiction support program helps families navigate the holiday season Guthrie News Leader Extension partners to Heal the Harvester View All Events Tue 5/31 Osteopathic Approach to Musculoskeletal Pain - Part 1 7:00 a.m. 2022 Quality Improvement and Patient Safety Symposium Wed 6/1 Osteopathic Approach to Musculoskeletal Pain - Part 1 Operation Orange 8:00 a.m. Operation Orange - Tahlequah 1:00 p.m. 2022 Virtual Emergency Medicine Review Thu 6/2 Osteopathic Approach to Musculoskeletal Pain - Part 1 Fri 6/3 Osteopathic Approach to Musculoskeletal Pain - Part 1 1:30 p.m. Monthly Information Session Sat 6/4 Osteopathic Approach to Musculoskeletal Pain - Part 1 Sun 6/5 Osteopathic Approach to Musculoskeletal Pain - Part 1 Mon 6/6 Osteopathic Approach to Musculoskeletal Pain - Part 1 View All Events About the Campus OSU Center for Health Sciences is an academic health center comprised of five schools. We leverage our unique academic assets within OSU-CHS and across the OSU System to promote innovation and encourage multidisciplinary collaborative research. Related Links: Center for Health Sciences College News Center for Health Sciences 1111 W. 17 Street Oklahoma State University- Tulsa Campus Tulsa, OK 74107 (map) (918) 582-1972 | Contact Us Follow us on social Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©