Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Close Search Tulane Search form Search this site Search search tulane.edu search news only Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Research in Real Time News Tulanian Magazine Events Experts Press Releases On Good Authority Podcast Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... News HomeNews Home /PR /Research in Real Time PR landing page feature Featured Story Study examines why the memory of fear is seared into our brains Experiencing a frightening event is likely something you’ll never forget. But why does it stay with you when other kinds of occurrences become increasingly difficult to recall with the passage of time? A team of neuroscientists from the Tulane University School of Science and... PR landing page feature Tulane geologist honored by National Academies of Sciences May 13, 2022 - Barri Bronston Geologist Cynthia Ebinger has been named one of 14 Jefferson Science Fellows by the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine. Tulane math professor receives international research award May 12, 2022 - Barri Bronston Tulane University math professor Lisa Fauci has won a prestigious research grant from an international organization that funds basic research in life sciences. Team Fleur FemTech wins annual Novel Tech Challenge May 11, 2022 - Barri Bronston Team Fleur FemTech, four students from the School of Science and Engiineering, won the annual Novel Tech Challenge for their at-home test kit for detection of endometriosis. Tulane scientists develop powerful family of two-dimensional materials May 05, 2022 - Barri Bronston A team of Tulane scientists has developed a new family of two-dimensional materials that researchers say has promising applications in everything from advanced electronics to high-capacity batteries. Study finds training ‘village doctors’ can improve blood-pressure control in rural areas May 02, 2022 - Keith Brannon High blood pressure is a leading cause of heart disease and early death, but many across the globe live in areas with limited access to high-quality healthcare. The problem is especially serious in rural China where little more than 5% of hypertension patients have their blood pressure under control. Load more Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane Home Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University