Skip to main content calendar subscribe Facebook Twitter Instagram RSS Feeds YaleNews Explore Topics Alumni Arts & Humanities Business Campus & Community Environment Health & Medicine International Law Science & Technology Social Sciences In Focus In Memoriam Search form Search Social Sciences Stories Experience desired: Nonwhite women face different standard for judgeships May 31, 2022 Women of color appointed to the federal judiciary typically have a greater depth of professional experience than their white male counterparts. Does China’s research and development funding reach the right firms? May 31, 2022 New research shows that improving resource efficiency in China’s economy could deliver gains by encouraging “the right” firms to invest in R&D. Taken to an extreme, gerrymandering could lead to a one-sided Congress May 27, 2022 A new Yale study finds that partisan gerrymandering, if pushed to the limit, could exclude the views of half the country from the legislative process. Creating a cap-and-trade market for carbon emissions in Gujarat, India May 27, 2022 A team including Yale researchers is collaborating to develop the first cap-and-trade market of its kind among emerging economies, outside of China. ‘Transformative’ effects of mass gatherings like Burning Man are lasting May 27, 2022 Powerful social experiences at mass gatherings can help people feel more connected to humanity and willing to help distant strangers, a new study finds. Real-time placement odds can smooth the school choice process May 25, 2022 A new study finds that a software platform that provides warnings about the placement odds at top schools can dramatically reduce non-placements. PODCAST: Training the next generation of African economists May 24, 2022 The first episode of a new Yale podcast on sustainable development and economic justice features Leonard Wantchekon on founding the African School of Economics. Why do religious nursing homes have worse violations of care standards? May 18, 2022 New research suggests homes’ strong internal identity means that wrongdoing is less likely to be flagged for an outside regulator’s involvement. What can international climate change agreements actually achieve? May 18, 2022 Yale economist Giovanni Maggi discusses how climate change could affect future generations, and how international cooperation may or may not meet the challenge. Perceptions of shifts in public opinion are wildly off base May 17, 2022 New research finds that people have consistently inaccurate impressions of how public attitudes on various issues have changed over the last several decades. Show More Articles Search Social Sciences Yale Browse Archives Contact Us For the Media It’s Your Yale Apply to Yale Give to Yale Managed by the Office of Public Affairs & Communications Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved · Privacy policy · Accessibility at Yale Facebook Twitter Instagram RSS Feeds Yale on Instagram