Skip to content The Harvard Gazette Search for: Arts & Humanities Business & Economy Campus & Community Commencement 2022 The Coronavirus Update Events Health & Medicine National & World Affairs News & Announcements Photography The Quest for Racial Justice Science & Technology The Solutions Series News + About Accessibility Athletics News and Scores For Media & Journalists Privacy Policy Trademark The Daily Gazette Sign up for daily emails to get the latest Harvard news. Harvard University National & World Affairs World Taken out of context GenSci Lab scholars urge researchers to take care crafting definitions of sex as language can make its way into law, public policy World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Health & Medicine Health Don’t let latest COVID surge overshadow progress, says Hanage Epidemiologist explains how to stay on guard against subvariants, noting role of protective measures in transition to new pandemic phase Health Researchers find sleep benefit in higher dose of melatonin Supplements show promise in small study of older adults Featured National & World Affairs Health & Medicine Arts & Humanities Science & Technology Business & Economy Campus & Community Experience Commencement 2019 © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College The Harvard Gazette Looking up Good days, tough days Campus & Community Looking up Campus & Community Looking up Dexter Gate greets visitors to Harvard Yard with the inscription: “Enter to grow in wisdom." Photos by Stephanie Mitchell/Harvard Staff Photographer Photos offer fresh angle on campus By Stephanie Mitchell Harvard Staff Photographer DateMay 23, 2022May 23, 2022 Share Email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Perspective is everything. As we cautiously emerge from our pandemic mindsets, why not take a moment to look up? Delight in the angles and curves of the buildings and leafy canopies that we normally dart past, heads in our phones, minds elsewhere. Details come into focus — the way the columns of Widener Library frame Memorial Church, the vivid buds on branches in spring, the inscription on Dexter Gate. Here’s what a Harvard photographer found when she pointed her camera skyward from Longwood to the Arboretum to Harvard Square. The Lab for Integrated Science and Engineering Building, designed by Spanish architect Rafael Moneo, bridges disciplines across physics, engineering, and applied sciences. The Northwest Science Building is dynamic from every angle. The Wasserstein Building is the northern gateway to the Law School. Tree branches overlay the red molded brick of Sever Hall in the Yard. The entrances to the Center for Government and International Studies’ northern building and Northwest Science Building pair well with their warm slated materials. A bird takes flight over Langdell Hall at the Law School. Arches decorate Austin Hall at the Law School and Memorial Church in the Yard. The columns of Widener Library frame the skies above Memorial Church. The Carpenter Center, designed by Swiss-born architect Le Corbusier, with its signature ramp, meets the Harvard Art Museums, redesigned by Italian architect Renzo Piano. John Griffin paints and restores a lamppost alongside Buckingham House in Radcliffe Yard. A tree canopy stretches to heights in Arnold Arboretum, and red buds blossom over the Barker Center. Spring brings budding leaves between Widener Library and Wigglesworth Hall. Gordon Hall is the focal point of the Harvard Medical School Quadrangle. The New Research Building at the Medical School and the Kresge Building at Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health are shining grids of glass and stone. The brilliant exterior of University Hall offsets budding branches. Visitors approach William James Hall and the Lab for Integrated Science and Engineering Building. The Center for Government and International Studies Building Complex brings light-filled spaces to the scholarship within. Memorial Hall is silhouetted by the rising sun. Editor's Picks Campus Triple the joy Photographers capture the festive rites and poignant moments as three classes celebrate Commencement World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Campus A call to public service Merrick Garland tells grads to get involved, warns democracy in peril, cites Capitol attack, rise in mass shootings, stifling of voting rights Up Next Campus Good days, tough days Campus & Community Good days, tough days Harvard senior Anastasia Onyango (far right) with siblings (from left) Jesse, Sheila, and Brenda at a rooftop restaurant in North Carolina. Photo courtesy of Anastasia Onyango