Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Podcast: Corpse Flower facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Tag: Students May 19, 2022 The Gift of a Student’s Trust Monica Osburn is executive director of the Counseling Center, where thousands of students turn each year to find help with anxiety, depression and other problems. Mar 11, 2022 Accounting Students Provide Free Tax Return Assistance NC State Poole College of Management accounting students are again providing free online tax return assistance for individuals and households using the MyFree Taxes website. Mar 7, 2022 Ms. Adventure Since she burst on the scene in a spirit of gleeful independence nearly five decades ago, Ms. Wuf has thrived as part of NC State's ultimate power couple. Dec 13, 2021 Focused on the Future Meet December 2021 graduates who have made the most of every opportunity at NC State and are ready to explore their next chapter. Oct 11, 2021 Supporting Our Community Mental Health First Aid training empowers everyone in the NC State community to recognize and address mental health crises. Sep 22, 2021 Podcast: Shweta Trivedi and VetPAC Shweta Trivedi talks about giving pre-veterinary students hands-on experiences through VetPAC. Aug 24, 2021 Innovating and Inspiring: Meet Faduma Osman First-year engineering student Faduma Osman's parents brought her family to the United States from Somalia for a better life, and she's seizing every opportunity. Jun 30, 2021 Finding Your Wolfpack: Symposium for Multicultural Scholars A unique event helps students from underrepresented populations find friends and support before classes even start. Jun 23, 2021 Finding Your Wolfpack: The GLBT Center No matter where you are on the continuum, the NC State GLBT Center has something to offer. Apr 22, 2021 Students Win Prestigious Goldwater Scholarships Two NC State students have been awarded Goldwater Scholarships, joining the ranks of the brightest undergraduate researchers in the nation. Mar 17, 2021 Defining the Student Experience at NC State: Meet Doneka Scott Scott, the new vice chancellor and dean of the Division of Academic and Student Affairs, brings her vision for student success to NC State. Feb 22, 2021 Finding Your Wolfpack: Student Organizations Connecting on campus may be a challenge this year, but NC State's 600+ student organizations are here to help. Feb 11, 2020 Dear NC State: Show Us How Awesome Your Research Is NC State is calling for students, faculty and staff to take part in the Envisioning Research image contest. Oct 17, 2019 NC State to Hold Open House for Prospective Students on Oct. 19 NC State's Open House provides a preview of campus life. Jul 30, 2019 Podcast: Corpse Flower Lupin, the corpse flower housed at NC State, prepares to bloom again. Posts navigation 1 2 … 25 Next Page Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.