Skip to Content Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Indiana University Indiana University IU Menu News at IU Bloomington News at IU All Campuses Close dropdown Topics for All Campuses Arts & Humanities Business & Innovation Campus Life Health & Wellness Global Law & Policy Science & Technology Administration News For Students Faculty & Staff IU Community Media Campus Newsrooms Trending Tags IU South Bend Community Engagement Kelley School of Business View all tags IU Bloomington Close dropdown IU Bloomington Topics Arts & Humanities Business & Innovation Campus Life Health & Wellness Global Law & Policy Science & Technology Administration News For Students Faculty & Staff IU Community Media Trending Tags Kelley School of Business Indiana Business Research Center News Release View all tags IUPUI Close dropdown IUPUI Topics Arts & Humanities Business & Innovation Campus Life Health & Wellness Global Law & Policy Science & Technology Administration News For Students Faculty & Staff IU Community Media Trending Tags View all tags Search Arts and Humanities Afghan violinist pursues dream at Jacobs School with help of alumnus By Barbara Brosher Feb. 22, 2022 A camel marionette named Zack is the talisman that reminds freshman Mehran Fanoos of the long journey that led him to the Indiana University Jacobs School of Music, and the IU alumnus who helped him get to Bloomington. View print quality image Afghan refugee Mehran Fanoos practices at the Indiana University Jacobs School of Music. Photo by James Brosher, Indiana University Fanoos is an Afghan refugee who grew up in a musical family; his father, Ahmad, is a well-known singer in Afghanistan, and his brother Elham is an accomplished pianist. Their passions have been challenging and, during times of Taliban rule, dangerous to pursue in their home country. Fanoos was born following the 2001 collapse of the militant group, allowing him to more freely explore his musical interests as a young child. He started playing percussion instruments at age 3, then quickly took to the violin. At just 7 years old, he enrolled at the Afghanistan National Institute of Music and started violin lessons with Jacobs School alumnus William Harvey. "He was extremely talented," Harvey said. "I consider him one of two or three best students I've had anywhere in the world. He learned very quickly." View print quality image IU alumnus William Harvey and Mehran Fanoos perform together in Kabul in 2014. Photo courtesy of William Harvey Their time training together in Afghanistan was brief, but it created a lasting impact. Harvey left Afghanistan in 2014 and, on his last day, gave Fanoos the stuffed camel that he had brought along when he first came to Afghanistan as a way to help bridge cultural differences between himself and his students. The two would remain in touch and see each other twice over the next few years. At the same time, the Taliban's influence in Afghanistan began to strengthen again. Amid growing danger and limited professional paths for musicians, Fanoos and his mother sought refuge in India, where he would continue studying violin for four years. Harvey, who by then was working as the concertmaster of the National Symphony Orchestra of Mexico, would give Fanoos online lessons whenever the two could meet. When the Afghan government collapsed and the Taliban took Kabul in 2021, Harvey was inundated with messages about former students and their families wanting to get out of the country. He had founded a not-for-profit called Cultures in Harmony in 2005, with the goal of connecting people through music. Harvey immediately started to think of ways he could use the organization to help Afghan musicians long-term, including connecting them with educational opportunities in other countries. View print quality image Fanoos is in his first semester at the IU Jacobs School of Music. Photo by James Brosher, Indiana University He also thought of Fanoos, who was safe in India but whose dream of becoming a well-known violinist would require further study. Harvey reached out to his former violin teacher at the Jacobs School, Mimi Zweig. With her help, Fanoos was admitted to the Jacobs School on a full scholarship. "We know we can't educate 500 Afghan kids, but if we can reach one person at a time and educate them to the highest possible level, then we have fulfilled part of our mission," Zweig said. "These kids are having to overcome many obstacles, and I feel if we can be there for them, if we can help them to get on their feet, then they will in turn do the same thing." Fanoos is now halfway through his first semester at IU Bloomington. When he arrived on campus earlier this year, he sent Harvey a text message saying, "Look who came with me to Bloomington." It was a picture of Zack, the stuffed camel Harvey had given him eight years before. "It means a lot to me to be studying at the same place and with the same teacher Harvey had," Fanoos said. "I want to pursue my music education as far as I can." Filed Under: Alumni Arts and Humanities Campus Life Faculty and Staff Global Jacobs School of Music Media Student Experience Student Profile Students More from the newsroom Recommended from the newsroom IU Bloomington a top producer for Fulbright U.S. Student Program for 2021-22 Indiana University | Feb. 28, 2022 Health care wage growth has lagged behind other industries, despite pandemic burden Indiana University | Feb. 25, 2022 IU partners with Native American tribe to expand COVID-19 study Indiana University | Feb. 17, 2022 Afghan violinist pursues dream at Jacobs School with help of alumnus Indiana University | Feb. 22, 2022 Trending Articles Nearly 1 in 3 young men in the US report having no sex, study finds Blood test for depression, bipolar disorder offers promise of personalized treatment Pulitzer-winning alumni reflect on insurrection coverage, career preparation at IU Granfalloon returns this summer with headliners Japanese Breakfast and Car Seat Headrest Westfield set pace for Indiana's population growth in 2021 News at IU social media channels Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Contact, Address and Additional Links TEAM About News & Media Specialists RESOURCES For the Media For Faculty & Staff Media Studios Archive IU Experts SUBSCRIBE Email Newsletters & Press Releases RSS feeds INDIANA UNIVERSITY NEWS & MEDIA 517 E. Kirkwood Avenue Von Lee Second Floor Bloomington, IN 47408 newsroom@iu.edu Accessibility | Privacy Notice | Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Indiana University IU IU Bloomington IUPUI IU Topics Arts & Humanities Business & Innovation Campus Life Health & Wellness Global Law & Policy Science & Technology Administration News For Students Faculty & Staff IU Community Media Trending Tags IU South Bend Community Engagement Kelley School of Business View all tags