Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links University of Miami Division of University Communications Office of Media Relations Miller School of Medicine Communications Hurricane Sports UM Media Experts Emergency Preparedness Home Search News@TheU Explore Topics Latest Headlines Academics Arts and Humanities People and Community Research University All Topics A to Z Related Links Subscribe to Daily Newsletter Special Reports Social Networks For the Media Find University Experts Contact Us Life@TheU News and Info People and Culture Benefits and Discounts More Life@TheU Topics About Life@the U Connect and Share Contact Life@theU Events All Events Faculty and Staff Events Student Events TheU Creates (Arts and Culture Events) Undergraduate Students: Important Dates and Deadlines Submit an Event Miami Magazine News@TheU Life@TheU Events Miami Magazine More News Sites Admissions Alumni College of Arts and Sciences College of Engineering DCIE Frost School of Music Miami Herbert Business School Miller School of Medicine School of Architecture School of Communication School of Education and Human Development School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science School of Nursing and Health Studies The Graduate School Student Affairs Search News@TheU Explore Topics Latest Headlines Academics Arts and Humanities People and Community Research University All Topics A to Z Related Links Subscribe to Daily Newsletter Special Reports Social Networks For the Media Find University Experts Contact Us Life@TheU News and Info People and Culture Benefits and Discounts More Life@TheU Topics About Life@the U Connect and Share Contact Life@theU Events All Events Faculty and Staff Events Student Events TheU Creates (Arts and Culture Events) Undergraduate Students: Important Dates and Deadlines Submit an Event Miami Magazine More News Sites Admissions Alumni College of Arts and Sciences College of Engineering DCIE Frost School of Music Miami Herbert Business School Miller School of Medicine School of Architecture School of Communication School of Education and Human Development School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science School of Nursing and Health Studies The Graduate School Student Affairs News Home Stories 2022 April Architecture student wants to help Ukraine rise from the ashes AAA People and Community Architecture student wants to help Ukraine rise from the ashes St Andrew's Church, an Orthodox church in Kyiv, Ukraine, was constructed in the mid-1700s. Photo: Courtesy of Olha Khymytsia By Robert C. Jones Jr. 04-27-2022 St Andrew's Church, an Orthodox church in Kyiv, Ukraine, was constructed in the mid-1700s. Photo: Courtesy of Olha Khymytsia Architecture student wants to help Ukraine rise from the ashes By Robert C. Jones Jr. 04-27-2022 Olha Khymytsia, a Ukrainian graduate student in the School of Architecture, is keeping track of historical structures damaged in the Russian invasion of Ukraine in hopes of helping her country rebuild. Between working on her master’s degree thesis and creating new technology for homes of the future, Olha Khymytsia keeps track of the almost-daily entries to a heartrending list: historic buildings and landmarks in her homeland of Ukraine that have been damaged or destroyed by Russian bombs and missiles. From churches in Donetsk to a library in Kharkiv to a monument in Kherson, nearly 250 structures of historical significance are on the list, compiled and placed on the internet by Ukrainian citizens who are documenting the destruction of their country. Khymytsia, a graduate assistant at the University of Miami School of Architecture, looks at the list at least once a day. She wants the world to know that along with the ever-growing humanitarian crisis caused by Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, her homeland’s architectural heritage is at risk of being erased, as its buildings, landmarks, and public squares continue to be reduced to rubble by Russian rockets. “Architecture helps make us different. It’s one of the most effective ways of representing a country’s culture, its history,” said Khymytsia, who was born and raised in the western Ukrainian city of Lviv. “Until now, we may have taken that for granted. But now, I believe we’re all realizing just how important architecture is and that it should be preserved.” Olha Khymytsia Professor of architecture Jorge L. Hernandez echoed her sentiments. “Architectural heritage is about memory and history,” he explained. “And those two things are and have always been embodied in places. That’s why we are so drawn to different sites.” Ukraine is home to seven UNESCO World Heritage Sites, all of which Khymytsia has visited. And while none appears to have been damaged in the war, scores of other cultural sites have been harmed, according to the United Nations-run agency. Russian artillery, for example, damaged a menorah at the Drobytskyi Yar Holocaust memorial complex in eastern Ukraine about a month after the war started, according to Ukraine’s ministry of defense. And in the early stages of the conflict, invading forces reportedly burned the Ivankiv Historical and Local History Museum to the ground, destroying the 25 paintings by Ukrainian folk artist Maria Prymachenko. The attacks, if deliberate, would be violations to the provisions of the 1954 Hague Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict, to which Russia, ironically, is a signatory. “It’s the eradication of our culture, our history,” Khymytsia said of the attacks. But she remains optimistic, hoping for the war’s end and a Ukrainian victory. “Only time will tell,” she said. When armed conflict does cease, the 24-year-old Khymytsia, who as a little girl would watch an American-made home makeover show on Ukrainian television, wants to return to her homeland and use her architectural skills to help rebuild it. She believes there is an opportunity to not only replace what has been destroyed but also to improve upon it. “We’ll have the chance to modernize the country in certain areas.” To help in its rebuilding, Ukraine will have several examples to follow of countries that reinvented themselves after the ravages of war reduced their infrastructure to rubble. “There’s Poland, Ukraine’s western neighbor, with its wonderful capital city of Warsaw,” said Hernandez, an authority on architectural history who helped restore a dozen churches in Cuba. “Warsaw is a fantastic example. It was reborn after essentially being reduced to rubble by Nazi Germany. It was the will of the people to recreate the urban landscape and skyline of Warsaw. And there are other case studies, many of them quite well known.” As for now, Khymytsia continues to keep abreast of the latest developments in the war by watching television coverage and reading newspaper articles. Her mother and father still live in Lviv, which until recently had been largely unaffected by the war. That changed on April 18, when the city reported its first wartime deaths after Russian missiles hit a military warehouse and a commercial service station two milesfrom Khymytsia’s home. Among the dead: an acquaintance of one of her best friends. “But out of the ashes and crumbled concrete,” Khymytsia declared, “Ukraine will rise again.” topics: People and Community In the Community Social Impact University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 UM Network About UM UM News and Events Admissions Alumni Association UHealth Hurricane Sports University Hotline UM Culture Tools and Resources Academic Calendar People Search myUM CaneLink Blackboard Workday Employment Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices Title IX & Gender Equity Website Feedback