Skip to content News Search All news UC Berkeley Research Subcategories in Research Technology & engineering Business & economics Humanities Mind & body Politics & society Science & environment All Research Top Stories in Research Science & environment Civil War diary inspires biography of pioneering botanist Top Stories in Research Mind & body Like it or not, we’re prone to adopt popular beliefs, even fake ones Top Stories in Research Humanities How preserving a country’s languages can lead to decolonization People Subcategories in People Profiles Awards Milestones All People Top Stories in People Profiles Civil War diary inspires biography of pioneering botanist Top Stories in People Awards Nanobiotechnologist selected for inaugural Philomathia Prize Top Stories in People Profiles UC Berkeley graduate Alberto Ibarra: ‘Succeed through the thorns’ Campus & community Subcategories in Campus & community Campus news Work life Events at Berkeley All Campus & community Top Stories in Campus & community Campus news Name the Berkeley falcon chicks: It’s a boy and a girl for Annie and Alden Top Stories in Campus & community Campus news State leader visits Berkeley, praises novel partnership to help the unhoused Top Stories in Campus & community Events at Berkeley Scholars on Roman Vishniac's photos of Jewish life before WWII Arts & culture Performing arts Literature Film Visual arts Events calendar All arts & culture Visual arts Berkeley Talks: Scholars on Roman Vishniac’s photos of Jewish life before WWII After pandemic hiatus, Native American language survival workshop returns to campus Literature English professor on climate fiction: Powerful, terrifying — and inspiring Opinion Berkeley Blog Voices All opinion Berkeley Blog Striking a balance between climate despair and magical solutions Andrew Campbell: What does being energy independent really mean? Berkeley Blog Combat homelessness by expanding state-funded housing programs MENU Campus & community, Campus news, Law Law school to pay bulk of its in-state Native American students’ tuition By Gretchen Kell, Media relations| May 18, 2022May 18, 2022 Tweet Reddit Email Print May 18, 2022May 18, 2022 Gretchen Kell Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid Kristin Theis-Alvarez pushed for the law school to cover the Professional Degree Supplemental Tuition to build on the university system’s program. (Photo by Darius Riley) The University of California system’s recent decision to cover tuition and student service fees for in-state undergraduate and graduate students enrolled in federally recognized Native American, American Indian and Alaska Native tribes was cheered at Berkeley Law. Faculty, staff and students alike are all too aware there of Native Americans’ dire underrepresentation in law schools and the legal profession. But the UC Native American Opportunity Plan, announced April 28, does not cover professional degree supplemental tuition (PDST), which at $21,334 per semester makes up the bulk of law students’ costs this year. Tuition is $5,721 per semester. So, with the approval of Dean Erwin Chemerinsky, Berkeley Law announced this week that it will cover the PDST for qualifying students starting this fall by using existing financial aid dollars. The PDST is set by the UC Regents for all professional school students. Kristin Theis-Alvarez, Berkeley Law’s dean of admissions and financial aid, proposed the plan to Chemerinsky, realizing that asking Native American students to cover the PDST “would remain a significant impediment” for them to attend the top law school. She said she also hopes the new program will spark additional ways at Berkeley Law to attract and retain Native American and Indigenous students. The school’s coverage of the PDST will allow more Native American students to attend Berkeley Law and then work in their communities, said student Asunción Hampson-Medina, co-chair of the Berkeley Native American Law Student Association. She added that only 1% of people in the legal profession are Native and Indigenous lawyers. “So many barriers to political and economic power have been put up against Indigenous people for centuries,” said Hampson-Medina, “and this is just one way to make up for that injustice and support Indigenous students who want to succeed in the legal field.” Chemerinsky added that the law school’s tuition commitment “also is part of an important, larger effort to create a top program in Indian law at Berkeley Law.” Tweet Reddit Email Print Read more about this news in a Berkeley Law story. Topics: campus, diversity, law and justice, race and ethnicity, students Top Stories Name the Berkeley falcon chicks: It’s a boy... Civil War diary inspires biography of pioneering... Like it or not, we’re prone to adopt... Related Stories State leader visits Berkeley, praises novel... Scholars on Roman Vishniac's photos of Jewish... Trending now Politics & societySuburban sprawl cancels carbon-footprint savings of dense urban cores Campus & communityIn rollicking ceremony, UC Berkeley graduates cap a challenging college education Politics & societyWhy are there so many Filipino nurses in the U.S.? VIDEOS PODCASTS Skydiving salamanders live in world’s... Berkeley Talks: An update on Public Service Loan... You Might Also Like Berkeley Engineering returns to in-person graduation... Standing with our Black community after racist Buffalo... Chancellor Christ to graduates: This is a time of... Celebrating Jewish American Heritage Month at UC Berkeley Browse All news Topics A-Z Follow Us View UCBerkeley’s profile on Facebook View UCBerkeley’s profile on Twitter View UCBerkeleyOfficial’s profile on Instagram View UCZAXKyvvIV4uU4YvP5dmrmA’s profile on YouTube View UCBerkeley’s profile on Medium About About us Contact the news team Enroll in our online media training Find an Expert Subscribe Sign up for email news alerts Subscribe to The Berkeleyan, our weekly email newsletter Copyright © 2022 UC Regents; all rights reserved Accessibility Nondiscrimination Privacy Search All news UC Berkeley Research Technology & engineering Business & economics Humanities Mind & body Politics & society Science & environment All research People Profiles Awards Milestones All people Campus & community Campus news Work life Events at Berkeley All campus & community Arts & culture Performing arts Visual arts Film Literature All arts & culture Opinion Berkeley Blog Voices All opinion Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel Post was not sent - check your email addresses! Email check failed, please try again Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email. Latest COVID-19 information and resources. [X] Close