Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All Posts in #Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs Campus & Community Preparing Students for a Life of Success Friday, May 27, 2022, By Caroline K. Reff Selecting a major and choosing a career path don’t have to be daunting experiences. While some students come to Syracuse University’s College of Arts and Sciences (A&S) or the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs (Maxwell) ready to declare… Campus & Community Sociologist Shannon Monnat to Lead Maxwell’s Center for Policy Research Monday, May 16, 2022, By Jessica Youngman A demographer and sociologist whose work focuses on population health will serve as the next director of the Center for Policy Research (CPR), the oldest interdisciplinary social science research program at the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs. Shannon… Campus & Community Maxwell Prepared Mike Tirico ’88 for His ‘Most Challenging Assignment’ Monday, May 16, 2022, By Jessica Youngman A bachelor’s degree from the Maxwell School and the College of Arts and Sciences helped prepare famed sports broadcaster Mike Tirico ’88 to take on one of the toughest assignments of his storied career: the 2022 Winter Olympics in Bejing,… Campus & Community Investing in the Bedrock of Discovery: New Endowed Professorship in Quantum Science Wednesday, May 11, 2022, By News Staff Kathy Walters ’73 and her husband, Stan ’72, can look back over 50 years and easily track the impact Syracuse University had on their lives, but their newest gift to their alma mater looks far into the future, for generations… Media Tip Sheets Response to Putin’s Speech Monday, May 9, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette As we heard earlier today, Russian President Vladimir Putin said he had no choice but to invade Ukraine in his Victory Day speech (CNN). Syracuse University’s Mark Jacobson has responded to this speech (see below). Jacobson is the assistant dean of Washington programs… Veterans Office of Veteran and Military Affairs Announces Spring 2022 Military-Connected Scholarship Recipients Friday, May 6, 2022, By Austin Philleo The Office of Veterans and Military Affairs (OVMA) is pleased to announce the following awardees of military-connected student spring 2022 scholarships. These awards provide meaningful financial assistance to military-connected students as part of the University’s commitment to being the best… Media Tip Sheets Leaks at the Supreme Court, what really matters? The leak or the decision? Friday, May 6, 2022, By Ellen Mbuqe This week, Supreme Court Chief Justice John Roberts ordered an investigation on how a draft decision of Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health Organization was leaked to Politico. This leak shows that five justices are preparing a judgment that would strike down… Veterans Senior Profile: Air Force ROTC Opens a World of Opportunity for Si Yun (Sara) Lim ’22 Wednesday, May 4, 2022, By Stephanie Salanger Si Yun (Sara) Lim absolutely knew she wanted to study international relations at Syracuse University, even if she didn’t know where she’d be heading at first. “I got my acceptance letter, and my mom asked me where Syracuse was. I… Media Tip Sheets Roe v. Wade Impact: Syracuse University Experts Weigh In Wednesday, May 4, 2022, By News Staff Reporters looking for insight into the leaked opinion showing Supreme Court justices are working on an advanced decision to overturn Roe v. Wade, please see comments from Syracuse University experts. They each offer insight on what this means in the… Campus & Community 9 Professors Presented With Graduate Education Excellence Awards Tuesday, May 3, 2022, By Diane Stirling They are inspirational teachers and notable scholars whose work expands the reputation of the University and guides student research paths. They are mentors who become sources of personal and professional support for students who are far from home or having… 12345 Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.