Skip to main content University of Nebraska–Lincoln Visit Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Log In Search Search Form Search Submit Close Nebraska Today Menu Search Log In Agriculture & Environment Arts Business & Law On Campus Science & Technology Society & Culture Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Nebraska Newsroom Nebraska Today Jacobsen headed to Nebraska Law to continue love for campus Jacobsen headed to Nebraska Law to continue love for campus May 12, 2022 · 4 min read Jacobsen headed to Nebraska Law to continue love for campus by LeAnne Bugay | University Communication and Marketing Craig Chandler | University Communication Isabella Jacobsen, an animal science major who will attend Nebraska Law in the fall, started her own baking business and is part of the Engler Agribusiness Entrepreneurship program. Isabella Jacobsen applied to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln on a whim the night of the undergraduate application deadline. And now, as she’s counting down the days until she graduates May 14 with a degree in animal science, she’s forever glad she took a chance on “Dear Old Nebraska U.” “We came to visit my senior year, and the week we were here I absolutely fell in love,” Jacobsen said. “My major is on East Campus, so I toured there pretty thoroughly, and I loved how small it felt even though we were in a city.” Jacobsen said it was an easy decision to move from her home in Eastvale, California, to middle America after touring and earning a scholarship from the university. Although she was excited to attend Nebraska, Jacobsen struggled with her mental health and being far away from her family her freshman year. She reached out to her academic adviser for support, whom she credits with pushing her through those challenges and giving her hope. “I never felt like I didn’t have the support I needed,” she said. “It made me feel like I was in the right place.” During her sophomore year, Jacobsen faced another grand challenge — figuring out her passion. She had a budding interest in law growing up with two parents in law enforcement and a family friend who worked as an attorney. At the same time, she joined the Engler Agribusiness Entrepreneurship Program and found an inspiring community in her peers and Tom Field, director of the Engler program. Since focusing in on law and business her sophomore year, Jacobsen has immersed herself in both worlds and plans to continue those passions beyond graduation. Jacobsen launched her first large endeavor in the business world by starting her own baking company in summer 2020 while she was quarantining at home in California during the initial months of the COVID-19 pandemic. She started small by baking cinnamon rolls for friends and neighbors, but once she moved back to Lincoln for school, she was bombarded with requests for dozens of cinnamon rolls, wedding cakes and cookies. She met with Dave Lambe, Engler’s chief learning officer, and other faculty and staff members in the Engler program to talk about how to grow her business, and with their guidance and advice, she now rents a commercial kitchen to keep up with her order demands and coordinates all the baking for a coffee shop in Waverly. “When I did start my own business, I had this amazing community and support system,” Jacobsen said. “The network I’ve built, the connections I’ve made and the people I’ve met through my time here have been amazing and will last with me for a lifetime.” In the legal realm, Jacobsen secured an internship with Bruning Law Group, founded by former Nebraska Attorney General Jon Bruning. Jacobsen worked within several sectors of law alongside attorneys, which solidified her decision to attend law school in hopes of creating a career where she can be a voice for Nebraska’s agricultural community. With dozens of law school options in the Midwest, Jacobsen’s decision was clear once again. She’ll start — or “stay at home,” as she said — at the University of Nebraska College of Law this fall. “Looking at UNL, the faculty at the College of Law are super inspiring, super compassionate and really easy to talk to,” Jacobsen said. “When I toured Nebraska Law, I could see the love they put into the building and the college as a whole.” Enrolling in the college was a natural decision for Jacobsen since East Campus has become one of her favorite locations. She also hopes to serve rural communities in the future and feels that earning a law degree in the heartland will help her achieve that. “I have such a strong connection to the school already and to the campus, and I want to continue that because I want to represent us in the future,” she said. “I want to say I am the product of a Nebraska education.” In the meantime, Jacobsen has been reflecting on her four years of undergraduate education and how much she’s learned about herself and how to succeed in her pursuits. She said Field’s classes always felt like a motivational speech because of the life lessons he taught, which in turn made her realize her strengths and potential for success. She also appreciates that she took the leap to ask for help in the face of challenges, and that going forward, she knows it’s OK to lean on others — especially her fellow Huskers. “The professors and my advisers have been so instrumental in my success,” she said. “The Husker family is supportive and actively involved in helping you succeed.” Share Tags Isabella Jacobsen Engler Agribusiness Entrepreneurship Program East Campus Tom Field Dave Lambe Law agriculture and environment business and law May 2022 commencement Recent News Mixed signals: Male wolf spiders get luckier following complex courtships 4 days ago Science & Technology 'Bell Affair' making its premiere in D.C. June 2 4 days ago Arts Society & Culture Students gain nonprofit experience through honors, foundry collaboration 4 days ago On Campus Lincoln wins big at National Bass Championship 4 days ago On Campus Interdisciplinary program takes long-range view of visual impairment instruction 4 days ago On Campus Kishore endeavors to leave a footprint 6 days ago On Campus Raikes School student projects solve real-world problems, aid clients 6 days ago Science & Technology On Campus Nebraska’s leading economic indicator continues to rise 6 days ago On Campus Address University of Nebraska–Lincoln 1217 Q St. Lincoln, NE 68588 US About the UComm News Team Submit a Story Related Links University Communication Athletic Department Communications Office Campus Links Directory Employment Events Libraries Maps News Office of the Chancellor Report an Incident Policies & Reports Accessibility Statement Emergency Planning and Preparedness Institutional Equity and Compliance Notice of Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Security and Fire Safety Report Student Information Disclosures UNL web framework and quality assurance provided by the Web Developer Network · QA Test University of Nebraska–Lincoln Established 1869 · Copyright 2022 Some parts of this site work best with JavaScript enabled.