Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia News Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Featured News Topics Video Books Podcasts All News Media Resources Awards & Milestones Arts & Humanities Politics & Social Justice Research & Discovery Photo of the Week Commencement 2022 Columbia News You are here: Home All News 9 Behind-the-Scenes Photos From Commencement 2022 Setup at Columbia Commencement 2022 9 Behind-the-Scenes Photos From Commencement 2022 Setup at Columbia On April 18, construction began on the Morningside campus for Commencement 2022. Take a look at how it is shaping up. By Kelly Moffitt and Jennifer Pellerito April 22, 2022 We are thankful to the workers & Columbia Facilities who help make Commencement possible, starting with the bleachers in front of Low Library. Photo by Eileen Barroso. Columbia Commencement (May 18) is the largest single event put on by the university in a year. An event that requires 450 volunteers through the week and 260 volunteers on the day alone is bound to be an undertaking. And this year, we have a special ceremony for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 too! RELATED 6 Things to Know About Commencement 2022 and Graduation Season Your Commencement Stories Construction started this week on the infrastructure that helps make Commencement and Class Day ceremonies happen, and the videos that will accompany the ceremony have had shoots underway the whole month of April. We've gathered some of our favorite behind-the-scenes shots from the setup below. Thanks to the workers and Columbia Facilities who make sure we're prepared for one of our favorite weeks of the year to run smoothly. Get excited! And don't forget to share your photos of graduation preparation through this form and on social media with the hashtag #RoarLions2022. Load-In Trucks with Commencement materials arrive at Columbia's campus. Photo by Eileen Barroso. The Materials Materials are prepped for construction on Low Plaza. Photo by Eileen Barroso. Buzz of Activity An overview of the action on Low Plaza before bleacher construction. Photo by Eileen Barroso. Bleacher Construction Workers construct the bleachers on Low Plaza. Photo by Eileen Barroso. Up-Close and Personal A close-up of the bleacher base in front of Kent & Philosophy Halls. Photo by Eileen Barroso. Installation with a View A dexterous worker ensures the bleachers fit on Low Plaza. Photo by Eileen Barroso. On Location Construction isn't the only part of Commencement setup. Video that includes picturesque locations, such as the Columbia "C" rock, is also being filmed for the ceremony itself. Photo by Rudy Rodriguez. What Is to Come A student sits in front of constructed bleachers on Low Plaza. Photo by Eileen Barroso. Get Columbia News In Your Inbox Tags Commencement Students News June 01, 2022 Eric Kandel, Nobel Prize Winner and University Professor, to Retire June 01, 2022 Faculty Named Fulbright U.S. Scholars, Other Institutional Milestones June 01, 2022 Columbia Physicist Tanya Zelevinsky Wins 2022 Brown Investigator Award June 01, 2022 Celebrating Pride Month 2022 at Columbia May 31, 2022 A Cultural Critic Publishes Her Second Memoir Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close