Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Meet NC State’s Extraordinary New Student Class facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Tag: first-year class May 23, 2022 Applications for Admission Soar as NC State Grows to Meet Workforce Needs Demand for an NC State degree is at an all-time high as the university prepares to welcome its largest and most diverse first-year class. Aug 24, 2021 Innovating and Inspiring: Meet Faduma Osman First-year engineering student Faduma Osman's parents brought her family to the United States from Somalia for a better life, and she's seizing every opportunity. Aug 19, 2020 Meet the Newest Members of the Pack This year's first-year and transfer students are facing a new kind of fall, but they're ready to work hard, have fun and make the most of every opportunity. Aug 28, 2019 With Large First-Year Class, NC State Climbs to 36,000 Students NC State continues to educate more North Carolina resident students than any other university. Sep 6, 2017 Meet NC State’s Extraordinary New Student Class Thousands of new students joined the Wolfpack in recent weeks. Meet the incoming class of 4,725 freshmen and 1,327 talented transfer students, all of them ready to Think and Do. Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.