Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Close Search Tulane Search form Search this site Search search tulane.edu search news only Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Tulane News News Tulanian Magazine Events Experts Press Releases On Good Authority Podcast Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... News HomeNews Home /PR /Study finds yield lights have drivers hitting gas instead of brakes at Lafitte Greenway Study finds yield lights have drivers hitting gas instead of brakes at Lafitte Greenway July 22, 2019 11:30 AM Print to PDF Carolyn Scofield cscofiel@tulane.edu (504) 247-1443 Lafitte Greenway Bicyclists ride along the Lafitte Greenway. (Picture by Paula Burch-Celentano) Lights at intersections where the Lafitte Greenway meets New Orleans’ busy streets are meant to make drivers stop for cyclists and pedestrians. That’s the intention, at least. New research from Tulane University, however, finds drivers are more likely to hit the gas instead of the brakes when they see those lights flashing. Students, trained as research assistants, and led by epidemiologist Jeanette Gustat, an associate professor at Tulane School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, observed nine different intersections along the Greenway. They spent more than two hours at each, and recorded 861 cyclists, 318 pedestrians and 923 cars on the Greenway or crossing it during the course of two days. The study found the flashing yellow lights designed to get drivers to stop had the opposite effect. When a cyclist or pedestrian triggered the lights, 64% of drivers failed to stop. A little less than half (49%) of the drivers stopped when a cyclist or pedestrian approached the intersection but didn’t activate the signals. “Drivers in New Orleans need to be made aware of what those flashing lights mean and what their responsibility is,” Gustat says. “There’s also mixed research about the effectiveness of that type of signal. There are more prominent lights that could be used.” The researchers also found Lafitte Greenway users aren’t consistent about activating the crossing signals. The students performing the observations found only 14% of cyclists and 23% of pedestrians triggered the lights before attempting to cross. “Greenway users told us they don’t think these signals work to make drivers stop,” says Chris Anderson, a doctoral candidate in the Department of Epidemiology, who helped conduct the study. Anderson says more consistent signal use, along with more education for drivers and cyclists could help improve safety at the Greenway intersections. Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane Home Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions Footer - Middle Column News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Footer - Right Column Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University