Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation News Center Main navigation Calendar Categories Business and Economic Development Campus and Community Earth and Environment Health and Medicine Science and Technology Society and Culture Media Contacts Experts Guide Featured expert Find an expert Daily Digest Whistle Whistle Whistle archives Whistle classifieds Social Media Subscribe Features Features Features Archive Open Search Search Search Student and Faculty Stories Breadcrumb Home The Month in Photos: March 2022 Astronaut Shane Kimbrough Visits, InVenture Prize, and Guthman Musical Instrument Competition 2022 InVenture Prize After two rounds of preliminary competition, the teams aiming to bring home the 2022 Georgia Tech InVenture Prize title have been chosen. The finalists will compete in a rapid-fire televised pitch competition on Wednesday, March 16, at 7:30 p.m. at Georgia Tech's Ferst Center for the Arts. The competition will be aired live on Georgia Public Broadcasting and online at inventureprize.gatech.edu. The Month in Photos: February 2022 Public Nights at Georgia Tech Observatory, Track and Field, and Grad Fest Black History Month Georgia Tech's mission is to develop leaders and advance technology that improves the human condition. Across campus, Black students, faculty, and staff are excelling in research, teaching, entrepreneurship, athletics, and many other areas. Their stories and voices remind us of the importance of diversity and inclusion at the Institute that began 60 years ago with the matriculation of Georgia Tech's first Black students. Through courage, conviction, vision, and leadership, Black Yellow Jackets are a vital part of our future at Georgia Tech and throughout the world. The Month in Photos: January 2022 Snow Day, Symptomatic Testing, and Swimming The Month in Photos: December 2021 Basketball, Secretary of Commerce Visit, and Commencement Breaking Down the Cap and Gown Academic regalia, also known as the “cap and gown,” varies according to the degree conferred and the level of scholarship attained. The bachelor’s gown is a simple robe that covers the entire body. The master’s gown has longer, closed sleeves. The doctoral robe usually is the most elaborate; it is made of velvet, has three stripes on the arms, and includes a hood. Recipients of the Class of 1934 Distinguished Professor Award at Georgia Tech The Class of 1934 Distinguished Professor Award recognizes outstanding achievement in teaching, research, and service. It is the highest honor given to a Georgia Tech professor. Created in 1984 by the Class of 1934 in observance of its 50th reunion, the award is presented to an active professor who has made significant, long-term contributions — contributions that have brought widespread recognition to the professor, to their school, and to the Institute. The award includes a stipend of $20,000. Undergraduate Enrollment Growth Reflects Inclusive Excellence Over the past five years, Georgia Tech has strengthened its commitment to inclusive excellence by enrolling record numbers of undergraduate students from around the state, nation, and world. Mario Lopez...First-Generation Focus Growing up as a first-generation U.S. citizen, Mario Lopez always knew he wanted to attend college and become an engineer. His family had immigrated to East Dublin, Georgia from Mexico in 1998, and, despite living in a rural town where career options were somewhat limited and pressures to learn a trade were strong, his aspirations to attend Georgia Tech — his dream school — never waned. Pagination 1 Page 1 Next page ›› Subscribe to Student and Faculty Stories Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites and Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Art Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education