Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links University of Miami Division of University Communications Office of Media Relations Miller School of Medicine Communications Hurricane Sports UM Media Experts Emergency Preparedness Home Search News@TheU Explore Topics Latest Headlines Academics Arts and Humanities People and Community Research University All Topics A to Z Related Links Subscribe to Daily Newsletter Special Reports Social Networks For the Media Find University Experts Contact Us Life@TheU News and Info People and Culture Benefits and Discounts More Life@TheU Topics About Life@the U Connect and Share Contact Life@theU Events All Events Faculty and Staff Events Student Events TheU Creates (Arts and Culture Events) Undergraduate Students: Important Dates and Deadlines Submit an Event Miami Magazine News@TheU Life@TheU Events Miami Magazine More News Sites Admissions Alumni College of Arts and Sciences College of Engineering DCIE Frost School of Music Miami Herbert Business School Miller School of Medicine School of Architecture School of Communication School of Education and Human Development School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science School of Nursing and Health Studies The Graduate School Student Affairs Search News@TheU Explore Topics Latest Headlines Academics Arts and Humanities People and Community Research University All Topics A to Z Related Links Subscribe to Daily Newsletter Special Reports Social Networks For the Media Find University Experts Contact Us Life@TheU News and Info People and Culture Benefits and Discounts More Life@TheU Topics About Life@the U Connect and Share Contact Life@theU Events All Events Faculty and Staff Events Student Events TheU Creates (Arts and Culture Events) Undergraduate Students: Important Dates and Deadlines Submit an Event Miami Magazine More News Sites Admissions Alumni College of Arts and Sciences College of Engineering DCIE Frost School of Music Miami Herbert Business School Miller School of Medicine School of Architecture School of Communication School of Education and Human Development School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science School of Nursing and Health Studies The Graduate School Student Affairs News Home Stories 2022 May Community leaders honored by bar association AAA Law and Politics People and Community Community leaders honored by bar association From left: Miriam Soler Ramos, John Couriel, Georgina Angones, Andy S. Gomez, Wifredo A. Ferrer, and Raquel Regalado. Photo courtesy Cuban American Bar Association By News@TheU 05-18-2022 From left: Miriam Soler Ramos, John Couriel, Georgina Angones, Andy S. Gomez, Wifredo A. Ferrer, and Raquel Regalado. Photo courtesy Cuban American Bar Association Community leaders honored by bar association By News@TheU 05-18-2022 Members of the University of Miami network were recently recognized for their commitment to both the community and their profession by the Cuban American Bar Association. The Cuban American Bar Association (CABA) recently recognized various members of the University of Miami community during the 2022 Presidential Awards Reception held on May 11 at Bachour Coral Gables. Andy S. Gomez, a respected leader and former assistant provost of the University, received the Presidential Award; Georgina “Georgie” Angones, assistant dean for development and alumni relations at the University of Miami School of Law, received the Amigo Award; and University of Miami alumnus Wifredo A. Ferrer, former U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Florida, was honored with the Osvaldo N. Soto Legacy Award. The CABA Presidential Awards were presented by CABA president Miriam Soler Ramos, Coral Gables city attorney and double alumna of the University. Miami-Dade County Commissioner Raquel Regalado helped to present the awards before an audience of colleagues, family and friends of the honorees, and members of the community. Also recognized was Florida Supreme Court Justice John Couriel, who received the Honorable Mario P. Goderich “Paver” Award. CABA, a nonprofit voluntary bar association, was founded in 1974 by lawyers of Cuban descent. topics: Law and Politics People and Community In the Community University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 UM Network About UM UM News and Events Admissions Alumni Association UHealth Hurricane Sports University Hotline UM Culture Tools and Resources Academic Calendar People Search myUM CaneLink Blackboard Workday Employment Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices Title IX & Gender Equity Website Feedback