Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links University of Miami Division of University Communications Office of Media Relations Miller School of Medicine Communications Hurricane Sports UM Media Experts Emergency Preparedness Home Search Latest Headlines Current Events El Centro Events Social Publications Nursing School About SONHS Academics Admissions & Student Services Faculty & Staff Research Life at SONHS Latest Headlines Events Social Publications Nursing School News@TheU Latest Headlines Life@TheU Events Subscribe to News@TheU Newsletter Search Latest Headlines Current Events El Centro Events Social Publications Nursing School About SONHS Academics Admissions & Student Services Faculty & Staff Research Life at SONHS News@TheU Latest Headlines Life@TheU Events Subscribe to News@TheU Newsletter UM NEWS HOME Home Stories 2022 March Best Grad Schools: SONHS in Top 30 AAA Best Grad Schools: SONHS in Top 30 By SONHSNews Best Grad Schools: SONHS in Top 30 By SONHSNews U.S. News & World Report’s new guide ranks the school’s nursing master’s degree as Florida’s top program, while the Doctor of Nursing Practice program jumps 11 spots closer to No. 1 nationwide Washington, D.C. – March 29, 2022 – The newly released U.S. News & World Report’s Best Graduate Schools 2023 places the School of Nursing and Health Studies (SONHS) among the Top 30 nursing schools in the United States for both its Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) and Master of Science in Nursing (MSN) degree programs. “This is great news for the University of Miami,” said SONHS Dean and Professor Cindy L. Munro, PhD, RN, ANP-BC, FAAN, FAANP, FAAAS. “I am extremely proud of our school’s strong record of evaluation in U.S. News & World Report. Our increasingly positive rankings are testament to growing recognition from peer institutions and health care professionals for the rigorous work our faculty and students do to transform lives and health care through education, research, innovation, and service across the hemisphere.” The school’s MSN program is No. 1 in Florida, according to the 2023 Best Nursing Schools Master’s Programs guide. Ranked No. 29 nationally, the MSN program is up 5 spots from last year (No. 34) and up 9 from 2018 (No. 38). The MSN degree at SONHS offers a wide range of advanced educational and clinical experience, with first-time pass rates on nurse practitioner certification exams well above the national average. The DNP program at SONHS ranks No. 27 among the 2023 Best Nursing Schools DNP Programs—its highest-ever placement on this list and an 11-spot leap from 2022 (No. 38). SONHS first launched a DNP degree program in 2009, established Florida’s first-ever BSN-to-DNP Nurse Anesthesia track in 2014, and announced three new BSN-to-DNP tracks this year. Graduates of these programs are prepared to be innovators in advanced practice nursing and health care leadership. “Being included in the top tier of this established guide to graduate nursing programs offers an evidence-based snapshot of what sets our school apart at the national level,” said Mary Hooshmand, PhD, RN, associate dean for graduate clinical programs. “I hope these data will encourage prospective graduate nursing students to take an even closer look at the wealth of novel, optimistic, world-changing opportunities we have to offer in the wholly unique and diverse health care environment that is Miami.” U.S. News bases its graduate nursing program rankings on over a dozen indicators under the general areas of quality assessment, faculty resources, research, student selectivity, and program size. U.S. News also ranks graduate programs in business, law, medicine, and a variety of other disciplines. By collecting graduate school data annually, U.S. News is able to present the most current figures on enrollment, job placement, faculty, and other critical quality indicators that help prospective students to make informed decisions about post-baccalaureate education. In addition to its graduate rankings, SONHS ranked No. 31 in the first-ever U.S. News evaluation of 694 undergraduate nursing programs for 2022. Located at the Gateway to the Americas in Coral Gables, FL, the University of Miami School of Nursing and Health Studies is home to a diverse student body and this year ranks No. 22 for National Institutes of Health funding to nursing schools. Its strong program of mission-driven research and scholarly work addresses a range of areas, with a primary focus on vulnerable populations and health equity. For more information about SONHS, visit http://www.sonhs.miami.edu. For more information on U.S. News rankings, visit www.usnews.com/grad or https://bit.ly/2023TopNursingSchools. School of Nursing and Health Studies Visit Us School of Nursing and Health Studies Programs Undergraduate and Graduate Apply Now Get Started Research Leading Edge Research Student Services Student Resources topics: Academics Academic Excellence School of Nursing and Health Studies Visit Us School of Nursing and Health Studies Programs Undergraduate and Graduate Apply Now Get Started Research Leading Edge Research Student Services Student Resources University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 School of Nursing and Health Studies P.O. Box 248153 Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-3666 305-284-3666 UM Network About UM UM News and Events Admissions Alumni Association UHealth Hurricane Sports 'Cane Watch UM Culture Tools and Resources Academic Calendar People Search Department Search MyUM CaneLink Blackboard Workday Employment Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices Title IX & Gender Equity Website Feedback