Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Rebar to Retire From Office of Research and Innovation facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Tag: office of research and innovation May 18, 2022 NC State Ranked One of Nation’s Elite Technology Transfer Universities NC State ranks second among all U.S. public universities in research technology transfer and commercialization according to a comprehensive analysis. May 9, 2022 Design Students Develop Compostable Take-Out Container Prototypes in Project Sponsored by Eastman To combat packaging waste, NC State’s College of Design worked alongside Eastman to create food packaging with a new compostable material. Feb 15, 2022 Envisioning Research: NC State Wants to Put Your Research on Display We know you are doing the work, now we want you to share it. Aug 10, 2021 Researchers Incorporate Marginalized Voices in Climate Change Solutions As experts at NC State study aspects of climate change, they strive to center marginalized voices to ensure groups facing the highest risk aren’t overlooked. Jul 29, 2021 Chancellor’s Innovation Fund Catalyzes 6 Promising Projects This year’s Chancellor's Innovation Fund projects could reshape medicine, immunotherapies, consumer packaging, stealth jets and solar-energy cells. Jan 27, 2021 NC State Leads New UNC System Partnership With Military A new partnership between the XVIII Airborne Corps and the UNC System will offer new opportunities to encourage and enhance education, research and innovation in STEM and other disciplines. Dec 14, 2020 Gallery: Envisioning Research Winners NC State researchers highlighted their vital work in natural resources, engineering, veterinary medicine and more through art in the 2020 Envisioning Research Contest. Nov 10, 2020 NC State Researchers Take On COVID-19 While COVID-19, the disease caused by SARS-CoV-2, has brought much of the world to a standstill, it hasn’t stopped research at NC State. Faculty and the staff at the university have pivoted from their customary research to study COVID-19, using their expertise in battling the pandemic. Their research has covered a large scope, from how the… Sep 28, 2020 Public and Private Partners Join Forces to Deliver PPE to Health Care Workers Statewide — All Made in NC The Made in NC initiative manufactures and distributes N95 masks to protect frontline workers across North Carolina. Sep 2, 2020 Envisioning Research Contest Winners Show Artistic Exploration The winners of the 2020 Envisioning Research Contest brought a new light to their discoveries at NC State. Aug 18, 2020 Conflict of Interest Reporting Process Upgraded An ambitious initiative to roll out an integrated suite of research administration tools continues this fall with a new module for reporting conflicts of interest. Aug 5, 2020 Seed-funding Grows Agricultural Advancements GRIP4PSI, a seed-funding program for the N.C. Plant Sciences Initiative, invests in a better future for growers and consumers alike. May 1, 2019 Research Enterprise Data System Goes Live NC State debuts the first phase of an online system that aims to streamline research administration. Dec 12, 2018 Rebar to Retire From Office of Research and Innovation Leadership of NC State’s research enterprise will shift at the start of the new year as Alan Rebar retires and Mladen Vouk takes the helm. Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.