Skip to main content Visit Temple.edu Toggle Utility Menu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Search Site Search Temple Now Navigation - Go To - News by topic - Arts & Culture - Athletics - Campus News - Community Engagement - Global Temple - Research - Staff & Faculty - Student Success - Sustainability - Return to Campus - Visualize TempleAnnouncementsNewsletters - Temple Now subscriptionPublicationsTemple in the newsSocial MediaSpecial SeriesTemple MagazineAboutAccolades News by topic Announcements Newsletters Special Series About Arts & Culture What to read, listen to and watch to learn more about AAPI communities Athletics Introducing a new head coach of women’s basketball Campus News New General Education course to focus on AAPI identity and experiences Community Engagement President Wingard highlights Center City Business Association’s “Lunch with the City's Leaders” Global Temple Serving the American media from the Far East Research Temple-headquartered STARS Computing Corps receives a $3 million National Science Foundation grant Return to Campus Student community health ambassadors look out for their fellow Owls Staff & Faculty Temple thought leaders lend their voices to national conversation surrounding Roe v. Wade Student Success Temple Made for … building community Sustainability Charles Library earns LEED Gold certification Visualize Temple Charles Library shapes the future at Temple and beyond View Archives Home / News by topic Posted May 24, 2022 Arts & Culture, diversity, Equity, ideal, inclusion, news What to read, listen to and watch to learn more about AAPI communities Sean Yom, associate professor of political science, recommends five works that illuminate AAPI culture and experiences. Photography By: Betsy Manning Sean Yom, associate professor of political science, has recommended a few AAPI-themed works to learn more. As part of our celebration of Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) Heritage Month, we asked Assistant Professor of Political Science Sean Yom to recommend works to enrich our understanding of AAPI culture and experiences. Yom will be teaching a section of Temple’s new AAPI-themed General Education (GenEd) course launching in spring 2023. It’s a course he also helped develop. Sean Yom, associate professor of political science, helped develop a new AAPI-themed General Education course. (Photo courtesy of Sean Yom) Here are five AAPI-themed products that are, I think, eye-opening windows into the contemporary AAPI experience in the U.S, and ones which I love. 1. Jay Kang’s The Loneliest Americans uses a bit of memoir to highlight how difficult it is for many Asians to “fit” into America’s racial discourse (not Black, not brown, not white). 2. Jeff Yang and Phil Yu’s Rise: A Pop History of Asian America from the Nineties to Now showcases how much artistic/musical/entertainment productions have come from Asian communities (and how little is truly acknowledged by the mainstream). 3. The LA Times’ Asian Enough podcast series has some really amazing guests—the first season, for instance, had Kamala Harris—who talk about how they navigate their AAPI identities. 4. The documentary Abacus: Small Enough to Jail is an eye-opening account of why the only bank to suffer criminal prosecution for its actions during the 2008–2009 financial crisis in the U.S. was a small bank in New York City’s Chinatown called Abacus. What’s especially shocking is that it was this tiny Chinese American bank, and not the enormous Wall Street firms that helped cause the crisis, that alone faced government charges. 5. The movie Better Luck Tomorrow (2002), which I saw in college, blows open the “model minority myth” among “high-achieving” Asian American students. It’s considered a landmark drama in Asian American cinema—very gritty, very emotional. As a bit of trivia, it also happened to be the first mainstream film that Justin Lin directed before he took over the massive Fast & Furious movie franchise. —Sean Yom Anonymous Related Stories New General Education course to focus on AAPI identity and experiences A new affinity group at Temple strengthens the Asian and Pacific Islander community Four books to read for MLK Day Temple University Strategic Marketing & Communications Bell Building 1101 W. Montgomery Avenue Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Directory Maps and Directions Contact RSS Facebook Twitter Pinterest LinkedIn.com YouTube Flickr TUPortal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Temple Now: The official source for Temple news. Copyright 2015, Temple University. All rights reserved.