Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Bounty Offered on Bradford Pear Trees facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program The Abstract May 4, 2022 Getting a Better View of Landslide Risk With LiDAR Geologists use LiDAR to try and figure out where landslides are more likely to occur. Recent Stories New Studies Shed Light on Election-Related Stress Wicked Problems, Wolfpack Solutions Focuses on Future of Food Bob Franks Tapped to Lead Applied Ecology May 2, 2022 How Universal Design Can Inform Inclusive Fashion What does it mean for fashion to be inclusive or adaptive? We asked an NC State fashion expert. Apr 29, 2022 Why Some Fabrics Shed More Microfibers Than Others NC State researchers studied how treating fabrics with dyes, softeners and other chemicals impacts both the production and degradation of cotton microfibers. Apr 25, 2022 Exploring the Origins of Molecular Paleontology If Jurassic Park fueled your interest in dinosaurs, genetics, and all things ancient, you aren’t alone. There’s an entire field dedicated to looking for ancient DNA – molecular paleontology – that predates Michael Crichton’s take on dino clones. And the people behind that research are just as varied and interesting as any of Crichton’s subjects.… Apr 22, 2022 Textile Waste is a Problem. Here’s How Researchers Want to Solve It NC State researchers are studying a process for separating blended fabrics into their component fibers. Apr 21, 2022 How Parks and Green Spaces Can Improve Your Health NC State associate professors Lincoln Larson and Aaron Hipp discuss the role of parks and green spaces in promoting physical and mental well-being. Apr 19, 2022 Four Helpful Tips to Reduce Food Waste Up to 40% of the food grown, prepared or sold in the United States is wasted. Apr 12, 2022 Two Sets of Sex Chromosomes Determine More Than Just Sex Researchers look to an African cichlid to understand the impacts of two sets of sex chromosomes on a species. Apr 12, 2022 The COVID-19 Pandemic Impacted Research and Tourism, Even in Antarctica An NC State researcher spoke about the pandemic's impact on his work studying how tourists can impact penguins in Antarctica. Mar 29, 2022 What the Sparta Earthquake Tells Us About Shallow Quakes The Sparta, N.C. earthquake is the first documented surface rupture earthquake in the eastern U.S. and can help us learn more about shallow earthquakes. Mar 28, 2022 Gaps Found in Research on ‘Climate Gentrification’ Climate change, and policies related to it, are displacing vulnerable communities. But a new analysis of research on this phenomenon finds that there is a lack of long-term research that examines these issues. Mar 23, 2022 What Does ‘Endemic’ Mean? And Can Omicron End the Pandemic? Does it matter if COVID becomes endemic? And what does that even mean, anyway? Mar 22, 2022 Exploring What Equity Means in Research at NC State NC State's inaugural Equity Research Symposium brought together faculty, staff and students to explore research that examines issues related to equity. Mar 21, 2022 New Biomaterial Could Save Our Oceans From Plastic Pollution NC State researchers have discovered how to convert leftover sawdust powder and agro-residues into a Styrofoam-like packaging material. Mar 10, 2022 Bounty Offered on Bradford Pear Trees Through the “Bradford Pear Bounty” program, you could get up to five new native trees in exchange for cutting down the same number of Bradford pears in your yard while supplies last. Posts navigation 1 2 … 71 Next Page Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.