Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Tactical Navigation - New Wave Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Close Search Tulane Search form Search this site Search search tulane.edu search news only Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Tulane News Primary Navigation - New Wave News Tulanian Magazine Events Experts Press Releases On Good Authority Podcast Tactical Navigation - New Wave Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Public Relations Team: tel 504-865-5210, @tulanenews, pr@tulane.edu Commencement U.S. Marine Corps commandant commissions 18 officers at joint ceremony May 21, 2022 Forty-one years after he took the U.S. Marine Corps Oath of Office at Tulane, Gen. David H. Berger, engineering alumnus and 38th commandant of the U.S. Marine Corps, returned to the university’s uptown campus as a guest of honor at the Tulane Reserve Officers Training Corps’ Joint Commissioning Ceremony. Commencement Under the Oaks 2022 May 21, 2022 The ceremony honored Newcomb Scholars, Newcomb Institute award and grant recipients, outstanding faculty, alumnae association award recipients and members of the Class of 1970, 1971 and 1972. Commencement Class of 2022 praised for persistence at Unified Commencement in Yulman Stadium May 20, 2022 The Class of 2022 celebrated its Unified Commencement ceremony in true Tulane and New Orleans style on Saturday, May 21. Commencement Love of the legal profession started early for law review editor May 19, 2022 Antonio Milton set his sights on the legal profession as a child. He capped off his Tulane education by serving as editor of the Tulane Law Review. Commencement Public health graduate channels passions for language and health equity May 19, 2022 Layla Babahaji will earn a master's degree in public health, with which she hopes to improve healthcare access for the New Orleans community. Commencement, Life@Tulane, NOLA, On Campus, People School of Liberal Arts graduate finds literary voice through Tulane educational journey May 19, 2022 For the first time, the School of Liberal Arts has selected a degree candidate — Jalon Young — to read an original poem at its diploma ceremony. Young is earning a Bachelor of Arts with majors in English and Africana Studies. Commencement Marvelous Mortarboards, Class of 2022 edition May 19, 2022 Take a look at these creative mortarboards that members of the Class of 2022 will wear to the Unified Commencement Ceremony on May 21. Commencement, Culture, People School of Liberal Arts will present 2022 Distinguished Alumni Award to Academy Award winner Robert Fyvolent May 18, 2022 Academy Award winner Robert Fyvolent is this year's winner of the School of Liberal Arts' Distinguished Alumni Award. Commencement, Life@Tulane Just do it – Runsdorf Award winners embody the spirit of public service May 18, 2022 Public service is a hallmark of the Tulane student experience; however, some students go above and beyond in achieving the Tulane ideal of excelling academically by using their skills and knowledge in service to the community. Two such students are Ron’Janiele “Nelly” Bruce and Mollie Sloter, the 2022 recipients of the Jim Runsdorf Excellence in Public Service Student Award.Public service is a hallmark of the Tulane student experience; however, some students go above and beyond in achieving the Tulane ideal of excelling academically by using their skills and knowledge in service to the community. Two such students are Ron’Janiele “Nelly” Bruce and Mollie Sloter, the 2022 recipients of the Jim Runsdorf Excellence in Public Service Student Award. Commencement, NOLA, On Campus, People Graduate learns to ‘keep going’ for herself and others May 18, 2022 Tran Nguyen-Phuong, a first-generation college student from Louisiana, is graduating with a Bachelor of Science double majoring in psychology and economics. Commencement Architecture student builds a future with leadership experience May 18, 2022 Kelsie Donovan, graduating with Tulane’s Class of 2022, will earn a degree in architecture but has already banked real-world experience at internships and with Tulane Women in Architecture. Commencement From security guard to doctor, Class of 2022 student speaker proves that ‘anything is possible’ May 18, 2022 Russell J. Ledet, who is graduating from Tulane School of Medicine and the A. B. Freeman School of Business this year, is the Class of 2022 student speaker at the Unified Commencement Ceremony on May 21. Commencement Graduate student gets last laugh with master’s degree from Tulane May 17, 2022 Xavier Calfee defied expectations when he enrolled in the School of Professional Advancement. Now he will earn a master's degree, as a member of Tulane 34. Commencement Fourth-generation Tulanian was (almost) all business on campus May 17, 2022 Allie Pear, whose great-grandfather, grandmother and mother preceded her at Tulane, charted her own path on campus. She graduates this year with a bachelor’s degree in management and a master’s degree in accounting from A. B. Freeman School of Business. Commencement Crawfest director has a knack for solving problems May 16, 2022 Brett Franklin, who is graduating in May with a Bachelor of Arts in political science, steered Tulane's beloved Crawfest party back to success after COVID-19 derailed it. Pages 1 2 next › last » Subscribe to Tulane Today Tulane Today Archive News Archive Submit Your News Submission Guidelines Tulane in the News On Good Authority Podcast Statements Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane Home Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University