Skip to main content Visit Temple.edu Toggle Utility Menu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Search Site Search Temple Now Navigation - Go To - News by topic - Arts & Culture - Athletics - Campus News - Community Engagement - Global Temple - Research - Staff & Faculty - Student Success - Sustainability - Return to Campus - Visualize TempleAnnouncementsNewsletters - Temple Now subscriptionPublicationsTemple in the newsSocial MediaSpecial SeriesTemple MagazineAboutAccolades News by topic Announcements Newsletters Special Series About Arts & Culture What to read, listen to and watch to learn more about AAPI communities Athletics Introducing a new head coach of women’s basketball Campus News New General Education course to focus on AAPI identity and experiences Community Engagement President Wingard highlights Center City Business Association’s “Lunch with the City's Leaders” Global Temple Serving the American media from the Far East Research Temple-headquartered STARS Computing Corps receives a $3 million National Science Foundation grant Return to Campus Student community health ambassadors look out for their fellow Owls Staff & Faculty Temple thought leaders lend their voices to national conversation surrounding Roe v. Wade Student Success Temple Made for … building community Sustainability Charles Library earns LEED Gold certification Visualize Temple Charles Library shapes the future at Temple and beyond View Archives Home Staff & Faculty Temple thought leaders lend their voices to national conversation surrounding Roe v. Wade Temple faculty completed nearly 20 media interviews this week discussing the ramifications of overturning Roe v. Wade May 4, 2022 Meet 5 Temple professors who teach and research gender, sexuality and women’s studies Here are five professors at Temple who teach courses and conduct research on gender, sexuality and women’s studies. April 20, 2022 Jazz trumpeter Terell Stafford is focused on mentoring the next generation of musicians Temple professor Terell Stafford’s career has included a Grammy award, chart-topping albums and collaborations with jazz greats. April 12, 2022 Temple faculty weigh in on Ketanji Brown Jackson’s Supreme Court confirmation Ketanji Brown Jackson is the first Black woman to be nominated and confirmed to the Supreme Court. Temple faculty provide context. Temple faculty honored for excellent teaching, research, creative achievement and service Temple honors its teachers and scholars for their achievements in teaching, research, service and creativity with this year’s faculty awards. How would a paid maternity leave policy benefit families? A paid family leave policy would benefit not just birthing mothers and their children, but fathers and adoptive parents. Karyn Olivier reveals Black history through her art The Temple University professor reflects on a career of examining and celebrating Black history through her work. Library exhibit highlights staff picks from various collections Charles Library’s Special Collections Research Center staff selected material for the What’s Great, New, Next? exhibit. Mary E. Burke named vice president for institutional advancement An accomplished development professional, Burke will lead fundraising and philanthropic programs. Studying abroad opened doors for Fox graduate Alicia Arendt credits her study abroad experiences for her successful career on the international stage. The Facebook whistleblower’s testimony, explained Associate Professor of Media and Communication Jan Fernback discusses the Facebook whistleblower’s testimony and its implications for the company. Diversifying the libraries’ archives to document the underrepresented Margery Sly, director of special collections, ensures Temple’s libraries continue to build inclusive archives. NFTs, explained Fox’s Bora Ozkan discusses how non-fungible tokens are redefining ownership in the digital realm. Archives Like what you see? Follow us on Twitter, Facebook and Youtube. Navigation - Go To - News by topic - Arts & Culture - Athletics - Campus News - Community Engagement - Global Temple - Research - Staff & Faculty - Student Success - Sustainability - Return to Campus - Visualize TempleAnnouncementsNewsletters - Temple Now subscriptionPublicationsTemple in the newsSocial MediaSpecial SeriesTemple MagazineAboutAccolades Latest Temple News Subscribe May 24 2022 What to read, listen to and watch to learn more about AAPI communities May 24 2022 New General Education course to focus on AAPI identity and experiences May 18 2022 Temple Robotics team prepares for NASA Lunabotics competition May 18 2022 Temple Made for … building community Temple University Strategic Marketing & Communications Bell Building 1101 W. Montgomery Avenue Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Directory Maps and Directions Contact RSS Facebook Twitter Pinterest LinkedIn.com YouTube Flickr TUPortal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Temple Now: The official source for Temple news. Copyright 2015, Temple University. All rights reserved.