Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Bob Franks Tapped to Lead Applied Ecology facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Bob Franks Tapped to Lead Applied Ecology May 26, 2022 Staff Bob Franks, professor and department head for Plant and Microbial Biology (PMB), will temporarily lead the Department of Applied Ecology as the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences (CALS) and the department search for its new department head. “We greatly appreciate Bob stepping in as interim department head of Applied Ecology while continuing as department head of Plant and Microbial Biology,” said John Dole, interim dean of CALS. “He has a wealth of experience, both as a faculty member and as an administrator, that will serve applied ecology well.” Franks joined NC State’s faculty in 2004. He earned a bachelor’s degree in biology from Tufts University and his Ph.D. in neurosciences at the University of California, Los Angeles. He did postdoctoral research at the University of Maryland, College Park, and at the University of California, Berkeley. In 2018, Franks was named head of NC State’s Department of Plant and Microbial Biology. Prior to becoming the department head, he taught developmental biology. His research interest is in the area of molecular genetics of flower and seed development. Franks and other researchers are currently working to better understand the post-fertilization mechanisms of reproductive isolation during seed development in a group of wild monkey flowers in the genus Mimulus. Franks said he is honored to take on this temporary leadership role. “The Department of Applied Ecology is a collaborative and enthusiastic group of individuals who are making important contributions in the areas of teaching, research and extension. I look forward to serving as the interim head of the Department of Applied Ecology for the next several months while a search for a permanent head of department takes place.” This post was originally published in College of Agriculture and Life Sciences News. Categories: Bulletin Board Tags: Bulletin Board college of agriculture and life sciences faculty and staff View Comments 0 total responses Leave a Response Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. All fields are required. Comment * Name * Email * More From NC State News Wicked Problems, Wolfpack Solutions Focuses on Future of Food NC State Names 42 Students to Park Scholarships Program Poultry Science’s Curtis Praised for Transformative Leadership Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.