Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Society of American Historians Search form Search Home About Contact Us Executive Board History Works Published by the Society Membership list Prizes Tony Horwitz Prize Francis Parkman Prize Allan Nevins Prize Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr. Prize SAH Prize for Historical Fiction (formerly the James Fenimore Cooper Prize) Bruce Catton Prize Francis Parkman Prize for Special Achievement How to Submit News Donate Members' Area Welcome To Encourage Literary Distinction in the Writing of History and Biography The Society of American Historians is delighted to announce the winners of our 2022 prizes The Tony Horwitz Prize to honor distinguished work in American history of wide appeal and enduring public significance is awarded to Eric Foner, DeWitt Clinton Professor Emeritus of History at Columbia University. The Francis Parkman Prize honoring literary merit in the writing of history is given to Nicole Eustace for her book Covered with Night: A Story of Murder and Indigenous Justice in Early America (Liveright). Eustace is Professor of History at New York University and the Director of the NYU Atlantic History Workshop. The Allan Nevins Prize for the best-written doctoral dissertation on a significant topic in American history goes to Bench Ansfield for “Born in Flames: Arson, Racial Capitalism, and the Reinsuring of the Bronx in the Late Twentieth Century” (Yale University, under the direction of Joanne Meyerowitz and Michael Denning). The full press release can be found on our News page. We are also pleased to announce that Annette Gordon-Reed has been elected President of the Society and Philip Deloria Vice President. Also assuming office in May 2022 are the newly elected members of the Executive Board: Kai Bird, Maria Cristina Garcia, Thavolia Glymph, Elizabeth Hinton, Madeline Hsu, and Mae Ngai. Elected to their seond term are Jelani Cobb, Lynn Novick, T.J. Stiles, and Jean Strouse. The names of all members of the board can be found here. And we are happy to welcome nineteen new fellows--scholars, independent writers, journalists, public historians, and novelists—who have been elected by the current membership in recognition of the literary merit of their presentation of history: Fergus Bordewich Jamelle Bouie Ada Ferrer Eddie S. Glaude, Jr. Kali Gross Leslie Harris Cathy Park Hong Charles Johnson Fred Kaplan Joseph Lelyveld Lisa Lowe Natalia Molina Clay Risen Stephanie Smallwood Clint Smith Jeffrey Stewart James Traub Michael Witgen Ellen Wu The Society of American Historians (SAH) was founded in 1939 by the journalist and Columbia University historian Allan Nevins and several fellow scholars to promote literary distinction in the writing of history and biography. Under a charter of incorporation issued by the State of New York, the society has continued to promote its original objective in a variety of ways: through the awarding of prizes, the promotion of historical studies and interests, and cooperation with publishers and other institutions engaged in furthering these aims. The Society's membership includes more than 400 academic scholars, public historians, and professional writers working on topics in American history. Members are elected based on achievement in the vivid and compelling presentation of history and biography in a variety of forms, including books, essays, film, drama, museum exhibitions, and other emerging forms of public communication. The Society recognizes excellence in historical work marked, among other qualities, by clarity, empathy, narrative power, accuracy, and explanatory force. Contact Us © 2022 Columbia University