Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: Media Tip Sheets “Inclusion Should Not Be an Afterthought”: Education and Legal Experts Weigh In on Plan to Update Federal Regulations Tuesday, May 10, 2022, By Christopher Munoz Share College of LawDisability Lawinclusive educationInclusiveUSchool of Education For the first time in 45 years, the U.S. Education Department is planning to update federal mandates for how schools and colleges must accommodate students with disabilities. The department is soliciting public comments about how current regulations can be improved under Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. Christine Ashby is the director of the Center on Disability and Inclusion at Syracuse University and a professor of Inclusive Special Education and Disability Studies. Prof. Ashby says: Christine Ashby “The passage of Section 504 was a landmark and hard-fought moment in the disability rights movement. It was a tremendous step toward ending disability-based discrimination and promoting full rights of people with disabilities in education and employment settings. But 45 years later, the promise of the law has not been fully realized. Far too many students lack access to appropriate supports and services and many face diminished opportunities and segregation from nondisabled peers. While the regulations in both 504 and IDEA communicate support for the idea of education in the least restrictive environment, many students continue to receive their education in highly restrictive settings. I hope that any update to 504 would strengthen support for inclusive education and make it easier for parents and guardians to exercise their due process rights.” Beth Ferri is a professor of Inclusive Education and Disability Studies at Syracuse University and coordinates the Doctoral program in Special Education. Prof. Ferri says: Beth Ferri “Section 504 of the Rehab Act was certainly a landmark piece of legislation that we generally think of as passing in 1973. But it wasn’t until the protests that took place in April of 1977, which culminated in an almost 30-day sit in of a federal building in San Francisco led by activists like Judith Heumann and so many others that led to regulations that resulted in being able to enforce the law. Before those regulations, we didn’t really have any of the assurances that 504 promised. Whether you are in a K-12 setting or university setting, 504, along with the Individuals with Disabilities Education Improvement Act, remains a bulwark of non-discrimination legislations that students rely upon in education contexts. 504 allows students to have necessary accommodation and modifications enabling them to participate equally and without discrimination. It also laid the groundwork for the Americans with Disabilities Act. Despite the importance of this legislation, it is also true that many students remain under-served by Section 504 and IDEA. First, 504 didn’t provide the necessary guidance for ensuring students with disabilities received an equitable education while schools were dealing with all of the upheaval and challenges associated with COVID. Second, the assurances provided by 504 (and IDEA) have always benefitted white middle class families more so than families of color or those with less financial means, leading to uneven benefits associated with 504. This means that a poor student of color, for instance, might go without a necessary accommodation or educational service, while a more affluent family can leverage cultural and financial capital in ways that take unfair advantage of these provisions in ways that exacerbate other kinds of educational inequities. Third, students with mental health issues often fall between the cracks in our schools—not qualifying for some services and often receiving less-than-adequate or appropriate supports. As more students suffer the fallout of COVID isolation and other forms of emotional distress, we need 504 to be a tool to ensure students get the kinds of supports they need. Finally, I would love to see stronger language in both 504 and IDEA around inclusion – such that students are not given a false choice between 1) getting the services they need but in a segregated (or restrictive) setting or 2) being included with their peers, but having to forgo necessary services. We continue to conflate the level of service a child or student needs with the restrictiveness of their placement.” Arlene Kanter is a disability law expert and the founder of the Syracuse University College of Law Disability Law and Policy Program. Prof. Kanter says: Arlene Kanter “The promise of section 504 remains unfulfilled. Barriers still exist within the law and its regulations that make it difficult, if not impossible, for some qualified students with disabilities to access the accommodations and services they need. Further the way in which section 504 and its regulations are currently written, and applied, they limit the types of damages that may be awarded to students and their families who prevail in section 504 cases. Third, section 504 allows school districts, universities, and colleges to be relieved of any responsibility to remedy discrimination against students with disabilities if they can show that to do so would be an undue burden. Unfortunately, courts have found undue burdens leaving the students, themselves, with no remedy whatsoever. What that means in practice is that these students are effectively denied an education. These are just some of the issues that I believe should be addressed in the current effort to amend section 504 regulations and to strengthen those regulations to provide greater protections for students with disabilities particularly in higher education.” Beth Myers is a professor of Inclusive Education and Executive Director of the Taishoff Center for Inclusive Higher Education at Syracuse University. She oversees InclusiveU, a federally-recognized model program for college students with intellectual and developmental disabilities. Prof Myers says: Beth Myers “Section 504 was an extraordinarily important part of the Disability Rights movement. We are now 45 years into it, and 504 needs to be updated to reflect the full scope of its intentions. The disabled activists who pushed 504 into legislation in the 1970s were revolutionary, and their work has influenced the lives of millions of people. We now have a new generation of Americans who need to be heard. We can view disability through a medical model, in which disability is internal to the person and needs to be rehabilitated, cured, or cared for. Alternatively, we can view disability through a social lens, where we recognize that the limitations disabled people face are imposed by our society and world. Instead of trying to fix the person, this view pushes us to fix the systems and supports around them. We recognize disability as an important part of diversity, and we celebrate that in all forms. That also means recognizing the hardships that disabled people face because of our societal structures, and pushing the system to be more supportive of the variety of bodies and minds that people have. It means supporting disabled people, families, teachers, and community members. We still see discrimination against disabled students and families in schools every day. Thousands of children across the country don’t have access to the general education curriculum. Schools can be welcoming and nurturing, or they can be exclusionary and isolating for children with disabilities and their families. Inclusion should not be an afterthought or even something we have to accommodate. Inclusion and meeting the needs of disabled students needs to be a priority. Strengthening 504 is a step in that direction, but not the only one we need to take.” To request interviews: Chris Munoz Media Relations Specialist 315.278.5566 cjmunoz@syr.edu Author Christopher Munoz Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi More In Media Tip Sheets PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? June is PTSD Awareness Month and it serves as yet another reminder of the mental health struggles many veterans face each and every day – often times without any support, according to this recent Op-Ed in Newsweek written by John… Vice Admiral responds to Biden’s trip to Asia If you are looking for an expert in military and intelligence issues, please see comments from retired Vice Admiral Robert Murrett regarding President Biden’s trip to Asia and the mention of the “United States would intervene militarily if China attempts to… Media Tip Sheet: Consequences of China Lockdown As the intense lockdowns continue in China, one of our Syracuse University professors weighed in on possible consequences they may have on the economy. Dimitar Gueorguiev is an associate professor of political science at the Maxwell School of Citizenship and… Architecture Expert and Researcher of Abortion Clinics On the Future of Access Last week, a draft decision for Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health Organization was leaked from the Supreme Court and shows that five justices are preparing a judgment that would strike down Roe v. Wade. For reporters covering this ongoing story,… Response to Putin’s Speech As we heard earlier today, Russian President Vladimir Putin said he had no choice but to invade Ukraine in his Victory Day speech (CNN). Syracuse University’s Mark Jacobson has responded to this speech (see below). Jacobson is the assistant dean of Washington programs… Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Facebook @SyracuseUNews Youtube Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.