WSU Cougar Head Logo Washington State University Give Apply Locations My WSU Give Apply Locations My WSU Close WSU Insider News and Information for Faculty, Staff, and the WSU Community Menu Close News News Categories Arts & Culture Awards & Achievements Benefits & Training Business & Economics Campus & Community Food & Agriculture Health & Medicine Politics & Society Reports & Updates Science & Technology University Affairs Veterinary Medicine Announcements Contact Us For Journalists Press Releases Tip Sheets COVID-19 Cannabis research Institutional Data Quick Facts Search Close December 17, 2021 WSU student pursues research career after father’s death By Josh Babcock, College of Veterinary Medicine Microbiology senior Joey McDonald has been a fixture on the drumline for three years. It was a stray bullet – the product of gang violence – that left Washington State University senior Joey McDonald’s father paralyzed from the shoulders down in 2019. “He was just working on his car,” said McDonald, whose father, John Joseph Pryor, died nearly two years later due to complications from his injuries, coupled with a bacterial infection in his lung. McDonald, who was in his sophomore year at WSU when his father was shot, could have given up. But instead, he decided to pursue a career as a medical research scientist so he could help improve the lives of people like his father who are experiencing quadriplegia, or other types of paralysis, disability, and disease. “I was hoping I would be able to do something before then,” McDonald said. “I’ve always wanted to go into science, but when that happened it pulled me into a certain direction.” The first-generation college student is now on track to earn his microbiology degree from WSU’s School of Molecular Biosciences this spring. His dream is to start his own research company. “I would specifically like to work with regeneration,” he said. “Let’s say you’re paralyzed from the neck down, I would maybe want to facilitate you getting your arms back.” But the dream goes a little deeper. “And if I was to start a company, I would want it to be a company that provides a community where people of all ages can come and be around science, almost like a Boys and Girls Club type of thing, where they can learn and be around science at an early age,” he said. “If I had that, things would be a lot different and a lot easier for me.” At WSU, McDonald is building his resume by seizing the research opportunities that come his way, one of the main reasons he turned down five universities to attend WSU. McDonald has worked at a lab each of his four years on campus, first for the United States Department of Agriculture – Agricultural Research Service Western Wheat Quality Laboratory, and now the Washington Animal Disease Diagnostic Laboratory. McDonald mans the Sampling and Receiving department for the nationally recognized, accredited, full-service veterinary testing laboratory. Joey McDonald intakes a shipment Monday at Sample and Receiving inside the Washington Animal Disease Diagnostic Laboratory. “I make sure we have payment, accession forms, and that we have an idea of what testing they want, then I route them to the appropriate department,” McDonald said. “I need to make sure every little detail is secure before I send it, otherwise we could lose financial standing, accreditation; it’s high stakes.” McDonald admits he was intimidated and doubted himself at first, but now he’s confident and works comfortably with the pathologists throughout the lab. Through all the adversity in his short time at WSU, McDonald said he’s learned to better communicate his feelings – something he’s always struggled with. He said it started with the scientists in the lab and the musicians he connected with in the WSU Pep Band, where he has been a fixture on the drumline for three years. “Once I learned to communicate that everything was hard, my co-workers, students, and boss were always trying to help in any way they could, including last-minute extensions,” McDonald said. McDonald’s graduation is May 7, and he plans to become a medical laboratory scientist to gain experience before pursuing a doctorate. He said his dad would be proud. “He just wanted me to be happy in whatever it was that I was doing, but I know he would be happy with this path I chose,” he said. Categories: Coug Life Next Story May 27, 2022 Emergency response trainings taking place on Pullman campus May 30–June 2 Local law enforcement and fire departments will meet on the WSU Pullman campus to conduct a series of training exercises May 30–June 2. Recent News May 27, 2022 Emergency response trainings taking place on Pullman campus May 30–June 2 Local law enforcement and fire departments will meet on the WSU Pullman campus to conduct a series of training exercises May 30–June 2. May 27, 2022 WSU appoints Danielle Hess executive director for policy and governance The university’s top lawyer is taking a new systemwide role and will be replaced as division chief by an assistant attorney general who has worked alongside her since 2015. attorney general, Board of Regents, compliance, governance, policy By RJ Wolcott, WSU News & Media Relations May 27, 2022 WSU Insider will be back Tuesday The staff at WSU Insider hopes you make the most of your Memorial Day holiday. New postings will resume Tuesday. May 26, 2022 WSU experts: Washington monkeypox case cause for concern, not panic The now-confirmed case of monkeypox in the state should raise awareness of the virus, but it will not spread as easily as COVID-19, according to WSU infectious disease experts. By Sara Zaske, WSU News & Media Relations May 26, 2022 Stacy Pearson retiring at end of 2022 During her tenure as VP for finance and administration and CFO, WSU turned a $30 million annual operating deficit into a nearly $30 million surplus in 2020. A national search for her replacement will be conducted. administration, finance, WSU President Kirk Schulz By RJ Wolcott, WSU News & Media Relations May 26, 2022 Leadership changes in the Voiland College The Voiland College of Engineering and Architecture announced three new directors for the upcoming school year. By Tina Hilding, Voiland College of Engineering and Architecture Find More News Subscribe for more updates Subscribe to WSU Insider to receive free daily updates by email. University employees are automatically subscribed—no sign up is necessary. RecommendedFeatures WSU Insider will be back Tuesday The staff at WSU Insider hopes you make the most of your Memorial Day holiday. New postings will resume Tuesday. May 27, 2022 Balancing military service and pharmacy school In recognition of Military Appreciation Month, WSU wanted to highlight the accomplishments of one pharmacy student who put his degree on pause while he returned to active duty. May 23, 2022 Find More News Trending News Cougs in Space: Launching satellites and careers March 10, 2022 WSU Men’s Basketball bound for NIT semifinals March 24, 2022 Schulz spotlights recent successes during 2022 State of the University March 22, 2022 ‘Breaking Bad’ star to discuss how cerebral palsy helped shape his career March 22, 2022 FOR WSU CONTRIBUTORS Content guidelines WSU Insider Guidelines Press Releases Guidelines Announcements Guidelines Events Guidelines Submission Information Insider Submission Press Release Submission WSU Announcements Submission WSU Events Submission Additional Resources WSU Brand Guidelines WSU Editorial Style Guide WSU Podcasts Social Media Directory WSU News & Media Relations PO Box 641227, Pullman, WA 99164-1227 509-335-3581 wsunews@wsu.edu WSU Cougar Head Logo © Washington State University 2021 Access Policies MyWSU Follow WSU