Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: Business & Economy Business & Economy Rabia Razzaq G’23 Wins 2022 Intelligence++ Inclusive Design Competition Friday, April 29, 2022, By Martin Walls Rabia Razzaq G’23, a multidisciplinary designer and graduate student in the College of Visual and Performing Arts, won the 2022 Intelligence++ Showcase Competition, held in the Whitman School of Management on April 26. The interdisciplinary competition—which encourages design and business… Business & Economy Whitman School Receives STEM-Designation for Master’s in Professional Accounting Program Friday, April 8, 2022, By Dawn McWilliams The Martin J. Whitman School of Management’s master’s in professional accounting program has received STEM-designation. The class of 2022 will be the first to graduate with this new STEM certification. “We have made notable innovations to our master’s in professional… Business & Economy Whitman’s Full-Time MBA Program Achieves Highest U.S. News Ranking Since 1998 Tuesday, March 29, 2022, By Dawn McWilliams The Martin J. Whitman School of Management at Syracuse University is now ranked No. 57 in the nation for its full-time MBA program by U.S. News & World Report. This is the highest ranking for the Whitman School since 1998… Business & Economy Stocks and Finance Immersion Offers A&S | Maxwell Students a Window Into Finance Friday, March 4, 2022, By Dan Bernardi When Jehan Muhialdain ’22 moved to the United States from Iraq five years ago, one of the major differences she noticed in her new country was the focus put on financial literacy and wealth management. She says living in Iraq,… Business & Economy Applications Open for RvD iPrize and Hunter Brooks Watson Spirit of Entrepreneurship Competitions Tuesday, February 22, 2022, By Cristina Hatem The School of Information Studies (iSchool) with support from the Blackstone LaunchPad at Syracuse University Libraries (LaunchPad) are now accepting applications through March 15 for the Raymond von Dran (RvD) iPrize pitch competition and the Hunter Brooks Watson Spirit of… Business & Economy Whitman School Announces STEM Designation for MBA Friday, February 11, 2022, By Dawn McWilliams The Martin J. Whitman School of Management announced that its MBA program will be classified as STEM-designated for students who successfully complete concentrations in accounting, business analytics, finance, marketing and supply chain management. The class of 2022 will be the… Business & Economy Whitman’s Undergraduate Program Achieves Highest Rankings Yet Thursday, February 10, 2022, By Dawn McWilliams The Martin J. Whitman School of Management at Syracuse University is now ranked No. 34 in the nation for its undergraduate program by Poets & Quants. This is the highest ranking the Whitman School has received from Poets & Quants,… Business & Economy Whitman School Launches New Professional Certification Program Thursday, February 10, 2022, By Dawn McWilliams The Martin J. Whitman School of Management has launched the Whitman Industry Readiness and Excellence (WIRE) Initiative, an innovative new program that strengthens the school’s commitment to prepare its students for a world of accelerating change. The WIRE initiative helps… Business & Economy Applications Open for 2022 ACC InVenture Prize Competition Thursday, January 20, 2022, By Cristina Hatem Blackstone LaunchPad at SU Libraries (LaunchPad) is currently accepting applications through Feb. 1 for the 2022 Atlantic Coast Conference (ACC) InVenture Prize. The ACC InVenture Prize is a televised student start-up pitch competition open to teams from the 15 colleges… Business & Economy A $1.25 Million Gift Ensures Whitman Students Stand Ready to IMPRESS in the Business World Monday, October 25, 2021, By Eileen Korey Kenneth “Kenny” Goodman ’70 knows what it takes to be successful in the business world and he has committed himself to ensuring that Syracuse University graduates are a step ahead and better prepared to compete in a fast-changing world. That’s… 12345 Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.