Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All Posts in #College of Arts and Sciences STEM Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi “When am I ever going to use this in real life?” That is the oft-heard refrain from middle- and high-school science students, struggling through labs and formulas that feel as far removed from their day-to-day as, well, space travel. Sarthak… Campus & Community Preparing Students for a Life of Success Friday, May 27, 2022, By Caroline K. Reff Selecting a major and choosing a career path don’t have to be daunting experiences. While some students come to Syracuse University’s College of Arts and Sciences (A&S) or the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs (Maxwell) ready to declare… STEM Bringing ‘CSI’ Into the Classroom Thursday, May 26, 2022, By Dan Bernardi Dusting for fingerprints, documenting blood stain patterns and measuring bullet trajectory—you might think this is a description of a recent episode from the popular television series “CSI.” While this may be true, these are also the daily lessons students are… Health & Society NBA Player Shares Personal Experience With Stuttering With CSD Students Wednesday, May 25, 2022, By Dan Bernardi Students walking into Grant Auditorium for CSD 450/650 Clinical Seminar last semester saw a celebrity instead of their usual professor. National Basketball Association (NBA) player Michael Kidd-Gilchrist was visiting the class to give the students a unique perspective on both… STEM Matt Cufari Named as a 2022-23 Astronaut Scholar Wednesday, May 25, 2022, By Kelly Homan Rodoski Matt Cufari, a senior physics major in the College of Arts and Sciences (A&S), a computer science major in the College of Engineering and Computer Science, a Coronat Scholar and a member of the Renée Crown University Honors Program, has… STEM Biology and Earth and Environmental Sciences Departments Come Together on Diversity and Engagement Initiatives Tuesday, May 17, 2022, By News Staff In 1948, Professor James Hope Birnie became Syracuse University’s first African American faculty member in biology, teaching here until 1951. He was also one of its first biology faculty members to be supported by the National Institutes of Health (NIH)…. Campus & Community Maxwell Prepared Mike Tirico ’88 for His ‘Most Challenging Assignment’ Monday, May 16, 2022, By Jessica Youngman A bachelor’s degree from the Maxwell School and the College of Arts and Sciences helped prepare famed sports broadcaster Mike Tirico ’88 to take on one of the toughest assignments of his storied career: the 2022 Winter Olympics in Bejing,… Campus & Community Karin Ruhlandt to Conclude Tenure as Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences, Lois Agnew to Serve as Interim Dean Monday, May 16, 2022, By News Staff Karin Ruhlandt, dean of the College of Arts and Sciences (A&S) and Distinguished Professor of chemistry, has announced that she plans to step down as dean later this year and return to the chemistry faculty following a well-earned research leave…. Campus & Community Eleanor Maine Receives Wasserstrom Prize for Graduate Teaching Monday, May 16, 2022, By Dan Bernardi Eleanor Maine, professor of biology in the College of Arts and Sciences (A&S), is the 2022 recipient of the William Wasserstrom Prize for the Teaching of Graduate Students. A&S Dean Karin Ruhlandt formally conferred the prize on her at the… STEM Black Hole Image Shows Einstein Was Right, Once Again Thursday, May 12, 2022, By Daryl Lovell Today a team of astronomers announced they successfully captured the first direct image of the black hole at the center of the Milky Way galaxy. Duncan Brown is the Charles Brightman Endowed Professor of Physics at Syracuse University’s College of… 12345 Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.