skip to menu skip to content University of Southern California USC News Menu Tuesday, May 31, 2022 70° Clear Search Search search Menu Search search Sections Arts Athletics Business Health Humanities Policy/Law Science/Technology Social Impact Student Life University Featured Topics Alzheimer’s Disease Research Sustainability more topics Subscribe to receive USC News via email Email address subscribe Top Stories Social Impact (Photo/Courtesy of the U.S. WWI Centennial Commission) ‘We were young, they say. We have died. Remember us.’ USC Dornsife alumnus and retired Navy Capt. Chris Isleib helped create the first national memorial for World War I veterans, part of a long career spent telling the stories of America’s military. May 27 Editor's Picks Social ImpactUniversity Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Queer (LGBTQ) Pride Month is celebrated each June to honor the 1969 Stonewall uprising in Manhattan, a tipping point for the gay liberation movement in the United States. (USC illustration) USC Pride Month to celebrate ‘The Power of Community’ Kickoff on June 1 includes virtual event sharing personal stories and Keck Hospital of USC flag-raising ceremony. May 27 Health USC researchers have linked air pollution to everything from increased risk of autism to asthma and cardiovascular disease. (Photo/Alfred Palmer/Public Domain) Exposure to air pollution can worsen patient outcomes from COVID-19 A study by researchers of the Keck School of Medicine of USC and Kaiser Permanente finds a link between exposure to airborne particulate matter and increased risk of serious coronavirus complications. May 26 more editor's picks USC in the News(Some links may require a subscription) People Incoming USC freshman makes history as youngest U.S. woman to reach top of Mount Everest Lucy Westlake, who started climbing mountains with her father when she was just 7 years old, reached the summit early Thursday morning. May 19 The Wall Street Journal Below the Hollywood sign, a once-private enclave becomes a home-buying hot spot But Hollywoodland is also a hot spot for tourists, setting the stage for conflict between residents and visitors, notes USC Dornsife’s Leo Braudy. He’s the author of The Hollywood Sign: Fantasy and Reality of an American Icon. May 18 The Guardian ‘Bossware is coming for almost every worker’: The software you might not realize is watching you It’s not just a privacy issue: Being monitored lowers your sense of perceived autonomy, which can increase stress and anxiety, says USC Marshall Associate Professor Nathanael Fast. May 17 New Humanist How do we warn future generations about our toxic waste? Saving our planet may depend on communicating with people 10,000 years from now. USC Dornsife visiting scholar Vincent Ialenti says that the speed at which language evolves will make such communication difficult. The word “internet,” he notes, would mean little to someone living in the 1970s. May 16 Deadline.com The Batman director Matt Reeves to deliver USC School Of Cinematic Arts commencement address The USC alum will speak on May 13 at the Shrine Auditorium. Insecure writer-director-EP Prentice Penny will receive its Mary Pickford Alumni Award. April 28 Los Angeles Times What Elon Musk’s Twitter move says about social media’s political tightrope “When I look at Twitter, I don’t see a social network, I see an information network,” says USC Annenberg’s Karen North. “It’s a network of people who are communicators, either journalists or people who act like journalists conveying information to their audiences.” April 25 The Associated Press For Russian diplomats, disinformation is part of the job Russian embassies around the world are prolifically using Facebook, Twitter and other platforms to undermine the international coalition supporting Ukraine. “They must know better, but that’s what it’s like living in and working for a totalitarian regime,” said Nicholas Cull, a USC professor who studies diplomacy and propaganda. April 25 Slate Inside L.A.’s housing crisis, from someone who lived it Trojan Ethan Ward reports on homelessness for KPCC-FM. It’s topic into which he has special insight: Before attending USC or becoming a reporter, he lived in his car. April 24 LAist California’s largest cities saw significant population decline during 1st full year of COVID Rising housing costs in Los Angeles County and the Bay Area are chasing away both California natives and immigrants, USC Dornsife Professor Manuel Pastor says. April 4 Los Angeles Times Will Smith’s attack on Chris Rock shows toxic masculinity boiling over Recovering from a lifetime of toxic masculinity requires men to be mindful of the ways we have been socialized to handle anger in interactions with other men, women and genderqueer persons, Executive Director Shaun Harper of the USC Race and Equity Center notes in an op-ed. March 28 The New York Times What’s next for the pandemic in California? An increase in COVID cases in 2022 should be entirely different from one in 2020, says Jeffrey Klausner of the Keck School of Medicine of USC: “We’re kind of more in the realm right now of what a typical influenza season might look like.” March 25 The Wall Street Journal Scream or Scream? Hollywood loves sequels so much that not even the names change Longer, more creative titles can be intimidating to some viewers and unnecessary for others, says Associate Professor J.D. Connor of the USC School of Cinematic Arts. And adding numbers to the end of sequels can discourage viewers who haven’t already seen the previous movies. March 25 Filters Latest headlines Editor's picks Video List Grid Social Impact (Photo/Courtesy of Yvonne Elliott) Social work grad uses personal history to advocate for domestic violence legislation COMMENCEMENT 2022: Inspired by her policy classes, Yvonne Elliott lobbied for the recent reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act. May 27 Social Impact (Photo/Courtesy of John Oberg) Third-generation Trojan turns to social work solve chronic health care issue COMMENCEMENT 2022: John Oberg harnesses technology to treat patients with comorbid chronic diseases. May 27 Policy/Law (Photo/Courtesy of Virginia Polley) Nearing 70, USC Gould student proves it’s never too late to get your master’s degree COMMENCEMENT 2022: The degree — her second master’s — will help Virginia Polley support her husband’s new career venture and eventually take charge of the company herself. May 27 Social Impact (Photo/Courtesy of Samantha Balcaceres) PR master’s grad harnesses skills as advocate for representation COMMENCEMENT 2022: As just the second person in her family to pursue higher education, Samantha Balcaceres was determined to get the most out of her graduate studies at USC Annenberg. May 27 BusinessHealth (Photo/Courtesy of Olivia Stroud) Driven to advance health care, nonprofit director graduates with online MBA COMMENCEMENT 2022: USC’s reputation drew Olivia Stroud to the university’s online MBA program. May 26 Health (Photo/Olga DeLawrence) Electronic ‘nudges’ may improve safety in opioid prescribing among California doctors, study finds Researchers observed a 23% drop in opioid prescriptions and a 27% increase in prescriptions for naloxone. May 26 Health (Photo/Courtesy of the USC School of Pharmacy) USC and Taiwan’s National Cheng Kung University announce strategic partnership The agreement creates dynamic interdisciplinary educational tracks for students in the rapidly growing, high-demand fields of biomedical engineering and regulatory science. May 26 Science/Technology USC researchers have found a correlation between tsunami severity and the width of the outer wedge — the area between the continental shelf and deep trenches where large tsunamis emerge — that helps explain how underwater seismic events generate large tsunamis. (Photo/iStock) Tsunami threats are greatly underestimated in current models, new research shows An analysis of historical seismic events by a USC Dornsife scientist helps explain why large tsunamis still occur after relatively small earthquakes. May 26 Health (Photo/Courtesy of Anne Crile) How a routine eye exam saved a patient’s life Anne Crile noticed changes in her vision, but she never imagined those symptoms would lead to the diagnosis of a life-threatening brain tumor. May 26 Health (Image/Shutterstock) Annenberg Inclusion Initiative and MTV Entertainment establish Mental Health Storytelling Initiative A coalition of more than 60 entertainment industry partners and mental health expert organizations will work to revolutionize the narrative on mental health and extend programming and research into media representation of the issue. May 25 Arts The traditional Mexican condiment paste recado negro consists of dried chiles, tortilla, cinnamon, pepper, oregano and bay leaves.(Photo/Jessica Magaña, RedHeartMedia) Showcasing the role of food in the lives of Mexican and Mexican American grandmothers in L.A. USC Dornsife’s Sarah Portnoy and USC Annenberg’s Amara Aguilar join forces to create the exhibit Abuelita’s Kitchen: Mexican Food Stories and a related course teaching students how to use digital media to share oral histories. May 25 ArtsSocial Impact Lauren Alexandra Sowa (USC Photo/Olivia Mowry) From stage and screen to the academe, it’s all about storytelling for new PhD COMMENCEMENT 2022: Lauren Alexandra Sowa’s experience as a child actor drove her decision to focus her USC doctoral studies on media, production culture and fandom. May 25 Health USC receives historic cryptocurrency gift to support cardiovascular care, research and education Wen Hou’s $1.1 million gift will support clinicians and researchers advancing the diagnosis and treatment of heart conditions. May 25 Health Research award accelerates USC’s work on next-generation cell therapy for prostate cancer The California Institute for Regenerative Medicine awards $5.8 million to researchers in the Jane Ann Nohl Division of Hematology at the Keck School of Medicine of USC. May 25 Health (USC Photo/Don Milci) National Institutes of Health awards first part of $30 million grant to USC team for stroke project Researchers at Keck School of Medicine of USC move experimental drug closer to approval for clinical use. May 25 Health (Illustration/Shutterstock) The importance of studying health data that represents everyone The American Life in Real-time project includes numbers from vulnerable and historically underrepresented populations to help improve health care across the board. May 25 Social Impact Jennifer Weck (Photo/Courtesy of Jennifer Weck) Master in Social Work graduate dedicated to helping children experiencing homelessness COMMENCEMENT 2022: Jennifer Weck was named School Social Work Intern of the Year by the San Diego Department of Education. May 24 Science/Technology (Image/Courtesy of the Journal of Cell Science) Protein protects cells from stressful forces, and diseases such as muscular dystrophy, by forming ‘nanoclusters’ A team of USC Dornsife scientists finds new evidence of how the protein emerin functions and how it may be linked to a rare and debilitating form of muscular dystrophy. May 23 AthleticsBusiness (Photo/Courtesy of Frank Martin II) Former Trojan offensive lineman has been driven to succeed from childhood — on and off the field COMMENCEMENT 2022: Frank Martin II is a busy guy: He’s accumulated three USC degrees in six years, all while being a spokesman for Athletics’ Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion. Now he’s moving on to the world of venture capital. May 23 Science/Technology USC researchers know what you did on Venmo — and they’re not alone The popular social payments app makes user profiles, payment notes and friend lists public by default. That’s laid the groundwork for millions of privacy leaks. May 23 University ‘The class that did the impossible’ The Offspring’s Dexter Holland and a student speaker deliver are part of the Keck School of Medicine of USC’s commencement ceremonies. May 21 University Keck School of Medicine graduates congratulated for ‘choosing to become forces for good’ COMMENCEMENT 2022: Award-winning Journalist Ann Curry delivered the commencement address for USC’s doctorate of medicine students. May 21 University USC President Carol L. Folt delivers the 2022 State of the University address in Bovard Auditorium. (USC Photo/Gus Ruelas) USC President Carol L. Folt recaps a year of Trojan accomplishments As the 2021-2022 academic year wraps up, the president shares a video message highlighting an incredible year. Watch her roundup of the year’s events and hear her words of thanks to students, faculty and staff. Video May 20 Science/Technology (Photo/Saket Venkatesh) Meet the USC badminton star who wants to make ethical and sustainable gear COMMENCEMENT 2022: USC Viterbi graduate Saket Venkatesh is harnessing his industrial and systems engineering skills to develop badminton shuttlecocks that avoid animal cruelty and cut waste. May 20 load more stories Next About This Site Contact Us Privacy Notice Notice of Non-Discrimination