Skip to Content (Press Enter) CSUF News lock Portal Login Give Search search Menu Topics Campus and Community Arts Business and Economics Communications Education Engineering and Computer Science Health and Human Development Humanities and Social Sciences Natural Sciences and Mathematics Athletics Topics A-Z CSUF In the News Titan Spotlight People & Voices Faculty and Staff Students Alumni Titans of Academia Titans of Promise Titan Voices Titans of Tassel Events Resources E-Newsletter Subscription RSS Feeds Photos For Journalists Publications Student Engineering and Computer Science Research Showcased Team of Graduating Seniors Win Top Award With Satellite Wildfire Detection System May 16, 2022 Share This: Mechanical engineering students developed LegUp, a robotic system with six legs that simultaneously rotate. After she graduates this month, Subha Lal plans to use the engineering skills she learned at Cal State Fullerton to contribute to preserving the environment and advancing technology to better mankind. As the team lead for TitanSat, a wildfire detection system using satellite technology, she’s on her way to making a difference. “This project was a labor of love for my team. We are all passionate about preserving California and ensuring it remains a livable environment not completely overtaken by wildfires,” said Lal, president of CSUF’s chapter of Tau Beta Pi California Chi, an engineering honor society. Award-winning TitanSat team members, from left, are Joshua Guzman, Subha Lal and Raghu Bathala. The mechanical engineering team won the Overall Best Student Project award at the May 2 College of Engineering and Computer Science Student Projects Competition and Showcase. Other TitanSat team members are Eduardo Ayala, Raghu Bathala and Joshua Guzman, all graduating seniors. The showcase, held in person for the first time since the pandemic, featured 60 projects from across the college’s disciplines, with 48 projects entered in the competition. Of those, the top 20 projects were selected for the competition. A panel of four industry judges selected 10 projects for recognition and monetary awards. Many of the student projects also are sponsored by the college’s industry partners, such as Disneyland Resorts, Edwards Lifesciences, Raytheon, RJE International and Mercury Systems. Dean Susan Barua applauded students for adapting to working on their projects during the pandemic. “Your work and dedication show,” Barua told students. “I hope you capitalize on your project-based experiences as you take the next step in your academic or professional careers.” TitanSat is a fourth-year legacy project, under the direction of Sagil James, associate professor of mechanical engineering. The project uses CubeSat technology, with the overarching goal of early detecting and preventing wildfire hazards in California. “The focus of this project is to design, manufacture and build a cube-shaped, miniature satellite, or CubeSat, to observe the Earth’s surface to help detect fires,” said Lal, who will be a first-generation college graduate. Her parents immigrated to the U.S. from India, did not speak English and settled in Anaheim, where she grew up. “The data captured will be used to assist fire authorities in detecting and controlling wildfires before they get out of control,” she said. “Our research aims to aid in preventing severe damage from natural disasters and protecting the environment.” Lal faced obstacles getting to college, including understanding the admissions process and paying for college. She credits support from her family and professors, and her “hard work and determination,” for completing her CSUF education. “My success is entirely owed to my parents,” added Lal, whose father worked multiple jobs to support his family. “My family went from farmers in a rural part of India to me learning how to build a satellite and earning a college degree.” ‘Crime Spotter’ Thwarts Theft of Catalytic Converters For their senior project, a team of electrical engineering students developed a novel prototype to thwart the theft of catalytic converters – a rising crime among car crooks. “Crime Spotter” is a security system that uses signals from sensors that detect sound, movement and vibration, without the use of the internet, said graduating senior Brian Fonseca, president of CSUF’s chapter of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE). Graduating seniors Brian Fonseca, Edison Chingay and John Daniyarov developed this novel prototype, called Crime Spotter, to thwart the theft of catalytic converters. Catalytic converters contain precious metals and help to reduce a car’s pollutants and toxic gas from the emissions system. The prototype system is installed under the car’s gear shifter and is set in motion when the vehicle is parked. “If a thief sets off the sensor when trying to steal the catalytic converter, a spray of liquid dye not only marks the thief, but the device, which makes it easily identifiable as stolen,” Fonseca explained. The team, which also includes graduating seniors Edison Chingay and John Daniyarov, won Best Student Project in Electrical Engineering. The students are mentored by David Cheng, professor of electrical engineering. “Learning how to make a product with constraints like money, time and scope helped us see engineering from an employer’s point of view,” Fonseca added. “Our future employers will appreciate our consideration of the details in designing, testing and implementing a prototype.” Designing a Robot With a LegUp A team of future mechanical engineers developed a robotic system that moves differently than a traditional wheeled rover: They designed a prototype with six legs that simultaneously rotate. “The focus was to design a robot capable of multiple walking gaits to access rough terrain and have a simplified and reliable control system with low electrical power requirements,” said graduating senior Kyle Skulski. The robot, dubbed LegUp, was inspired by Theo Jansen’s “Strandbeest” mechanism, in which the Dutch artist’s animated works were intended to be “a bridge between art and engineering,” explained Dylan Kunzmann, who also is graduating this month. “We took Jansen’s idea, focused on engineering and applied it to the final frontier of space exploration. Our motivation was the excitement of NASA’s plans to go to the moon again, and soon,” Kunzmann added. The team spent the last two semesters manufacturing, assembling and testing their robot under the mentorship of Nina Robson, associate professor of mechanical engineering. For their outstanding work, the team won Best Student Project in Mechanical Engineering. Other graduating team members are Matt Kim, Joshua Perez and Damian Marquez; also, students Brandon Arredondo and Brandon Rosales. LegUp faculty mentor Nina Robson, from left, with Dylan Kunzmann, Brandon Arredondo, Kyle Skulski, Brandon Rosales, Damian Marquez, Joshua Perez and Minjae “Matt” Kim. “We were given this award not only as a result of our hard work, but because of our application of many different mechanical engineering fields,” Kunzmann added. The team also collaborated with Boeing on the project, one the college’s industry partners. While not selected as a finalist, the team submitted a collaborative project proposal to NASA’s 2022 BIG Idea Challenge: Extreme Terrain Access for Mobility Platforms – the first time a CSUF team entered the competition. Building Better Bridges Curtis Zimmerman Future civil engineers Curtis Zimmerman, Carlos De La Sancha and Abril Herrera won the Best Student Project in Civil Engineering for their research project that uses zeolite-based materials to improve the integrity of concrete bridges. The research project focuses on finding an optimal concrete composition to counter the corrosion of rebar, which is used in building bridges, explained Zimmerman, who plans to graduate next year. Natural zeolite, a type of mineral mainly from volcanic ash, is abundant, inexpensive and environmentally friendly – and is found to strengthen the stability of concrete, said the team’s research mentor Pratanu Ghosh, professor of civil and environmental engineering. “This research is important because it would allow longer service lives of concrete bridges, roads and structures that are exposed to corrosive environments. If implemented within the industry, the economic benefits would be insurmountable,” Zimmerman said. All three students received 2021-22 Dwight David Eisenhower Transportation Fellowships from the U.S. Department of Transportation-Federal Highway Administration for their research efforts: Zimmerman, $10,000; De La Sancha, $7,000, and Herrera, $8,500. Cal State Fullerton’s commencement celebrations will take place May 23-26. Related Stories Students Fired Up to Develop Miniature Satellite to Fight Wildfires Tags 2022 Empowerment Engineering and Computer Science Resilience Students Awards and Honors ECS Showcase Winners The College of Engineering and Computer Science Student Projects Competition and Showcase winners are: Overall Best Student Project ($1,500) – TitanSat Wildfire Detection CubeSat Second Best Student Project ($1,000) – SONARVERSE Business Intelligence Analytics Best Student Project in Civil Engineering ($500) – Service Life Model of Zeolite Based High-Performance Concrete Best Student Project in Computer Engineering ($500) – Underwater Remotely Controlled Vehicle ROV Best Student Project in Computer Science ($500) – Recommendation Algorithm Best Student Project in Electrical Engineering ($500) – Crime Spotter Best Student Project in Mechanical Engineering, non-legacy ($500) – LegUp Best Student Legacy Project ($500) – Titan Rocket: Project Daedalus Overall Honorable Mentions ($500 each) – Splash Mountain Transfer Device Optimization and Titan EV Sagil James, associate professor of mechanical engineering, and Kenneth “John” Faller, associate professor of computer engineering, co-directors of the Center for Collaborative Research and Prototype Development, chaired the projects competition and showcase. Industry judges were Galen Jiang, mechanical system design and analysis engineer, Boeing; Lauren DuCharme, systems flight engineer, NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory; Thomas Mihara, project engineer, PACE Advanced Water Engineering; and, Antonio Carrera, software engineer, NASA Contact: Debra Cano Ramos dcanoramos@fullerton.edu Browse All News Topics A-Z Athletics Follow Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube About CSUF Facts Contact Media Relations Find an Expert Privacy Policy Subscribe / Download Subscribe to our eNewsletters Submit a Story Do you have news you’d like to share with the campus? Submit Your Story This site is maintained by Strategic Communications. To report problems or comments, please contact strategiccomm@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility Learn about web accessibility Report a web accessbility problem Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Microsoft Viewers Some page features may require javascript to run.