Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Prof Turns Creepy Ballet Score Into Teaching Opportunity facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Tag: college of design May 16, 2022 ‘I Feel So Blessed’ — Meet #NCState22 Best Friends Parker and Noah As part of our graduation video series, these elementary school friends reflect on how NC State brought them closer together. May 9, 2022 Design Students Develop Compostable Take-Out Container Prototypes in Project Sponsored by Eastman To combat packaging waste, NC State’s College of Design worked alongside Eastman to create food packaging with a new compostable material. Apr 22, 2022 Research Through an Equitable Lens Recognizing the importance of a fair and just society, researchers at NC State prioritize equity in their diverse fields. Apr 12, 2022 NC State Students Place 3rd in Stanford Design Challenge Industrial Design Senior Lindsey Dotson is part of a winning team that designed an in-home mold detection device to help people maintain healthy homes. Apr 7, 2022 Healthy Kids: No Batteries Required In a journey of discovery spanning six decades, Robin Moore has explored the connections between human development and the natural world. His ideas may hold the key to raising healthy children in the digital age. Mar 1, 2022 ‘Everything Had to Have a Purpose’: Remembering Journalism Visionary Richard Curtis NC State alumnus Richard Curtis revolutionized print journalism as the founding managing editor for design at USA Today. He died Sunday at 75. Oct 12, 2021 NC State Partners to Release Series of Licensed N.C. Wines NC State will partner with Shelton Vineyards to produce the first in a series of limited-edition wines. Oct 5, 2021 Recreating the Sights and Sounds of 17th Century London The project helps us place the art, literature and history of the period into context. Jul 28, 2021 Climbing the Mountain of a Lifetime NC State's George Elvin tells how a backpacking trip in his youth inspired him to seek a career designing green, climate-resilient housing. Apr 13, 2021 Carter-Finley Designer Dies A pioneer on and off campus, Charles Kahn developed innovative design techniques for construction of Carter-Finley Stadium and led efforts to desegregate Raleigh businesses. Aug 25, 2020 Climate Change and the Challenge of Community Relocation Climate change will profoundly affect where people live. It already is. Jun 19, 2020 Land Loss Has Plagued Black America Since Emancipation – Is it Time to Look Again at ‘Black Commons’ and Collective Ownership? This is a repost from The Conversation. Authors: Kofi Boone, professor of landscape architecture, College of Design, North Carolina State University; Julian Agyeman, professor of urban and environmental policy and planning, Tufts University Underlying the recent unrest sweeping U.S. cities over police brutality is a fundamental inequity in wealth, land and power that has circumscribed black lives… Jun 8, 2020 Strange, Unfamiliar, Marvelous: Explore the Art2Wear Digital Showcase Amid the COVID-19 pandemic, student designers present innovative high fashion concepts — all from home. Mar 19, 2020 In Memoriam: Landscape Architect Dick Bell Landscape architect Richard C. Bell designed some of North Carolina’s iconic spaces, but none meant more to him than his alma mater’s University Plaza, more commonly known as the Brickyard. Oct 10, 2019 Prof Turns Creepy Ballet Score Into Teaching Opportunity J. Mark Scearce, professor of art and design, composed an original score for the Carolina Ballet's production of Frankenstein. Posts navigation 1 2 … 14 Next Page Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.