Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Public Health Now News Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Aging, Chronic Disease, Global Health, Healthcare Policy May 04 2022 Asia and Africa Have Similar Aging Burden as the West New metric reveals health is more important than age for determining dependency ratios In a study at Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health and the Robert N. Butler Columbia Aging Center researchers have devised a new metric, the Health-Adjusted Dependency Ratio (HADR) as an alternative to the most commonly used aging metric, the Old-Age Dependency Ratio (OADR). The research suggests that age-related health burden is distinct from a ratio based exclusively on age and is the first to incorporate dependency associated with ill-health to generate a new metric that represents a more holistic measure of dependency for 188 countries. The results are published inThe Lancet Healthy Longevity. “Rather than using some arbitrary age limit such as the age of 65, we used absolute health,” said principal investigator Vegard Skirbekk, PhD, professor of population and family health at Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health. “In some countries, a given poor health level occurs in the 40s and in the 70s in others. Thousands of studies have been written using the old age dependency—but they are likely to be invalid.” In the current study, Skirbekk proposes building a dependency metric using the information from the Global Burden of Disease 2019 Study as an alternative to the OADR. This Health-Adjusted Dependency Ratio was generated for the adult population aged 20+ for each country, where the numerator consists of those in relatively ill-health or the “dependent” population” and the denominator includes those in relatively good health, who potentially could “support” the dependent population. OADR, on the other hand, is more associated with health spending growth.  The study in Lancet Longevity shows that in African countries, and certain ones in Central Asia, Southern Asia, and Eastern Europe are older than what their demography would suggest. Nations in Oceania, Eastern Asia, Europe, Northern America, Central and South America are younger. As examples, Japan had the highest OADR at 0.49 in 2017 followed by countries in Western Europe (with OADR >0.32). The U.S., Canada, Eastern Europe, Uruguay, China, South Korea, and Thailand follow with an OADR >0.24. “This implies that several demographically older populations could have relatively lower HADR burden if health levels are good while demographically younger populations could have a higher HADR if health levels are poor.” Health-wise, the share of older individuals is about the same for richer and poorer countries. “This is important, as it means the world is similarly old—or young—and similar types of health challenges apply. This also means that providing healthcare must be reoriented towards dealing with life-course-related diseases, observed Skirbekk. “And finally, being demographically young is no guarantee from being young as a nation; in many cases the opposite is true.” Earlier assessments were composed of measurements that tended to be based on data for only one country—mainly from European ancestry populations. “In sum, earlier aging measures tend to lack global coverage, global demographic information or global health data,” noted Skirbekk, who is also with Columbia Butler Aging Center.  “In fact, while the old-age dependency ratio or OADR was often used as a proxy for population aging, it did not account for variation in health and may therefore represent an incomplete assessment of aging and aging-related dependency,” said Skirbekk. “Traditional indices used on population-level aging variation tended to focus on only demographic indicators. Our method allowed us to generate a new metric for measuring aging, allowing us to assess variation in both demographic aging and age-specific health across countries.” Skirbekk further makes the point that previous research showed that in 2017, the chronological age when this occurs differs by up to thirty years, ranging from 45.6 years of age in Papua New Guinea to 76.1 in Japan. “Moving forward, it may be more valuable to more holistically assess dependency and policies associated with age-related dependency by using a metric that includes the impacts of ill-health, such as the HADR,” said Skirbekk. “The findings of our work have specific policy implications that will help countries to plan, develop, and implement aging policy programs and healthcare reforms in order to address effectively ongoing rapid demographic change.”  Related Stories Efforts to Delay Aging are Solid Investment Aging Experts Agree: Seniors Must Get Screened for Frailty The MacArthur Research Network on Aging Finds Widening Gap in Life Expectancy Related Faculty Vegard Skirbekk Professor Population and Family Health (In the Columbia Aging Center) Contact Us Stephanie Berger Phone: 212-305-4372 Email: sb2247@columbia.edu More in Aging Family Size May Influence Cognitive Functioning in Later Life Dean Linda P. Fried Awarded Kober Medal for Scientific and Mentorship Achievements Hurricanes and Other Tropical Cyclones Linked to Rise in U.S. Deaths from Several Major Causes Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers