Skip to main content Toggle navigation Search Cornell University Cornell.edu Media Relations Search Cornell University Cornell Chronicle Topics Architecture & Design Arts & Humanities Business, Economics & Entrepreneurship Computing & Information Sciences Energy, Environment & Sustainability Food & Agriculture Global Reach Health, Nutrition & Medicine Law, Government & Public Policy Life Sciences & Veterinary Medicine Physical Sciences & Engineering Social & Behavioral Sciences Coronavirus Campus & Community News & Events Public Engagement New York City Staff News Photos of the Day Big Red Sports Diversity In Memory Features NYS Impact Student Life Around Cornell All Stories In the News Expert Quotes Cornellians Cornell Ann S. Bowers College of Computing and Information Science The 2030 Project to marshal faculty to solve climate crisis May 12, 2022 Declaring this the “decisive decade” for climate action, Cornell launched The 2030 Project: A Climate Initiative, which will mobilize world-class faculty to develop and accelerate tangible solutions to the climate challenge. New Cornell certificate helps create the ethical data science workplace of the future May 9, 2022 M. Elizabeth Karns has partnered with eCornell to launch a new Data Ethics online certificate program to give data science practitioners tools to build ethics into every project phase and data science workplace. Around Cornell Entrepreneurship event celebrates generations of risk-takers May 4, 2022 Tiffany Norwood ’89 was honored as Cornell Entrepreneur of the Year at the two-day Celebration conference hosted by Entrepreneurship at Cornell. New building to create ‘unified complex’ for Bowers CIS May 4, 2022 Construction is scheduled to begin in early 2023 on a state-of-the-art academic building for the Cornell Ann S. Bowers College of Computing and Information Science, to be built adjacent to Bill and Melinda Gates Hall on Hoy Road. Staff News Pollack, Pape elected to arts and sciences academy April 28, 2022 President Martha E. Pollack and Dr. Jean William Pape, M.D. ’75, professor in clinical medicine at Weill Cornell Medicine, have been elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Staff News Fashion show’s digital ‘model’ will promote fundraising NFT April 28, 2022 Lior Cole ’23 will enter a non-fungible token in this weekend’s Cornell Fashion Collective Spring Runway Show. The NFT, to be auctioned off as a fundraiser, will be the first digital “model” in the 38-year history of the CFC spring show. Mixed-reality driving simulator a low-cost alternative April 28, 2022 Cornell Tech researchers have developed a mixed-reality driving simulator system that could lower the cost of testing vehicle systems and interfaces, such as the turn signal and dashboard. Éva Tardos named ACM Athena Lecturer April 20, 2022 The Association for Computing Machinery has named Éva Tardos, the Jacob Gould Schurman Professor of Computer Science and department chair in the Cornell Ann S. Bowers College of Computing and Information Science, the 2022-2023 ACM Athena Lecturer. Around Cornell Conference features business competitions, Entrepreneur of the Year presentation April 13, 2022 Entrepreneurship at Cornell's annual two-day conference offers speakers, business competitions and networking opportunities. Around Cornell Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 Next page » Last page Last » Gallery Heading × Previous Next Links About the Chronicle Media Relations Office Copyright Web Accessibility Assistance Contact Cornell Chronicle 312 College Ave Ithaca, NY 14850 607-255-4206 cunews@cornell.edu SUBSCRIBE Daily and weekly newsletters Feeds - RSS & JSON