Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia News Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Featured News Topics Video Books Podcasts All News Media Resources Awards & Milestones Arts & Humanities Politics & Social Justice Research & Discovery Photo of the Week Commencement 2022 Columbia News You are here: Home All News 14 Photos That Show the Unabashed Joy of Columbia's Graduating Class of 2022 Commencement 2022 14 Photos That Show the Unabashed Joy of Columbia's Graduating Class of 2022 It has been a trying few years, but we couldn't be happier to celebrate Columbia's Class of 2022, who have triumphed through it all. By Kelly Moffitt and Jennifer Pellerito May 13, 2022 Gabriel Clinger (GS’22) shared this photo in front of Scholars Lions posing with friends and fellow graduates, Lisa Sandberg, Antonija Kaleb, and Michal Chertock. Commencement is less than a week away. As we return to an in-person ceremony for the first time in two years, we've loved seeing the Class of 2022 footloose and fancy free as they have shared their photos celebrating the milestone of graduating. Here are 14 photos that show the joy, optimism, and excitement of this year's graduating class. We want to see more of your photos! Don't forget to use the hashtag #RoarLions2022 over the coming days as class day celebrations begin. Cross-Campus Love Tiange Zhao (BC’22) and boyfriend Henry Golub (CC’22) walk from Barnard College to Columbia. Courtesy Tiange Zhao. Best Place on Earth Charmane Gabriel (SEAS’22) shared this photo in front of Earth & Environmental Engineering. Courtesy Charmane Gabriel. Full-Time Soldier, Full-Time Swagger Lisa Cowboy (SPS'22) writes: "I am an active-duty U.S. Army soldier stationed at Fort Bliss, Texas, at the Noncommissioned Officer Center of Excellence, and assigned as an instructor in the Department of Command Leadership. I am grateful for my experience with the SPS Executive Strategic Communication program; the flexibility enabled me to be a full-time professional/soldier while maintaining a full-time commitment to my studies." Furry Friends Celebrate Too Yibing Chen (SEAS'22) shared this photo with friends and furry loved ones: "In the photo at the sundial, we have three cute dogs in our graduation family!" Courtesy Yibing Chen. You Can Feel This Energy Mir Sana Ulla (TC'22) writes: "Graduating from Columbia has been a dream come true. I am truly thankful to my professors, my peers, my friends and everyone at Columbia for making this experience one to cherish forever. Congratulations to the Class of 2022, we made it!" Courtesy Mir Sana Ulla. Three Dancing Maidens Jordan Kalai (CC’22) and friends at the Untermyer Fountain, with a bronze cast of Walter Schott's sculpture "Three Dancing Maidens," in the Conservatory Garden of Central Park in New York City. Courtesy Jordan Kalai. Clinical Group Bonds Last For Life Hannah Luong (NURS’22) shared this photo, writing "Group 1D — the best clinical group there is." Courtesy Hannah Luong. One Last Stop at the Weight Room Noelani West (GS’22) and Sam Angelle "getting in some lifts in our gowns!" Courtesy Noelani West Ready to Take on the World Sarah Chin (SIPA’22) with friends and fellow MPA-ESP'22 graduates. Courtesy Sarah Chin. Commencement Spirit Stefani Parish (BC'22) shared this photo, exuding some serious spirit. Courtesy Stefani Parrish. Forever a Lion Columbia Lions Football player Derric Lee (CC'22). Courtesy Derric Lee. Friends and Flowers Sylvia Qing Wei (VPS’22) shared this photo with friends and flowers near Low Library. Courtesy Sylvia Qing Wei. A Goodbye in Style Maya Kashapov (CS'22) is part of the inaugural class of Columbia Climate School graduates. Courtesy Maya Kashapov. Looking for more photo opportunities ahead of Commencement? Don't forget to check out these fantastic spots to grab photos on campus. Before you go, don't forget to check out these other stories in preparation for Commencement 2022: 6 Things to Know About Commencement 2022 and Graduation Season at Columbia When and Where to Capture the Empire State Building Lit Up Blue for Columbia Grads in 2022 How to Keep Your Parents Occupied When They Come to Campus for Your Graduation Here's Every Columbia 2022 Class Day Speaker We Know (So Far) Columbia's 2022 Honorary Degree Recipients Announced Meet 15 'Lions of Social Justice' From the Class of 2022 Words of Wisdom From Columbians Who Graduated in 2020 and 2021 at the Height of the Pandemic Meet Three Columbia Graduates From Our Surrounding Community Tags Students Commencement News June 01, 2022 Eric Kandel, Nobel Prize Winner and University Professor, to Retire June 01, 2022 Faculty Named Fulbright U.S. Scholars, Other Institutional Milestones June 01, 2022 Columbia Physicist Tanya Zelevinsky Wins 2022 Brown Investigator Award June 01, 2022 Celebrating Pride Month 2022 at Columbia May 31, 2022 A Cultural Critic Publishes Her Second Memoir Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close