Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Special Bonus Leave Added by End of August facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program HR and Finance Aug 26, 2021 NC State Rises to 4th Place on List of Best Employers NC State's resilient faculty and staff keep their faith in the university's mission, driving the institution up five spots on an annual survey of North Carolina's best places to work. Recent Stories New Studies Shed Light on Election-Related Stress Wicked Problems, Wolfpack Solutions Focuses on Future of Food Bob Franks Tapped to Lead Applied Ecology Oct 28, 2020 Employees Express Pride, Identify Concerns in Survey In the 2020 UNC System Employee Engagement Survey, taken before the COVID-19 pandemic, faculty and staff express overall job satisfaction and pride in the university. Mar 13, 2019 HR Strategic Plan: A Case for Transformation University Human Resources' new three-year strategic plan focuses on five strategic priorities and aims to position NC State as a leader in attracting, developing and retaining a diverse and talented workforce. Oct 19, 2018 View Webcast on Endowment NC State's endowment grew significantly last year, increasing the funds available to pay for scholarships, fellowships and other academic support programs on campus. University Treasurer Mary Peloquin-Dodd explains how NC State manages the endowment in the State of the Endowment presentation. Sep 24, 2018 Annual Enrollment Starts Sept. 29 Now is the time to add or change the benefit plans you participate in. Don't miss annual enrollment, which runs through Oct. 31. Aug 30, 2018 NC State Begins Implementing New ERA System The Enterprise Research Administration system promises to streamline and simplify the complex work of managing research projects. Campus stakeholders will test and refine the system over the coming years. Mar 15, 2018 Williams Named Chair-Elect of HR Association NC State’s human resources chief has been selected chair-elect of the College and University Professional Association for Human Resources. Her one-year term begins July 1. Dec 7, 2017 NC State Moves Closer to Selecting eRA System Faculty and staff working to select a new research administration system are inviting two vendors back to campus for another round of hands-on testing. The new eRA system will support the entire lifecycle of a research project, from proposal development through final reporting and closeout. Nov 2, 2017 Experts to Discuss Looming U.S. Retirement Crisis Ensuring American retirees have sufficient income to last through their retirement is among the most critical issues facing our economy. On Nov. 6, hear from Poole College economists Robert Clark and Melinda Morrill, along with TIAA representatives for a panel discussion on this topic. Oct 25, 2017 The Long Road to Retirement Faculty and staff are invited to a free retirement discussion led by U.S. Sen. Richard Burr of North Carolina, TIAA CEO Ron Pressman and professors from the Poole College of Management. Registration is required by Nov. 1. Oct 5, 2017 Open Enrollment Is Underway It's that time of the year again: open enrollment for all employees. Learn more here about new benefits and some fewer choices from the State Health Plan. Oct 5, 2017 View Webcast on Endowment Fund Tune in to a webcast with information about the university’s endowment fund on Tuesday, Oct. 17. Learn more about this important source of funds for NC State and how it is invested to support faculty, students and programs across campus. Sep 28, 2017 Faculty, Staff Athletics Discounts Check out these employee discounts for upcoming athletics events, including next Thursday's home football game against Louisville. Sep 21, 2017 Power Lunch Series Begins Sign up now for the first Wolfpack Wellness Power Lunch of the fall semester. Aug 24, 2017 Special Bonus Leave Added by End of August Employees eligible for the special bonus leave recently allocated by the North Carolina General Assembly in the 2017-18 annual budget can access that time by the end of August. Those who have used vacation time since July 1 can retroactively request special bonus leave in place of annual leave. Some restrictions apply. Posts navigation 1 2 … 15 Next Page Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.