Skip to main content Search Close Search Search this site Search Search News and Media All of Oklahoma State University Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Headlines News and Media Main Menu In this section News News Archive Topics College News In the Media Magazines Experts Directory Submit News Contact Us Home Articles OSU earns high marks in recent rankings OSU earns high marks in recent rankings Monday, November 22, 2021 Media Contact: Mack Burke | Editorial Coordinator | 405-744-5540 | mack.burke_iv@okstate.edu Share Facebook Twitter Pinterest A variety of Oklahoma State University programs recently achieved high recognition from national outlets like “Newsweek.” “Newsweek” gave OSU a No. 5 ranking in its recent America’s Best Online Learning Schools poll. The 2022 edition is the first edition of the poll from the publication as it ranked 182 universities for their online learning courses and offerings. The rankings are based on an online survey among U.S. residents who have used online learning services to obtain an academic degree or acquire knowledge and skills for their job in a professional development role, or their hobbies for personal development. "Times Higher Education" ranked OSU on its annual World Rankings list, which include more than 1,600 universities across 99 countries and territories. OSU was ranked in the 501-600 range, with the rankings based on a variety of factors, such as teaching, research, knowledge transfer and international outlook. The Data Science Degree Programs Guide listed OSU on its ranking of top 20 online master's in statistics degrees. OSU was No. 8 for its Master of Science in Applied Statistics degree. OSU also saw its bachelor’s and master’s degree programs recognized as the best in the state, according to University HQ. OSU’s Spears School of Business earned high marks from the Best Accredited Colleges report, being ranked No. 39 for its MBA in Finance program. Spears was also ranked No. 5 for its MBA in Entrepreneurship program. Nationally, OSU’s master’s degree in nutrition from the College of Education and Human Sciences also was recognized by Best Accredited Colleges with a No. 48 ranking on the poll. The data in that poll includes tuition, acceptance rate, graduation rate, percentage of financial aid, as well as placement and career services offered. For more information on OSU’s rankings, go to: https://go.okstate.edu/about-osu/fast-facts/rankings-leadership.html $skip Share Facebook Twitter Pinterest Awards and RankingsCollege of Arts and SciencesCollege of Education and Human SciencesSpears School of Business Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©