Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia News Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Featured News Topics Video Books Podcasts All News Media Resources Awards & Milestones Arts & Humanities Politics & Social Justice Research & Discovery Photo of the Week Commencement 2022 Columbia News You are here: Home All News Celebrating Pride Month 2022 at Columbia Campus & Community Celebrating Pride Month 2022 at Columbia Learn about Columbia’s long history in the LGBTQ+ movement, events open to the Columbia community, and available resources across our campuses. By Kara Avanceña June 01, 2022 "RainLow" shines bright in the darkness. Photo by Diane Bondareff. From the beginnings of the LGBTQ+ movement to the present day, Columbia students, alumni, faculty, and staff have been leaders in advocating for the rights of LGBTQ+ people on campus and across the world. As Pride Month 2022 kicks off, explore the rich history of LGBTQ+ activism at Columbia, the scholarship of our faculty on related issues, events open to the Columbia community, and resources available to Columbians. Have an event or a resource we should add to our list? Send your updates to [email protected]. Pride Month Events In and Around Columbia June 8 at 12 p.m. | CUIMC’s LGBTQ+ ERG Presents the Trevor Project The LGBTQ+ Employee Resource Group at Columbia University Irving Medical Center (CUIMC) hosts an online panel with The Trevor Project that will cover relevant policies, access to care, and mental health issues concerning the young LGBTQ+ community. Register to attend. June 22 at 4:15 p.m. | Virtual Drag Bingo Join Indigo Dai, aka Miss Independent, and the LGBTQ+ Employee Resource Group at CUIMC for a fun and engaging session of online bingo! A drag queen for more than a decade, Indigo Dai is a member of Drag Legend, Linda Simpson's goofy glamorous team. Advance registration is required to attend. June 26 at 12 p.m. | NYC Pride March 2022 Columbia Pride, the LGBTQ+ alumni group sponsored by the Columbia Alumni Association, invites LGBTQ+ alumni, students, staff, faculty, and allies across Columbia to march in the 2022 New York Pride March after a two-year hiatus. There are a limited number of spots, so register early and cancel your registration if you cannot attend. Columbia and LGBTQ+ History The First Queer College Student Organization Today, there are thousands of LGBTQ+ groups on college campuses around the world. In 1966, there was only one. Learn about Columbia’s Student Homophile League, the first queer student organization on a college campus founded by Stephen Donaldson (CC’69). A History of Lesbian Crushes at Barnard College George Chauncey, the DeWitt Clinton Professor of American History, recounts the history of relationships among women at Barnard College and how society took notice. A Digital Project Maps the Sites of New York’s LGBT History The NYC LGBT Historic Sites Project recognizes important city locations connected to LGBTQ+ history, including the landmark Stonewall Inn and Columbia’s own Earl Hall. #PrideofLions YouTube Playlist Hear directly from some of our scholars on their work on LGBTQ+ issues or their experience as members of the LGBTQ+ community at Columbia. Resources for LGBTQ+ Students, Faculty, Staff, and Allies LGBTQ+ Guide (For Faculty) | Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty Advancement Learn about the rich history of the LGBTQ+ movement at Columbia, pioneering scholarship led by our faculty, and the current needs of LGBTQ+ members of the Columbia community. Resources for Promoting LGBTQIA+ Inclusion (For Students) | Office of University Life Compiled to help promote greater inclusion and support of the LGBTQ+ community, the website offers on- and off-campus resources available to Columbia students. LGBTQ+ Healthcare Resources | Columbia Health Consult a list of student health resources on all campuses compiled for the LGBTQ+ Guide in collaboration with Columbia Health. How to Be a Visible LGBTQ+ Ally (Video) In March 2021, the Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty Advancement hosted a panel discussion on how Columbians can demonstrate their support for lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender students and colleagues. The session covered a range of topics including language, support services, and resources. Participants learned strategies to build solidarity with the LGBTQ+ community and to make their solidarity visible. Why Pronouns Matter (Video) Asking for and using correct pronouns is a way to respect those around you and create an inclusive environment for people of all genders and gender expressions. Watch our short primer on pronoun use at Columbia with some quick suggestions on how to be an ally to queer and transgender members of our community. Student Organizations Across our campuses, students have formed groups in support of their schools’ LGBTQ+ community. Find a list of these undergraduate and graduate groups on the Office of Multicultural Affairs’ website and keep up with them on social media. Employee Resource Groups Faculty and staff at the CUIMC are invited to join the LGBTQ+ Employee Resource Group. Contact Ashley Boyce or Tonya Richards at [email protected] for more information. Get Columbia News In Your Inbox Tags LGBTQ Faculty Students Staff News June 01, 2022 Eric Kandel, Nobel Prize Winner and University Professor, to Retire June 01, 2022 Faculty Named Fulbright U.S. Scholars, Other Institutional Milestones June 01, 2022 Columbia Physicist Tanya Zelevinsky Wins 2022 Brown Investigator Award June 01, 2022 Celebrating Pride Month 2022 at Columbia May 31, 2022 A Cultural Critic Publishes Her Second Memoir Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close