Skip to main content Academic and Student Affairs News Menu Close Academics University College Careers and Leadership Service Student Life Arts & Culture Howling Success Inclusion and Well-Being Support and Advocacy Pack Essentials Alumni and Friends Giving Events Devon Waterman: DASA Superstar facebook twitter linked in email Academics Academics University College Careers and Leadership Careers and Leadership Service Student Life Student Life Arts & Culture Howling Success Inclusion and Well-Being Inclusion and Well-Being Support and Advocacy Support and Advocacy Pack Essentials Alumni and Friends Alumni and Friends Giving Events Give Now Newswire Devon Waterman: DASA Superstar The Division of Academic and Student Affairs' newest Howling Success serves on the Student Conduct Board, is a chancellor's aide, and is a career ambassador for the Career Development Center. September 22, 2020 Patrick Smith Play Video As a sophomore, Devon Waterman has already made quite a name for himself at NC State and within the Division of Academic and Student Affairs. He is a training coordinator, board member, and hearing assistant for the Student Conduct Board, a chancellor’s aide. He’s also vice president for the NC State chapter of the Student Human Resource Management and served on the leadership development committee for the Impact Leadership Village last year. One of his biggest claims to fame, however, is his work as an administrative assistant and career ambassador in the Career Development Center. In fact, it was at a Pack Pros workshop last year that he really rose to stardom. “I’m a very energetic person, so I like to have fun in those group settings,” Waterman said. “At that event, I sang a remix of a Career Development theme song for writing cover letters. The crowd loved it and I got a standing ovation. That was one of my defining moments and probably one of the most fun things I’ve ever done within DASA programs.” Staying Involved During COVID-19 Waterman’s energy, positive attitude, and willingness to help others have especially served him — and the NC State community — well during the COVID-19 pandemic. Like many of his peers, Waterman initially struggled to adjust to all of his classes and social life being online. “When COVID-19 first hit and everything went online, I was like ‘wow this is different,’ and ‘wow this is difficult,’” Waterman said. “But I think as I’ve stepped into the virtual classroom, my professors have been great and have really reassured us that we’re in this together and will get through it together. The pandemic has changed Waterman’s involvement in campus groups as well. “In our first Student Conduct meeting after the pandemic hit, we talked about what the board would look like and honestly none of us really knew,” he said. “But, it was nice to be able to reassure people and say I still had some things planned for us like speakers and trainings that would make it more fun and engaging. In times like these, I think we’re actually being more creative and adaptable to the needs of our students and the folks in our organizations. “Communication has been really important, and so has staying connected because if you don’t, you’ll feel left out of the loop and feel like you’re not being heard,” he continued. “So, in the organizations I’m in, we’ve had a big emphasis on staying connected and continuing to communicate. It’s also important to try and stay positive. Sometimes, a smile is all it takes to really change a room.” Being a Resource and Helping Others Devon Waterman leads a career workshop Waterman came to NC State from Greensboro, N.C., and is majoring in business administration with a concentration in human resources. “What really got me here was the atmosphere,” Waterman recalled. “When I toured campus I really enjoyed it and it felt like home. It felt like there were a lot of support systems and networks in place that would really make it a great college experience. There’s truly a good vibe all around.” As he looks ahead to his remaining two-plus years at NC State, Waterman hopes to continue finding ways to be a resource and a mentor to students himself. “I get a lot of joy when I’m able to help connect people to job and internship opportunities, and I’m really looking forward to being back in person with folks,” he said. “If I can stay in my roles in Student Conduct and Career Development and just keep helping people, that makes me super happy.” Waterman’s hard work has not gone unnoticed. “Devon is an outstanding young person with charisma and leadership skills,” said Marcy Bullock, director of professional development and Waterman’s supervisor in the Career Development Center. “He steps up to take on challenging new things, such as being a podcast interviewer. He will do amazing things in life!” Categories: Careers and Leadership Feature Howling Success Newswire Student Life Student Profile Tags: Career Development Career Development Center Coronavirus COVID-19 Howling Success Office of Student Conduct Student Profiles Villages More From Academic and Student Affairs News University Honors and Scholars Program Announces Unification, Name Change TRIO Receives Funding to Continue Two Upward Bound Programs ASPSA Student Employee Feature: Spring 2022 Division of Academic and Student Affairs Home Park Shops, 3rd Floor 101 Current Drive Campus Box 7301 Raleigh, NC 27695-7301 academic-student-affairs@ncsu.edu 919.515.2446 Our Location About Academics Career and Leadership Student Life Inclusion and Well-Being Support and Advocacy Faculty and Staff Resources Compliments and Complaints Website Feedback Submit a Story Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.