Skip to Content Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Indiana University Indiana University IU Menu News at IU Bloomington News at IU All Campuses Close dropdown Topics for All Campuses Arts & Humanities Business & Innovation Campus Life Health & Wellness Global Law & Policy Science & Technology Administration News For Students Faculty & Staff IU Community Media Campus Newsrooms Trending Tags IU South Bend Community Engagement Kelley School of Business View all tags IU Bloomington Close dropdown IU Bloomington Topics Arts & Humanities Business & Innovation Campus Life Health & Wellness Global Law & Policy Science & Technology Administration News For Students Faculty & Staff IU Community Media Trending Tags Kelley School of Business Indiana Business Research Center News Release View all tags IUPUI Close dropdown IUPUI Topics Arts & Humanities Business & Innovation Campus Life Health & Wellness Global Law & Policy Science & Technology Administration News For Students Faculty & Staff IU Community Media Trending Tags View all tags Search Business and Innovation IU Bloomington ranks high in U.S. News list of 'Best Global Universities' By Chuck Carney Nov. 22, 2021 Indiana University Bloomington ranked high in business, economics, and arts and humanities in the recently released U.S. News & World Report "Best Global Universities" rankings. View print quality image IU Bloomington ranks 24th worldwide and 14th nationally in the economics and business category, thanks to the Department of Economics and the Kelley School of Business. Photo by James Brosher, Indiana University The IU Bloomington campus ranks 24th worldwide and 14th nationally in the economics and business category, thanks to both the College of Arts and Sciences' Department of Economics and the Kelley School of Business. The campus ranked 39th in the world for the arts and humanities category, good for 18th among U.S. institutions and ninth among public institutions in the U.S. The Best Global Universities rank subject areas and universities overall across the world, based on academic research and reputation. Institutions from more than 90 countries are included. The economics and business rankings differ from U.S. News' other rankings of degree programs, primarily ranking business schools on the basis of faculty research and academic reputation. Methodology included measurements of papers that are among the top 1 percent cited, regional and international research reputation, and number of publications by faculty. In addition to the overall rankings, IU economics and business research ranked third for programs at public U.S. universities and No. 1 in Indiana. "This ranking reflects the meaningful and remarkable contributions that Kelley School faculty make each day to broadening knowledge and understanding through their research activities and their collaborations with colleagues worldwide," said Idalene "Idie" Kesner, dean of the Kelley School and the Frank P. Popoff Chair of Strategic Management. "In addition to these rankings, we hear from corporate partners who comment on how often our professors across business disciplines inform their companies' strategies and operations and contribute to their success," Kesner said. "And because faculty members' research often is integrated into the courses they or others teach, their work ensures that our students stay on the cutting edge, preparing students to add value right away in their careers." Rick Van Kooten, executive dean of the IU College of Arts and Sciences and professor of physics, noted the broad scope of economic understanding fostered among faculty in the Department of Economics. View print quality image IU ranked 39th in the world, 18th in the nation and ninth among public institutions in the U.S. for the arts and humanities category. Photo by James Brosher, Indiana University "The Department of Economics in the College of Arts and Sciences prides itself on the quality of its cutting-edge research and graduate education," he said. "It is internationally recognized for its frontier research in areas such as macro- and monetary economics, financial econometrics, experimental economics, and international trade. "The department maintains close connections to the Kelley School of Business in faculty research as well as graduate and undergraduate education. These deep connections exemplify the collaborative engagement between the College and the Kelley School." The Bloomington campus has a longstanding reputation for arts and humanities as a vital and thriving part of IU's larger educational mission. This is exemplified by the Arts and Humanities Council, which brings together partners across campus and disciplines to best utilize what the campus has to offer. Among the numerous events every year are the First Thursdays Festivals, as well as gatherings and exhibitions at the new Gayle Karch Cook Center in Maxwell Hall. "With the founding of the Arts and Humanities Council in 2015, we have been able to amplify our numerous strengths in research and teaching, and we have seen a phenomenal increase in external awards and recognition," said Ed Comentale, associate vice provost and director of the IU Bloomington Arts and Humanities Council. "We have successfully combined top-notch scholarship with contemporary and relevant public programming to produce one of the most vibrant arts and humanities communities in the world. It is particularly important to note that our reputation extends from the local to the global, and from more established disciplines to cutting-edge work in fields such as public humanities and digital arts and humanities." The new rankings of business and economics programs were issued Oct. 26 with U.S. News' Best Global Universities Rankings, and IU Bloomington ranked 141st among 1,750 top universities across Africa, Asia, Australia/New Zealand, Europe and Latin America. Other worldwide subject rankings of IU programs included 66th (tie) for gastroenterology and hepatology; 67th for social sciences and public health, and for psychiatry/psychology; and 89th for neuroscience and behavior. Filed Under: Arts and Humanities Awards College of Arts and Sciences Faculty and Staff IU Community Kelley School of Business Students Top Stories More from the newsroom Recommended from the newsroom IU Bloomington a top producer for Fulbright U.S. Student Program for 2021-22 Indiana University | Feb. 28, 2022 Health care wage growth has lagged behind other industries, despite pandemic burden Indiana University | Feb. 25, 2022 IU partners with Native American tribe to expand COVID-19 study Indiana University | Feb. 17, 2022 Afghan violinist pursues dream at Jacobs School with help of alumnus Indiana University | Feb. 22, 2022 Trending Articles Nearly 1 in 3 young men in the US report having no sex, study finds Blood test for depression, bipolar disorder offers promise of personalized treatment Pulitzer-winning alumni reflect on insurrection coverage, career preparation at IU Granfalloon returns this summer with headliners Japanese Breakfast and Car Seat Headrest Westfield set pace for Indiana's population growth in 2021 News at IU social media channels Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Contact, Address and Additional Links TEAM About News & Media Specialists RESOURCES For the Media For Faculty & Staff Media Studios Archive IU Experts SUBSCRIBE Email Newsletters & Press Releases RSS feeds INDIANA UNIVERSITY NEWS & MEDIA 517 E. Kirkwood Avenue Von Lee Second Floor Bloomington, IN 47408 newsroom@iu.edu Accessibility | Privacy Notice | Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Indiana University IU IU Bloomington IUPUI IU Topics Arts & Humanities Business & Innovation Campus Life Health & Wellness Global Law & Policy Science & Technology Administration News For Students Faculty & Staff IU Community Media Trending Tags IU South Bend Community Engagement Kelley School of Business View all tags