Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Plants Return from Space in Microgravity Research Projects facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Author: Deborah Strange May 18, 2022 NC State Ranked One of Nation’s Elite Technology Transfer Universities NC State ranks second among all U.S. public universities in research technology transfer and commercialization according to a comprehensive analysis. May 17, 2022 AnnE Ford’s Final Student Chronicle: Graduation After chronicling the NC State student experience for two years, AnnE Ford graduated in spring. May 9, 2022 Design Students Develop Compostable Take-Out Container Prototypes in Project Sponsored by Eastman To combat packaging waste, NC State’s College of Design worked alongside Eastman to create food packaging with a new compostable material. May 2, 2022 ‘Dare to Dream,’ Student Speaker Tells Fellow Graduates As the 2022 student commencement speaker, Anna Jump will encourage others to strive toward their goals and reach their dreams. Apr 22, 2022 Research Through an Equitable Lens Recognizing the importance of a fair and just society, researchers at NC State prioritize equity in their diverse fields. Apr 19, 2022 Find Your Home in a Living and Learning Village In 15 Living and Learning Villages, students harness their enthusiasm for special topics. Apr 12, 2022 Laura Clarke Wins UNC Board of Governors Award for Excellence in Teaching The NC State physics professor has received the university system’s most prestigious teaching award for her extraordinary teaching contributions. Feb 14, 2022 With Love, From the Wolfpack NC State alumni share how their love stories were shaped by the Wolfpack. Jan 11, 2022 NC State Researcher Develops Soft Material to Preserve Biological Medicines NC State researchers developed a soft material that can help biological medicines treat infections without the risk of antimicrobial resistance. Dec 13, 2021 Graduating With a Global Perspective For many NC State students, graduation symbolizes their commitment to taking risks, understanding different cultures and expanding their horizons. Nov 9, 2021 The Pack Empowers a Global Perspective On Nov. 8, NC State dedicated the Global Courtyard, a gathering space for international-focused events and students. The courtyard is emblematic of the university’s commitment to global engagement — and an international community. Nov 3, 2021 Composite Metal Foam on Its Way to Influencing Market Afsaneh Rabiei's composite metal foam can be used in numerous industries, and it has the potential to save lives. Aug 10, 2021 Researchers Incorporate Marginalized Voices in Climate Change Solutions As experts at NC State study aspects of climate change, they strive to center marginalized voices to ensure groups facing the highest risk aren’t overlooked. Jul 22, 2021 Summer Start Welcomes New Students to the Pack Summer Start helps new students find their place at NC State. Jul 21, 2021 Plants Return from Space in Microgravity Research Projects The plant biology experiments of two NC State researchers are back on Earth after spending weeks at the International Space Station. Posts navigation 1 2 3 Next Page Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.