Skip to main content Toggle navigation Search Cornell University Cornell.edu Media Relations Search Cornell University Cornell Chronicle Topics Architecture & Design Arts & Humanities Business, Economics & Entrepreneurship Computing & Information Sciences Energy, Environment & Sustainability Food & Agriculture Global Reach Health, Nutrition & Medicine Law, Government & Public Policy Life Sciences & Veterinary Medicine Physical Sciences & Engineering Social & Behavioral Sciences Coronavirus Campus & Community News & Events Public Engagement New York City Staff News Photos of the Day Big Red Sports Diversity In Memory Features NYS Impact Student Life Around Cornell All Stories In the News Expert Quotes Cornellians All Stories menu List Grid All Stories Filters Topics Architecture & Design Arts & Humanities Business, Economics & Entrepreneurship Computing & Information Sciences Food & Agriculture Energy, Environment & Sustainability Global Reach Health, Nutrition & Medicine Law, Government & Public Policy Life Sciences & Veterinary Medicine Physical Sciences & Engineering Social & Behavioral Sciences Campus & Community NYS Impact Rankings News & Events Staff News New York City Diversity Public Engagement Campus blog: Essentials Photos of the Day Around Cornell Colleges & Schools Agriculture and Life Sciences Architecture, Art and Planning Arts and Sciences Cornell Ann S. Bowers College of Computing and Information Science Continuing Education and Summer Sessions Cornell Jeb E. Brooks School of Public Policy Cornell SC Johnson College of Business Cornell Tech Engineering Graduate School School of Hotel Administration Human Ecology Industrial and Labor Relations Johnson Graduate School of Management Law School Veterinary Medicine Weill Cornell Medicine-NY Weill Cornell Medicine-Qatar Student films document Cornell’s LGBTQ history June 1, 2022 Students in an Introduction to LGBTQ Studies class this semester brought key events in Cornell’s history to light through short documentaries. Consumers embrace milk carton QR codes, may cut food waste June 1, 2022 Milk carton “use-by” dates soon may be a quaint relic. A new Cornell study finds that consumers like QR codes, better depicting how long milk is drinkable – creating less food waste. Futile veterinary care is widespread, study finds May 31, 2022 More than 99% of 474 veterinarians surveyed said they’d encountered useless or nonbeneficial veterinary care in their careers, according to a new Cornell-led study that documents the prevalence of futile care for the first time. Merrill Scholars honor their mentors May 31, 2022 Each spring the Merrill scholars are asked to recognize the high school teacher who impacted their early education and the Cornell faculty or staff member who contributed most significantly to their college experience. Undergrads launch peer-reviewed journal May 31, 2022 The Cornell Undergraduate Research Journal, a biannual digital and print publication, received 20 submissions for its inaugural issue. From those, the editorial board selected nine articles featuring a wide range of topics. New cancer subtype may illuminate treatment strategy May 31, 2022 Researchers at Weill Cornell Medicine and Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center have identified a previously unrecognized form of hormone therapy-resistant prostate cancer, as well as a set of molecules that drive its growth. Higher dengue rates found near public transit in low-income areas May 31, 2022 In Medellin, Colombia, low-income residents who lived in close proximity to new public transit stations had increased rates of mosquito-transmitted dengue fever, according to a new study. Pollack to grads: ‘Have an influence that will matter’ May 28, 2022 The Class of 2022 will make contributions to the world that Ezra Cornell could never have imagined, President Martha E. Pollack said at Commencement, held May 28 at Schoellkopf Field. Commissioned ROTC seniors embrace change, uncertainty May 27, 2022 A dozen graduating ROTC seniors were among 19 members of Cornell's Tri-Service Brigade who earned commissions in the Army, Navy, Air Force and Marines during a May 27 ceremony in Alice Statler Auditorium. How to get people to follow the rules: lessons from the pandemic’s ‘great experiment’ May 27, 2022 When a deadly global pandemic broke out, compliance — the act of following rules — became critical. Yet many people didn’t adhere to the rules. Professor John, from the Cornell Law School, explains how getting people to work together and follow rules takes careful thought and planning, and that compliance inside businesses and organizations is essential to accomplishing just about anything. Around Cornell Women resent compliments about communality at work May 27, 2022 When women and men are faced with positive gendered stereotypes, women experience more frustration and less motivation to comply with the expectation than men, according to new research. Discovery offers starting point for better gene-editing tools May 26, 2022 In new research, Cornell scientists define with atomic precision how a transposon-derived system edits DNA in RNA-guided fashion. Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 Next page ›› Last page Last » Gallery Heading × Previous Next Links About the Chronicle Media Relations Office Copyright Web Accessibility Assistance Contact Cornell Chronicle 312 College Ave Ithaca, NY 14850 607-255-4206 cunews@cornell.edu SUBSCRIBE Daily and weekly newsletters Feeds - RSS & JSON