Skip to main content Toggle navigation Search Cornell University Cornell.edu Media Relations Search Cornell University Cornell Chronicle Topics Architecture & Design Arts & Humanities Business, Economics & Entrepreneurship Computing & Information Sciences Energy, Environment & Sustainability Food & Agriculture Global Reach Health, Nutrition & Medicine Law, Government & Public Policy Life Sciences & Veterinary Medicine Physical Sciences & Engineering Social & Behavioral Sciences Coronavirus Campus & Community News & Events Public Engagement New York City Staff News Photos of the Day Big Red Sports Diversity In Memory Features NYS Impact Student Life Around Cornell All Stories In the News Expert Quotes Cornellians Business, Economics & Entrepreneurship Consumers embrace milk carton QR codes, may cut food waste June 1, 2022 Milk carton “use-by” dates soon may be a quaint relic. A new Cornell study finds that consumers like QR codes, better depicting how long milk is drinkable – creating less food waste. How to get people to follow the rules: lessons from the pandemic’s ‘great experiment’ May 27, 2022 When a deadly global pandemic broke out, compliance — the act of following rules — became critical. Yet many people didn’t adhere to the rules. Professor John, from the Cornell Law School, explains how getting people to work together and follow rules takes careful thought and planning, and that compliance inside businesses and organizations is essential to accomplishing just about anything. Around Cornell Startup Roundup: Antithesis Foods, Guard Medical, C2i, Bactana May 24, 2022 Cornell startup Antithesis Foods and Bactana were awarded NSF small-business grants, as Guard Medical raises $11 million in Series B investments and C2i launches a disease test in Europe. Five student groups win Cornell Tech Startup Awards May 24, 2022 Cornell Tech awarded four student startup companies with pre-seed funding worth up to $100,000 in its ninth annual Startup Awards competition. A fifth company won a new startup award focused on public-interest technology. Links between incentives and ethical lapses identified in ILR research May 18, 2022 The presence of incentives directly influences the odds that an individual will act unethically, according to research led by Associate Professor Tae Youn Park. Around Cornell Self-fulfilling rankings boost agencies’ power, influence May 17, 2022 Rankings of nations, corporations and colleges trigger behavior that makes them appear more accurate in hindsight, building rating agencies’ power, Cornell economist Kaushik Basu and doctoral student Haokun Sun argue in new research. The Administrative Management Institute returns to Cornell this summer May 12, 2022 The Administrative Management Institute (AMI), one of the country’s top professional development opportunities in higher education, will be back on campus this summer after a two-year hiatus. Around Cornell The 2030 Project to marshal faculty to solve climate crisis May 12, 2022 Declaring this the “decisive decade” for climate action, Cornell launched The 2030 Project: A Climate Initiative, which will mobilize world-class faculty to develop and accelerate tangible solutions to the climate challenge. Scott J. Peters to conduct participatory action research with University of Minnesota May 9, 2022 Cornell CALS Professor Scott J. Peters to lead participatory action research into issues of justice, sovereignty, equity and sustainability in food and farming systems at University of Minnesota. Around Cornell Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 Next page » Last page Last » Gallery Heading × Previous Next Links About the Chronicle Media Relations Office Copyright Web Accessibility Assistance Contact Cornell Chronicle 312 College Ave Ithaca, NY 14850 607-255-4206 cunews@cornell.edu SUBSCRIBE Daily and weekly newsletters Feeds - RSS & JSON