Skip to main content calendar subscribe Facebook Twitter Instagram RSS Feeds YaleNews Explore Topics Alumni Arts & Humanities Business Campus & Community Environment Health & Medicine International Law Science & Technology Social Sciences In Focus In Memoriam Search form Search Health & Medicine Stories Yale responds to COVID-19 May 17, 2022 YaleNews highlights its coverage of how campus is responding to the coronavirus pandemic, and how Yale experts are taking action against the crisis. Study empowers long COVID patients as they struggle to find relief May 31, 2022 Two Yale researchers are striving to solve the mysteries of long COVID and provide a compassionate voice for those feeling ignored by the medical community. Portrait of childhood education pioneer James Comer unveiled at Yale May 31, 2022 For more than 50 years, Comer’s pioneering work has revolutionized school systems and lifted up their most vulnerable children. PODCAST: Unlocking the insights in healthcare data May 27, 2022 Yale epidemiologist Amy Justice joins to discuss influential studies she has conducted using the electronic medical record from the VA healthcare system. T cell warriors need their R & R May 27, 2022 Without rest and maintenance, T cells can die and leave their hosts more susceptible to pathogens, Yale scientists report. High cost of cancer care in the U.S. doesn’t reduce mortality rates May 27, 2022 A new study finds that the U.S. spends twice as much as the average high-income country on cancer care, but only has slightly better mortality rates. ‘Transformative’ effects of mass gatherings like Burning Man are lasting May 27, 2022 Powerful social experiences at mass gatherings can help people feel more connected to humanity and willing to help distant strangers, a new study finds. Office Hours with… Lamia Haque May 26, 2022 An expert on the intersection of addiction and chronic liver diseases, Haque talks about her clinical work, training at Yale, and her current pastimes. Shedding light on the link between a type of antibodies and miscarriage May 26, 2022 Yale researchers have uncovered how antibodies associated with miscarriage might harm the uterine environment by affecting cells essential for pregnancy. COVID vaccines do not impact fertility or pregnancy outcomes, study shows May 24, 2022 Women who received mRNA vaccines against the COVID-19 virus did not produce more of an antibody that had been theorized to reduce fertility. Show More Articles Search Health & Medicine Yale Browse Archives Contact Us For the Media It’s Your Yale Apply to Yale Give to Yale Managed by the Office of Public Affairs & Communications Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved · Privacy policy · Accessibility at Yale Facebook Twitter Instagram RSS Feeds Yale on Instagram