Skip to main content University of Virginia Logo Search News Enter the terms you wish to search for. Sections Search UVA Today Videos Subscribe Sections Main navigation Main menu Series Home All News University News Arts & Culture Research & Discovery Business & Government Student Experience UVA Today Branding In The News Video Subscribe Final Exercises 2022 University News Final Exercises 2022 April 19, 2022 Facebook Twitter Email Final Exercises 2022 Sunday Saturday Valediction Class of 2022 Looking Back Marking a full return to the traditions of Final Exercises, thousands of University of Virginia students and thousands more family members and spectators massed on the Lawn and outside Old Cabell Hall as graduation ceremonies returned to their rightful home. The 193rd Final Exercises took place Saturday and Sunday under sunny skies and some of the year’s warmest weather, leading President Jim Ryan to quip that the event was “the hottest show in town.” Over the weekend, University awarded more than 7,800 degrees, including nearly 600 to first-generation college graduates. Finals Weekend began Friday with the Valedictory Exercises at John Paul Jones Arena, with a keynote address from Ralph Sampson, a UVA alumnus and basketball legend. On Saturday and Sunday, the graduation festivities returned where they were meant to be. For the first time since 2019, students paraded down the Lawn and took their seats in rows in front of Old Cabell Hall. In 2020 because of the pandemic, Final Exercises were virtual; last year, the procession walked down the Lawn, but continued to Scott Stadium, where graduates and spectators could safely spread out. On this page, see photo galleries and read accounts of the weekend’s events, and discover stories about some of the graduates who earned their degrees. UVA Final Exercises 2022: Memories and Moments Video: UVA Final Exercises 2022: Memories and Moments UVA Final Exercises 2022: Memories and Moments University News Finals Weekend Speakers: Ralph Sampson, Claudrena Harold, Dr. Taison Bell Speakers at graduation will be Claudrena Harold on May 21 and Dr. Taison Bell on May 22, with Ralph Sampson giving the keynote address at Valedictory Exercises on May 20. More University News Mask Requirements Lifted in More Locations on Grounds; Details for Final Exercises Finals Weekend will move forward with no mask or vaccination requirements, but with encouragement for attendees to be current on COVID-19 vaccines and boosters. More sundaySundaysundaysundaysundaysundays University News The Power of Belief Echoes Throughout the Lawn as Final Exercises 2022 Wraps Final Exercises Weekend 2022 wrapped Sunday as more than 4,500 graduates from 11 UVA schools walked the Lawn. More University News Photos: On Sunday, The Newest UVA Grads Walked the Lawn More than 4,500 students received degrees Sunday on the final day of UVA’s graduation weekend, marking the first full – and sweltering – return since 2019 to the full custom of Final Exercises. More University News Final Exercises Remarks of Sunday Keynote Speaker Dr. Taison Bell Dr. Taison Bell delivered prepared remarks to the Class of 2022 as the Sunday keynote speaker. More turdaySaturdaysaturdaysaturdaysaturda University News Arts & Sciences Grads Celebrate ‘Hottest Show in Town’ During Final Exercises Graduates of the College and Graduate School of Arts & Sciences walked the Lawn on Saturday during the first of two days of Final Exercises 2022. More University News Photos: See Images From Saturday’s Final Exercises For the first time since 2019, University students, families and friends gathered on the Lawn for Final Exercises. More University News Final Exercises Remarks of Saturday Keynote Speaker Claudrena Harold Harold is the Edward R. Stettinius Jr. Professor of History and chair of the History Department at the University of Virginia. More ictionValedictionvaledictionvaledicti University News Ralph Sampson to the Class of 2022: ‘Stay Connected, Leave Your Footprint’ Speaking at Friday afternoon’s Valedictory Exercises, Sampson encouraged the graduating class to remember to stay motivated, have a good attitude and plan for success. More University News Class of 2022 Members Honored at Valedictory Exercises Members of UVA’s Class of 2022 received honors for compassion, service and their contributions to the University community. More of2022Class of 2022classof2022classof Alianna Kyle School of Nursing Lauren Schmidt College of Arts & Sciences Elizabeth Harris School of Law Carla Hallman School of Continuing & Professional Studies Caroline Challe College of Arts & Sciences Frank Carpenter School of Continuing & Professional Studies Joshua Franklin School of Engineering & Applied Science Zoe Ziff College of Arts & Sciences Alyssa Candelmo Batten School of Leadership and Public Policy Christopher Mathis School of Education and Human Development Amelia Kirby School of Nursing Jaina Lane School of Medicine Luis Jerez McIntire School of Commerce Jack MacLeod School of Architecture Antonio Brodie Jr. Darden School of Business Karolina Naranjo-Velasco School of Data Science Spencer Martin College of Arts & Sciences Tiffany Mickel School of Law Alizé Dreyer College of Arts & Sciences Martina Bucheli School of Architecture Davis Coffey College of Arts & Sciences Abeba Amenshowa and Leigh Mante College of Arts & Sciences Chang Liu College of Arts & Sciences Lauren Hinton McIntire School of Commerce Maureen O’Shea School of Data Science Ansleigh Graeff College of Arts & Sciences What’s Next for UVA’s Class of 2022? Video: What’s Next for UVA’s Class of 2022? What’s Next for UVA’s Class of 2022? Graduating? Let's stay in touch! Sign up for the UVA Today Daily Report to get news every weekday morning. First Name Last Name Email Affiliation with UVA (select preferred) --Select Affiliation--StudentFacultyStaffParentAlumniFriend Leave this field blank ngbackLooking Backlookingbacklooking University News UVA Releases Admissions Decisions and ‘#UVA22’ Begins Trending on Grounds Thirty-five percent of the high school seniors offered admission come from minority backgrounds, and 10 percent are first-generation college students. More Welcome to UVA Summer Orientation! Video: Welcome to UVA Summer Orientation! Welcome to UVA Summer Orientation! University News Class of 2022 Move-In Kicks Off Week of Welcome Programming at UVA The University and student groups are putting out the welcome mat to new and returning students with an eclectic combination of programming that mixes scholarship, service and fun. More University News Class of 2022 Become Official Wahoos With Move-In Weekend Cool air and low humidity plus a new arrival system equaled a successful move-in weekend for UVA’s newest students. More University News First-Year Class is Largest, Most Diverse In UVA History The University of Virginia’s Class of 2022, which arrived on Grounds this week, is “remarkable” for its commitment to the common good, the University’s top admission official said. More Media Contact McGregor McCance Associate Vice President for Communications and Executive Editor, UVA Today Office of University Communications cmm9vg@virginia.edu 434-924-3938 Article Information May 31, 2022 University of Virginia Logo Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube UVA About Us About Us News Releases Privacy Policy Contact © 2022 By The Rector And Visitors Of The University Of Virginia