Skip to content The Harvard Gazette Search for: Arts & Humanities Business & Economy Campus & Community Commencement 2022 The Coronavirus Update Events Health & Medicine National & World Affairs News & Announcements Photography The Quest for Racial Justice Science & Technology The Solutions Series News + About Accessibility Athletics News and Scores For Media & Journalists Privacy Policy Trademark The Daily Gazette Sign up for daily emails to get the latest Harvard news. Harvard University National & World Affairs World Taken out of context GenSci Lab scholars urge researchers to take care crafting definitions of sex as language can make its way into law, public policy World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Health & Medicine Health Don’t let latest COVID surge overshadow progress, says Hanage Epidemiologist explains how to stay on guard against subvariants, noting role of protective measures in transition to new pandemic phase Health Researchers find sleep benefit in higher dose of melatonin Supplements show promise in small study of older adults Featured National & World Affairs Health & Medicine Arts & Humanities Science & Technology Business & Economy Campus & Community Experience Commencement 2019 © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College The Harvard Gazette Getting his teeth into the community Advice to students: Learn to think scientifically Campus & Community Getting his teeth into the community Dental School student Ryan Lisann is ready to teach local kids about oral health Campus & Community Getting his teeth into the community Ryan Lisann, who is treating 10-year-old Diego, has developed techniques to build children’s confidence. Photos by Heather Denny/HDSM Dental School student Ryan Lisann is ready to teach local kids about oral health By Heather Denny HSDM Communications DateFebruary 18, 2020February 19, 2020 Share Email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Trending Ardern’s forceful reminder: Democracies can die Harvard to award seven honorary degrees Humans hot, sweaty, natural-born runners Pursuit of joy starts with truth, Wu tells graduates Seven alumni elected to the Board of Overseers For Harvard School of Dental Medicine (HSDM) student Ryan Lisann, completing one of the last requirements of his four-year D.M.D. program — a three-month externship at Charles River Community Health Center in Brighton — was an experience that will shape his career. “I’m really passionate about education and wanting to work with kids, so getting to work in a community health setting and treating pediatric patients confirmed the path I want to take,” Lisann said. “Seeing patients arrive at a clinic, particularly young children, with a mouth full of cavities is incredibly disheartening. It’s clear that education is part of the solution.” Lisann hopes to use early childhood dental education to address disparities in oral health and fill gaps in care to lessen the need for fillings. After graduation, while his peers go on to residency programs and dental practices around the country, Lisann plans to work part time and pursue a master’s degree in education before applying for a pediatric dentistry residency. On a recent Friday at Charles River Community Health Center, Lisann was treating 10-year-old Diego. Speaking reassuringly in Spanish to the young Venezuelan, Lisann explained the procedure he would be using to fill two cavities. “The biggest thing is building trust,” Lisann said. “Many kids we treat here are seeing a dentist for the first time.” “Seeing patients arrive at a clinic, particularly young children, with a mouth full of cavities is incredibly disheartening. It’s clear that education is part of the solution.” — Ryan Lisann The center serves a large number of recent immigrants from Central America. During his externship, Lisann spoke in Spanish to better connect with patients. He also developed techniques to build children’s confidence once they’re in his chair, like counting down and focusing on deep breathing before Lisann uses a needle to administer a shot of anesthetic. He tells Diego the sensation will be like a quick mosquito bite and asks him to give a thumbs-up to let him know he’s OK. Fourth-year HSDM students like Lisann complete a community-based general dentistry externship to expand their perspective of oral health delivery systems, and build on their medical and dental knowledge by providing care in a community setting. Besides Charles River Community Health Center, other HSDM externship sites include Boston Health Care for the Homeless, Brookside Community Health Center, Community Health Center of Cape Cod, The Dimock Center, Edith Nourse Rogers Memorial Veterans Hospital, Harvard Street Neighborhood Health Center, Lynn Community Health Center, Mattapan Community Health Center, and the VA Boston Healthcare System. Harvard School of Dental Medicine student Ryan Lisann with his young patient, Diego. Once on site, students collaborate with community dentists to develop treatment plans and treat underserved populations. HSDM students spend 12 weeks in each externship, twice the typical six-week externship at other dental schools, which gives them time to build a closer connection to the patients, dentists, and staff at the sites. “We love working with HSDM students,” said dental director Janice Cho at Charles River Health. (She is also a lecturer at the School.) “We look forward to having the externs rotate through the health center as they bring a positive energy and provide compassionate care to patients who need it the most,” she said. Charles River Community Health Center serves the communities of Allston, Brighton, and Waltham by providing comprehensive, coordinated care. The center’s roots are in Allston-Brighton, where it was first established as the Joseph M. Smith Community Health Center more than 35 years ago. Dental services have been offered since the beginning, and HSDM students have been part of dental care at the center for nearly 20 years. “The aim of Charles River Community Health is to provide a dental safety net experience that externs hopefully enjoy, learn and grow from,” said Cho. “There’s such a great need for community dental care in the U.S.,” Lisann said. “This experience has taught me so much and opened my eyes to areas where I can have the most impact.” Editor's Picks Campus Triple the joy Photographers capture the festive rites and poignant moments as three classes celebrate Commencement World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Campus A call to public service Merrick Garland tells grads to get involved, warns democracy in peril, cites Capitol attack, rise in mass shootings, stifling of voting rights Trending Ardern’s forceful reminder: Democracies can die Harvard to award seven honorary degrees Humans hot, sweaty, natural-born runners Pursuit of joy starts with truth, Wu tells graduates Seven alumni elected to the Board of Overseers Up Next Campus & Community Advice to students: Learn to think scientifically Campus & Community Advice to students: Learn to think scientifically Mona Sue Weissmark's work on the inter-generational impact of injustice includes social experiments of bringing children of Holocaust survivors face-to-face with children of Nazis, and later, grandchildren and great-grandchildren of African American slaves with slave owners. Photo by Stuart-Rodgers Photography