Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: Health & Society Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland Share childenDavid B. Falk College of Sport and Human DynamicsGun Violenceschool shootingsschools Jennifer Cornish Genovese is a professor of social work in the Falk College, a New York State licensed certified social worker and has worked in private practice as a psychotherapist for 30 years. She specializes in helping children deal with trauma and offers thoughts on how to best help children cope in the wake of mass shootings at school. “The tragic school shooting in Uvalde, Texas, which left 19 children and two teachers dead, was unimaginable. A classroom, which should have been a safe space for children, turned into a scene of panic and terror. Parents, teachers and mental health professionals are left trying to explain the unthinkable to children, while trying to make sense of this senseless tragedy themselves. Falk College Professor Jennifer Cornish Genovese A single act has changed the lives of children, families, a community and a nation. The devastation of this event has reached into every home across this country, again, because the loss of one child sends ripple effects throughout our country. We cannot make sense of this tragedy, but we can turn to one another and share our communal shock and grief. Adults can support children by being present with them, listening to their words, sensing their feelings and seeing their actions. Children may express feelings through their behaviors rather than words, thus adults must focus on myriad ways children communicate their emotions. Following exposure to a traumatic event, children may have difficulty regulating their emotions and often become anxious, clingy, irritable, confused or fearful. They might be difficult to soothe or comfort. Children may appear sad, numb or depressed; or become silent and withdrawn. In these times of anguish and sorrow, adults must listen to children with their ears, their eyes and their hearts, knowing that in their confusion and pain, children may express fear and uncertainty in unfamiliar ways. Although adults may be experiencing similar symptoms, it is incumbent upon them to provide children with a safe harbor, a place where they can express their thoughts and feelings and find comfort and hope. By allowing children to express themselves in an authentic manner, adults offer a secure base where feelings can be acknowledged and affirmed, and hope can be instilled again.” Author Keith Kobland Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi More In Health & Society Alumni Draw on Their Military Experience in Their Roles as Teachers Do military veterans make good teachers? This question was posed to two School of Education alumni—one a former U.S. Army pilot and the other a former Air Force systems and IT technician turned linguist—who both now teach in Upstate New… Social Work Student Bre’Yona Montalvo Receives First Sunflower Scholarship At her high school in Harlem, Bre’Yona Montalvo was the kind of classmate who always made time to listen. “Being in discussions in class and with friends, I was helping others without intentionally planning to help them,” says Montalvo, who… NBA Player Shares Personal Experience With Stuttering With CSD Students Students walking into Grant Auditorium for CSD 450/650 Clinical Seminar last semester saw a celebrity instead of their usual professor. National Basketball Association (NBA) player Michael Kidd-Gilchrist was visiting the class to give the students a unique perspective on both… Falk Graduate Student Rebecca Garofano Honored by Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics Rebecca Garofano, a Falk College graduate student in nutrition science, was honored with the Outstanding Dietetics Student Award at the New York State Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics Annual Meeting and Expo April 8-9 in Syracuse. Garofano is actively engaged… Phillandra Smith Finds and Fosters Community at Syracuse University Phillandra Smith hadn’t considered a Ph.D. until a professor at Barry University asked what she would do after finishing a master’s degree. Smith, who is from the Bahamas, had planned to return to the classroom. “This professor was honestly really… Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.