Skip to main content Toggle navigation Search Cornell University Cornell.edu Media Relations Search Cornell University Cornell Chronicle Topics Architecture & Design Arts & Humanities Business, Economics & Entrepreneurship Computing & Information Sciences Energy, Environment & Sustainability Food & Agriculture Global Reach Health, Nutrition & Medicine Law, Government & Public Policy Life Sciences & Veterinary Medicine Physical Sciences & Engineering Social & Behavioral Sciences Coronavirus Campus & Community News & Events Public Engagement New York City Staff News Photos of the Day Big Red Sports Diversity In Memory Features NYS Impact Student Life Around Cornell All Stories In the News Expert Quotes Cornellians Food & Agriculture Consumers embrace milk carton QR codes, may cut food waste June 1, 2022 Milk carton “use-by” dates soon may be a quaint relic. A new Cornell study finds that consumers like QR codes, better depicting how long milk is drinkable – creating less food waste. Startup Roundup: Antithesis Foods, Guard Medical, C2i, Bactana May 24, 2022 Cornell startup Antithesis Foods and Bactana were awarded NSF small-business grants, as Guard Medical raises $11 million in Series B investments and C2i launches a disease test in Europe. Policy, farm management help China mitigate climate change May 19, 2022 Production of animal protein in China has increased by 800% over the past 40 years, but new research shows why the amount of climate-warming nitrous oxide released from this animal farming has not risen as quickly. Applications open for $3M Grow-NY competition May 18, 2022 In its four years, the competition has received applications and interest from more than 1,000 businesses in 32 states and 37 countries. In all, 59 finalists have been selected to date, with 21 winners sharing $9 million in startup funding. Vine removal technique foils devastating grape disease May 17, 2022 Removing not only a diseased grapevine but the two vines on either side of it can reduce the incidence of leafroll disease, a long-standing bane of vineyards around the world, Cornell researchers have found. The 2030 Project to marshal faculty to solve climate crisis May 12, 2022 Declaring this the “decisive decade” for climate action, Cornell launched The 2030 Project: A Climate Initiative, which will mobilize world-class faculty to develop and accelerate tangible solutions to the climate challenge. Scott J. Peters to conduct participatory action research with University of Minnesota May 9, 2022 Cornell CALS Professor Scott J. Peters to lead participatory action research into issues of justice, sovereignty, equity and sustainability in food and farming systems at University of Minnesota. Around Cornell Four elected to National Academy of Sciences May 5, 2022 An agricultural economist, a theoretical physicist, a plant biologist and a physiologist have each been elected to the National Academy of Sciences, the academy announced May 3. Superheroes and more: Brooks students make a “contribution” May 4, 2022 Imagining superheroes and sharing leftovers, building a library and embarking on a new educational adventure - that's how four Cornell Jeb E. Brooks School of Public Policy students plan to use funds they received through the Contribution Project. Around Cornell Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 Next page » Last page Last » Gallery Heading × Previous Next Links About the Chronicle Media Relations Office Copyright Web Accessibility Assistance Contact Cornell Chronicle 312 College Ave Ithaca, NY 14850 607-255-4206 cunews@cornell.edu SUBSCRIBE Daily and weekly newsletters Feeds - RSS & JSON