WSU Cougar Head Logo Washington State University Give Apply Locations My WSU Give Apply Locations My WSU Close WSU Insider News and Information for Faculty, Staff, and the WSU Community Menu Close News News Categories Arts & Culture Awards & Achievements Benefits & Training Business & Economics Campus & Community Food & Agriculture Health & Medicine Politics & Society Reports & Updates Science & Technology University Affairs Veterinary Medicine Announcements Contact Us For Journalists Press Releases Tip Sheets COVID-19 Cannabis research Institutional Data Quick Facts Search Close April 5, 2022 VPR Distinguished Lecture to highlight climate change impact on Indigenous people and religion By Karen Hunt, Office of Research Rosalyn LaPier The Office of Research will host the spring Vice President for Research Distinguished Lecture series with a talk by Rosalyn LaPier, associate professor of environmental studies at the University of Montana and a research associate at the National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian Institution. The talk titled “Land as Sacred Text: How Climate Change Will Impact Indigenous Spirituality,” will take place at 3 p.m. on Monday, April 18, in the Biotechnology/Life Sciences Building, room 401 on the WSU Pullman campus. The lecture will also be livestreamed via Zoom. A reception will take place prior to the lecture at 2:30 p.m. RSVP on the Office of Research website by Monday, April 11. For most Indigenous peoples changes in the natural world impact their ability to practice their religious beliefs. This is because Indigenous peoples rely on the land and landscape, its seasonal cycles of weather, plants, and animals as part of their liturgical or religious calendar. Over the past 150 years, setter-colonial societies such as the United States suppressed and marginalized Indigenous religious practices. LaPier’s talk will focus on how climate change creates another challenge for Indigenous peoples and their ability to practice their religion. LaPier, an enrolled member of the Blackfeet Tribe of Montana and Metis, is an award-winning Indigenous writer, ethnobotanist, and environmental activist. In addition to traditional training for ethnobotany, she also learned ethnobotany and traditional ecological knowledge by apprenticing with her maternal grandmother Annie Mad Plume Wall and her aunt Theresa Still Smoking for more than 20 years. She received a Bachelor’s in Arts degree in physics and a doctorate degree in environmental history. She works within Indigenous communities to revitalize Indigenous and traditional ecological knowledge to address environmental justice and the climate crisis. She has written two award-winning books, two Blackfeet language lexicons, and dozens of articles and commentaries that have appeared in The Conversation, High Country News, The Montana Naturalist, and the Washington Post. She is currently working on her third book. Prior to joining the University of Montana, LaPier worked at Piegan Institute, a private nonprofit on the Blackfeet reservation working to revitalize the Blackfeet language. She raised more than $4,000,000 for their programs. She also previously taught at NAES College, a private Native-controlled college. The Vice President for Research Distinguished Lecture Series invites world-renowned experts to WSU to share ideas and spark conversations about research that addresses society’s biggest challenges. Invited lecturers are leaders in their fields. This Vice President for Research Distinguished Lecture is sponsored by the Office of Research. RSVP is encouraged. For questions, contact Geeta Dutta by email at geeta.dutta@wsu.edu or by phone at 509‑335‑5980. Categories: Events Next Story May 27, 2022 Emergency response trainings taking place on Pullman campus May 30–June 2 Local law enforcement and fire departments will meet on the WSU Pullman campus to conduct a series of training exercises May 30–June 2. Recent News May 27, 2022 Emergency response trainings taking place on Pullman campus May 30–June 2 Local law enforcement and fire departments will meet on the WSU Pullman campus to conduct a series of training exercises May 30–June 2. May 27, 2022 WSU appoints Danielle Hess executive director for policy and governance The university’s top lawyer is taking a new systemwide role and will be replaced as division chief by an assistant attorney general who has worked alongside her since 2015. attorney general, Board of Regents, compliance, governance, policy By RJ Wolcott, WSU News & Media Relations May 27, 2022 WSU Insider will be back Tuesday The staff at WSU Insider hopes you make the most of your Memorial Day holiday. New postings will resume Tuesday. May 26, 2022 WSU experts: Washington monkeypox case cause for concern, not panic The now-confirmed case of monkeypox in the state should raise awareness of the virus, but it will not spread as easily as COVID-19, according to WSU infectious disease experts. By Sara Zaske, WSU News & Media Relations May 26, 2022 Stacy Pearson retiring at end of 2022 During her tenure as VP for finance and administration and CFO, WSU turned a $30 million annual operating deficit into a nearly $30 million surplus in 2020. A national search for her replacement will be conducted. administration, finance, WSU President Kirk Schulz By RJ Wolcott, WSU News & Media Relations May 26, 2022 Leadership changes in the Voiland College The Voiland College of Engineering and Architecture announced three new directors for the upcoming school year. By Tina Hilding, Voiland College of Engineering and Architecture Find More News Subscribe for more updates Subscribe to WSU Insider to receive free daily updates by email. University employees are automatically subscribed—no sign up is necessary. RecommendedFeatures Ukrainian faculty and staff raise funds and awareness for war-torn homeland Members of WSU’s Ukrainian community are hosting a series of cultural events, starting this Saturday, April 16, while also raising funds and supplies for the defense of their homeland. April 14, 2022 Support worthy causes such as cancer care for pets during #CougsGive As part of #CougsGive, WSU veterinarians are hoping to raise enough money to purchase new equipment that will lead to safer treatments for animal patients with cancer. April 13, 2022 Find More News Trending News Cougs in Space: Launching satellites and careers March 10, 2022 WSU Men’s Basketball bound for NIT semifinals March 24, 2022 Schulz spotlights recent successes during 2022 State of the University March 22, 2022 ‘Breaking Bad’ star to discuss how cerebral palsy helped shape his career March 22, 2022 FOR WSU CONTRIBUTORS Content guidelines WSU Insider Guidelines Press Releases Guidelines Announcements Guidelines Events Guidelines Submission Information Insider Submission Press Release Submission WSU Announcements Submission WSU Events Submission Additional Resources WSU Brand Guidelines WSU Editorial Style Guide WSU Podcasts Social Media Directory WSU News & Media Relations PO Box 641227, Pullman, WA 99164-1227 509-335-3581 wsunews@wsu.edu WSU Cougar Head Logo © Washington State University 2021 Access Policies MyWSU Follow WSU