Skip to main content University of Virginia Logo Search News Enter the terms you wish to search for. Sections Search UVA Today Videos Subscribe Sections Main navigation Main menu Series Home All News University News Arts & Culture Research & Discovery Business & Government Student Experience UVA Today Branding In The News Video Subscribe Photos: On Sunday, The Newest UVA Grads Walked the Lawn May 22, 2022 • Mike Mather, mike.mather@virginia.edu University News Photos: On Sunday, The Newest UVA Grads Walked the Lawn May 22, 2022 By Mike Mather, mike.mather@virginia.edu Photos By Sanjay Suchak, sanjay@virginia.edu Erin Edgerton, erineedgerton@gmail.com Facebook Twitter Email For the second sweltering day in a row, thousands of family members and spectators lined the University of Virginia’s Lawn on Sunday as graduates toting foil balloons in every shape imaginable paraded to Final Exercises in front of Old Cabell Hall. This weekend marked the first return to the full custom of UVA graduations since 2019, before the pandemic canceled the 2020 Final Exercises and forced the modification of last year’s. More than 4,500 students received degrees Sunday, including 1,705 baccalaureate degrees and 2,414 graduate degrees. The keynote speaker was Dr. Taison Bell, a UVA alumnus and director of the Medical Intensive Care Unit at UVA Health. On Saturday, graduates from the College and Graduate School of Arts & Sciences received their degrees. Related Story Final Exercises 2022 Graduating? Let's keep in touch! Sign up for the UVA Today Daily Report to get news every weekday morning. First Name Last Name Email Affiliation with UVA (select preferred) --Select Affiliation--StudentFacultyStaffParentAlumniFriend Leave this field blank Media Contact Mike Mather Managing Editor University Communications mike.mather@virginia.edu Article Information May 31, 2022 You May Also Like Dungeons & Dragons and Burgers: ‘Really Bad Outcomes’ When We Don’t Grasp Fractions The COVID-19 Booster Shot for 5- to 11-Year-Olds: 5 Questions Answered UVA Aims to Save Kids From Dangerous Infections Using a Single-Celled Amoeba University of Virginia Logo Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube UVA About Us About Us News Releases Privacy Policy Contact © 2022 By The Rector And Visitors Of The University Of Virginia