Skip to main content Visit Temple.edu Toggle Utility Menu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Search Site Search Temple Now Navigation - Go To - News by topic - Arts & Culture - Athletics - Campus News - Community Engagement - Global Temple - Research - Staff & Faculty - Student Success - Sustainability - Return to Campus - Visualize TempleAnnouncementsNewsletters - Temple Now subscriptionPublicationsTemple in the newsSocial MediaSpecial SeriesTemple MagazineAboutAccolades News by topic Announcements Newsletters Special Series About Arts & Culture What to read, listen to and watch to learn more about AAPI communities Athletics Introducing a new head coach of women’s basketball Campus News New General Education course to focus on AAPI identity and experiences Community Engagement President Wingard highlights Center City Business Association’s “Lunch with the City's Leaders” Global Temple Serving the American media from the Far East Research Temple-headquartered STARS Computing Corps receives a $3 million National Science Foundation grant Return to Campus Student community health ambassadors look out for their fellow Owls Staff & Faculty Temple thought leaders lend their voices to national conversation surrounding Roe v. Wade Student Success Temple Made for … building community Sustainability Charles Library earns LEED Gold certification Visualize Temple Charles Library shapes the future at Temple and beyond View Archives Home / Class of 2022 Class of 2022 Temple Made for … building community Type: News Story Mohammad Hadaihed felt right at home among the tight-knit community of pharmacy students and faculty May 18, 2022 Temple’s 135th Commencement in photos Type: News Story Temple’s 135th Commencement ceremony returns to the Liacouras Center for the first time in three years. May 13, 2022 Temple Made for … using data to solve problems Type: News Story Mathematics and computer science major Srikar Katta is enrolling at Duke University this fall for a PhD. May 5, 2022 Temple’s LGBTQIA+ seniors celebrated at Lavender Graduation Type: News Story Lavender Graduation celebrated LGBTQIA+ students in Temple’s Class of 2022. May 10, 2022 Temple Made for … the entertainment industry Type: News Story Experiential learning opportunities have given Klein student Julie Fosco a leg up. May 3, 2022 First Rome Entry Year Program students to graduate from Temple Type: News Story Commencement 2022 includes the first Rome Entry Year Program students graduating from Temple. May 3, 2022 Temple Made for … being the best version of himself he can be Type: News Story Film and Media Arts major Jake Horoshko, Class of 2022, has made the most of his time at Temple. April 28, 2022 Temple Made for … her dream job Type: News Story Marketing major Rachel Edwards, Class of 2022, will begin her post-Temple life at Ralph Lauren in NYC May 5, 2022 Temple Made for … leading her own research lab Type: News Story Areebah Rahman, Class of 2022, will pursue a PhD at Brown University this fall. April 26, 2022 Temple Made for … McKinsey Type: News Story Alvira Bonsu, Class of 2022, will work at McKinsey & Company to help make a positive social impact. April 20, 2022 Temple’s inaugural bachelor of general studies degree class prepares to graduate Type: News Story Students graduating from Temple’s new degree program discuss their experience. March 25, 2022 Narrative medicine gives Temple’s healthcare community the opportunity to reflect Type: News Story The program has helped students and faculty process their pandemic experiences. February 16, 2022 International students share how they ring in Lunar New Year Type: News Story Students from China, Indonesia and South Korea talk about their Lunar New Year celebrations. January 31, 2022 Occupational therapy students team up with TechOWL to create adaptive technology designs for disability community Type: News Story Their aim is to make the world a more accessible place for everyone. December 8, 2021 Temple remembers the lives of five Owls with a candlelight vigil Type: News Story Students Samuel Collington, Katherine Keleman, Matthew Melendez, James Peterman and April Rochester passed away during the semester. December 8, 2021 The Temple University Jazz Band celebrates the legacy of jazz great Jimmy Heath Type: News Story The band’s new album honors luminaries including Heath, John Chaney and Bootsie Barnes. October 15, 2021 Philly Community Wireless offers internet for the community, by the community Type: News Story The group hopes to address inequalities in internet access that were highlighted by the COVID-19 pandemic. October 7, 2021 New Temple program helps unpaid interns Type: News Story Unpaid Internship Stipend Program gives students the opportunity to pursue unpaid internships while building their skills. September 2, 2021 Student earns prestigious LGBTQIA+ scholarship Type: News Story Innovative programming and accomplishments by a Temple student catch the attention of an influential LGBTQ+ organization. July 23, 2021 Owl Ambassador helps and inspires others Type: News Story Student Jasmine Dantzler has positioned herself as a role model for prospective Temple students. April 22, 2021 Optimism over a COVID-19 vaccine trial and more stories featuring Temple in the media Type: News Story A Temple doctor talked about a vaccine trial’s potential and Sonia Sanchez reminisced about her life and career. March 9, 2021 Members of Temple’s community celebrate Kamala Harris’ historic win Type: News Story Temple students, faculty and staff share their thoughts on Kamala Harris’ election victory. January 19, 2021 Virtual dinner highlights the harsh realities of forced migration Type: News Story Temple professor organizes a virtual dinner to expand students’ understanding of global development in the face of forced migration. January 18, 2021 College of Public Health student volunteers as first-time poll worker Type: News Story When the coronavirus pandemic created extra demand, Georgia Hight-Schickel stepped up to help. January 4, 2021 Student interns support local communities as part of the Temple University Internship Program Type: News Story Students can build their resumes, serve the community and advance their career plans through an on-campus internship program. December 23, 2020 Pages 1 2 next › last » Temple University Strategic Marketing & Communications Bell Building 1101 W. Montgomery Avenue Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Directory Maps and Directions Contact RSS Facebook Twitter Pinterest LinkedIn.com YouTube Flickr TUPortal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Temple Now: The official source for Temple news. Copyright 2015, Temple University. All rights reserved.