Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All Posts in #JMA Wireless CNY Central “Syracuse University to rename the Carrier Dome – what name would fans choose?” Wednesday, May 25, 2022, By Lily Datz Beth Egan, associate professor of advertising in the Newhouse School, was quoted in the CNY Central story “Syracuse University to rename the Carrier Dome – what name would fans choose?” Egan, who specializes in strategic communications and advertising, discussed why… Campus & Community 5 Things to Know About the JMA Wireless Dome Wednesday, May 25, 2022, By Jen Maser Home to countless athletic competitions, five Orange teams, some of the most memorable moments in collegiate sports history and cherished University traditions. Host to Commencement, iconic performers, family-friendly entertainment, high school athletic events and graduations for local districts, and even… Campus & Community Syracuse University, JMA Wireless Announce Naming Rights Partnership, Usher in the JMA Wireless Dome Era Thursday, May 19, 2022, By News Staff Syracuse University and JMA Wireless (JMA) today announced a 10-year partnership for naming rights of the University’s iconic on-campus stadium. For the first time since the venue opened its doors in 1980, the stadium will have a new name, only… Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Facebook @SyracuseUNews Youtube Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.