Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program News Releases NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Media looking for expertise on the Russian invasion of Ukraine can contact the following NC State experts. February 25, 2022 Lauren Barker Economic Sanctions and Financial Matters Mark Nance, associate professor of political science and director of the master of international studies program at NC State, is able to discuss financial repercussions stemming from Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, including the impact of financial sanctions and what effect barring Russia from the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication (SWIFT) network may have in Russia and internationally. Nance can also discuss larger strategic issues involving international relations in Europe. Nance can be reached at 919.527.4087. Cyber Warfare, International Relations Lt. General Jack Shanahan, a 36-year veteran of the United States Air Force and currently working on his Master of International Studies graduate degree here at NC State, can speak on general military issues, specifically air, space, and cyber power. Shanahan can also speak on international relations, foreign policy, strategic competition, and U.S. alliances and partnerships. Lt. Gen. Shanahan can be reached at jnshanah@ncsu.edu. Foreign and Domestic Policy in Russia Dmitri Mitin, associate teaching professor of political science, can discuss the key members of the Putin regime, public opinion in Russia, and the general trajectory of domestic and foreign policy under Putin. Mitin can be reached at dmitin@ncsu.edu. Supply Chain, Gas & Oil Prices Rob Handfield, executive director of Supply Chain Resource Cooperative and Bank of America University Distinguished Professor of Operations and Supply Chain Management, can speak on potential supply chain issues in the energy sector, such as gas prices, due to the invasion. Handfield can be reached at rbhandfi@ncsu.edu. Sports Bans Jason Bocarro is a professor and University Faculty Scholar in the Department of Parks, Recreation and Tourism Management at NC State. He can speak about the impact of suspensions on Russia from sports competitions, including the ban from FIFA and EUFA of Russian club and national teams from international soccer competitions. Bocarro can be reached at jnbocarro@ncsu.edu. Humanitarian Crisis Jennifer Carroll, assistant professor in the anthropology department, can speak on Ukrainian culture, language and geography – particularly in the major cities. Carroll can be reached at jjcarro3@ncsu.edu. Categories: News Releases Tags: cyber security economics humanitarian international relations news releases news tips political science Russia supply chain SWIFT Ukraine Ukrainian culture View Comments 0 total responses Leave a Response Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. All fields are required. Comment * Name * Email * More From NC State News New Studies Shed Light on Election-Related Stress Twisted Soft Robots Navigate Mazes Without Human Or Computer Guidance New Tech Aims to Drive Down Costs of Hydrogen Fuel Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.