Skip to content Florida State University FSU | Florida State University News Navigation Search FSU Webmail Search FSU FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Close Search Site Navigation Home News Topics Arts & Humanities Business, Law & Policy Education & Society Health & Medicine Science & Technology Students & Campus Life University News All News Faculty/Staff Briefs Expert Pitches Multimedia Video Stories Radio Stories Photo Galleries FSU Headlines All Multimedia About FSU The Big Story Student Stars Publications Highlights/Rankings Seminole Tribe For Journalists News Contacts Media Resources Experts Expert Categories Title IX Global Navigation Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Close Menu Florida State University News The Official News Source of Florida State University Home News Topics Arts & Humanities Business, Law & Policy Education & Society Health & Medicine Science & Technology Students & Campus Life University News All News Faculty/Staff Briefs Expert Pitches Multimedia Video Stories Radio Stories Photo Galleries FSU Headlines All Multimedia About FSU The Big Story Student Stars Publications Highlights/Rankings Seminole Tribe For Journalists News Contacts Media Resources Experts Expert Categories Title IX Home / About FSU / Publications Publications Vires VIRES is the official publication of the Florida State University Alumni Association. It is distributed twice a year to all Alumni Association members. Latest issue of Vires. fields Written for both scientists and science fans, fields magazine is about the very cool things researchers discover about our world using high-field magnets. The magazine, available for free in print and online, comes out several times a year and is produced at National MagLab with the support of scientists around the world. Visit fields magazine online. FSU MED FSU MED highlights some of the major academic and research endeavors at the College of Medicine. The magazine also seeks to educate and interest readers about what makes FSU's College of Medicine unique. Latest issue of FSU MED. Florida State Law Florida State Law is a magazine for alumni of the College of Law. It is published twice a year and highlights the achievements of alumni, faculty members and students. Latest issue of Florida State Law. Engage The annual publication of the College of Social Sciences and Public Policy Latest issue of Engage. The Torch The Torch is an annual publication created by the College of Education that features accomplishments, news and feature stories of its alumni, faculty, staff and students. Latest issue of The Torch. Retired Publications State For 50 years — or at least 50 volumes, however they are defined — Florida State University’s employee newsletter was State: The Faculty-Staff Bulletin of Florida State University. Click here for the State archive. Florida State Times After 16 years, 93 issues and thousands of stories about the successes of The Florida State University and its alumni, faculty and students, the Florida State Times has been retired. The February-March 2011 issue was the final one. Click here for the Florida State Times archive. News Topics Arts & Humanities Business, Law & Policy Education & Society Health & Medicine Science & Technology Students & Campus Life University News All News Faculty/Staff Briefs Expert Pitches Multimedia Video Stories Radio Stories Photo Galleries FSU Headlines All Multimedia About FSU The Big Story Student Stars Publications Highlights/Rankings Seminole Tribe For Journalists News Contacts Media Resources Experts Expert Categories Title IX © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Like Florida State on Facebook Follow Florida State on Instagram Follow Florida State on Twitter" Follow Florida State on Youtube Connect with Florida State on LinkedIn More FSU Social Media