Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Contact facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Contact University Communications Staff University Communications, a unit of University Communications and Marketing, informs both internal and external audiences about NC State’s achievements in solution-driven research, interdisciplinary innovation, experiential education, and partnerships with business and industry. Fred Hartman, Assistant Vice Chancellor for University Communications Covers administration issues and the Chancellor’s Office. Liaison with University Communications and Marketing in planning the university’s public relations and media relations objectives. office: (919) 515-7159 mobile: (919) 417-1899 email: fred_hartman@ncsu.edu News Services Mick Kulikowski, Director of Strategic Communications and Media Relations Leads the university’s media relations efforts. Covers the Provost’s Office, the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, and the College of Engineering. office: (919) 515-8387 mobile: (919) 218-5937 email: mick_kulikowski@ncsu.edu Lauren Leslie Barker, Senior Media Relations Strategist Serves as the liaison between NC State and broadcast media. office: (919) 515-4734 email: lauren_barker@ncsu.edu Laura Oleniacz, Public Communication Specialist Covers the College of Education, the College of Natural Resources and the College of Textiles. email: ljolenia@ncsu.edu Tracey Peake, Public Communication Specialist Covers the College of Sciences, the College of Veterinary Medicine and the Graduate School. office: (919) 515-6142 email: tracey_peake@ncsu.edu Matt Shipman, Research Communication Lead Covers the College of Humanities and Social Sciences, the Poole College of Management, the College of Engineering, and the Office of Research and Innovation. office: (919) 515-6386 email: matt_shipman@ncsu.edu Public Relations Mary Cole Pike, Director of Public Relations Leads efforts to advance NC State’s position as a top institution of higher learning. Provides communications counsel and support to the university community. office: (919) 515-6235 email: mcpike@ncsu.edu Rachel Montesinos Jorro, Issues Management Specialist Provides communications counsel and support to the university community. office: (919) 515-5691 email: rmontes@ncsu.edu Editorial Services David Hunt, Director of Editorial Services Leads efforts to inform and engage key university audiences through targeted news and information channels. office: (919) 515-5863 mobile: (919) 995-1966 email: dphunt@ncsu.edu Brent Winter, Senior Editor Chief copy editor and editorial brand manager. Oversees writing and editing services for campus clients, priority publications, the mass email distribution system and the central university calendar. office: (919) 513-3132 email: brent_winter@ncsu.edu Thyrie Bland, Writer and Editor Edits the university calendar and provides communications support to University Human Resources. office: (919) 515-5896 email: tbland@ncsu.edu Tim Peeler, Communication Strategist Leads strategic initiatives to promote the university’s impact on the state, region and nation. Creates news and feature content for a variety of print and digital platforms. office: (919) 515-6251 email: tim_peeler@ncsu.edu Suzanne Stanard, Internal Communications Lead Spearheads efforts to enhance and support internal communications across the university. Chief editor of the Bulletin, the official news source for faculty and staff. office: (919) 513-3119 email: sjstanar@ncsu.edu Suzanne Wardle, Writer and Editor Edits and distributes electronic communications to external constituents. Creates news and feature content for a variety of print and digital platforms. office: (919) 515-8126 email: slwardle@ncsu.edu Marketing Communications Staff The Marketing Communications team brings together experts in all the communication disciplines: strategists, project coordinators, videographers, photographers, designers, writers and developers. We build campaigns that bridge the digital and the physical — and show the world what “Think and Do” means. Luis Chacon, Senior Director for Web and Digital Strategy Directs, manages and implements the university’s web marketing and digital content strategy. Responsible for the NC State website and the Social Media Strategy Hub. Serves as a digital strategist, working with campus partners to advance the NC State brand. office: (919) 513-3884 email: luis_chacon@ncsu.edu Megan Ellisor, Director of the Social Media Strategy Hub Leads the Social Media Strategy Hub, an integrated marketing and communications center that brings together social media experts and cutting-edge technology to provide resources for real-time issues management and for developing and executing data-driven decisions for marketing and communications campaigns. email: mnelliso@ncsu.edu Alastair Hadden, Director of Marketing Content Creates marketing content to promote and celebrate the university. Writes and edits copy for all channels, including digital and print advertising for external audiences. office: (919) 515-1005 email: aghadden@ncsu.edu Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.