Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Close Search Tulane Search form Search this site Search search tulane.edu search news only Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Tulane News News Tulanian Magazine Events Experts Press Releases On Good Authority Podcast Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... News HomeHome Inline CSS for Tulane News Articles Statements & Information The Tulane community is horrified and saddened by the acts of hate and violence that occurred over the weekend in Buffalo, Houston and Southern California. Our hearts break, once more, for innocent lives lost, for those injured and traumatized, for their loved ones and for our nation as a whole. We are reaching out to students from the cities and surrounding communities impacted by the mass shootings that took place over the weekend to assist them in any way we can. If you need any help please contact ewoodley@tulane.edu or see the resources linked in this post. We will also host a special virtual gathering on May 18 from 4-5 p.m., “Remembering the Value of BIPOC Lives and Deepening Our Racial Healing.” Registration details are available via the link in this post. Event information May 18, 2022 - 4:00 pm - 5:00 pm Remembering the Value of BIPOC Lives and Deepening Our Racial Healing: A Tulane Community Gathering Join us as a community as we grieve the lives lost to racist and nationalist murders in Buffalo, NY and Laguna Woods, CA this past weekend. We know our Tulane community is hurting right now on many levels, and we want to have a space to gather to remember the value of BIPOC lives and how we can counter white supremacy that drives anti-Blackness, anti-semitism, heterosexism, and so many other intersectional hatreds. In our space, we will come together to grieve and remember the importance of taking action as community members to work for justice. Featured speakers are: Dr. Jinaki Flint (Counseling and Psychological Services), Carolyn Barber-Pierre (Student Affairs), Anneliese Singh (EDI Office), and more. Register at this link. Resources If any student needs to speak to someone in light of these troubling incidents, they may call The Line, a 24/7 confidential counseling phone service, at 504-264-6074. Students can also reach a Student Affairs Professional On-Call at 504-920-9900 in the case of an emergency. For in-person service, students may go to CAPS for Counseling Services (located on the ground floor of the Diboll Parking Garage) or Case Management and Victim Support Services (located in the LBC, G02) from 8:30 a.m. to 7 p.m., Monday-Thursday and 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Friday. The Employee Assistance Program is available for all employees 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Services, which are free of charge and completely confidential, can be accessed by calling 1-800-624-5544 or visit the website at www.ndbh.com, company code: Tulane. Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane Home Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University