Skip to main content Stanford University Stanford Report Search this site Submit Search Menu Students Faculty Staff About Search this site Submit Search Students Stanford News Service ‘What matters most to you and why?’ Zelenskyy asks Stanford students Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelenskyy spoke to the Stanford community in a video address about his country’s war against Russia for freedom and global democracy, which he said requires the continued support of all the people of the free world. 3 days ago Vice Provost for Student Affairs COVID-19 and packing your belongings Students with Stanford housing contracts ending in mid-June are advised to begin packing now or to make arrangements for others to help given the possibility of testing positive for COVID-19 between now and the end of the academic year. 2 days ago Vice Provost for Student Affairs Anti-hate website launches Newly launched by the Division of Student Affairs in collaboration with CAPS clinicians, the Office for Religious & Spiritual Life, campus community centers, and the Confidential Support Team, the Stanford Against Hate website is a resource for anti-hate education and empowerment. 3 days ago University Communications Qualitative data released from 2021 DEI survey Findings include firsthand accounts of discriminatory, harassing, and other harmful behavior that are consistent with previously released quantitative data. Beginning this summer, a series of focus groups and community forums will be held to discuss the survey results and next steps. 5 days ago Student Events More Student Events Current Policies With certain exceptions, face coverings are no longer required but continue to be strongly recommended on-site, regardless of vaccination status. Face coverings are required in classrooms; however, individuals may remove face coverings while speaking. Weekly asymptomatic surveillance testing for vaccinated faculty, staff and postdoctoral scholars and for fully vaccinated and boosted students (undergraduates, graduate students and students enrolled in professional degree programs) has been suspended. Following international travel, all must comply with campus access restrictions and testing requirements. More Undergraduate News Stanford Learning Lab New podcast, productivity resources to support your studies 6 days ago Stanford News Service Creative writing course explores overlap of science and art 1 week ago Stanford News Service How to prototype: Students make five unique chairs at the d.school 2 weeks ago Undergrad Resources Academic Advising Housing Service Centers Vaden Health Services Community Centers Academic Planning & Opportunities Residence Directors R&DE Meals on Campus Graduate News Graduate School of Business Asian Business Student Association members share what AAPI Month means to them 2 weeks ago School of Medicine Stanford Medicine fellowship for postdocs created to diversify faculty 4 weeks ago Stanford News Service Certificate program offers grad students a framework for professional development 1 month ago Grad Resources Grad updates Graduate Life Office Office of the Vice Provost for Graduate Education Housing Service Centers Vaden Health Services Student Technology Support (Lathrop Learning Hub) From the President & Provost President’s statement on discovery of noose 3 weeks ago Exciting news about our new school: A message from President Marc Tessier-Lavigne 4 weeks ago Welcome to spring quarter 2 months ago In case you missed it Stanford News Service Stanford scholars on gun violence 5 days ago School of Engineering Sustainability on the horizon 6 days ago Stanford News Service Tracking COVID infections through wastewater 2 weeks ago Stanford Report News and information for the Stanford community. COVID-19 info & resources Re-Approaching Stanford Contact Stanford News Subscribe to Stanford Report Stanford Report is sent automatically to all Stanford faculty, staff and students. Others are invited to subscribe to Stanford Report. Stanford University Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.