Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Lonnie Poole Golf Course Honored for Youth Access facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Tag: awards and recognition May 19, 2022 Evans Wins Back-to-Back Awards for Community Service, Diversity and Inclusion Efforts Staff member Raven Evans recently won two awards, including the Office of Finance and Administration’s Award for Excellence in Human Relations. May 10, 2022 NC State Professor Emeritus Honored by the American Chemical Society Dimitri Argyropoulos, a professor emeritus of chemistry at the NC State College of Natural Resources, was recently recognized by the organization for his groundbreaking research on lignin. May 3, 2022 National Inventors Hall of Fame Honors 3 With Ties to NC State Three innovators who have served on NC State's faculty are inducted into the prestigious organization at a two-day event in Washington, D.C. Apr 29, 2022 Husain, Kudenov Receive 2022 Alcoa Foundation Awards Iqbal Husain and Michael Kudenov, two exceptional College of Engineering faculty members, received the 2022 Alcoa Foundation Engineering Research Awards at the spring faculty meeting earlier this month. Apr 13, 2022 Cutting Through the Noise NC State poet and professor Eduardo C. Corral untangles the chaos of everyday life — and earns a 2022 Guggenheim Fellowship for his efforts. Apr 12, 2022 NC State Students Place 3rd in Stanford Design Challenge Industrial Design Senior Lindsey Dotson is part of a winning team that designed an in-home mold detection device to help people maintain healthy homes. Apr 12, 2022 Two Professors Named National Humanities Center Fellows Professors Blair Kelley and Jason Miller will work on individual research projects during yearlong fellowships at the National Humanities Center. Apr 7, 2022 MFA Poetry Alum Wins Prestigious Writing Prize Poet Ina Cariño, who earned their Master of Fine Arts in creative writing from NC State, is one of 10 recipients of a 2022 Whiting Award. Mar 31, 2022 Duncan Lascelles to Receive Distinguished Professorship The professor of translational pain research and management at the NC State College of Veterinary Medicine is regarded as a world leader in his field. Mar 30, 2022 Graduate Programs Rise in Rankings This year's U.S. News rankings bring good news for graduate programs across the university. Three programs place in the top 10 nationwide while numerous other graduate programs advance. Mar 17, 2022 NC State Honors 10 Faculty Members with Outstanding Research Award, Induction into Research Leadership Academy Get to know the newest recipients of the university's top award for research and mentorship. Feb 15, 2022 Chemical Engineer Lilian Hsiao Named Sloan Research Fellow Hsiao’s work focuses on advancing our fundamental understanding of microscopic forces in liquids and soft matter. Jan 26, 2022 AAAS Elects Fellows The election of eight faculty researchers to the prestigious scientific society signals NC State's rising reputation as a research powerhouse. Dec 15, 2021 Sweat-Powered Wearable Sensors Land NC State Researcher on Newsweek’s Inaugural ‘Greatest Disruptors’ List Newsweek recognized Amay J. Bandodkar for his work on wearable battery-free sensors and skin-friendly wearable batteries. Dec 14, 2021 Lonnie Poole Golf Course Honored for Youth Access NC State's course has hosted more than 1,900 rounds for Youth on Course members during the 2020 calendar year, the most of any course in the Carolinas. Posts navigation 1 2 … 30 Next Page Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.