Skip to main content Visit Temple.edu Toggle Utility Menu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Search Site Search Temple Now Navigation - Go To - News by topic - Arts & Culture - Athletics - Campus News - Community Engagement - Global Temple - Research - Staff & Faculty - Student Success - Sustainability - Return to Campus - Visualize TempleAnnouncementsNewsletters - Temple Now subscriptionPublicationsTemple in the newsSocial MediaSpecial SeriesTemple MagazineAboutAccolades News by topic Announcements Newsletters Special Series About Arts & Culture What to read, listen to and watch to learn more about AAPI communities Athletics Introducing a new head coach of women’s basketball Campus News New General Education course to focus on AAPI identity and experiences Community Engagement President Wingard highlights Center City Business Association’s “Lunch with the City's Leaders” Global Temple Serving the American media from the Far East Research Temple-headquartered STARS Computing Corps receives a $3 million National Science Foundation grant Return to Campus Student community health ambassadors look out for their fellow Owls Staff & Faculty Temple thought leaders lend their voices to national conversation surrounding Roe v. Wade Student Success Temple Made for … building community Sustainability Charles Library earns LEED Gold certification Visualize Temple Charles Library shapes the future at Temple and beyond View Archives Home / News by topic Posted February 9, 2022 news, NFL, Super Bowl, Athletics Owls in the NFL are carrying on Temple’s mission and spirit Part of being Temple Made is giving back to our communities. Learn how these Owls in the NFL are doing just that. Photography By: Zach Tarrant Jacob Martin, once an integral member of Temple football, is a defensive end for the Houston Texans who also spends much of his time giving back to communities. Super Bowl week is here! Each year the days leading up to the biggest football game and halftime performance of the year are filled with seven days of festivities and media events. This year, we give a special shout out to the NFL Owls who participated in the NFL playoff games, including Daniel Archibong, EDU ’20; Shaun Bradley, EDU ’20; Dion Dawkins, CLA ’17; Michael Dogbe, KLN ’18, Tyler Matakevich, EDU ’16; and Chris Myarick, FOX ’18. As Owls, giving back to our communities is an important part of who we are and what it means to be Temple Made. From the gridiron at Temple University to the playing fields of the National Football League, these Owls are fulfilling the Temple mission through their commitment to giving back to communities that are most important to them. Shaun Bradley, EDU ’20 Shaun Bradley, EDU ’20, who started at linebacker for the Owls from 2017 to 2019, returns an interception for a touchdown against the University of Maryland. (Photo by Zamani Feelings) Shaun Bradley, EDU ’20, who just completed his second campaign as a linebacker for the Philadelphia Eagles, hosted his first football camp for youth in his hometown community in Mount Holly, New Jersey, at Rancocas Valley Regional High School last summer. The Shaun Bradley Community Football Camp was held for kids between the ages of 7 and 18. Bradley is also on council for the Eagles’ End Philly Gun Violence campaign to combat gun violence at the community level in Philadelphia. Dion Dawkins, CLA ’17 Dion Dawkins, CLA ’17, started at left tackle for the Owls from 2013 to 2016. (Courtesy of Temple Football) Dion Dawkins, CLA ’17, is currently a left tackle for the Buffalo Bills and was selected to his first Pro Bowl during the 2021-22 season. When he’s not battling in the trenches against NFL defenses to protect the blind side of All-Pro quarterback Josh Allen, he is giving back to the community. Dawkins pledged $100 toward his foundation, Dion’s Dreamers, for every touchdown the Bills high-octane offense scored this season. “Touchdowns For Dreamers” benefits the Dion’s Dreamers Fund in support of Big Brothers Big Sisters in the Western New York area, including Erie, Niagara and the Southern Tier, to match more children with a mentor. He launched his foundation with the goal of providing mentorship and support to members of underserved communities and those experiencing mental, financial or physical hardship. Jacob Martin, KLN ’19 Jacob Martin, KLN ’19, defensive end for the Houston Texans pictured at NRG Stadium. (Photo by Zach Tarrant) Jacob Martin, KLN ’19, is a defensive end for the Houston Texans, who led the Owls in sacks during his tenure. When he is not rushing opposing quarterbacks in the NFL, he is giving back to communities. Martin is involved with the Texans partnership with the Greater Houston Police Activities League for teen discussion on social justice to build relationships between youth and police officers. In 2021, he also virtually visited kids at the Texas Children’s Hospital in support of its pediatric inpatient rehabilitation unit. And, he’s lending his expertise to the newly opened Claire Smith Center for Sports Media at the Klein College of Media and Communication to support students in areas of sports journalism. Brandon McManus, CST ’13 Brandon McManus, CST ’13, placekicker for the Denver Broncos started his clothing line, Project McManus, to stop bullying and benefit underprivileged youth in the Denver area. (Courtesy of Brandon McManus) Brandon McManus, CST ’13, is a Super Bowl winning placekicker for the Denver Broncos, who has a dappar sense of fashion. McManus started his clothing line, Project McManus, with Boulder, Colorado-based Shinesty. He donates all proceeds to benefit underprivileged youth and combat bullying in the Denver communities. In 2021, he was named the Week 15 NFLPA Community MVP, donating more than $50,000 of resources for families in Denver during his 25 Days of Giving campaign. Also as a 2009 graduate of North Penn High School in Lansdale, Pennsylvania, he funded $25,000 in staff-inspired projects to the North Penn School District to help students reach their goals in all areas of their lives and education in 2019. - Brent Baum Related Stories Is Super Bowl advertising worth it? That’s the $6 million question Temple students volunteer for the annual Philly Spring Cleanup Student-athletes join together to fight for social justice reform Temple University Strategic Marketing & Communications Bell Building 1101 W. Montgomery Avenue Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Directory Maps and Directions Contact RSS Facebook Twitter Pinterest LinkedIn.com YouTube Flickr TUPortal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Temple Now: The official source for Temple news. Copyright 2015, Temple University. All rights reserved.