Skip to content The Harvard Gazette Search for: Arts & Humanities Business & Economy Campus & Community Commencement 2022 The Coronavirus Update Events Health & Medicine National & World Affairs News & Announcements Photography The Quest for Racial Justice Science & Technology The Solutions Series News + About Accessibility Athletics News and Scores For Media & Journalists Privacy Policy Trademark The Daily Gazette Sign up for daily emails to get the latest Harvard news. Harvard University National & World Affairs World Taken out of context GenSci Lab scholars urge researchers to take care crafting definitions of sex as language can make its way into law, public policy World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Health & Medicine Health Don’t let latest COVID surge overshadow progress, says Hanage Epidemiologist explains how to stay on guard against subvariants, noting role of protective measures in transition to new pandemic phase Health Researchers find sleep benefit in higher dose of melatonin Supplements show promise in small study of older adults Featured National & World Affairs Health & Medicine Arts & Humanities Science & Technology Business & Economy Campus & Community Experience Commencement 2019 © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College The Harvard Gazette Seven alumni elected to the Board of Overseers Harvard awards 8,870 degrees Campus & Community Seven alumni elected to the Board of Overseers Campus & Community Seven alumni elected to the Board of Overseers Widener Library in Harvard Yard. Kris Snibbe/Harvard file photo Six others join Alumni Association board DateMay 26, 2022May 26, 2022 Share Email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Also in the Series Triple the joy Time of ‘democracy in crisis’ Ardern’s forceful reminder: Democracies can die Embracing the moment Harvard awards 8,870 degrees View all of Commencement 2022 Seven alumni have been elected as new members of Harvard University’s Board of Overseers and six as directors of the Harvard Alumni Association (HAA). The new members of the Board of Overseers Monica Bharel, M.P.H. ’12 B.S./M.D. ’94, Boston University Senior Adviser to the Mayor of Boston Brookline, Massachusetts Sangu Delle ’10, cum laude, J.D. ’16, M.B.A. ’16 M.St. ’19, University of Oxford Chief Executive Officer, Africa Health Holdings Ltd. Accra, Ghana Scott Mead ’77, cum laude M.Phil. ’79, University of Cambridge; J.D. ’82, University of Pennsylvania Photographer London Lauren Ancel Meyers ’95, magna cum laude Ph.D. ’00, Stanford University Professor, Departments of Integrative Biology and Statistics & Data Sciences, University of Texas at Austin; Director, UT COVID-19 Modeling Consortium Austin, Texas Todd Y. Park ’94, magna cum laude Co-Founder and Executive Chair, Devoted Health Los Altos Hills, California Vikas P. Sukhatme, M.D. ’79 S.B. ’71, Sc.D. ’75, Massachusetts Institute of Technology Dean, Emory University School of Medicine Atlanta Wilhelmina “Mimi” Wright, J.D. ’89 B.A. ’86, Yale University U.S. District Judge, District of Minnesota St. Paul, Minnesota Five of the new Overseers — Sangu Delle, Lauren Meyers, Todd Park, Vikas Sukhatme, and Wilhelmina Wright — were elected for six-year terms. Monica Bharel will complete the remaining four years of the term of Tracy K. Smith ’94, who stepped down as an Overseer to become a member of the Harvard faculty. Scott Mead will complete the remaining two years of the term of Yvette Roubideaux ’85, M.D. ’89, M.P.H. ’97, who has stepped down in view of other obligations. The new Overseers were elected from a slate of nine candidates nominated by an alumni nominating committee whose 13 voting members are appointed by the Harvard Alumni Association executive committee. Harvard degree holders cast a total of 31,383 ballots in the election. “The board benefits from a new complement of members every year, and we’re fortunate to have such an impressive group of colleagues who’ll be joining us,” said Paul Choi ’86, J.D. ’89, who will serve as president of the board for 2022-23. “I look forward to working with all of them in the coming year, as all of us do our part to help Harvard thrive in complicated but also exciting times.” The Board of Overseers is one of Harvard’s two governing boards, along with the President and Fellows, also known as the Corporation. As a central part of their work, the Overseers direct the visitation process, the primary means for periodic external assessment of Harvard’s Schools and departments. Through its array of standing committees, and the roughly 50 visiting committees that report to them, the board probes the quality of Harvard’s programs and assures that the University remains true to its charter as a place of learning. More generally, drawing on its members’ diverse experience and expertise, the board provides counsel to the University’s leadership on priorities, plans, and strategic initiatives. It also has the power of consent to certain actions, such as the election of Corporation members. Additional information about the board, its members, and its work can be found on its webpage. The newly elected HAA directors Sofia Bahena, Ed.M. ’13, Ed.D. ’14 B.A. ’06, Trinity University Assistant Professor, Educational Leadership and Policy Studies, University of Texas at San Antonio San Antonio Michael Bervell ’19 M.S. ’21, University of Washington Portfolio Development Manager, Microsoft Venture Fund Snohomish, Washington Jyoti Jasrasaria ’12, cum laude, J.D. ’18, cum laude Associate, Elias Law Group L.L.P. Washington Cherie Lynn Ramirez, Ph.D. ’12 A.A. ’02, Valencia Community College; B.A. ’06, Rollins College Assistant Teaching Professor, Chemistry and Physics, Simmons University Boston Corina Santangelo, M.P.A. ’99 A.B. ’93, Pontificia Universidad Cattolica Argentina Head of Fundraising, Child Fund Mexico Mexico City Judith Michelle Williams ’91, cum laude M.A. ’95, Ph.D. ’97, Stanford University Human Capital Consultant, Magic Deer L.L.C. San Francisco The new directors were each elected for three-year terms. They were chosen from a slate of nine candidates, nominated by the same HAA committee that puts forward candidates for Overseers. Harvard degree holders cast 32,498 ballots in the directors election. The HAA Board of Directors is an advisory group that actively works to support Harvard alumni volunteers working on behalf of the HAA. The board’s main work focuses on developing volunteer leadership and increasing and deepening alumni engagement through an array of programs that support alumni communities worldwide. In recent years, the board’s priorities have included strengthening outreach to recent graduates and graduate school alumni; supporting antiracism work in alumni communities; and continuing to build and promote inclusive communities. “It’s an exciting time to welcome new alumni leaders to our deeply committed HAA board,” said Allyson Mendenhall ’90, M.L.A. ’99, the association’s incoming president, whose tenure starts July 1. “We are all eager for these dedicated volunteers to join in our continuing work — to ensure a vital and deeply connected alumni community and to support and empower the countless Harvard graduates from across the globe who are advancing positive change in the world.” Editor's Picks Campus Triple the joy Photographers capture the festive rites and poignant moments as three classes celebrate Commencement World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Campus A call to public service Merrick Garland tells grads to get involved, warns democracy in peril, cites Capitol attack, rise in mass shootings, stifling of voting rights Also in the Series Triple the joy Time of ‘democracy in crisis’ Ardern’s forceful reminder: Democracies can die Embracing the moment Harvard awards 8,870 degrees View all of Commencement 2022 Up Next Campus & Community Harvard awards 8,870 degrees Campus & Community Harvard awards 8,870 degrees Jon Chase/Harvard Staff Photographer