Skip to main content UCLA Newsroom Toggle menu UCLA Newsroom Categories All content Arts + culture Environment + climate Faculty + staff Health + behavior Nation, world + society Science + technology Students + campus University news UCLA in the community UCLA Magazine Campus statements Public outreach For news media Media contacts at UCLA Media advisories News releases Images About UCLA: Fast facts Media guide to faculty experts Journalist guide to UCLA UCLA on Twitter Media Relations staff UCLA Broadcast Studio Newsletter sign-up Toggle search Search Newsroom Submit search Close search UCLA Magazine Jai Lennard Ardem Patapoutian’s Long Road to a Nobel Prize When Ardem Patapoutian left Lebanon to study in the U.S., he had no idea that research science could be a career. Rap Lyrics Taught as Contemporary American Poetry Buzzworthy Bruins: The Campus Beekeepers Club UCLA Happenings for May 2022 Quick Take My Barbarian: 20 Years of Making Art and Theater Feature Pockets of Paradise on Campus Hail to the Hills A Bookman’s Impact on the Library System Feature Beyond Binary: Gender at UCLA Latest Stories Happenings for May 2022 May 6, 2022 A Bruin guide to some of this month’s most intriguing events at UCLA. Happenings for April 2022 April 6, 2022 A Bruin guide to some of this month’s most intriguing events at UCLA. Beyond Binary March 17, 2022 Bruins have long sought to make UCLA a more inclusive environment for people of all genders and sexual and romantic orientations. Now, those efforts are accelerating. Confronting the ‘Shadow Pandemic’ of Mental Health Disorders March 11, 2022 UCLA is searching for ways to spot early signs of depression and anxiety. My Barbarian: 20 Years of Making Art and Theater Together March 11, 2022 The art collective was founded in Los Angeles and traces its roots to UCLA. Buzzworthy Bruins March 11, 2022 A campus club seeks to attract and maintain a healthy bee population. Pockets of Paradise on Campus March 11, 2022 Take a closer look at the oases of nature at UCLA where wild flora and fauna flourish. California’s Housing Crisis March 10, 2022 UCLA minds across campus are seeking solutions to one problem: How to affordably house all the state’s residents. A Long Road to a Nobel Prize March 3, 2022 When Ardem Patapoutian left Lebanon to study in the U.S., he had no idea that research science could be a career. How to Understand Baby Sounds March 2, 2022 The ChatterBaby app helps worried parents interpret cries. Happenings for March 2022 March 2, 2022 A Bruin guide to some of this month’s most intriguing events at UCLA. Black History Month: Read, Watch, Listen 2022 Edition February 28, 2022 Bruins recommend works for education and enjoyment to celebrate throughout February. A Bookman’s Impact on the Library System February 24, 2022 Lawrence Clark Powell, for whom UCLA’s iconic library is named, was the university’s chief librarian and a prolific writer. Telling the Stories of Climate Change February 22, 2022 Although science is the basis of Peter Prengaman’s work as a climate and environmental news director, he always looks for the human angle. Terence Keel on the Christian Roots of ‘Race Science’ February 15, 2022 The professor examines the cultural and theological backgrounds of traditional thinking. An Alternative to Knee Replacement February 15, 2022 Decreasing blood flow to the inflamed area can help relieve pain and restore function. Rap Lyrics as Literature February 15, 2022 UCLA scholars teach hip-hop as the most popular form of American contemporary poetry. SwabSeq: Scalable, Sensitive and Fast COVID-19 Testing January 18, 2022 The UCLA–developed diagnostic technology has helped keep the university and other large client organizations operational during the pandemic. Sequencing Complete: A Visit to UCLA’s SwabSeq Lab January 18, 2022 Chancellor Gene Block tours the COVID-19 testing lab, as processes automate and capacity expands. 2021: The Year in Pictures December 17, 2021 Look back at how UCLA Magazine captured many of the year’s brightest, darkest and most inspiring moments. If This Wall Could Talk December 14, 2021 A multigenerational mural lights up UCLA’s new Black Bruin Resource Center. Staying Gold: Gold Shield, Alumnae of UCLA December 13, 2021 An honorary support group celebrates 85 years of service to the Bruin community. Easy on the Ears: Bruins Find Their Voices in Podcasting December 13, 2021 Through the virtual airwaves, they can tell deeper, more immersive stories than is possible with conventional journalism. Double Dividends: UCLA’s Student Investment Fund December 12, 2021 UCLA Anderson’s 25-year-old program trains students to be skilled investors, while lending support to the school and charitable causes. Culture Club: The Brilliance of UCLA Gymnastics December 9, 2021 In an era filled with challenges, Bruin gymnasts celebrate their individuality and evolve their sport ― as a big, multiethnic family. Load More Items Loading... • April 2022: In This Issue • Masthead • Advertising policy UCLA Newsroom UCLA on Twitter UCLA on Facebook UCLA on LinkedIn @UCLA on Instagram UCLA on YouTube Categories All content Arts + culture Environment + climate Faculty + staff Health + behavior Nation, world + society Science + technology Students + campus University news UCLA in the community UCLA Magazine Campus statements Public outreach For news media Media contacts at UCLA Media advisories News releases Images About UCLA: Fast facts Media guide to faculty experts Journalist guide to UCLA UCLA on Twitter Media Relations staff UCLA Broadcast Studio Newsletter sign-up UCLA Sites Happenings Athletics Extension Health Giving UCLA Directory Calendar Maps Parking Careers Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube © 2022 Regents of University of California Terms of Use Accessibility Emergency Close menu Search Newsroom Submit search Categories All content Arts + culture Environment + climate Faculty + staff Health + behavior Nation, world + society Science + technology Students + campus University news UCLA in the community UCLA Magazine Campus statements Public outreach For news media Media contacts at UCLA Media advisories News releases Images About UCLA: Fast facts Media guide to faculty experts Journalist guide to UCLA UCLA on Twitter Media Relations staff UCLA Broadcast Studio Newsletter sign-up