Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia News Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Featured News Topics Video Books Podcasts All News Media Resources Awards & Milestones Arts & Humanities Politics & Social Justice Research & Discovery Photo of the Week Commencement 2022 Columbia News You are here: Home All News Columbia Business School Opened This Week on the Manhattanville Campus. Take a Look. Photo Essay Columbia Business School Opened This Week on the Manhattanville Campus. Take a Look. New photos from inside Columbia Business School's two new buildings on the Manhattanville campus. By Kelly Moffitt January 27, 2022 Henry R. Kravis Hall. Photo by Timothy Schenck. Big news this week as Columbia Business School officially marked its move to the Manhattanville campus and students started their semester. The Business School consists of two buildings designed by Diller Scofidio + Renfro in collaboration with FXCollaborative, called Henry R. Kravis Hall and David Geffen Hall. In addition to ushering in the future of business education, the 492,000-square-foot buildings will also offer the wider community space for civic life, including a new home for the Columbia-Harlem Small Business Development Center on the second flood of Geffen Hall. Below, a special greeting from Dean Costis Maglaras welcoming students to the new space. In other exciting news this week, it was announced that students applying to the Business School will have access to a new scholarship fund in the 2022-23 academic year, thanks to a $10 million gift from Robert F. Smith (BUS'94), founder, chairman, and CEO of Vista Equity Partners. To celebrate this banner week, we're sharing an inside look at the new buildings. Scroll below and keep your eyes on the Business School website and social media in coming weeks for more details. Dean Costis Maglaras enters Kravis Hall on the Manhattanville campus. Photo by Diane Bondareff. David Geffen Hall viewed from Kravis Hall. Photo by Diane Bondareff. The Kravis Hall foyer, with ample seating. Photo by Diane Bondareff. The inaugural class in one of the new Business School lecture halls. Photo by Diane Bondareff. Students get to work in a study space in Kravis Hall. Photo by Diane Bondareff. One of the lecture halls in the new Columbia Business School buildings. Photo by Diane Bondareff. Another brightly-lit workspace in Kravis Hall. Photo by Diane Bondareff. There's plenty of space for collaboration within the new Columbia Business School buildings. Here, Dean Maglaras speaks with Shaiza Rizavi (BUS’96)..Photo by Diane Bondareff. A peek inside the Columbia Business School Board Innovation Lab. Photo by Diane Bondareff. A view of Kravis Hall from the outside. Photo by Diane Bondareff. Curious about the Manhattanville campus overall? Check out this handy guide from the Columbia Neighbors team. Get Columbia News In Your Inbox Tags Students Staff Business Manhattanville News June 01, 2022 Eric Kandel, Nobel Prize Winner and University Professor, to Retire June 01, 2022 Faculty Named Fulbright U.S. Scholars, Other Institutional Milestones June 01, 2022 Columbia Physicist Tanya Zelevinsky Wins 2022 Brown Investigator Award June 01, 2022 Celebrating Pride Month 2022 at Columbia May 31, 2022 A Cultural Critic Publishes Her Second Memoir Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close