Skip to main content calendar subscribe Facebook Twitter Instagram RSS Feeds YaleNews Explore Topics Alumni Arts & Humanities Business Campus & Community Environment Health & Medicine International Law Science & Technology Social Sciences In Focus In Memoriam Search form Search Law Stories Taken to an extreme, gerrymandering could lead to a one-sided Congress May 27, 2022 A new Yale study finds that partisan gerrymandering, if pushed to the limit, could exclude the views of half the country from the legislative process. Yale Law’s Monica C. Bell on inequality, sociology, and legal estrangement May 27, 2022 In a Q&A, Bell, who received tenure as Professor of Law in January, discusses race, inequality, and how sociology can be a valuable lens for law students. A celebration of the YLS Class of 2022 — strength, tradition, and community May 23, 2022 The Yale Law School Class of 2022 was celebrated for its tenacity, strength, and community in Commencement ceremonies on May 23. If you can hack this course, you’re ready for information-age lawyering May 18, 2022 To prepare future lawyers to shape cybersecurity policy, Yale Law School’s Scott J. Shapiro ’90 doesn’t focus on case law. Instead, he teaches them how to hack. Sharing the untold story of an overlooked pioneer in bioethics May 17, 2022 A research collaboration between a Yale senior and visiting professor uncovers the impact on the field of Christian ethicist James M. Gustafson’s time at Yale. Yale Law School’s Classes of 2020 and 2021 celebrate resilience May 16, 2022 Graduates from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 enjoyed long-awaited festivities and returned to Yale on Saturday, May 14 to celebrate their achievements. Yale launches new bird-friendly building initiative May 13, 2022 For billions of birds, windows are invisible killers. A new initiative aims to accelerate the adoption of bird-friendly design on Yale’s campus and beyond. PODCAST: Grappling with the opioid epidemic May 6, 2022 Gail D’Onofrio joins Howard Forman and Harlan Krumholz to discuss the medications available for opioid addiction and the policy changes needed to save lives. Report refutes flawed science of Texas, Alabama transgender legal actions May 2, 2022 A new report analyzes the misleading scientific claims that informed recent actions by Texas and Alabama to criminalize medical treatment for transgender youth. Law student is third Yalie to win selective Gates Cambridge Scholarship May 2, 2022 Alaa Hajyahia ’22 LAW won a Gates Cambridge Scholarship in the international round; two other students with Yale ties won in the earlier U.S. round. Show More Articles Search Law Yale Browse Archives Contact Us For the Media It’s Your Yale Apply to Yale Give to Yale Managed by the Office of Public Affairs & Communications Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved · Privacy policy · Accessibility at Yale Facebook Twitter Instagram RSS Feeds Yale on Instagram