Skip to content University Home Academics Admissions Campus Life Research About Apply Giving Clemson News Search Topics OUR Clemson Impact and Innovation Student Success Faculty and Staff Achievements Alumni Accomplishments All Stories Clemson In The News Celebrating the Class of 2022 Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Divisions Office of the President Office of the Provost Advancement Clemson Computing Information Technology External Affairs Finance and Operations Inclusion and Equity Public Service and Agriculture Research Student Affairs Athletics For Journalists Our Experts Clemson.edu Resources University Home Academics Admissions Campus Life Research About Search for: Search Search Clemson News Search for: Search College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences; OUR Clemson ‘Unsung heroes’ win awards from the College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences Share: Download image November 30, 2021December 2, 2021 The “unsung heroes of CECAS” are unsung no more. Five staff members in Clemson University’s College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences received awards during a Nov. 30 ceremony at the Madren Conference Center attended by friends and colleagues. The 2021 staff award winners pose for a photo with Anand Gramopadhye, dean of the College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences. Those pictured are (from left): Patty McNulty, Serita Acker, Gramopadhye, Trisha Sorber and Jennifer Gooch. Kim Ivey, who was unable to attend, is not pictured. Awards went to outstanding classified employees for performance, achievements, or accomplishments that are exemplary and that contribute to the success of the college. “These are folks who come in day after day and commit themselves to making a better work environment for their colleagues, assisting faculty members in their departments and most importantly, positively impacting the Clemson Experience for students of the college,” said Ron Grant, the recently retired PROMO group director who served as the event’s emcee. “They’re the unsung heroes of CECAS.” Technical and administrative awards come with $500 stipends, and the two top awards come with $1,000 stipends. The awards with the larger stipend are College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences Staff Excellence Award and the Hattie B. Wagener Endowed Classified Administrative Staff Award. This year’s winners were: College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences Staff Excellence Award: Serita Acker, PEER & WISE Hattie B. Wagener Endowed Classified Administrative Staff Award: Patty McNulty, Holcombe Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering Administrative Awards: Trisha Sorber, School of Computing; Jennifer Gooch, Holcombe Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering Technical Award: Kim Ivey, Department of Materials Science and Engineering Anand Gramopadhye, the college’s dean, extended his warmest holiday wishes to the staff. “It is with appreciation and affection that I say ‘thank you’ for making the College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences such a vital part of the Clemson Experience and a wonderful place to work,” he said. “Collectively, all of you make an amazing team.” Want to Discuss? Get in touch and we will connect you with the author or another expert. Or email us at news@clemson.edu Your Name Your Email Your Message This form is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Related Posts Watts give $5.5 million for Clemson innovation center, academic and athletic funds AwardsDepartment of Materials Science and EngineeringHolcombe Department of Electrical and Computer EngineeringPrograms for Educational Enrichment and Retention (PEER)School of ComputingWomen in Science and Engineering (WISE) Clemson News Clemson News is the go-to source for stories and news about the innovations, research and accomplishments of the Clemson Family. Contact Us Media Resources For Journalists Find an Expert Clemson Publications Clemson World Decipher IDEAS magazine Student Affairs Experience Magazine Orange. The Experience. Clemson TV Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022. All Rights Reserved. Clemson University Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson