Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All Videos STEM Preserving Aquatic Ecosystems, One Lake at a Time Thursday, April 21, 2022, By Daryl Lovell Svetoslava Todorova is passionate about her work with aquatic ecosystems. For years, she’s been bringing small groups of her Syracuse University students to Green Lakes State Park, equipped with gear to measure the make-up of the lake and armed with… STEM Women in Science Day Profile: Biomaterials Engineer Developing Smart Materials of the Future Thursday, February 10, 2022, By Daryl Lovell Scientist Mary Beth Browning Monroe is developing materials for healing the human body that could make a tremendous difference in life or death situations. These biomaterials—easy to use and highly effective—could control bleeding within wounds, especially critical in instances where… Campus & Community New Students: What Is the ‘Must-Have’ Item for Your Room? (Video) Sunday, August 29, 2021, By Keith Kobland From comfy pillows to a favorite sports item, incoming new students share what their “must-have” items are for their residence hall rooms. Campus & Community Honey Produced by Campus Honeybees Available Soon Tuesday, August 10, 2021, By Jennifer Horvath In the video, Associate Teaching Professor Lisa Olson-Gugerty explains the role of certain bees in the hives on South Campus. In spring 2020, South Campus became home to six honeybee hives, which house over 300,000 honeybees. In their first year… STEM Women in Science Day Spotlight: Christa Kelleher Wednesday, February 10, 2021, By Daryl Lovell Christa Kelleher remembers having a love for drawing and art when she was a kid. As a college student, she began to fold science and engineering into her area of focus, intertwining her creative and experimental interests. Today as a… Veterans Flags Flying High at National Veterans Resource Center Wednesday, August 26, 2020, By News Staff In a small ceremony on the morning of Wednesday, Aug. 26, the flags in front of the National Veterans Resource Center (NVRC) at the Daniel and Gayle D’Aniello building were permanently raised by individual Syracuse University students, alumni and staff…. Campus & Community Chancellor Syverud’s Welcome Message for Fall 2020 Monday, August 24, 2020, By News Staff Welcome back to Syracuse University and to our first day of the fall semester! I give thanks that we are again at the start of a new academic year. I know how hard so many people have worked to make… Veterans Assisting a Veteran on Memorial Day Monday, May 25, 2020, By Keith Kobland Memorial Day is the day set aside to honor and mourn military members who died while serving in the United States Armed Forces. We do this in a number of ways, including graveside services and displaying the United States flag…. Campus & Community Co-Authors Discuss Creation of “Forever Orange, The Story of Syracuse University” Saturday, May 23, 2020, By Keith Kobland Co-authors Scott Pitoniak and Rick Burton discuss the creation of Forever Orange, The Story of Syracuse University. Campus & Community University Honors Cadets as They Make the Commitment to Serve Wednesday, May 20, 2020, By Leah Lazarz Twenty-three U.S. Army and six U.S. Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) cadets were recognized virtually this week as they became the next generation of military leaders. While Syracuse University usually holds an annual commissioning ceremony, this year’s event… Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.