Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Micro Houses Have Macro Impact facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Beyond the Bricks NC State employees are hard at work in every corner of North Carolina, producing research and delivering programs and services that impact the lives of citizens across the state. This series shines a light on those people and programs making big things happen outside our Raleigh campus. May 25, 2022 A School of Fishes At a research center in the port town of Morehead City, 18 veterinary medicine students get hands-on experience operating on fish. Recent Stories New Studies Shed Light on Election-Related Stress Wicked Problems, Wolfpack Solutions Focuses on Future of Food Bob Franks Tapped to Lead Applied Ecology Oct 13, 2021 Homegrown Vintage The introduction of the NC State-licensed Brickyard red wine blend in partnership with Shelton Vineyards in Dobson, North Carolina, is a tribute to the state’s agricultural past and a significant driver for its future. Jul 2, 2020 It’s in the (Produce) Bag COVID-19 may bruise North Carolina’s tourism economy this summer, but it’s not stopping the Vacationer Supported Agriculture program from connecting travelers to local foods May 6, 2020 Lasting Impact in (and Outside) the Classroom The Kenan Fellows Program for Teacher Leadership aims to boost performance in classrooms and strengthen communities around North Carolina. Feb 26, 2020 Making STEM Accessible From its home base on Centennial Campus, the Science House creates inclusive pathways to STEM education for K-12 students and teachers across North Carolina. Jan 9, 2020 Dynamic Duo Aims to Transform K-12 Education Get to know two employees of NC State’s Friday Institute in this installment in a series that spotlights people and programs at work outside our Raleigh campus. Oct 10, 2019 Beyond the Bricks: Get to Know N.C. Sea Grant We head to the coast for this installment in a series that spotlights NC State people and programs at work outside our Raleigh campus. Aug 15, 2019 Paving the Way to the Stars The North Carolina Space Grant program is supporting the scientists and astronauts of tomorrow. Apr 4, 2019 Beyond the Bricks: Get to Know NC State Extension A new series that spotlights university employees who work outside our Raleigh campus kicks off with a focus on NC State Extension. Jan 30, 2019 Micro Houses Have Macro Impact Micro houses have the potential to alleviate veteran homelessness in North Carolina. And a class of NC State architecture students is helping lead the way. Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.