Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Close Search Tulane Search form Search this site Search search tulane.edu search news only Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Tulane News News Tulanian Magazine Events Experts Press Releases On Good Authority Podcast Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... News HomeNews Home /PR /Tulane expert on race honored for book on Ferguson uprising Tulane expert on race honored for book on Ferguson uprising December 16, 2020 11:00 AM Print to PDF Barri Bronston bbronst@tulane.edu 504-352-2534 Andrea-Boyles-sa-5528_600.jpg Tulane University sociologist Andrea Boyles is an expert in race, social justice and Black citizen-police interaction. (Photo by Sally Asher) Tulane University sociologist Andrea Boyles, an expert in Black citizen-police interaction, has been awarded a 2020 Media for a Just Society Award for her book “You Can’t Stop the Revolution: Community Disorder and Social Ties in Post-Ferguson America.” The award was given by Evident Change, a nonprofit that until recently was known as the National Council on Crime and Delinquency. Each year, the group recognizes media from across the United States that further public understanding of such issues as adult and juvenile justice, child welfare, adult protective services and education. In “You Can’t Stop the Revolution,” published by University of California Press, Boyles offers an inside look into the Ferguson, Missouri police protests of 2014, following the fatal shooting of Michael Brown Jr. by a Ferguson police officer. At the time, Boyles, a native of St. Louis, was a professor at nearby Lindenwood University. "I hope readers will come to understand that Black lives mattering and efforts to protect them span a number of compromising social issues, that include but are not limited to police brutality." Andrea Boyles, Tulane University sociologist The Ferguson protests are considered the beginning of Black Lives Matter as a global movement, and Boyles’ book offers an everyday look into the protests, social ties and empowerment that coalesced to protect Black lives while igniting unprecedented 21st century resistance. Focusing on neighborhood crime prevention and contentious Black citizen-police interactions, Boyles examines how Black citizens work to combat disorder, crime and police conflict. “The main point of the book was to capture Black citizens’ efforts to combat community disorder — their everyday plights and fight to preserve Black lives amid police brutality and interpersonal neighborhood violence — at the emergence of a 21st century Black uprising,” Boyles said. She believes the success of her book is due, in part, to the fact that she was on the ground in Ferguson from the beginning. “That afforded an early, up-close, real-time, ethnographic account of the Ferguson uprising,” she said. “My documenting begins as early as a couple of hours in at the scene, revealing Black citizens organizing, serving and protecting one another, as they faced para-militarized police standoffs and more. “Readers are able to visually journey with me as a native and expert, vicariously experiencing some of these contentious encounters and daily pervasive effects of discrimination through me as a participant observer.” Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane Home Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions Footer - Middle Column News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Footer - Right Column Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University