Skip to content University Home Academics Admissions Campus Life Research About Apply Giving Clemson News Search Topics OUR Clemson Impact and Innovation Student Success Faculty and Staff Achievements Alumni Accomplishments All Stories Clemson In The News Celebrating the Class of 2022 Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Divisions Office of the President Office of the Provost Advancement Clemson Computing Information Technology External Affairs Finance and Operations Inclusion and Equity Public Service and Agriculture Research Student Affairs Athletics For Journalists Our Experts Clemson.edu Resources University Home Academics Admissions Campus Life Research About Search for: Search Search Clemson News Search for: Search College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences; College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences; Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Clemson School of Health Research appoints new Faculty Scholars Share: Download image June 1, 2021June 3, 2021 The Clemson University School of Health Research (CUSHR) has appointed six new faculty scholars from three Clemson colleges. Appointed annually by CUSHR, faculty scholars are faculty members who demonstrate a strong record of health research, teaching and service in collaboration with other Clemson faculty and students as well as Prisma Health–Upstate researchers and other health partners. These appointments recognize health researchers for influential and collaborative projects, said Windsor Westbrook Sherrill, Clemson University’s associate vice president for health research and Prisma Health’s chief science officer, who leads CUSHR’s work. “We are excited to add these researchers to the ranks of our CUSHR faculty scholars,” Sherrill said. “The appointment committee felt that these applicants embodied the true spirit of CUSHR through their collaborative, innovative health research on aging, addiction, and health care operation and policies.” The new faculty scholars are: Jackie Cha Jackie Cha is an assistant professor in the Department of Industrial Engineering within the College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences. Cha’s research focuses on applying human factors and ergonomics principles by leveraging emerging technology and analytical tools to measure and improve individual and team skills in clinical environments for training, team performance, and patient safety. Benjamin Grant Benjamin Grant is an assistant professor in the Department of Management within The Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business. Grant’s research focuses on health care operations management from a lens of value-based care and health care disparity reduction. Irene Pericot-Valverde Irene Pericot-Valverde is a research assistant professor in the Department of Public Health Sciences within the College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences. Pericot-Valverde’s research focuses on developing cessation interventions for tobacco use disorder, developing a treatment for opioid addiction, and analyzing the intersection of opioid use and hepatitis C epidemics. Christine Phillips Christine Phillips is a research assistant professor in the Department of Psychology within the College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences. Phillips’ research focuses on identifying behaviors that preserve health and functional abilities across the lifespan and encourage adoption of and adherence to health-promoting behaviors. Lesley Ross Lesley Ross is director of the Clemson University Institute for Engaged Aging and an associate professor in the Department of Psychology within the College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences, where she also serves as SmartLife Endowed Chair of Aging and Cognition. Her research focuses on interventions to maintain the health, well-being and independence of older adults. Emily Tucker Emily Tucker is an assistant professor in the Department of Industrial Engineering within the College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences. Her research focuses on applying operations research to societal problems, including health care policy, operations, and supply chain resiliency, with methods that include stochastic optimization and mathematical programming. In the face of global disruptions to pharmaceutical suppliers and manufacturers, she has developed optimization models to design supply chains that can mitigate these disruptions and incentivize companies to be more resilient. Want to Discuss? Get in touch and we will connect you with the author or another expert. Or email us at news@clemson.edu Your Name Your Email Your Message This form is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Related Posts Clemson School of Health Research appoints new faculty scholars, clinical faculty Clemson researchers receive Innovation Maturation funding for COVID-19 research Clemson researcher studies cancer in fellowship through School of Health Nursing professor tapped to CBSHS faculty fellowship advancing inclusive excellence Department of Industrial EngineeringDepartment of ManagementDepartment of PsychologyDepartment of Public Health SciencesSchool of Health Research (CUSHR) Clemson News Clemson News is the go-to source for stories and news about the innovations, research and accomplishments of the Clemson Family. Contact Us Media Resources For Journalists Find an Expert Clemson Publications Clemson World Decipher IDEAS magazine Student Affairs Experience Magazine Orange. The Experience. Clemson TV Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022. All Rights Reserved. Clemson University Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson