Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program A Look Back at Carter-Finley Commencement Ceremonies facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Events May 4, 2022 NC State to hold Commencement Ceremony Saturday, May 7 North Carolina State University will confer degrees on more than 6,100 graduating students during its spring commencement ceremony on Saturday, May 7 at 9 a.m. in PNC Arena. Media coverage is invited. Credentialed media interested in attending should contact Mary Cole Pike at mcpike@ncsu.edu with any questions. NC State will confer 6,494 degrees during the ceremony,… Recent Stories New Studies Shed Light on Election-Related Stress Wicked Problems, Wolfpack Solutions Focuses on Future of Food Bob Franks Tapped to Lead Applied Ecology May 4, 2022 The Hard Times and Good Life of Mohamed Mansour As an undergraduate in the 1960s, Mohamed Mansour struggled academically and financially. With the help of family, friends and supportive faculty, the young man went on to build one of Egypt's most successful businesses. Mansour shares his story at NC State's spring commencement ceremony. Apr 22, 2022 Philanthropist and Entrepreneur Mohamed Mansour to Address Spring 2022 Graduates An NC State alumnus, Mansour will deliver the commencement address to the class of 2022 on Saturday, May 7. Dec 1, 2021 Chancellor’s Holiday Open House Is Dec. 10 Chancellor Randy Woodson and his wife Susan invite all NC State faculty and staff to The Point for their annual Holiday Open House. Nov 23, 2021 Industry Leader Mark Templeton to Address Summer and Fall 2021 Graduates The NC State alumnus and former CEO and director of Citrix Systems will speak to summer and fall 2021 graduates at the Dec. 14 ceremony. Nov 9, 2021 The Pack Empowers a Global Perspective On Nov. 8, NC State dedicated the Global Courtyard, a gathering space for international-focused events and students. The courtyard is emblematic of the university’s commitment to global engagement — and an international community. Oct 11, 2021 2021 Chancellor’s Fall Address To kick off Red and White Week, Chancellor Woodson delivered the annual "state of NC State" speech live and in person from the atrium of Talley Student Union. Sep 8, 2021 New Campus Master Plan Needs Your Input NC State planners are building a framework to meet future needs and align campus development with the university's new strategic plan. Find out how you can contribute to the process. Sep 2, 2021 Wolfpack Football Season Kicks Off Thursday Night The Wolfpack takes on South Florida at Carter-Finley Stadium. Get the latest on traffic and COVID-19 protocols before you head out for the game. Aug 31, 2021 Class of 2020 Celebrates In Person An Aug. 28 ceremony at William Neal Reynolds Coliseum honors NC State's spring, summer and fall graduates of 2020. Aug 25, 2021 Relive Wolfpack Welcome Week 2021 This year's Wolfpack Welcome Week featured more than 100 events and activities for NC State students new and old. See the highlights. Jul 30, 2021 N.C. First Lady, Commerce Secretary Visit Science House North Carolina First Lady Kristin Cooper and Secretary of Commerce Machelle Baker Sanders visit The Science House at NC State to meet with students in the Catalyst program. Jun 23, 2021 Finding Your Wolfpack: The GLBT Center No matter where you are on the continuum, the NC State GLBT Center has something to offer. May 18, 2021 A Hundred Years and a Thousand Words Photos of the Memorial Belltower’s reopening and the dedication of Henry Square help tell the story of this hallowed place on NC State’s campus. May 11, 2021 A Look Back at Carter-Finley Commencement Ceremonies As the class of 2021 prepares to turn their tassels at NC State's storied stadium, we revisit the university's first commencement ceremony there. Posts navigation 1 2 … 54 Next Page Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.