Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program National Inventors Hall of Fame Honors 3 With Ties to NC State facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Faculty and Staff National Inventors Hall of Fame Honors 3 With Ties to NC State Three innovators who have served on NC State's faculty are inducted into the prestigious organization at a two-day event in Washington, D.C. May 3, 2022 David Hunt The people responsible for some of the world’s most innovative ideas — such as the sports bra, laser hair removal and synthetic lubricants — get the red carpet treatment this week at a two-day event in Washington, D.C., dubbed “the Greatest Celebration of American Innovation,” sponsored by the National Inventors Hall of Fame. Of the 27 innovators being inducted into the prestigious organization, three have ties to NC State. Horticulturalist Sylvia Blankenship and the late biochemist Edward Sisler are honored for identifying a novel compound that significantly extends the freshness and storage life of fruits, vegetables and cut floral products. Blankenship is a professor emerita at NC State. Sisler earned his doctorate in plant physiology at NC State in 1958, and served as a professor of biochemistry in the Department of Structural and Molecular Biochemistry for much of his career. He died in 2016. Related Fresh Idea SmartFresh, a technology patented by Sylvia Blankenship and Edward Sisler, drastically changed the floral and fruit industries. Learn more about their invention Computer scientist Peter Wurman, who served on NC State’s faculty for eight years, is honored as one of the creators of the Kiva system, a robotic method of material handling in distribution centers that revolutionized warehouse order fulfillment. Other inductees include R. Rox Anderson, who developed laser dermatology technologies; James McEwen, who invented the first microprocessor-controlled automatic surgical tourniquet system; and Marian Croak, who developed voice over internet technology for converting voice data into digital signals. Historical inductees include Stewart Adams and John Nicholson, who patented Ibuprofen; Patricia Bath, who invented a laser device for removing cataracts; and automobile engineer Carl Benz. Related Robot Revolution Kiva, a system developed by Peter Wurman, Mick Mountz and Raffaello D’Andrea, utilizes thousands of mobile robots and sophisticated control software to bring inventory shelves to workers, significantly improving all areas of fulfillment center operations. Learn more The two-day event kicks off May 4 at the National Inventors Hall of Fame Museum in Alexandria, Virginia, with an “illumination ceremony.” During the ceremony, inductees will place their names on illuminated hexagons in the Gallery of Icons exhibit, forever commemorating their Induction into the Hall of Fame. The 2022 National Inventors Hall of Fame Induction Ceremony follows on May 5 with a black-tie dinner at the Anthem in Washington, D.C. Danica McKellar — star of the TV show The Wonder Years and author of New York Times bestselling “McKellar Math” books — will serve as master of ceremonies. Founded in 1973 in partnership with the United States Patent and Trademark Office, NIHF is committed to not only honoring the individuals whose inventions have made the world a better place, but to ensuring American ingenuity continues to thrive in the hands of coming generations through its national, hands-on educational programming and collegiate competitions focused on the exploration of science, technology, engineering and mathematics. Categories: Awards and Honors Faculty and Staff Service and Community Tags: awards and recognition college of agriculture and life sciences college of engineering View Comments 0 total responses Leave a Response Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. All fields are required. Comment * Name * Email * More From NC State News A School of Fishes Twisted Soft Robots Navigate Mazes Without Human Or Computer Guidance Applications for Admission Soar as NC State Grows to Meet Workforce Needs Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.