Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation News Center Main navigation Calendar Categories Business and Economic Development Campus and Community Earth and Environment Health and Medicine Science and Technology Society and Culture Media Contacts Experts Guide Featured expert Find an expert Daily Digest Whistle Whistle Whistle archives Whistle classifieds Social Media Subscribe Features Features Features Archive Open Search Search Search Recipients of the Class of 1934 Distinguished Professor Award at Georgia Tech Breadcrumb Home Features April 29, 2022 The Class of 1934 Distinguished Professor Award recognizes outstanding achievement in teaching, research, and service. It is the highest honor given to a Georgia Tech professor. Created in 1984 by the Class of 1934 in observance of its 50th reunion, the award is presented to an active professor who has made significant, long-term contributions — contributions that have brought widespread recognition to the professor, to their school, and to the Institute. The award includes a stipend of $20,000. 2022 Marilyn Brown Regents & Brook Byers Professor of Sustainable Systems, School of Public Policy Brown is a world leading expert on renewable energy and energy efficiency, a transformative intellectual thinker, and one of the founders of the field of energy and climate policy. Her research has shaped energy policy in the U.S. and globally. 2021 Andrés García Executive director of the Parker H. Petit Institute for Bioengineering and Bioscience and Regents Professor in the George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering García is known as a global pioneer in developing biomaterials systems for translational applications in regenerative medicine. 2020 Jeff Wu Professor and Coca Cola Chair in Engineering Statistics in the H. Milton Stewart School of Industrial and Systems Engineering Wu is considered a visionary in engineering statistics, and has received almost every award in the field. 2019 David McDowell Regents Professor and Carter N. Paden Jr. Distinguished Chair in Metals Processing in the George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering McDowell has developed new techniques and methods for measuring, understanding, and modeling the way materials behave in areas such as transportation and energy production. 2018 Seth Marder Regents Professor and Georgia Power Chair of Energy Efficiency in the School of Chemistry and Biochemistry and the School of Materials Science and Engineering Marder is a world-renowned educator and researcher whose work focuses on the interactions of light with matter, most notably in the setting of organic electronic and photonic materials. 2017 Gary Schuster Vassar Woolley Professor Emeritus in the School of Chemistry and Biochemistry Schuster’s research has been primarily in the field of organic and bioorganic chemistry, including groundbreaking work in several research areas. 2016 Robin Thomas Regents Professor in the School of Mathematics A world leader in graph theory, Thomas established a remarkable legacy of research and teaching that included serving as leader of the Algorithms, Combinatorics, and Optimization Ph.D. program. 2015 George Nemhauser A. Russell Chandler III Chair and Institute Professor in the H. Milton Stewart School of Industrial and Systems Engineering George Nemhauser is widely considered to be one of the world’s top optimization researchers. He was the first sitting professor at Georgia Tech to be elected to the National Academy of Engineering. 2014 Zhong Lin (Z.L.) Wang Regents Professor and Hightower Chair, College of Engineering Distinguished Professor, and director of the Center for Nanostructure Characterization A pioneer researcher in nanoscience, Wang invented the nanogenerator and figured out how it could harvest mechanical energy using nano-enabled technology. 2013 John Cressler Schlumberger Chair Professor in the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering Cressler leads research in the understanding, development, and application of new types of microelectronic devices and circuits for high-speed electronics in emerging communications systems. 2012 Dick Lipton Professor, College of Computing, and the Frederick G. Storey Chair Lipton has a strong reputation in computer science theory, cryptography, and academics. He is considered one of the original pioneers of DNA computing. 2011 Mark Hay Regents Professor and Harry and Linda Teasley Chair in Environmental Biology Hay's research has provided key insights into the conservation and restoration of coral reefs and challenged scientists' view of ecological and evolutionary processes affecting the establishment and impact of invasive species. 2010 Charles Liotta Former chair of the School of Chemistry and Biochemistry and vice provost for Research and Dean of Graduate Studies For decades, Liotta developed collaborations with other chemists, chemical engineers, textile chemists, and mechanical, electrical, and aerospace engineers at Georgia Tech, and with researchers at other academic institutions, national laboratories, and in industry. 2009 Robert M. Nerem Professor, Mechanical Engineering, and Parker H. Petit Distinguished Chair for Engineering in Medicine; founding director of the Parker H. Petit Institute for Bioengineering and Bioscience Nerem received awards and accolades from around the world for pioneering work in regenerative medicine and bioengineering, and was known for interdisciplinary collaboration. 2008 James D. Foley Professor of interactive computing and the Fleming Chair in Telecommunications Foley is a computing pioneer, innovative educator, and author. He was one of the computer graphics pioneers who went on to help establish HCI as a discipline. 2007 Mostafa El-Sayed Regents Professor Emeritus, School of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Julius Brown Chair A leading nanoscience researcher, El-Sayed has done work in the potential use of nanoparticles in nanomedicine, nanocatalysis, and plasmonics. 2006 Bryan G. Norton Professor Emeritus, School of Public Policy Norton writes on intergenerational equity, sustainability theory, biodiversity policy, and valuation methods. His specialty is the integration of spatio-temporal scaling considerations into sustainability criteria. 2005 Thomas K. Gaylord Regents Professor, Julius Brown Chair Professor, Electrical and Computer Engineering Gaylord was instrumental in the founding and development of the optics educational and research programs in the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering. 2004 C. P. Wong Regents Professor and Smithgall Institute Endowed Chair, Materials Science and Engineering Among his research interests are the fields of polymeric materials, electronic packaging and interconnect, interfacial adhesions, and nano-functional material syntheses and characterizations. 2003 Kevin F. Brennan Professor, Electrical and Computer Engineering His research interests were in the general area of semiconductors and microelectronics, with a particular emphasis on physics and device application of emerging semiconductor materials for future power. Earlier Award Recipients 2002 Jay Bolter Professor, Literature, Communication and Culture 2001 James D. Meindl Professor, Microelectronics Research Center 2000 William Chameides Regents Professor, School of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences 1999 Jim Powers Regents Professor, Chemistry and Biochemistry 1998 Rao Tummala Pettit Chair Professor, Electrical and Computer Engineering 1997 Charles Eckert Professor, Chemistry, J. Erskine Love Jr. Professor of Chemical Engineering 1996 Ajeet Rohatgi Regents Professor, John H. Weitnauer, Jr. Chair in the College of Engineering; Georgia Research Alliance Eminent Scholar 1995 Ray Flannery Regents Professor, Physics 1994 Jerry H. Ginsberg Professor, Mechanical Engineering 1993 Daniel S. Papp Director, International Affairs 1992 Uzi Landman Regents Professor, Physics 1991 Robert F. Hochman Professor, School of Materials Engineering 1990 Ben T. Zinn Regents Professor, Daniel Guggenheim School of Aerospace Engineering 1989 Leon Zalkow Regents Professor, Chemistry 1988 Eugene C. Ashby Regents Professor, Chemistry 1987 Ward Winer Regents Professor, George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering 1986 Satya N. Atluri Regents Professor, Civil Engineering 1985 Ron Schafer Regents Professor, Electrical Engineering, John O. McCarty/Audichron Chair To learn more about philanthropy at work at Georgia Tech or to find out how you can get involved, visit the Office of Development site: development.gatech.edu Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites and Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Art Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education