Skip to content The Harvard Gazette Search for: Arts & Humanities Business & Economy Campus & Community Commencement 2022 The Coronavirus Update Events Health & Medicine National & World Affairs News & Announcements Photography The Quest for Racial Justice Science & Technology The Solutions Series News + About Accessibility Athletics News and Scores For Media & Journalists Privacy Policy Trademark The Daily Gazette Sign up for daily emails to get the latest Harvard news. Harvard University National & World Affairs World Taken out of context GenSci Lab scholars urge researchers to take care crafting definitions of sex as language can make its way into law, public policy World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Health & Medicine Health Don’t let latest COVID surge overshadow progress, says Hanage Epidemiologist explains how to stay on guard against subvariants, noting role of protective measures in transition to new pandemic phase Health Researchers find sleep benefit in higher dose of melatonin Supplements show promise in small study of older adults Featured National & World Affairs Health & Medicine Arts & Humanities Science & Technology Business & Economy Campus & Community Experience Commencement 2019 © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College The Harvard Gazette Helping African teens thrive A look at Radcliffe past and present Campus & Community Helping African teens thrive When Tom Osborn arrived at Harvard, he was already an internationally recognized entrepreneur Campus & Community Helping African teens thrive When he graduated in May, Tom Osborn '20 had developed a successful mental health intervention for teens in Kenya. Photo by Clare Putnam When Tom Osborn arrived at Harvard, he was already an internationally recognized entrepreneur By Li-Ming Pan Harvard Center for African Studies Communications DateJune 2, 2020May 28, 2021 Share Email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Also in the Series Many happy returns Triple the joy A call to public service Victory of perseverance, vision over more than decade of challenges Merrick Garland to speak at Commencement for Classes of 2020 and 2021 View all of Honoring the Class of 2020 This is one in a series of profiles showcasing some of Harvard’s stellar graduates. When Tom Osborn arrived at Harvard as a first-year from Kenya, he’d already been named one of Forbes Magazine’s top 30 under 30 Social Entrepreneurs for a startup he’d launched back home. A year later, personal events and a couple of classes had spurred Osborn to change his concentration from economics to psychology. As he graduates this spring, he’s developed a successful mental health intervention for teens in Kenya called Shamiri (Swahili for “thrive”). “I grew up in a small farming village where the emphasis was on everyone doing something to help the community and each other,” he said. Osborn did this in a big way in high school when he founded a company that provides a clean fuel alternative for cookstoves, a common mode of preparing food in Africa, after his mother had fallen ill with a respiratory infection caused by burning wood particles. Osborn reached out to David Sengeh ’10, whose organization, Global Minimum, supports young African innovators. Through this organization, Osborn connected with engineers from MIT who helped him and two high school friends launch GreenChar, which transforms sugar cane waste from village farms into a clean burning fuel. “I came to Harvard with an open mind as it’s a place to experiment and try new things, and I tried whatever I possibly could.” — Tom Osborn '20 Around the end of Osborn’s first year at Harvard, his brother, who had served in peacekeeping efforts in Ethiopia and Somalia, was experiencing emotional difficulties. It got Osborn thinking about ways to increase mental health awareness in Kenya. Then two classes Osborn took sophomore year changed his perspective about how he might make a difference in his home country: “Science of Living Systems 20,” the introductory psychology class taught by Dan Gilbert, and the lesson taught by Doris Sommer within “Contemporary Developing Countries: Entrepreneurial Solutions to Intractable Problems,” a course taught by a team of faculty led by Professors Tarun Khanna and Satchit Balsari. Osborn reached out to Professor John Weisz’s Laboratory for Youth Mental Health, seeking expert help for building evidence-based mental health interventions. The resulting Shamiri project envisioned a group therapy model for high school students that would allow for dialogue and emotional awareness. Related Once on this island Marvin Merritt's show about growing up in a small, isolated community explores how the stories of a family shape the history of a life Breaking ground with new degree Juan Reynoso bridging the worlds of public health and urban planning A captain for our planet How Christina Chang shifted from cold showers to tech development in her quest for a more sustainable world Hitting full stride in emergency medicine Ultra-runner Kirstin Woody Scott refuses to let anything — even a pandemic — take her off course Supported with research grants from the Center for African Studies and the Weatherhead Center for International Affairs, Osborn launched the pilot program during the summer of his sophomore year, in Kibera, a slum in Nairobi. His personal experience in the public school system in Kenya helped him gain buy-in from the local community. He returned the following summer to scale up the project tenfold. Osborn said that teachers and parents were elated with the results: higher grades and declines in student depression and anxiety. He has since founded the nonprofit Shamiri Institute to continue interventions in East Africa. While Osborn was busy making a difference in communities from his home country, he also found time to get involved at Harvard, hosting a stand-up comedy event in the Eliot Grille, mentoring international students, leading the Africa Business and Investment Club, serving on the arts editorial board for the Harvard Advocate, and even DJing some events on campus. “I came to Harvard with an open mind as it’s a place to experiment and try new things, and I tried whatever I possibly could,” he said. Osborn is mulling graduate school in the near future, but also continues to work on lifting at-risk youths through the Shamiri Institute. Editor's Picks Campus Triple the joy Photographers capture the festive rites and poignant moments as three classes celebrate Commencement World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Campus A call to public service Merrick Garland tells grads to get involved, warns democracy in peril, cites Capitol attack, rise in mass shootings, stifling of voting rights Also in the Series Many happy returns Triple the joy A call to public service Victory of perseverance, vision over more than decade of challenges Merrick Garland to speak at Commencement for Classes of 2020 and 2021 View all of Honoring the Class of 2020 Up Next Campus & Community A look at Radcliffe past and present Campus & Community A look at Radcliffe past and present Byerly Hall in Radcliffe Yard. Photo by Thomas Earle