Skip to main content Visit Temple.edu Toggle Utility Menu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Search Site Search Temple Now Navigation - Go To - News by topic - Arts & Culture - Athletics - Campus News - Community Engagement - Global Temple - Research - Staff & Faculty - Student Success - Sustainability - Return to Campus - Visualize TempleAnnouncementsNewsletters - Temple Now subscriptionPublicationsTemple in the newsSocial MediaSpecial SeriesTemple MagazineAboutAccolades News by topic Announcements Newsletters Special Series About Arts & Culture What to read, listen to and watch to learn more about AAPI communities Athletics Introducing a new head coach of women’s basketball Campus News New General Education course to focus on AAPI identity and experiences Community Engagement President Wingard highlights Center City Business Association’s “Lunch with the City's Leaders” Global Temple Serving the American media from the Far East Research Temple-headquartered STARS Computing Corps receives a $3 million National Science Foundation grant Return to Campus Student community health ambassadors look out for their fellow Owls Staff & Faculty Temple thought leaders lend their voices to national conversation surrounding Roe v. Wade Student Success Temple Made for … building community Sustainability Charles Library earns LEED Gold certification Visualize Temple Charles Library shapes the future at Temple and beyond View Archives Home Research Temple-headquartered STARS Computing Corps receives a $3 million National Science Foundation grant STARS Computing Corps, headquartered at Temple, will use this new grant to expand its mission and initiatives April 5, 2022 College of Public Health study highlights importance of gender-affirming healthcare New CPH study supports benefits of gender-affirming healthcare. April 4, 2022 Connecting the dots between gun violence and drug markets A new study offers insights into what drives gun violence around Philadelphia. February 25, 2022 Temple PhD students receive prestigious F31 research grants Doctoral students begin their Ruth L. Kirschstein National Institutes of Health research fellowships. Study shows verified users are among biggest culprits when it comes to sharing fake news The new studies include several new insights about how fake news spreads. Is it OK to ask, ‘Are you vaccinated?’ Klein College faculty member Deborah Kai explains how to ask about a person’s vaccination status. New laws set to level collegiate playing field Thilo Kunkel discusses his name, image and likeness research and its impact. Seeking dental solutions through the power of smart materials Temple’s Santiago Orrego recently received a $200,000 grant to develop a smart gel that fights dental infection and promotes tissue growth through electricity. Ensuring area residents have safe drinking water College of Public Health researchers are testing the cleanliness of private well water in Philadelphia area homes. A $2.5 million grant will help researchers better predict hospital readmission among patients with diabetes The researchers are developing a tool that will accurately determine the 30-day readmission risk among patients who have diabetes. Temple researchers identify a cardiac protein that causes heart failure Two new studies find a possible target for treating a broad range of heart dysfunction. Temple researchers help people with neurodevelopmental disabilities succeed in IT jobs A multidisciplinary team is developing job assistance software for those with neurodevelopmental disabilities, thanks to a $2.3 million NSF grant. COVID-19 poses increased risk to those with autism or intellectual disability While people with autism or intellectual disability face the same risk of contracting COVID-19 as the general public, they are more likely to die from it. Archives Like what you see? Follow us on Twitter, Facebook and Youtube. Navigation - Go To - News by topic - Arts & Culture - Athletics - Campus News - Community Engagement - Global Temple - Research - Staff & Faculty - Student Success - Sustainability - Return to Campus - Visualize TempleAnnouncementsNewsletters - Temple Now subscriptionPublicationsTemple in the newsSocial MediaSpecial SeriesTemple MagazineAboutAccolades Latest Temple News Subscribe May 24 2022 New General Education course to focus on AAPI identity and experiences May 24 2022 What to read, listen to and watch to learn more about AAPI communities May 18 2022 Temple Made for … building community May 18 2022 Support Temple by becoming an Owl Advocate Temple University Strategic Marketing & Communications Bell Building 1101 W. Montgomery Avenue Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Directory Maps and Directions Contact RSS Facebook Twitter Pinterest LinkedIn.com YouTube Flickr TUPortal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Temple Now: The official source for Temple news. Copyright 2015, Temple University. All rights reserved.