Skip to main content Visit Temple.edu Toggle Utility Menu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Search Site Search Temple Now Navigation - Go To - News by topic - Arts & Culture - Athletics - Campus News - Community Engagement - Global Temple - Research - Staff & Faculty - Student Success - Sustainability - Return to Campus - Visualize TempleAnnouncementsNewsletters - Temple Now subscriptionPublicationsTemple in the newsSocial MediaSpecial SeriesTemple MagazineAboutAccolades News by topic Announcements Newsletters Special Series About Arts & Culture What to read, listen to and watch to learn more about AAPI communities Athletics Introducing a new head coach of women’s basketball Campus News New General Education course to focus on AAPI identity and experiences Community Engagement President Wingard highlights Center City Business Association’s “Lunch with the City's Leaders” Global Temple Serving the American media from the Far East Research Temple-headquartered STARS Computing Corps receives a $3 million National Science Foundation grant Return to Campus Student community health ambassadors look out for their fellow Owls Staff & Faculty Temple thought leaders lend their voices to national conversation surrounding Roe v. Wade Student Success Temple Made for … building community Sustainability Charles Library earns LEED Gold certification Visualize Temple Charles Library shapes the future at Temple and beyond View Archives Home / Blockson Collection Blockson Collection "Black Lives Always Mattered!" invites all to see Philadelphia history in living color Type: News Story "Black Lives Always Mattered!", a graphic novel about prominent African Americans in Philadelphia’s history, is being shared with high school students. January 11, 2022 Understanding Juneteenth with the Blockson Collection Type: News Story Explore Juneteenth through artifacts found at the Blockson Collection. June 16, 2021 Exploring the history of Juneteenth, a day of celebration and reflection Type: News Story The holiday’s legacy stretches back 155 years. June 17, 2020 A new graphic novel brings African American history in Philadelphia to life Type: News Story "Black Lives Always Mattered!" highlights influential figures from the city’s past. March 26, 2020 Black History Month: Five must-see exhibits at the Blockson Collection Type: News Story The Charles L. Blockson Afro-American Collection is the perfect place to visit for Black History Month. February 7, 2020 See for yourself: Tupac Shakur material at Temple’s Blockson Collection Type: News Story The memorabilia includes a dozen handwritten documents and bullet-dented medallion. November 1, 2018 Charles L. Blockson receives 2016 Philadelphia Award Type: News Story Blockson received the award, a nearly 100-year-old honor, for his service of the community through his work as a historian. May 31, 2017 Historian Charles Blockson to receive the Philadelphia Award Type: News Story Charles L. Blockson, founder of the Charles L. Blockson Afro-American Collection, will receive the award at a ceremony on Temple’s campus on May 25. April 25, 2017 Arkansas students visit the Charles L. Blockson Afro-American Collection Type: News Story University of Arkansas - Monticello students met with Philadelphians who took part in the fight to desegregate nearby Girard College. April 7, 2016 Temple celebrates Juneteenth, honors first African American Marines Type: News Story In celebration of Juneteenth (June 19), the oldest nationally celebrated commemoration of the ending of slavery in the United States, the Charles L. Blockson Afro-American Collection held an event to honor the Montford Point Marines, the first African Americans to serve in the U.S. Marine Corps. June 20, 2012 Photos give inside view of African-American life from 1930s to 1960s Type: News Story Intimate scenes of African-American culture and life, captured by the prolific photographer John W. Mosley, are now on exhibit at the Philadelphia International Airport. The 55 photos on view, selected from the more than 300,000 images that comprise Mosley’s life’s work, bring one of the most treasured assets of the Charles L. June 13, 2012 Blockson Collection at Temple will keep Tuskegee legacy alive Type: News Story Philadelphia-area survivors from the group have donated a trove of photographs, correspondence and other documents to the Charles L. Blockson Afro-American Collection at Temple that will remind generations of the veterans’ noble service and sacrifice. February 23, 2011 Temple University Strategic Marketing & Communications Bell Building 1101 W. Montgomery Avenue Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Directory Maps and Directions Contact RSS Facebook Twitter Pinterest LinkedIn.com YouTube Flickr TUPortal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Temple Now: The official source for Temple news. Copyright 2015, Temple University. All rights reserved.