Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Close Search Tulane Search form Search this site Search search tulane.edu search news only Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Tulane News News Tulanian Magazine Events Experts Press Releases On Good Authority Podcast Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... News HomeNews Home /PR /Tulane researcher using “nerve-on-a-chip” to study safer chemo drugs Tulane researcher using “nerve-on-a-chip” to study safer chemo drugs March 04, 2016 12:00 PM Print to PDF Barri Bronston bbronst@tulane.edu 504-314-7444 research.jpg A Tulane University researcher is leading a study that could lead to improved ways of screening chemotherapy drugs for neurotoxicity, the prime reason that patients reduce their doses or cease treatment altogether. The study is being led by Michael J. Moore, an associate professor of biomedical engineering at Tulane, in collaboration with AxoSim Technologies, LLC, a start-up company spun out of Moore’s lab in 2014 to improve pharmaceutical drug development. Moore is conducting the Phase I study as part of the Small Business Technology Transfer, a federal program that funds early-stage commercialization of university technology. It is being funded by a one-year, $225,000 grant from the National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences of the National Institutes of Health. “If the project produces promising results, then it can lead to a Phase II award, which is even bigger and three years in duration,” Moore said. Moore and his team are looking at the concept of using “nerve-on-a-chip” technology to predict neurological safety and efficacy early in the drug development pipeline. Lowry Curley, co-founder and chief executive officer of AxoSim, developed the “nerve-on-a-chip” under Moore’s guidance while working on his doctorate degree. The technology uses a 3D-based model of living cells, which mimics living tissue in form and function and is considered an alternative to animal testing. “What we are hoping is that we can help companies make better choices in terms of which candidate drugs will likely lead to more tolerable side effects in patients,” Moore said. “Those better choices mean less time, less money and less animal testing. In the long run, this could lead to safer drugs that actually cost less to develop.” Lowry described the grant as a “game changer.” “Partnering with Tulane will allow us to validate our technology as a gold standard for drug development,” he said. “This grant will lead to a scientifically proven model for screening safer cancer drugs that minimize devastating side effects.” Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane Home Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions Footer - Middle Column News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Footer - Right Column Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University