Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation News Center Main navigation Calendar Categories Business and Economic Development Campus and Community Earth and Environment Health and Medicine Science and Technology Society and Culture Media Contacts Experts Guide Featured expert Find an expert Daily Digest Whistle Whistle Whistle archives Whistle classifieds Social Media Subscribe Features Features Features Archive Open Search Search Search Breadcrumb Home Marcus Holzinger Assistant Professor Daniel Guggenheim School of Aerospace Engineering Areas of expertise Flight mechanics and controls Systems design and optimization Core research Electronics and nanotechnology Systems Marcus J. Holzinger is an assistant professor in the School of Aerospace Engineering. Marcus received his B.S. and M.S. degrees in aeronautics & astronautics at the University of Washington and his Ph.D. in aerospace engineering sciences at the University of Colorado at Boulder. He began his faculty career at Georgia Tech in the Fall 2012 semester, and has since constructed a rigorous, externally funded, high-impact research program. His lab research draws from dynamics, controls, and estimation disciplines, focusing on space situational awareness, distributed spacecraft formation flight, proximity operations & rendezvous, and optimal reachability theory applications. Holzinger has completed installation of the Georgia Tech Space Object Research Telescope (GT-SORT), a 0.5m Raven-class telescope to experimentally validate space situational awareness research. He also serves as the principal investigator for the RECONnaissance of Space Objects (RECONSO) cubesat, which will launch in the vicinity of 2017 and provide persistent on-orbit space situational awareness data. Holzinger has been previously employed at Northrop Gurmman (Redondo Beach, CA) and Aerojet Corporation (Redmond, WA). He has published nearly 50 journal and conference papers and serves on several professional and government committees and working groups. View all related images for distribution Social media links Website Faculty profile Space Systems Design Lab (SSDL) Center for Space Technology & Research (C-STAR) Image Marcus J. Holzinger (Photo: Zach Porter) Download Image Image Marcus J. Holzinger (Photo: Zach Porter) Download Image Image Marcus J. Holzinger (Photo: Zach Porter) Download Image Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites and Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Art Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education