Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Tactical Navigation - New Wave Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Close Search Tulane Search form Search this site Search search tulane.edu search news only Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Tulane News Primary Navigation - New Wave News Tulanian Magazine Events Experts Press Releases On Good Authority Podcast Tactical Navigation - New Wave Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Public Relations Team: tel 504-865-5210, @tulanenews, pr@tulane.edu New Hires, News Releases Veteran leader to head Tulane’s new Innovation Institute April 20, 2022 Tulane University has named Kimberly Gramm as the inaugural David and Marion Mussafer Chief Innovation and Entrepreneurship Officer to lead the newly announced Tulane Innovation Institute. Commencement, COVID-19, Culture, Event, Health, In Memoriam, Life@Tulane, Make Way, Media Advisory, New Hires, New Orleans Book Festival, News Releases, NOLA, On Campus, People, Podcast, Research in Real Time, Retirements, Science, Trailblazers, World Tulane ecologist recruiting students for new scholars’ program October 19, 2021 Tulane ecologist Jordan Karubian is recruiting 15 students — from any discipline and including faculty — to the first Ecuador Scholars Program Symposium on Thursday, Oct. 21 from 5 to 7 p.m. in the Qatar Ballroom at the LBC. New Hires, News Releases Tulane University names Maurita Poole as the new director of Newcomb Art Museum September 14, 2021 Maurita N. Poole, PhD, the director and curator of the museum at Clark Atlanta University, has accepted the appointment as the new director of the acclaimed Newcomb Art Museum of Tulane University. Culture, Health, New Hires, News Releases, Science, World Nationally renowned river ecologist named new director of ByWater Institute June 23, 2021 John Sabo, a leading scholar on water resources and river ecology, has been hired as the new director of the Tulane ByWater Institute. New Hires, News Releases Tulane University names new business school dean June 16, 2021 Paulo Goes, Dean and Halle Chair in Leadership at the University of Arizona’s Eller College of Management, has been named dean of Tulane University’s A.B. Freeman School of Business, effective August 23, 2021. Culture, Health, New Hires, News Releases, World Tulane University names renowned economist Gary Hoover as director of The Murphy Institute November 19, 2020 Gary “Hoov” Hoover, a nationally renowned economist in the study of economic policy, has been appointed the new director of Tulane University’s Murphy Institute and full professor in economics. Subscribe to Tulane Today Tulane Today Archive News Archive Submit Your News Submission Guidelines Tulane in the News On Good Authority Podcast Statements Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane Home Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University