Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Close Search Tulane Search form Search this site Search search tulane.edu search news only Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Tulane News News Tulanian Magazine Events Experts Press Releases On Good Authority Podcast Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... News HomeNews Home /PR /Three Tulane University students receive prestigious national awards Three Tulane University students receive prestigious national awards June 24, 2019 10:00 AM Print to PDF Roger Dunaway roger@tulane.edu 504-862-8240 sopa_winners_800.jpg (l-r): School of Science and Engineering students Nathalie Clarke, Danielle (Nelle) Kulick were named 2019 Goldwater Scholars and recent graduate Steven Stradley received the National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship. Three Tulane University undergraduate students from the School of Science and Engineering were recognized for their achievements in the classroom and the laboratory with a pair of national awards. Rising seniors Nathalie Clarke and Danielle (Nelle) Kulick were named 2019 Goldwater Scholars by The Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation. Recent graduate Steven Stradley received the National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship (NSF-GRFP). Clarke and Kulick, who are both majoring in environmental biology and anthropology, are two of 496 Goldwater Scholars awarded nationwide for 2019–2020. The Goldwater Scholarship fosters and encourages outstanding students to pursue careers in the fields of mathematics, natural sciences and engineering. The scholarship is the premier national undergraduate award of its type for science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) fields. It provides a $7,500 stipend. Clarke plans to pursue a PhD in environmental toxicology or chemical ecology to study pollutants cycling in ecosystems and run a toxicology laboratory. She hopes to advocate for marginalized communities that have been adversely affected by climate change. Kulick will seek a PhD in ecology and evolutionary biology to study ecological mediators of multi-species interactions and their implications in conservation. Her current research — which she plans to continue in her graduate study — focuses on how species interactions shift in response to stress caused by global change. A chemical engineering major, Stradley was awarded the NSF-GRFP, the nation's oldest and most established fellowship program that directly supports graduate students in various STEM fields. The fellowship provides $34,000 a year for three years and a cost of education allowance of $12,000 per year. Stradley will attend the California Institute of Technology to pursue a PhD in chemical engineering. “Given the intellectual curiosity of our students, the strength of the programs in the School of Science and Engineering, and the commitment of our internationally recognized faculty to mentoring young scholars, it is no surprise that Tulane students are recognized by the Goldwater Scholarship program and the NSF Graduate Research Fellowships program,” said Charlotte Maheu Vail, Tulane’s Fulbright Program Advisor and Director of Tulane’s Honors Program. “Nelle, Nathalie and Steven epitomize the very best of Tulane University and the Newcomb-Tulane College Honors Program and deserve these prestigious honors for their outstanding work and their dedication to pursuing research careers in the sciences.” Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane Home Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions Footer - Middle Column News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Footer - Right Column Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University