Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia News Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Featured News Topics Video Books Podcasts All News Media Resources Awards & Milestones Arts & Humanities Politics & Social Justice Research & Discovery Photo of the Week Commencement 2022 Columbia News You are here: Home Recap Recap Recap is a Columbia News series that highlights and summarizes some of the major events happening at Columbia University. Recap Teaching Asian American History Through the Lens of Chinese Food May 25, 2022 The intersection of history and food to combat bias was the focus of a recent Weatherhead East Asian Institute event. Genevieve Lakier (left), Knight First Amendment Institute senior visiting research scholar, and Jameel Jaffer, Knight First Amendment Institute executive director. Photo credit: Bruce Gilbert Recap Symposium Suggests Large-Scale Societal Changes Are Needed to Lessen Impact of Harmful Lies May 23, 2022 Knight First Amendment Institute’s “Lies, Free Speech, and the Law” event featured research from a diverse range of scholars on how to address the Olalekan Jeyifous is a Brooklyn-based artist whose work reimagines social spaces that examine the relationships among architecture, community, and the environment. Recap An Architect-Artist Tackles Climate Change and Other Issues With Speculative Projects May 06, 2022 In an online GSAPP event, Olalekan Jeyifous discussed how his visionary works of Crown Heights and Lagos offer hope for the future. Galia Solomonoff (right) in conversation with Mabel O. Wilson (left) following her lecture on March 28, 2022. Recap GSAPP’s Galia Solomonoff Talks About Her Life and Career as an Architect April 13, 2022 For this associate professor, the intersection between art and architecture is vital and infuses her teaching at Columbia. Kearstin Piper Brown and Justin Austin as Esther and George in Ricky Ian Gordon's and Lynn Nottage's opera, "Intimate Apparel." Photo by Julieta Cervantes. Recap Lynn Nottage and Ricky Ian Gordon Turn 'Intimate Apparel' Into an Opera March 22, 2022 The playwriting professor and the composer discuss their collaboration at an online School of the Arts event. Alia Shawkat plays Madeleine Tress in the FX series "Pride." Courtesy of Professor Tom Kalin. Recap A School of the Arts Event Focuses on the Documentary Series “Pride” March 08, 2022 Film Professor Tom Kalin directed a “Pride” episode centered on the struggle for LGBTQ+ rights in the U.S. in the 1950s. Presenters at the 2022 Global Freedom of Expression Awards Ceremony: President Lee C. Bollinger, Catalina Botero Marino, and Agnès Callamard Recap 2022 Global Freedom of Expression Awards Ceremony March 04, 2022 This past Tuesday, Global Freedom of Expression awarded prizes for Significant Legal Ruling and Excellence in Legal Services at its 2022 awards cer Toulkarem Courthouse, in Tulkarm, designed by AAU Anastas. Recap A GSAPP Event Focuses on Brothers and Architects Who Meld Historic and Contemporary Craft February 28, 2022 Elias and Yousef Anastas design buildings, and also celebrate artisanship. "My years at Columbia University changed me completely. I would have done OK, I’m sure, but I never would have done what I did without Columbia," said Jacques Pépin. Recap Columbia Alumnus and World-Renowned Chef Jacques Pépin Is a Man of Many Talents December 20, 2021 In a recent virtual event hosted by Columbia University School of General Studies, the award-winning chef, TV host, artist, and author reflected on Recap A New Vision that Faces Global Warming Head-On November 19, 2021 In an online GSAPP event, Kate Aronoff discusses her recent book, "Overheated," and what needs to be done now. Recap Journalist Rong Xiaoqing Discusses Shifting Chinese Diasporic Identities November 15, 2021 She also covers changing U.S.-China relations, fear, truth-telling, and other topics in an online Weatherhead East Asian Institute event. Recap How Do You Memorialize Loss, Violence, and Injustice? November 09, 2021 A group of artists gathered to share their experiences creating works that encompass collective memories and mourning as well as hope and healing. Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Next pageNext › Last pageLast » Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close