Skip to main content Search for: Ex: How do I apply to Providence College? Menu Apply Visit Give Coronavirus Information & Updates Parents & Families Alumni Media MY-PC Events Providence College News News archive Providence College Magazine Full text issues Video and Podcasts Providence College Podcast Virtual Veritas Social Media Contact Us Close menu Share: For best results, reduce “SCALE” in print menu. May 25, 2022 Class of 2022 Graduates as Commencement Returns to the Dunk Providence College’s commencement exercises returned to the Dunkin Donuts Center for the first time since 2019. By Michael Hagan ’15, ’19G Providence College’s commencement exercises returned to the Dunkin Donuts Center in downtown Providence for the first time in three years on Sunday, May 22. Speakers pointed out as fitting that the class should graduate from a place where so many memories were made during the historic men’s basketball season just months before, when the Friars won 27 games and advanced to the Sweet Sixteen round of the NCAA Tournament. Who better to make this point than the commencement speaker, BIG EAST Conference Commissioner Val Ackerman, J.D. ’20Hon.? “The only Providence event more exciting to be at this year was the triple-overtime win over Xavier here at the Dunk in February,” Ackerman said after thanking the class and the college for the opportunity to speak. Graduates of the Class of 2022 came from 29 states and territories and eight countries. Their top three majors were finance, management, and biology. For the second consecutive year, a separate commencement was held for the School of Continuing Education and graduate programs. It took place on Friday, May 20, in Peterson Recreation Center on campus. Val Ackerman ’20Hon. delivered the commencement address. She spoke of her experiences as a woman in college and professional athletics and of the value of a liberal arts education. Fittingly for the college’s celebration of 50 years of women undergraduates, Ackerman spoke of her experience as a college athlete and woman professional in the world of sports. “When I was growing up in the 1960s and ’70s, the chances for girls to play sports in this country were few and far between, especially in team sports,” she recalled. Title IX was not approved until she was in 8th grade. “On my team at the University of Virginia, there was a total of one scholarship, and in my first year I shared it with a teammate. I got tuition and fees, and she got room and board. In other words, I got to go to class, and she got to eat.” Ackerman, whose undergraduate studies in political and social thought propelled her to law school and a career as an attorney for the NBA, founding commissioner of the WNBA, and commissioner of the BIG EAST, emphasized the value of an education steeped in the liberal arts like the one students receive at Providence College. “In my experience, young people today are similarly well-served by an education that challenges them to think broadly, to develop a globally-informed outlook, and to become creative problem solvers equipped to make good decisions and address society’s most pressing needs,” she said. “No two journeys coming out of this class will be exactly the same. For example, some of you may wear high heels, and some may wear sneakers,” Ackerman said, referencing the lyrics to Taylor Swift’s “You Belong With Me,” which students sang during late-game timeouts in the latter part of this past men’s basketball season. Daniel Strother ’22 (Providence, R.I.) celebrates after receiving his diploma. Strother also led the singing of the Providence College Alma Mater at the conclusion of the ceremony. In his remarks, College President Rev. Kenneth R. Sicard, O.P. ’78, ’82G referenced the same budding tradition. “When I look across this space in my mind’s eye, I see hundreds of PC students drinking responsibly and joyously belting out a Taylor Swift tune on a cold winter’s night,” Father Sicard said. Father Sicard congratulated the graduates and praised the relationships they built while overcoming challenges. “To state the obvious, your time in college was not entirely what you expected. Most of you were approaching the halfway point, finishing your second year of Civ, among other milestones, when COVID-19 changed everything,” Father Sicard said. “When I think about the students of Providence College during the pandemic, one word always comes to mind: resilient. “When it comes to academics, what you have accomplished is remarkable. You have truly earned the degrees you will receive, and they will serve you well — as they have generations of Providence College graduates before you.” Dr. Sean Reid, provost and senior vice president for academic affairs, praised the graduates for their achievements and the faculty members and staff who helped them along the way. “You have completed your PC education well-prepared to lead, well-positioned to serve, and intellectually ready for the next steps in your lives,” Reid said. “You carry with you our college’s proud legacy and our fondest hopes for the future. All of us — our faculty and staff, our alumni, our Dominican fathers, brothers, and sisters, and all associated with Providence College — are proud of you.” Honorary degrees awarded Honorary degree recipients with College President Rev. Kenneth R. Sicard, O.P. ’78, ’82G and commencement speaker Val Ackerman ’20Hon. Back row, from left, Mario DiNunzio, Ph.D. ’57; John W. Flynn ’61, Father Sicard; Robert G. Driscoll Jr.; Ackerman. Front row, from left, Mother Olga of the Sacred Heart, Sally Thibodeau, Ph.D. ’66G. Six honorary degrees were awarded at the ceremony. They were presented by Very Rev. Kenneth Letoile, O.P. ’70, chair of the Providence College Corporation, to: Mario R. DiNunzio, Ph.D. ’57, professor emeritus of history Robert G. Driscoll Jr., vice president and director of athletics, who will retire June 30 John W. Flynn ’61, trustee emeritus and retired vice chairman/CFO of Fleet Financial Group Mother Olga of the Sacred Heart, founder and mother servant of the Daughters of Mary of Nazareth in Quincy, Mass. Sally Ann Thibodeau, Ph.D. ’66G, the first woman appointed assistant dean of undergraduate studies and retired associate professor of education Hon. Ojetta Rogeriee Thompson, circuit judge with the U.S. Court of Appeals Mother Olga of the Sacred Heart ’22Hon. greets a child outside of the Dunkin Donuts Center after the ceremony. Stephenie Thompson O’Brien ’84, president of the National Alumni Association, welcomed the Class of 2022 to the alumni community. Her son, daughter, and father are Friars, a tradition she noted is not unusual. The Class of 2022 includes 106 legacy students, 30 of whom share a legacy with both parents. “To those of you who are starting your own tradition with PC, especially those of you who are first generation, please know we are grateful you chose to become part of the PC family and look forward to a time when you bring a family member into the alumni fold,” O’Brien said. “As I said to my daughter when she graduated, the only trouble with attending PC is that they eventually want you to leave,” O’Brien added. Eliana DaCunha ’22 (Fairhaven, Mass.), president of the senior class, was a double major in biology and global health, a degree she designed through the individualized majors program. She aspires to be a physician, is president of PC’s college chapter of Doctors Without Borders, and volunteers with other pre-med students at a clinic in Providence serving those without medical insurance. Referencing the famous opening passage of Charles Dickens’ A Tale of Two Cities, DaCunha recalled a college experience that saw the best and worst of times. “When we came back to campus, it was the months of Zoom University that made me appreciate all these little moments and the big moments even more. From class dances and McPhail’s nights, to SRW and Senior Week, from storming this court as Big East Champs, to graduating on it—we are so lucky to have the senior year we did.” Rev. Mark Nowel, O.P., assistant to the provost, presented the candidates for degrees. Diplomas were presented by Denise Anne Godin, senior associate dean of undergraduate and graduate students; Adebimpe Dare, assistant dean of undergraduate studies and director of multicultural student success; and Wanda S. Ingram, Ed.D., senior associate dean of undergraduate studies. Most Rev. Robert C. Evans, D.D., J.C.L., auxiliary bishop of Providence, gave the invocation. Rev. Justin C. Bolger, O.P., college chaplain, offered the benediction. “Almighty and provident God … In their four years here, these, your sons and your daughters have sought to pursue your truth and to live in your love,” Father Bolger prayed. “Grant them an abundance of your grace.” Grace Maffucci ’22 (Mamaroneck, N.Y.) sang the National Anthem. Daniel Strother ’22 (Providence, R.I.) sang the Alma Mater with Joseph Genest ’22 (Abington, Mass.) conducting. Students in Providence College Symphonic Winds performed under the direction of Eric C. Melley, director of instrumental activities. ROTC Commissioning From left: John “Jack” Feeney ’22 (Fairfield, Conn.), Nathan Charron (Bryant University), and Alexandra Chapparo ’22 (Casa Grande, Ariz.) are commissioned at the War Memorial Grotto on campus. Nine cadets, including four from Providence College, were commissioned second lieutenants during the Patriot Battalion ROTC Commissioning Ceremony on Friday, May 20, at the War Memorial Grotto. The guest speaker was Major General Christopher P. Callahan, adjutant general of the Rhode Island Army National Guard. Commissioned from PC were: Alexandra Chaparro ’22 (Casa Grande, Ariz.), assigned to the adjutant general, Colorado Army National Guard. John “Jack” Feeney ’22 (Fairfield, Conn.), assigned to transportation, Connecticut Army National Guard. Jay Horan ’22 (Morris Plains, N.J.), assigned to field artillery, active duty. Michael Spenzos ’22 (Florham Park, N.J.), assigned to field artillery, active duty. Class representative remarks were presented by Collin Malloy ’22 (Middletown, Conn.), who will commission in the fall. Also commissioned were Nathan Charron and Clay Hoadley, Bryant University; David Filip, Brown University; Brady Thibault, Rhode Island College; and Mackensie Woodward, University of Massachusetts, Dartmouth. Academic Awards Ceremony Five students in the Class of 2022 earned perfect 4.0 GPAs, the equivalent of all As over eight semesters. From left, Matthew Lussier ’22, Andrew Antonik ’22, Aisling Maguire ’22, Brian Campbell ’22, and Mackenzie Maude ’22. The five top students in the Class of 2022 were recognized at the Academic Awards Ceremony held in Peterson Recreation Center on Saturday, May 21. All five earned 4.0 GPAs, the equivalent of all As across eight semesters: Andrew Antonik ’22 (Attleboro, Mass.), an accountancy major with minors in computer science and finance, will work as an audit associate at PwC and will take the CPA examination. Brian Campbell ’22 (Westfield, Mass.), a finance major, will work as an investment banking analyst with Citizens Bank in the Debt Capital Markets Group. Matthew Lussier ’22 (Ludlow, Mass.), a double major in political science and Spanish and the president of Student Congress, has applied to law schools and may study for a graduate degree in history at PC. Aisling Maguire ’22 (Trumbull, Conn.), a double major in management and finance, will work as a business operations and strategy analyst at Fidelity Investments. Mackenzie Maude ’22 (Newtown, Conn.), a double major in art history and mathematics with a minor in French, is applying to jobs with her major disciplines and may further her education. Maguire, who is a first-generation college graduate, addressed the graduates, saying “It is no secret that we are graduating into a world of anger, unrest, and division. But as my business school classmates know, for every debit there is a credit, and the books must balance. Therefore, I argue that within this darkness lies an opportunity for you to spread hope, love, and light through the power of your PC education.” The Class of 2022 earned academic distinction with 442 students graduating with honors and 356 students named to honor societies. Ninety students were members of the Liberal Arts Honors Program. Edmund Dain, Ph.D., professor of philosophy, presented remarks on behalf of the faculty. He is the 2021-22 recipient of the Joseph R. Accinno Faculty Teaching Award, the college’s highest teaching honor. He has taught at PC since 2011. Commencement Mass Dominicans in prayer at the Commencement Mass on Saturday, May 21. view commencement livestreams see commencement photos More about the Class of 2022 More Providence College news 1 Cunningham Square Providence, RI 02918 USA Tel: +1.401.865.1000 Contact PC Support PC Emergency Information Student Consumer Information Academics Majors, Minors, Programs Academic Calendar Library People & Places Offices & Services Directory People Directory Maps & Directions Visit Facts & Info Fast Facts Jobs Mass Schedule Annual Security Report Title IX & Sexual Harassment Copyright ©2022. Providence College Terms of Use | Privacy Policy If you are having trouble viewing or accessing these web pages, please email our Web Accessibility Coordinator Page maintained by: PC Web Services | About This Site