Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program 2020 Chancellor’s Fall Address facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Events 2020 Chancellor’s Fall Address Hear from Chancellor Randy Woodson as he reflects on a tumultuous year, the Wolfpack's resilience and our readiness for the future. Play Video This year’s Chancellor’s Fall Address TOOK place on Monday, Nov. 9. as one of the signature events of Red and White Week, our annual celebration of homecoming. In normal years, the chancellor speaks to the Wolfpack community in person from the atrium of Talley Student Union. Because of the COVID-19 pandemic, the address was instead delivered online. In his address, the chancellor spoke to the challenges of the previous 12 months, including the effects of the global pandemic, continued reminders of injustice across the country and the pain felt by many on campus. The address also highlighted NC State’s many recent academic and research triumphs; praised the community’s outreach, partnership and fundraising efforts; and celebrated the resilience of the Wolfpack in the face of adversity. Watch the address for a reminder of NC State’s founding purpose — and its bright future. Related Red and White Week 2020 Join us Nov. 8-14 for a virtual celebration of NC State featuring dozens of opportunities to connect with us and the rest of your Pack. Explore the calendar Categories: Academics Alumni Awards and Honors Campus Life Events Faculty and Staff Research and Innovation Service and Community Students Tags: fall address View Comments 0 total responses Leave a Response Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. All fields are required. Comment * Name * Email * More From NC State News NC State to hold Commencement Ceremony Saturday, May 7 The Hard Times and Good Life of Mohamed Mansour Philanthropist and Entrepreneur Mohamed Mansour to Address Spring 2022 Graduates Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.