Skip to main content Search Close Search Search this site Search Search News and Media All of Oklahoma State University Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Headlines News and Media Main Menu In this section News News Archive Topics College News In the Media Magazines Experts Directory Submit News Contact Us Home Articles OSU repeats top 100 Kiplinger ranking for best value OSU repeats top 100 Kiplinger ranking for best value Monday, January 9, 2017 Share Facebook Twitter Pinterest Oklahoma State University has been named a 2017 Best College Value by Kiplinger’s Personal Finance for the 14th time since 2000. OSU is ranked 82 among the top 100 Best Values in Public Colleges for providing a quality education at an affordable price, according to the annual survey from Kiplinger, which is based on criteria that includes admission rate, student-faculty ratio, financial aid availability, low average student debt at graduation, and overall great value. “We are especially proud to be ranked nationally for our value,” said OSU President Burns Hargis. “Our repeated appearance in this annual survey demonstrates our ongoing commitment to provide students access to an outstanding higher education degree.” Compared to both public and private colleges, the report ranked OSU 227th among the top 300 colleges chosen from an initial pool of more than 1,200 colleges nationwide. “Our rankings weigh affordability alongside academic quality to help students and their parents understand what’s really worth the price,” said Janet Bodnar, editor of Kiplinger’s Personal Finance magazine. “While some may have ranked higher than others, all 300 schools on the list are of extraordinary value.” The annual public school rankings appear in Kiplinger’s February 2017 issue—on newsstands and online now at: www.kiplinger.com/links/college. $skip Share Facebook Twitter Pinterest Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©