Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Close Search Tulane Search form Search this site Search search tulane.edu search news only Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Tulane News News Tulanian Magazine Events Experts Press Releases On Good Authority Podcast Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... News HomeNews Home /PR /Tulane team wins International Business Model Competition Tulane team wins International Business Model Competition May 16, 2017 11:00 AM Print to PDF Barri Bronston bbronst@tulane.edu 504-314-7444 051617_int.-business-model-comp_132_800.jpg Tulane PhD students, from left, Peter Lawson, Mei Wang and David Tulman An interdisciplinary team from Tulane University’s bioinnovation and biomedical engineering departments within the School of Science and Engineering has won the International Business Model Competition (IBMC) in Mountain View, California, receiving a first-place prize of $30,000. Representing the company Instapath Bioptics, the team of doctoral students beat out 40 other teams, including those from Harvard University, Johns Hopkins University and the University of Washington. Combining research in biomedical engineering, computer science, urology and pathology, Instapath Bioptics is developing a process that uses imaging technology to rapidly display important biopsy features for diagnosis. "The win validates the work we have put in to truly understand the challenges of biopsy evaluation and how our technology can help the physicians that treat cancer improve it." David Tulman The product provides an exact picture of the intact biopsy within seconds without interfering with future testing. Instapath enables centralized remote pathology evaluation that increases the productivity of highly specialized personnel. By increasing pathology efficiency, patients can be treated sooner. The team includes Peter Lawson and David Tulman in bioinnovation, Mei Wang in biomedical engineering and assistant professor of biomedical engineering J. Quincy Brown. Brown serves as adviser to the students, who are commercializing the technology from his lab. The team also works closely with Dr. Andrew Sholl, assistant professor of pathology, and receives support and coaching from the New Orleans BioInnovation Center. "Every year, 5 million biopsy procedures are performed to diagnose cancer in the United States. Of those 5 million patients, 1 million need repeat procedures due to inadequate biopsy quality,” Lawson said. Such repeat procedures can delay lifesaving treatments by over two months, he said, adding that Instapath ensures biopsy quality by providing an exact picture of a whole biopsy at subcellular resolution within seconds of removal. The team plans to leverage its winnings from IBMC and other competitions to develop a clinical prototype to take from the lab to the marketplace. The IBMC, founded by Brigham Young University in 2010 and co-hosted by Harvard, is the first and largest lean startup competition in the world. More than 5,000 teams applied to this year’s contest, which was held May 11-12 at the Computer History Museum in Silicon Valley. Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane Home Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions Footer - Middle Column News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Footer - Right Column Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University