Skip to content The Harvard Gazette Search for: Arts & Humanities Business & Economy Campus & Community Commencement 2022 The Coronavirus Update Events Health & Medicine National & World Affairs News & Announcements Photography The Quest for Racial Justice Science & Technology The Solutions Series News + About Accessibility Athletics News and Scores For Media & Journalists Privacy Policy Trademark The Daily Gazette Sign up for daily emails to get the latest Harvard news. Harvard University National & World Affairs World Taken out of context GenSci Lab scholars urge researchers to take care crafting definitions of sex as language can make its way into law, public policy World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Health & Medicine Health Don’t let latest COVID surge overshadow progress, says Hanage Epidemiologist explains how to stay on guard against subvariants, noting role of protective measures in transition to new pandemic phase Health Researchers find sleep benefit in higher dose of melatonin Supplements show promise in small study of older adults Featured National & World Affairs Health & Medicine Arts & Humanities Science & Technology Business & Economy Campus & Community Experience Commencement 2019 © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College The Harvard Gazette Harvard readies for 369th Commencement Matchmaker, matchmaker put me in your algorithm Campus & Community Harvard readies for 369th Commencement Campus & Community Harvard readies for 369th Commencement Rose Lincoln/Harvard file photo An overview of the day and ticket information DateFebruary 18, 2020 Share Email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Also in the Series Many happy returns Triple the joy A call to public service Victory of perseverance, vision over more than decade of challenges Merrick Garland to speak at Commencement for Classes of 2020 and 2021 View all of Honoring the Class of 2020 Founded in 1636, Harvard did not hold its first Commencement until Sept. 23, 1642 — with just nine students graduating that year. War and plague halted a handful of Commencement Exercises, but fortunately, the tradition has held fast with a growing number of degree recipients. In 2019, Harvard awarded 6,665 degrees across the University. Degree candidates with their family and friends, faculty, administrators who supported them, and alumni from around the world are anticipated to participate in Harvard’s 369th Commencement Exercises on May 28. To accommodate the increasing number of people planning to attend, carefully review the additional guidelines governing ticketing, regalia, security precautions, and other important details, which are available online. On Commencement morning, the Harvard gates will open at 6:45. A ticket is required to gain entry into Tercentenary Theatre, the site of the Morning Exercises. Commencement Day overview The Morning Exercises begin when the academic procession is seated in Tercentenary Theatre. Three student orators deliver addresses, and the dean of each School introduces the candidates for their respective degrees, which the president then confers. Toward the conclusion of the ceremony the graduating seniors are asked to rise, and the president confers their degrees on them as a group. Honorary degrees are then conferred before the Exercises are adjourned. Diploma-granting ceremonies and luncheons: Graduates and their guests return to their respective undergraduate Houses or graduate and professional Schools. Harvard and Radcliffe College alumni/ae who have celebrated their 50th Reunion are invited to join the Tree Spread luncheon, while all other alumni may pre-purchase tickets for boxed lunches at the Alumni Spread in Harvard Yard. The Afternoon Program features an address by Harvard President Larry Bacow and principal speaker Martin “Marty” Baron. Officially called the Annual Meeting of the Harvard Alumni Association (HAA), this program includes the Overseer and HAA director election results, presentations of the Harvard Medal, and remarks by the HAA president. For general information about Commencement, including event schedules, maps, accommodations for guests with disabilities, and more, visit the Harvard University Commencement Office website. Editor's Picks Campus Triple the joy Photographers capture the festive rites and poignant moments as three classes celebrate Commencement World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Campus A call to public service Merrick Garland tells grads to get involved, warns democracy in peril, cites Capitol attack, rise in mass shootings, stifling of voting rights Also in the Series Many happy returns Triple the joy A call to public service Victory of perseverance, vision over more than decade of challenges Merrick Garland to speak at Commencement for Classes of 2020 and 2021 View all of Honoring the Class of 2020 Up Next Campus & Community Matchmaker, matchmaker put me in your algorithm Campus & Community Matchmaker, matchmaker put me in your algorithm Justin Saglio/Harvard Staff