Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program NC State Launches Universitywide Data Science Academy facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program News Releases NC State Launches Universitywide Data Science Academy March 25, 2021 Mick Kulikowski Data science is for everyone. Students use the iPearl Immersion Theater at Hunt Library. Photo by Marc Hall. For Immediate Release Alyson Wilsonagwilso2@ncsu.edu Mick Kulikowskimick_kulikowski@ncsu.edu919.218.5937 NC State University today announced the launch of its Data Science Academy, a universitywide interdisciplinary effort to enhance a historic strength of the university and meet the growing needs of data science research, education and expertise in North Carolina and beyond. “Data science is integrated in subject matter and research programs across all 10 NC State colleges and is part of our think and do mindset. At NC State, we believe data science is for everyone,” said Chancellor Randy Woodson. “Our Data Science Academy will enhance the infrastructure, expertise and services needed to more effectively drive data-intensive research discoveries, enhance industry partnerships, and better prepare all of our graduates to lead in a data-driven economy.” The Data Science Academy builds on NC State’s longtime national leadership and expertise in data science. This has included the launch of one of the world’s largest data analytics companies; the world’s first master of science in analytics degree in the university’s Institute for Advanced Analytics; the Laboratory for Analytic Sciences; the Data Science Initiative; the Data-Driven-Science cluster; and dozens of other related initiatives. Learn about more of NC State’s current data science focused efforts here. “Data science as a capability is increasingly required for success in today’s global economy across a wide variety of fields,” said Provost Warwick Arden. “The Data Science Academy will accelerate data-intensive discovery, teaching and service. The academy will be a key enabler for increasing skills, capability and involvement by faculty, students and staff, as well as industry and government partners.” Starting in Fall 2021, the academy will begin providing courses available to all NC State students regardless of major, and will ultimately house a new interdepartmental undergraduate data science minor. The academy plans to provide a consulting center for all aspects of data science at NC State – offering a variety of services including tutorials, incubator and machine-shop services, analysis support, storage and high-performance computing solutions, and long-term collaborative research engagements. The academy will also house co-curricular activities such as workshops, seminars and short-course series. Additional programs and activities will be added in the near future. At NC State, an academy identifies a true universitywide effort involving all 10 colleges. It encompasses multiple departments, centers and institutes and addresses all three pillars of the university’s land-grant mission: education, research and service to the state of North Carolina. In the months and years ahead, in collaboration with the implementation of NC State’s new strategic plan, additional academies are planned to be launched that focus on NC State’s key areas of strength and greatest benefit for North Carolina, the nation and the world. Each academy will be overseen by an executive director and report to the Provost’s Office. A search is currently underway for the first executive director of the Data Science Academy. -30- Categories: Campus Life Faculty and Staff Faculty Clusters Harnessing Data for Decision Making News Releases Research and Innovation Tags: big data Data science data science academy data science initiative data-driven science cluster institute for advanced analytics laboratory for analytic sciences View Comments 2 total responses Leave a Response Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. All fields are required. Comment * Name * Email * Gary Hoke says: April 14, 2021 at 8:03 pm It’s great to see this program being offered at NCSU. It will pay big dividends when graduates from it enter the workforce in a couple years! Reply Tommy Drake says: March 25, 2021 at 4:19 pm What classes will be required to take for the completion of the Data Science Minor? (From someone who wants to get it but may not have enough credit space). Reply More From NC State News New Studies Shed Light on Election-Related Stress Twisted Soft Robots Navigate Mazes Without Human Or Computer Guidance New Tech Aims to Drive Down Costs of Hydrogen Fuel Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.