Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia News Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Featured News Topics Video Books Podcasts All News Media Resources Awards & Milestones Arts & Humanities Politics & Social Justice Research & Discovery Photo of the Week Commencement 2022 Columbia News You are here: Home All News A Brain Scientist and Volcanologist Investigate Why Some Volcanoes Turn Explosive Research A Brain Scientist and Volcanologist Investigate Why Some Volcanoes Turn Explosive By Columbia News July 13, 2018 A volcanologist and biomedical engineer at Columbia University have joined forces to understand how particle-level interactions influence a volcano’s personality. The magma that feeds volcanoes beneath Earth’s surface is a mix of solid particles, liquid melt and gas bubbles. Successfully predicting whether lava from an erupting volcano will ooze out slowly or in a sudden and potentially deadly explosion has long vexed scientists. Now, a volcanologist and biomedical engineer at Columbia University have joined forces to understand how particle-level interactions influence a volcano’s personality. Einat Lev, a research professor at Columbia’s Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, and Elizabeth Hillman, a professor at Columbia Engineering and a principal investigator at Columbia's Zuckerman Institute, are recording 3D images of artificial magma in real time. The close-up view is made possible by the SCAPE microscope Hillman has developed to study how the living brain functions and regulates blood flow. SCAPE has been used to capture neural activity in the brains of flies, fish and mice at speeds 100 times faster than competing technologies. Creating “magma” from some common household items — oil, acetone, glass beads and corn syrup — the team is investigating how different mixtures behave under varying conditions, and when they are apt to blow up. By understanding the physics of how particles, melt and bubbles interact, the research could lead to better models for predicting when a volcano will erupt and how explosively. Tags Physics Earth and Environmental Sciences News June 01, 2022 Eric Kandel, Nobel Prize Winner and University Professor, to Retire June 01, 2022 Faculty Named Fulbright U.S. Scholars, Other Institutional Milestones June 01, 2022 Columbia Physicist Tanya Zelevinsky Wins 2022 Brown Investigator Award June 01, 2022 Celebrating Pride Month 2022 at Columbia May 31, 2022 A Cultural Critic Publishes Her Second Memoir Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close