Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation News Center Main navigation Calendar Categories Business and Economic Development Campus and Community Earth and Environment Health and Medicine Science and Technology Society and Culture Media Contacts Experts Guide Featured expert Find an expert Daily Digest Whistle Whistle Whistle archives Whistle classifieds Social Media Subscribe Features Features Features Archive Open Search Search Search Breadcrumb Home Quiz Bowl Team Wins Nationals Every year, Georgia Tech’s academic quiz bowl team competes in two national tournaments. This year, their top team won first among 51 of the best teams in the country. (L-R): Sanjay Srihari, Quentin Mot, Hari Parameswaran, Tegan Kapadia, Matthew Bollinger, S. A. Shenoy, Alexander Li, and Rodrigo Rose May 16, 2022 — Atlanta, GA Every year, Georgia Tech’s academic quiz bowl team competes in two national tournaments. This year, their top team won first among 51 of the best teams in the country in the Academic Competition Federation's Nationals Tournament. In some ways, quiz bowl is similar to Jeopardy!. Topics range from fine arts to sciences. Rather than competing as individuals, though, teams of four compete together. “People are often put into bins by majors, but their other interests are reflected by the questions,” said S.A. Shenoy, a computer science major and member of the winning team (as well as a former Jeopardy! contestant). Quiz bowl participants must learn about a wider range of topics and fields than what they learn in their coursework. Any source of knowledge could prove crucial to a win — one participant knew an answer from a conversation they had with someone about music. That kind of community has helped many Tech students find a home in this club that goes beyond the buzzer. Aside from the joy of winning, there is a more meaningful reason this win was so special to the team. “Robert Meredith was a professor at Tech. He popularized quiz bowl in the Southeast, and the trophy we won is named in his honor,” said Hari Parameswaran, president of the club and an electrical and computer engineering major, and another Jeopardy! alum. Meredith kept the spirit of quiz bowl alive, and this was the first time since 1996 that a Georgia Tech team was able to bring home the trophy. Above all, the club is a place in which people can feel safe learning with their peers. “We never put winning above well-being, because it is important to cultivate positive mindsets,” said Rodrigo Rose, an aerospace engineering major. The club wants to win, but that never outweighs the need for everyone to feel included and accepted. Academic quiz bowl is always seeking new members. The club meets every Monday and Thursday, and everyone is welcome, even if they do not want to compete. There are many ways to be involved, including volunteering, competing, and planning tournaments. Contact Connor White Institute Communications Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites and Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Art Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education