Jump to navigation Resources Campus Map UAccess A-Z Directory / Phonebook UA Future Weather News Calendar Search form Search Submit a Story Idea Subscribe Toggle navigation MAIN MENU Open Navigation Stories All Stories Arts Business & Law Campus Health Sci | Tech Social Sciences Sports Students Videos Galleries In the News Calendar UA@Work For Journalists Media Information News Releases Experts Electronic Press Kits Contact Us UArizona Earns 'Best Value' Recognition from Princeton Review The Princeton Review evaluates more than 40 data points in areas such as academics, cost, financial aid, graduation rates, student debt, alumni salaries and job satisfaction. By Nick Prevenas, University Communications April 20, 2021 552_6864.jpg For the fifth time in six years, the University of Arizona is among 200 colleges and universities featured in The Princeton Review's "Best Value Colleges." "The University of Arizona strives to ensure that current and future Wildcats receive a world-class education with a very high return on investment," said University of Arizona President Robert C. Robbins. "We take great pride in our reputation as a student-centric university, and we are grateful that The Princeton Review recognizes these efforts." The Princeton Review chose the schools for its 2021 edition of "Best Value Colleges" – formerly called "Colleges That Pay You Back: The 200 Schools That Give You the Best Bang for Your Tuition Buck" – based on each school's return-on-investment rating. The ratings weighed more than 40 data points in areas such as academics, cost, financial aid, graduation rates, student debt, alumni salaries and job satisfaction. The Princeton Review editors culled data from surveys of school administrators and students in 2019-20 and from PayScale.com surveys of alumni. A total of 650 schools were considered. The Princeton Review does not rank the schools on the "Best Value" list, but ratings were given in "The 386 Best Colleges: 2021 Edition," released Aug. 27. UArizona scored top marks in campus sustainability or "green" initiatives (95 out of a possible 100), fire safety (91) and quality of life (87). The Princeton Review also publishes several top-20 ratings in various categories related to academics and campus life. UArizona earned recognition in the best health services category (No. 14). In 2019, the university was ranked No. 62 in Forbes' fourth annual "Best Value Colleges" list – a 46-spot jump from the previous year's ranking. UArizona's overall score placed it at No. 34 among public universities and No. 41 among research institutions. Share Topics Campus News Tags Integrity Rankings Resources for the media Media contact(s) Nick Prevenas Director, Media Relations, University Communications nprevenas@arizona.edu 520-621-2194 Visit the newsroom Trending Stories May 25, 2022 Want to see a moon rock? There's one in downtown Tucson May 17, 2022 UArizona will develop and test balloon-borne payloads at new Mission Integration Lab May 18, 2022 UArizona innovation generated $1.6B in economic output over 5 years May 25, 2022 UArizona receives $1.18M for borderlands research and archive project May 25, 2022 UArizona will help more families prepare for college with new state funding University of Arizona in the News USA Today May 26, 2022 There's a name for the feeling that nothing you do matters Space.com May 25, 2022 Expect another above-average hurricane season in 2022, NOAA predicts The New York Times May 25, 2022 Opinion | We can't even agree on what is tearing us apart CNN May 25, 2022 Decades after a mysterious heist, a badly damaged de Kooning painting is finally restored National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences May 24, 2022 Karletta Chief: Partnering with tribal communities to protect water from pollution and climate change Subscribe to UANow Get the latest University of Arizona news delivered in your inbox. Or, stay in the loop using our Amazon Alexa skill. Subscribe to UANow Get Alexa alerts RSS Return to the top of this page. Employment Emergency Information Title IX UAlert Information Security & Privacy Copyright Campus Accessibility Contact Us Feedback We respectfully acknowledge the University of Arizona is on the land and territories of Indigenous peoples. Today, Arizona is home to 22 federally recognized tribes, with Tucson being home to the O’odham and the Yaqui. Committed to diversity and inclusion, the University strives to build sustainable relationships with sovereign Native Nations and Indigenous communities through education offerings, partnerships, and community service. University Information Security and Privacy © 2022 The Arizona Board of Regents on behalf of The University of Arizona.