Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program No Pay Gap For Female Zoo Vets, but Children Perceived as Career Hindrance facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Tag: College of Veterinary Medicine May 25, 2022 A School of Fishes At a research center in the port town of Morehead City, 18 veterinary medicine students get hands-on experience operating on fish. May 10, 2022 Researchers Conduct First Assessment of Metabolites in African Savanna Elephants The work advances our understanding of the relationship between metabolism and health in these endangered animals. May 9, 2022 Quantifying Cognitive Decline in Dogs Could Help Humans With Alzheimer’s Disease Diagnosing canine cognitive decline in a clinically safe and relevant way could lead to working with dogs as a model for Alzheimer’s disease in humans. Apr 28, 2022 Decreased Genetic Diversity in Immune System Could Impact Endangered Toad Survival Genetic bottlenecks could impact an endangered species' ability to respond to new pathogens. Apr 20, 2022 Back from the Brink: NC State’s Key Role in Red Wolf Recovery The College of Veterinary Medicine is at the center of a nationwide effort to help the canid survive, providing medical care, conducting research and tending its own pack of the critically endangered species. Apr 7, 2022 Important Tips to Keep Your Pets Safe this Spring The NC State Veterinary Hospital offers some important pet safety tips to consider this time of year. Mar 31, 2022 Duncan Lascelles to Receive Distinguished Professorship The professor of translational pain research and management at the NC State College of Veterinary Medicine is regarded as a world leader in his field. Mar 30, 2022 Graduate Programs Rise in Rankings This year's U.S. News rankings bring good news for graduate programs across the university. Three programs place in the top 10 nationwide while numerous other graduate programs advance. Mar 15, 2022 NC State Names New Dean of College of Veterinary Medicine Kate Meurs — a pioneer in interdisciplinary and translational medical research — makes history as the first female dean of the College of Veterinary Medicine. Mar 14, 2022 Model Predicts Cross-Species Contamination Risk for Livestock Focusing biosecurity efforts on the top 3% of farms in a contact network can reduce cross-species disease dissemination. Mar 7, 2022 Vehicles Play Important Role in PRRSV Transmission Trucks used to move not only animals, but also farm workers and feed, can be carriers for disease spread. Feb 22, 2022 Podcast: Animal Acupuncture Tara Harrison has performed acupuncture on actual lions, tigers and bears. Jan 27, 2022 Researchers Identify Osteoarthritis ‘Pain Pathway’ Researchers identify a signaling pathway associated with osteoarthritis pain. Jan 24, 2022 Study Demonstrates Accuracy of Less Invasive Technique for Monitoring Elephant Health The technique uses dried spots of blood to measure health indicators. Jan 10, 2022 No Pay Gap For Female Zoo Vets, but Children Perceived as Career Hindrance Survey: While women zoo veterinarians don’t seem to suffer from a gender pay gap, many feel that they must give up on having children in order to succeed. Posts navigation 1 2 … 20 Next Page Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.