Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation News Center Main navigation Calendar Categories Business and Economic Development Campus and Community Earth and Environment Health and Medicine Science and Technology Society and Culture Media Contacts Experts Guide Featured expert Find an expert Daily Digest Whistle Whistle Whistle archives Whistle classifieds Social Media Subscribe Features Features Features Archive Open Search Search Search Campus in Bloom Breadcrumb Home Features Kristen Bailey March 11, 2022 With the first day of spring just around the corner, campus is beginning to look different. Recent rain has helped the many plants on campus begin to bloom, and new color is emerging around every corner. Take a look at some of what's blooming on campus, with plant identities brought to you by Georgia Tech's Landscape Services team. The yellow flowers of primrose jasmine (jasminum mesnyi) bloom along North Avenue. Photo by Kristen Bailey. Chinese Fringe Flower (loropetalum chinense) blooms along the Swann Building on Cherry Street. Photo by Kristen Bailey. An oakleaf hydrangea (hydrangea quercifolia) near Tech Tower shows its first signs of spring growth. Photo by Kristen Bailey. Pink saucer magnolias (magnolia × soulangeana) bloom near the Bill Moore Student Success Center. Photo by Samantha Rose-Sinclair. A close-up of pink saucer magnolias (magnolia × soulangeana). Photo by Brice Zimmerman. A pink Indian azalea (rhododendron indicum 'formosa') blooms near the Bill Moore Student Success Center. Photo by Brice Zimmerman. A callery pear (pyrus calleryana) tree blooms near Brittain Dining Hall. Photo by Brice Zimmerman. Shasta daisies (leucanthemum × superbum) have emerged near Tech Tower. Photo by Brice Zimmerman. Buds of a swamp azalea (rhododendron viscosum) begin to sprout near Harrison Square. Photo by Brice Zimmerman. A budding swamp azalea (rhododendron viscosum) after a recent rainstorm. Photo by Brice Zimmerman. Moss phlox (phlox subulata) blooms in light purple hues along Ferst Drive. Photo by Allison Carter. Bright yellow blooms of golden ragwort (packera aurea) are visible in the EcoCommons near The Kendeda Building for Innovative Sustainable Design. Photo by Allison Carter. Credits Photos by Kristen Bailey and Brice Zimmerman Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites and Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Art Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education