Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia News Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Featured News Topics Video Books Podcasts All News Media Resources Awards & Milestones Arts & Humanities Politics & Social Justice Research & Discovery Photo of the Week Commencement 2022 Columbia News You are here: Home All News 11 Stunning Fall Foliage Photos That Show How Beautiful Columbia Is In the Autumn Photo Essay 11 Stunning Fall Foliage Photos That Show How Beautiful Columbia Is In the Autumn "Don't you love New York in the Fall?" We'll do you one better: Immerse yourself in the fall foliage of Columbia's campuses. By Eileen Barroso, Kelly Moffitt, and Jennifer Pellerito November 17, 2021 Mmmmmm, autumn in the city. To quote the classic autumnal romance, You've Got Mail, "Don't you love New York in the fall? It makes me wanna buy school supplies." That is certainly the case for anyone who has bundled up with a cuppa while striding under the titian and gold canopy of trees on College Walk. To celebrate fall's last exuberant gasp of color on Columbia's campus, University Photographer Eileen Barroso headed out to capture some of the gorgeous fall foliage we witnessed this November. Keep these photos close as we enter the blustery months ahead. As Beautiful as Lion's Mane A Bike Through College Walk Dappled In Light Stairway to Foliage Heaven Pupin Plaza Perfection Foliage. Friends. Forever. Seasons Change Luxuriating In Leaves The Essence of Frondescence The Perfect Frame Tags Students Faculty Staff News June 01, 2022 Eric Kandel, Nobel Prize Winner and University Professor, to Retire June 01, 2022 Faculty Named Fulbright U.S. Scholars, Other Institutional Milestones June 01, 2022 Columbia Physicist Tanya Zelevinsky Wins 2022 Brown Investigator Award June 01, 2022 Celebrating Pride Month 2022 at Columbia May 31, 2022 A Cultural Critic Publishes Her Second Memoir Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close