Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: Campus & Community Food Services Ready to Handle New Challenges Brought by COVID-19 Friday, August 14, 2020, By News Staff Share Food Services While safely opening dining centers and cafes this fall, Food Services will continue to provide the University community high-quality food and service while adhering to the public health guidelines set forth by New York State and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. When the coronavirus pandemic caused the abrupt end of residential learning at the University in mid-March, the Food Services department kept working, and responded nimbly to the changes that swept across campus. Hundreds of students were stranded in Central New York and remained in campus housing. As essential employees, Food Services staff members reported to campus each day to continue to operate dining centers, food courts and convenience stores to support students. They assisted other departments and took on tasks unrelated to food and dining in order to support their colleagues who were working from home. With the initial challenge of the pandemic met, the Food Services staff have now turned their attention to the upcoming semester, as thousands of students return to campus. For the hundreds of first-year and transfer students quarantining in campus residence halls, Food Services is providing three boxed meals a day, delivered to each residence hall floor. In addition, each quarantining student’s room was pre-stocked with shelf-stable snacks and drinks, such as Goldfish crackers, cookies, ramen noodles and fruit cups. While safely opening dining centers and cafes this fall, Food Services will continue to provide the University community high-quality food and service while adhering to the public health guidelines set forth by New York State and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. “Just like many other food service providers affected by the coronavirus, our facilities will look a little different,” says Mark Tewksbury, co-director of Food Services. Tewksbury has worked closely with the University’s Campus Planning, Design and Construction team to make sure tables and chairs are 6 feet apart, social distancing markers are installed properly and excess furniture was removed from dining facilities. Other changes that students can expect include the following: In the dining centers, food will be served by staff rather than via an open buffet for students to serve themselves, and at the beginning of the semester, all meals will be takeout only. Plexiglas has been installed throughout the dining centers to create barriers between staff and students. In order to steer crowds away from dining centers, meal plan swipes will be accepted at retail dining facilities, including Kimmel Food Court and the Goldstein Alumni and Faculty Center restaurant. New menu items will be added at the dining centers for easy grab-and-go, in order to cut down on lines and maintain social distancing. The catering department has overhauled its menu and service in order to provide safe, individually packed meals at events this fall. Some hours of operation have been adjusted to accommodate the time needed to clean and sanitize between meals. The hours may change, so check the Food Services website frequently for updates. In addition to the dining environment looking different, Food Services has added additional safety precautions in light of the COVID-19 pandemic. These measures include using the GET app for contactless payment, adding extra sanitation measures and checking temperatures of all delivery drivers arriving on campus. A full list of safety and sanitation protocols are available on the Food Services website. Although this semester will be different from any other, Food Services and its staff are prepared to meet the challenges that have come their way and are ready to welcome back Syracuse University students, Tewksbury says. Between the University’s three food courts, five dining centers, 15 cafes, sit-down restaurant, vending machines, and a busy catering service, the department works 24 hours a day, seven days a week in order to serve thousands of members of the campus community. Questions? Comments? Reach out to Food Services at mealtalk@syr.edu. Story by Keone Weigl and Jennifer Horvath Author News Staff Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi More In Campus & Community Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59 was only 5 years old when he developed a work ethic that would last a lifetime. The Syracuse University graduate and longtime member of the Board of Trustees first demonstrated his entrepreneurial spirit as a… COVID-19 Update: Effective Wednesday, June 1, Masking Level Returns to Yellow Dear Students, Families, Faculty and Staff: Recently the Onondaga County Health Department has reported a notable decline in new COVID infections and hospitalizations across the Central New York region. This positive trend, combined with significantly reduced population density on our… Preparing Students for a Life of Success Selecting a major and choosing a career path don’t have to be daunting experiences. While some students come to Syracuse University’s College of Arts and Sciences (A&S) or the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs (Maxwell) ready to declare… Eugene ‘Gene’ Anderson to Depart Syracuse, Tapped to Lead University of Pittsburgh’s Business School Eugene “Gene” Anderson, dean of the Martin J. Whitman School of Management since 2017, today announced he will conclude his time at Syracuse University next month. After more than five years at the Whitman School, Anderson will return home to… Digital Badges at Syracuse University: Recognizing and Authenticating Microcredential Moments in Higher Education As higher education continues to anticipate and react to the needs of an evolving workforce, new programs and various modalities have been introduced to provide just-in-time learning opportunities that meet the needs of hard and soft skills sought by employers…. Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.