Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Introducing NC State’s Strategic Research Areas facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Introducing NC State’s Strategic Research Areas Each day, faculty here are addressing the defining issues and opportunities of our time. See where we make our mark. NC State researchers don’t shy away from a challenge. Instead, we meet society’s most pressing problems with big ideas and bold solutions. Whether we’re finding ways to make communities healthier or harnessing data to solve previously unsolvable problems, the work we do here leads to real outcomes. Now, we’re introducing five strategic research areas that define our focus — and show how our efforts fit into the world around us. By highlighting NC State’s role in these areas, we’re also uncovering new collaborations that can benefit everyone. We’re bringing together faculty across disciplines to tackle shared problems. We’re working with peer universities to further shared ambitions. And we’re connecting our experts to government and industry leaders with shared goals. Designing Healthy and Resilient Societies We cultivate a strong, healthful world. NC State researchers find innovative ways to improve our well-being — whether they’re putting precision medicine to work or they’re using textile technology to 3D-print fibers that better mimic those in the human body. Here, we make healthier animals and more nutritious crops. And we set our sights on adaptive, holistic solutions to better our communities, our economy and the changing environment. Regenerative medicine Supplementing the body’s healing power Bioinformatics Using biological data to solve real-world scenarios Mental health and wellness Holistically building better lives Sustainable community design Finding innovative housing solutions that reduce environmental impact Precision agriculture Maximizing production of crops while minimizing risk Harnessing Data for Decision Making We combat complex problems with quality data. In an increasingly data-centric world, our researchers are improving the information we collect — and making sure it’s used for good. We team up with policy experts and use analytics to predict natural disasters and emerging global trends. And we connect with industry leaders to advance promising fields such as quantum computing. Data visualization and modeling Translating data for clear communication Business intelligence Using technology to make informed business decisions Data sciences and analytics Turning data into actionable insights Machine learning Automating analytical model building Digital ethics Driving policies about the conscientious use of data Enriching the Human Experience We examine the world around us and use what we learn to benefit future generations. Our faculty collaborate across disciplines to study our past, our present and what it means to be human. And the scientific discoveries we’re making today will become tomorrow’s fundamentals in fields like chemistry and physics. Whether we’re bringing historical events to life with virtual reality, probing the mysteries of deep space or making students and teachers more resilient, we’re turning endeavors of self-discovery into real-world insights. Digital humanities Enhancing humanities scholarship through technology Intellectual exploration and discovery Questioning our world to gain deeper understanding Arts and creativity Pushing boundaries through imaginative thinking Human-centered design Improving interactions with products and environments Educational innovation Rethinking education systems for better outcomes Creating Safe, Secure and Intelligent Systems We put innovative technology to work to make smarter machines, more efficient processes and safer communities. We’re accelerating artificial intelligence through new training techniques that take a fraction of the time. And our researchers are developing cutting-edge, electronic-based teaching methods projected to change the face of education. Literacy Using research-informed strategies to improve reading proficiency Community psychology Understanding social context to create better communities Internet of Things Introducing intelligence and connectedness to objects Advanced materials and manufacturing Optimizing materials and processes Artificial intelligence Training computer systems to solve and anticipate complex problems Driving Food, Water and Energy Solutions We respond to a growing local and global population with sustainable solutions. NC State research benefits the food we eat, the water we drink and the air we breathe. And it promotes resource conservation through initiatives like PowerAmerica, a collaboration with the Department of Energy to create cheaper, more efficient semiconductors. Renewable energy Collecting energy from naturally replenishable resources Resource management Developing systems and technologies to be better stewards of our planet Plant sciences Advancing discoveries in plant research — from food to fibers and beyond Air and water filtration Purifying the building blocks we need to survive Changing environments Finding adaptive solutions to environmental challenges Keep Reading Results Magazine Your source for the latest research and innovation coming out of NC State. Discover more stories Categories: Faculty and Staff Research and Innovation Results Archive More From NC State News New Studies Shed Light on Election-Related Stress A School of Fishes Twisted Soft Robots Navigate Mazes Without Human Or Computer Guidance Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.