Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation News Center Main navigation Calendar Categories Business and Economic Development Campus and Community Earth and Environment Health and Medicine Science and Technology Society and Culture Media Contacts Experts Guide Featured expert Find an expert Daily Digest Whistle Whistle Whistle archives Whistle classifieds Social Media Subscribe Features Features Features Archive Open Search Search Search Breadcrumb Home Georgia Tech Professor Laurie Garrow Offers 5 Tips for Airline Travel This Summer Aviation expert weighs in on how to make the most of the travel experience this summer. May 05, 2022 — Atlanta, GA Book early and check often. Many airlines have waived their exchange fees, so if the price of a ticket goes down after booking, you can exchange it and use the cost difference as a future flight credit. Check before you drive. Airports are among the hardest hit by labor shortages. Check your airport’s parking lot availability before deciding on transportation. Remember rideshare rates. With the high cost of fuel and a shortage of Uber and Lyft drivers, be sure to check those rates and plan ahead. Prepare to be patient — lines will be long. The airline industry is seeing a huge surge in demand, but many airports are short-staffed. Expect to wait longer at security checkpoints, ticketing counters, and baggage claim. Covid-19 changed travel. Your travel experience will not be the same as pre-pandemic travel. Delays, staffing shortages, price increases, and new policies mean that travelers should do their best to be patient and plan ahead. Professor Laurie Garrow is co-director of the Center for Urban and Regional Air Mobility at Georgia Tech. She is an expert in aviation, travel behavior, and data analytics. Laurie offers insight into travel demand, airline operations, and tips for consumer travel planning. She was featured in a CNN Travel article, published on April 27, 2022, taking a look at the surprising reasons Atlanta's airport is the world's busiest. An excerpt: Having Delta Air Lines' world headquarters in Atlanta is a benefit, too. "I do view the innovations of Delta as a local carrier in the area throughout the years to have propelled or maintained Atlanta as the No. 1 airport," Garrow said. "Delta in 1955 was the carrier that created the hub and spoke network. So they were the innovators of that concept — using the spokes to bring all those passengers into a hub, allowing them to transfer" on to other destinations. Growth helped, too. Through mergers, Delta Air Lines could expand internationally. "They have a lot of joint venture relationships with international carriers that help them build up an international network and again bring passengers into Atlanta as the gateway for other travel into the U.S., or vice versa. Take the people from multiple locations in the U.S., filter them through Atlanta to then go internationally." Contact Ayana Isles Media Relations Institute Communications Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites and Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Art Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education