Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: Campus & Community Ernie Davis Dining Center Celebrates 10 Years, 6.5 million Meals Served Friday, January 17, 2020, By Jennifer Horvath Share The staff at Ernie Davis Dining Center have come a long way. Wednesday, Jan. 15 marked 10 years of operation for the campus’s busiest dining center, and many of the staff on duty for the dinner celebration have been there since day one. They’ve served 6.5 million meals to Syracuse University students in the 10 years of the center’s existence. It’s by far the most-visited dining center on campus, serving roughly 650,000 meals in 2019. In a distant second place is Sadler Dining Center, with 480,000 meals served last year. The staff celebrated Wednesday night with special t-shirts marking the occasion, with those that had been there from the beginning sporting the additional phrase “Original Team Member.” A special carved rib roast was on the menu, prepared and served by many of the same people who had cooked and served the very first meals at the center back in January 2010. Staff and students also enjoyed cake and milkshakes as part of the celebration. Even Otto the Orange stopped by to pose for pictures and to take a look at a photo retrospective set up along the center’s glass walls. The friendly faces at the entrance, longtime Food Services employees Dom Valentino and Nicole Ugoji-Morrissette, were still on duty, swiping I.D. cards as students entered for the dinner rush. They’ve been at Ernie Davis since it opened, along with 13 others on the staff. Ernie Davis Dining Center employs 48 Food Services staff members, and anywhere from 120-165 student employees, says Stephen Brandt, Food Services manager. It’s more than most other dining centers, because Ernie Davis deals with a much higher volume than the other centers. Dinner tends to be the busiest meal, Brandt says. On an average day, Ernie Davis will have 1,400 swipes during the lunch period, but its all-time record is 2,197 at lunch during the first week of class in August 2019. “We’re so proud of our team here,” says Brandt. “Six and a half million meals over the years is an impressive feat. That’s a lot of chicken tenders!” Author Jennifer Horvath Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi More In Campus & Community Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59 was only 5 years old when he developed a work ethic that would last a lifetime. The Syracuse University graduate and longtime member of the Board of Trustees first demonstrated his entrepreneurial spirit as a… COVID-19 Update: Effective Wednesday, June 1, Masking Level Returns to Yellow Dear Students, Families, Faculty and Staff: Recently the Onondaga County Health Department has reported a notable decline in new COVID infections and hospitalizations across the Central New York region. This positive trend, combined with significantly reduced population density on our… Preparing Students for a Life of Success Selecting a major and choosing a career path don’t have to be daunting experiences. While some students come to Syracuse University’s College of Arts and Sciences (A&S) or the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs (Maxwell) ready to declare… Eugene ‘Gene’ Anderson to Depart Syracuse, Tapped to Lead University of Pittsburgh’s Business School Eugene “Gene” Anderson, dean of the Martin J. Whitman School of Management since 2017, today announced he will conclude his time at Syracuse University next month. After more than five years at the Whitman School, Anderson will return home to… Digital Badges at Syracuse University: Recognizing and Authenticating Microcredential Moments in Higher Education As higher education continues to anticipate and react to the needs of an evolving workforce, new programs and various modalities have been introduced to provide just-in-time learning opportunities that meet the needs of hard and soft skills sought by employers…. Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.