Keyword Search Campus Directory Maps Jobs at SDSU TOPICS OF INTEREST How to become an Aztec How to become a mentor Need an intern? Campus Events Calendar Take a campus tour Use the library's resources SDSU NewsCenter Sexual Assault Resouces Smoke Free SDSU Student Enrollment Characteristics SDSU By the Numbers 1897 Founded 34,000 Students (Fall 2019) 3,076 Students Studying Abroad (2017-18) 400,000+ Alumni 3.77 Average Incoming High School GPA 93,704 Total Applications for Fall 2020 10,300 Graduates (Spring 2019) Keyword Search Campus Directory Maps Jobs at SDSU Topics of InterestHow to become an Aztec How to become a mentor Need an intern? Campus Events Calendar Take a campus tour Use the library's resources SDSU NewsCenter Sexual Assault Resouces Smoke Free SDSU Student Enrollment Characteristics SDSU By the Numbers 1897 Founded 34,000 Students (Fall 2019) 3,076 Students Studying Abroad (2017-18) 400,000+ Alumni 3.77 Average Incoming High School GPA 93,704 Total Applications for Fall 2020 10,300 Graduates (Spring 2019) Monday, May 30, 2022 Return to home Research California oyster farmers in Tomales Bay. Credit: Remy Hale Monday, May 23, 2022 California Shellfish Farmers Adapt to Climate Change SDSU and Oregon State University researchers probe growers’ strategies for keeping the sustainable industry resilient as oceans turn more acidic. By Susanne Clara Bard Story Keywords: Research Please enter your info below Your name * Your Email address * * Recipient Email Address * * Tweet Because of our proximity to the ocean, Californians get to enjoy locally sourced oysters, mussels, abalone and clams. Most of the shellfish consumed here come from aquaculture farms along the coast — from San Diego to Humboldt County. And because the animals are filter feeders that siphon tiny plankton out of seawater, growing them is environmentally sustainable. But due to rising greenhouse gas emissions, the ocean has become more acidic, conditions hostile to shellfish growth. “There have been calls across the state and across the U.S. to increase aquaculture output because it's so sustainable. But then at the same time, it's a very vulnerable industry,” said Melissa Ward, a postdoctoral fellow at San Diego State University. In a new study, SDSU and Oregon State University researchers interviewed California shellfish growers to find out how they perceive ocean acidification, and to learn what strategies they think will help their operations adapt to changing environmental conditions. “This study is fairly unique in that we're getting information directly from the people who are being affected by change and learning directly from their experiences,” said geographer Arielle Levine, director of the sustainability program in SDSU’s College of Arts and Letters. Ward added: “They're on the front lines of observing climate change and they also are going to be most well-suited to describe what they think they need to adapt to those changes.” Growing threat Burning coal, oil and natural gas emits carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. About a third of that CO2 is absorbed by the ocean, reducing pH levels. As the water becomes more acidic, the calcium carbonate shellfish need for their shells is less abundant. “And so they're basically running out of building blocks to build shell with,” said Ward. “And that can be particularly challenging for a very very small shellfish that’s just forming.” Most shellfish are spawned in land-based hatcheries. When they’re about the size of a fingernail, they’re moved to floating nurseries in the ocean. “And at that point, they're just sort of subjected to whatever conditions and whatever food floats by in the water,” said Ward. If the water is acidic, the baby shellfish may grow more slowly, or even die, making it harder for aquaculture farms to remain viable. Strategies for adaptation Interviews with shellfish growers revealed that while they are concerned about the impact of ocean acidification on their operations, they often lack the scientific instrumentation to know when it’s happening. Growers also worry about other environmental threats such as warmer water, heavy rainfall and pollution — which all contribute to the spread of marine diseases — as well as toxic algal blooms. “Sometimes, growers would lose 90, 100% of their shellfish in a given area, and they won't really know why,” said Ward. “It's sort of a story of multiple stressors; you can imagine a time when the water is particularly warm or there's a rainfall event, and ultimately you may reach a tipping point that the shellfish in the water just can't remain resilient to.” Many growers said they need access to scientific resources to pinpoint the environmental factors involved in large die-off events, and to potentially prevent them. Policy change All of the shellfish growers felt regulatory and permitting requirements for shellfish operations need to be adjusted to respond to the rapidly changing environment. For example, it might be wise to diversify a shellfish operation by growing a new species better adapted to ocean acidification. But obtaining the required permits for that can be onerous. “California is likely the hardest state to get a permit for shellfish aquaculture, which is seemingly at odds with the messaging that's coming down from the top,” Ward said. While state leaders recognize shellfish aquaculture is sustainable and an opportunity for economic growth, it can take years and hundreds of thousands of dollars for a grower to obtain a permit for a new species. “And they just can't afford that time and money,” she added. “We need to maintain the environmental protections that we have in California, but if we really want the industry to be resilient to environmental change, we have to kind of allow for flexibility in farm management.” Another adaptive strategy identified by shellfish growers was a need for more networking opportunities — not only with other growers, but also with managers, scientists and policymakers — to share information and best practices for adapting to environmental change. The study is published in the journal Ocean & Coastal Management. The researchers hope it will serve as a roadmap for improving the resilience of the aquaculture industry in California. “This work really draws a connection between environmental change that's happening and will continue to happen, and how that's not just affecting the species in the ocean, but also the people who rely on these species,” said Levine. Related Stories Latest Stories Events Banned Contaminants Still Threaten Endangered California Condors SDSU Researchers Identify Rare Genetic Markers of Drug-Resistant Tuberculosis Passion Drives Graduate Student Research at SDSU SDSU Research Says Docile Gecko is a Savage Scorpion Predator Mentorship Thrives at South Bay Latino Research Center National Academy of Sciences Member to Advance Research, Sustainability Goals at SDSU SDSU Researchers Join Fight to Save the Coral Summer Research Gives Students Confidence to ‘Make a Difference’ Research Horizons: A Better Way to Make Life-Saving Drugs Mentorship in Action: State-of-the-Art Water Tunnel Brings ‘Phenomenal’ Possibilities Mentorship in Action: River Research Makes Textbooks Come Alive SDSU Researchers Secure $141M in Funding for 2020-21 BROWSE ALL RELATED Exploring Crime, Punishment, and Pleasure in Reality TV After Childhood Rife With Post-9/11 Racism, Daughter of Immigrants Strives to Shape Policy SDSU Imperial Valley Launches New, Accelerated Pre-Licensure BSN Program 'It’s Elementary' for SDSU Student's A.M.A.N.I. Project SDSU to Host Mountain West Baseball Championship SDSU Management Professor Takes a Hard Look at Inclusion in the Workplace Money Magazine’s Best Colleges for Value Ranks SDSU Banned Contaminants Still Threaten Endangered California Condors ‘Incredibly Competitive’ Fulbright Grants Awarded to Six Students Softball: Aztecs Draw LSU at NCAA Tempe Regional Gov. Newsom Proposes $80M Investment in SDSU Imperial Valley Site Say It Loud: I'm Curly and I'm Proud BROWSE ALL LATEST BROWSE ALL EVENTS ONLINE COMMUNITIES ADDITIONAL RESOURCES Campus Directory Maps Parking Jobs Media Web Portal CSU Land Acknowledgement NEWSLETTER SIGN UP Sign up for the SDSU NewsCenter weekly newsletter. 5500 Campanile Drive San Diego, CA 92182 Tel: 619-594-5200