Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Erik Dixon Named to Board of Trustees facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Alumni May 16, 2022 ‘Whatever You Need, I’m There’ — Meet #NCState22 Best Friends Emily and Alyssa Brought together by the saxophone section, best friends reminisce on their time in Carter-Finley Stadium. Recent Stories New Studies Shed Light on Election-Related Stress Wicked Problems, Wolfpack Solutions Focuses on Future of Food Bob Franks Tapped to Lead Applied Ecology May 16, 2022 ‘We’re Stuck’ — Meet #NCState22 Best Friends Niambé and Kourtni Best friends say 'goodbye' to NC State in the field where they first said 'hello' and started a lifelong friendship. May 16, 2022 ‘I Feel So Blessed’ — Meet #NCState22 Best Friends Parker and Noah As part of our graduation video series, these elementary school friends reflect on how NC State brought them closer together. May 4, 2022 The Hard Times and Good Life of Mohamed Mansour As an undergraduate in the 1960s, Mohamed Mansour struggled academically and financially. With the help of family, friends and supportive faculty, the young man went on to build one of Egypt's most successful businesses. Mansour shares his story at NC State's spring commencement ceremony. Apr 29, 2022 NC State Announces Next in Series of NC Licensed Wines The second wine in the NC State University Hallowed Places Collection features The Court of North Carolina on its label. The collection is part of the university’s ongoing partnership with North Carolina wineries. Apr 12, 2022 How a Wolf Became a Titan Samantha Fischer, the stadium experience manager for the Tennesee Titans NFL team, reflects on her experiences as a master's student at NC State. Apr 7, 2022 MFA Poetry Alum Wins Prestigious Writing Prize Poet Ina Cariño, who earned their Master of Fine Arts in creative writing from NC State, is one of 10 recipients of a 2022 Whiting Award. Mar 1, 2022 ‘Everything Had to Have a Purpose’: Remembering Journalism Visionary Richard Curtis NC State alumnus Richard Curtis revolutionized print journalism as the founding managing editor for design at USA Today. He died Sunday at 75. Feb 24, 2022 Relaunching the NC State Website Learn about the latest version of the NC State core website — ncsu.edu — and how to navigate its new menus and layout. Feb 14, 2022 With Love, From the Wolfpack NC State alumni share how their love stories were shaped by the Wolfpack. Feb 10, 2022 ‘Bengals Raised by Wolves’ Two former Wolfpack football teammates take the NFL's biggest stage Sunday when their Cincinnati Bengals step on the field for Super Bowl LVI. Feb 7, 2022 ‘We Share a Kinship’: Black Alumni Society Fosters Connection, Community Learn about the Black Alumni Society, a tight-knit group that links past, present and future Black NC State students. Dec 7, 2021 A Day of Infamy, a Time for Heroes Army radio operator Robert Westbrook ran straight into enemy fire in the opening minutes of the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor. The NC State alumnus lost his life at the airbase on Hickam Field 80 years ago in a courageous bid to protect U.S. bombers on the ground. Nov 30, 2021 NC State Alumni Association Leader to Retire After 11 years at the helm of NC State’s Alumni Association, Benny Suggs will retire in December 2022. Nov 29, 2021 Erik Dixon Named to Board of Trustees An alumnus of the College of Engineering who is helping connect rural areas of North Carolina is the newest member of NC State's governing board. Posts navigation 1 2 … 13 Next Page Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.