Skip to content The Harvard Gazette Search for: Arts & Humanities Business & Economy Campus & Community Commencement 2022 The Coronavirus Update Events Health & Medicine National & World Affairs News & Announcements Photography The Quest for Racial Justice Science & Technology The Solutions Series News + About Accessibility Athletics News and Scores For Media & Journalists Privacy Policy Trademark The Daily Gazette Sign up for daily emails to get the latest Harvard news. Harvard University National & World Affairs World Taken out of context GenSci Lab scholars urge researchers to take care crafting definitions of sex as language can make its way into law, public policy World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Health & Medicine Health Don’t let latest COVID surge overshadow progress, says Hanage Epidemiologist explains how to stay on guard against subvariants, noting role of protective measures in transition to new pandemic phase Health Researchers find sleep benefit in higher dose of melatonin Supplements show promise in small study of older adults Featured National & World Affairs Health & Medicine Arts & Humanities Science & Technology Business & Economy Campus & Community Experience Commencement 2019 © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College The Harvard Gazette Returning to fight for disabled workers rights Amid darkening clouds, the best road forward Campus & Community Returning to fight for disabled workers rights Campus & Community Returning to fight for disabled workers rights Ariella Barker with international disability rights activist Judith Heumann. Photos courtesy of Ariella Barker Ariella Barker has been advocating for herself and others since childhood — now she will work where litigation meets policy By Robert O'Neill HKS Communications DateJune 3, 2020 Share Email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Also in the Series Many happy returns Triple the joy A call to public service Victory of perseverance, vision over more than decade of challenges Merrick Garland to speak at Commencement for Classes of 2020 and 2021 View all of Honoring the Class of 2020 This is one in a series of profiles showcasing some of Harvard’s stellar graduates. Ariella Barker, M.C./M.P.A. ’20, has spent her life taking on the workplace challenges faced by people with disabilities. As the graduate returns to her job as an attorney for the city of New York, litigating employment discrimination and labor law cases, the challenges have become all the more urgent — and universal — amid the COVD-19 pandemic. Returning to workspaces when there is a probability of being sickened? Remote work? Affordable health care? “I think that COVID-19 is going to open up a lot of disability issues that everyone is going to have to deal with, that people with disabilities have been dealing with forever,” Barker said. Barker, who was diagnosed with spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) at age 3 and has used a wheelchair since age 11, knows these issues well. With her many health care needs, she cannot afford any gap in her employment so as not to lose insurance coverage. And in the devastated work market left by the pandemic, she believes that as a visibly disabled woman, she is at a significant disadvantage in finding employment. Ariella Barker has used a wheelchair since age 11. Barker has been involved in battles all her life. She grew up in rural North Carolina, with a single mom working multiple jobs and a grandmother who helped looked after her. She was diagnosed with SMA through a procedure known as an open muscle biopsy (which she endured at a free clinic without anesthesia). She wasn’t expected to live past the age of 5. “Both my mom and I had no idea whether I was going to live only a couple more years or whatever, but once I kind of reached the age where I realized I was probably going to stop walking, but I wasn’t going to die anytime soon, I had dreams and life went on,” Barker said. Barker was the first person with a disability to be integrated into her public-school system. Her grades qualified her for major scholarships, allowing her to go to college and eventually gain her law degree. Following law school, she went to work for the City of New York. She was motivated by the idea of public service and of the image of the crusading people’s advocate she had watched in the television show “Law and Order” as a child. “… once I kind of reached the age where I realized I was probably going to stop walking, but I wasn’t going to die anytime soon, I had dreams and life went on.” — Ariella Barker, M.C./M.P.A. ’20, She was also conscious of the fact that her debts and her disability kept her from having the full array of choices available to more privileged classmates. The public sector had both protections against discrimination and good pay. She converted to Judaism, her interest in the religion piqued by the “infinite kindness” displayed by one of her professors, who was also an Orthodox rabbi. She moved to Israel for a time too, fulfilling a long-held dream of living abroad, but returned after life-threatening health issues made her continued stay impossible. Difficult battles with debilitating illnesses and health insurance companies followed. For now, Barker is setting aside her plan to enter the public interest–strategic communication field and will return to the courtroom. She says the enriching year she spent at the Kennedy School will enhance her work. “I think that I’ll be able to use a lot of the tools that I’ve learned here at the Kennedy School, to bring it back to New York City’s administration, not just in litigation, but the in-between work, where litigation meets policy agenda setting,” Barker said. Editor's Picks Campus Triple the joy Photographers capture the festive rites and poignant moments as three classes celebrate Commencement World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Campus A call to public service Merrick Garland tells grads to get involved, warns democracy in peril, cites Capitol attack, rise in mass shootings, stifling of voting rights Also in the Series Many happy returns Triple the joy A call to public service Victory of perseverance, vision over more than decade of challenges Merrick Garland to speak at Commencement for Classes of 2020 and 2021 View all of Honoring the Class of 2020 Up Next Campus & Community Amid darkening clouds, the best road forward Campus & Community Amid darkening clouds, the best road forward Thomas J. Hollister, Harvard’s vice president for finance and chief financial officer, discusses the coronavirus' impact on the University’s finances. Stephanie Mitchell/Harvard file photo