Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Crowdfunding Innovation: It’s Backers – Not Money Raised – That Predicts Market Success facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Tag: business management May 23, 2022 Applications for Admission Soar as NC State Grows to Meet Workforce Needs Demand for an NC State degree is at an all-time high as the university prepares to welcome its largest and most diverse first-year class. Apr 7, 2022 Companies That Are Aggressive on Taxes Fall Short at Managing Their Workforce Aggressive companies were more likely to have insufficient staff to operate efficiently. Oct 13, 2021 Why Some Business Leaders Oppose Empowering Workers – And Why They Should Do It Anyway How (and why) business leaders should be doing more to support their workers. Mar 1, 2021 Helping Students Navigate Implicit Bias The teaching tool helps students learn how to advocate for themselves and how to navigate their own biases. Feb 18, 2021 New Tool Assesses Brand Reputation in Real Time and in the Long Term Researchers also showed how the tool related brand reputation to corporate value. Apr 14, 2020 Open Source or Closed? For (Some) Tech, It Really Doesn’t Matter Does open-source tech spread through the marketplace faster? (Nope.) Apr 10, 2020 Data Analytics in a Time of Crisis What data analytics can tell us about the coming months. May 31, 2019 Politicians Walk the Walk, When It Comes to Financial Investments Study of Congress finds that the more liberal a politician’s voting record is, the more likely the politician is to invest in socially responsible stocks. Apr 2, 2019 U.S. CFOs Cite Talent Needs, the Economy and Social Media Among Top Risks Almost half of CFOs said they are concerned about their organization’s ability to manage leadership and talent needs. Oct 8, 2018 For Wineries, Competition Boosts Profits From Sustainability An international study finds that the more sustainability practices a winery has in place, the better its financial performance – and the effect is enhanced when a winery perceives significant pressure from competitors. Sep 5, 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Efforts Can Backfire for New Brands Corporate social responsibility efforts may not always have the brand-building effects that companies want. Jan 9, 2018 Study Finds Diversity Boosts Innovation in U.S. Companies A recent study finds taking steps to foster diversity makes a company more innovative, in terms of product innovations, patents created and citations on patents. Jan 3, 2018 Combining Experiments, Models Boosts Social Behavior Research Researchers are outlining a new approach to behavioral research that draws on experimental studies and computer models to offer insights into organizational and group behavior. Mar 16, 2017 Survey: Corporate Risks Rising – But Risk Management Efforts Not Keeping Pace New research finds most executives see risks increasing in both number and complexity – but those same executives say their organizations’ risk management efforts may not be staying abreast of those risks. Mar 7, 2017 Crowdfunding Innovation: It’s Backers – Not Money Raised – That Predicts Market Success Research finds that the number of backers a new product attracts during crowdfunding predicts the financial success of the product when it reaches the marketplace – but the amount of money raised during crowdfunding does not. Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.