UT Wordmark Primary UT Wordmark Formal Shield Texas UT News Camera Chevron Close Search Copy Link Download File Hamburger Menu Time Stamp Open in browser Load More Pull quote Cloudy and windy Cloudy Partly Cloudy Rain and snow Rain Showers Snow Sunny Thunderstorms Wind and Rain Windy Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Twitter email alert map calendar bullhorn Skip to content ↓ Information and resources related to COVID-19 Protect Texas Together Close Banner The University of Texas at Austin May 31, 2022 UT News Navigation Search Close Navigation UT News News Opinions Series UT Stories: COVID-19 What Starts Here Campaign Stories UT Research Science & Technology Health & Wellness Arts & Humanities Education & Leadership Business & Economy Campus & Community Policy & Law For Journalists Press Releases Media Contacts Experts Guide Pitch Form Archive UT Austin on Twitter UT Austin on Instagram UT Austin on Facebook UT Austin on LinkedIn Search for content on UT News Search Button Class of 2022 Seizing the Moment, Class of 2022 These UT22 seniors are taking advantage of every opportunity to shape a better tomorrow. Congratulations to The University of Texas at Austin Class of 2022 — you did it! You pushed past your comfort zones, learned more about yourself and the world around you, built lasting connections and left your mark on campus. Although this chapter is coming to an end, the momentum built from your time spent here is not. We have chosen these eight outstanding UT22 seniors to highlight because of their commitment to take what they’ve learned on the Forty Acres and create a positive impact. Among them are researchers, artists, innovators, entrepreneurs and community leaders ready to change the world. Lucious McDaniel IV, UT22 Senior Startup founder and business honors senior Lucious McDaniel IV on building businesses that make a difference and the value of mentorship and advocacy. Read More about Lucious Grace Farley, UT22 Senior Plan II Honors and social work senior Grace Farley talks about finding her voice and leading other first-generation students to do the same. Read More about Grace Hunter Beaton, UT22 Senior Communication and leadership senior Hunter Beaton uses his UT education to grow his nonprofit and improve lives. Read More about Hunter Kiara Kabbara, UT22 Senior Government senior Kiara Kabbara says all of her passions — including representation, equity, politics and business — are coming together. Read More about Kiara Mihir Kamble, UT22 Senior What starts here changes the world — but might one day also help us leave it, says aerospace engineering senior Mihir Kamble. Read More about Mihir Emily Slaughter, UT22 Nothing could have prepared nursing senior Emily Slaughter for the real world more than, well, the real world. Read More about Emily Bella Cheng, UT22 Senior Studio art senior Bella Cheng has a wealth of experience, insight and multidisciplinary artistry to make the world brighter. Read More about Bella Brian Chavez, UT22 Senior Biology honors senior Brian Chavez values authenticity and looks forward to practicing compassionate health care in the Rio Grande Valley. Read More about Brian Subscribe to the TEXAS Newsletter UT Austin on Twitter UT Austin on Instagram UT Austin on Facebook UT Austin on LinkedIn UT News Home For Journalists Press Releases Media Contacts Experts Guide News Archive Pitch Form UT Austin Home Site Policies Web Privacy Policy Emergency Information Web Accessibility Policy Disability Resources © The University of Texas at Austin 2022