Skip to main content Toggle navigation Search Cornell University Cornell.edu Media Relations Search Cornell University Cornell Chronicle Topics Architecture & Design Arts & Humanities Business, Economics & Entrepreneurship Computing & Information Sciences Energy, Environment & Sustainability Food & Agriculture Global Reach Health, Nutrition & Medicine Law, Government & Public Policy Life Sciences & Veterinary Medicine Physical Sciences & Engineering Social & Behavioral Sciences Coronavirus Campus & Community News & Events Public Engagement New York City Staff News Photos of the Day Big Red Sports Diversity In Memory Features NYS Impact Student Life Around Cornell All Stories In the News Expert Quotes Cornellians Freeze! Researchers develop new protein crystallography tool By Susan Newman September 3, 2021 Combining state-of-the-art X-ray technology and cryogenics, Cornell physics researchers have developed a new method for analyzing proteins in action, a breakthrough that will enable the study of far more proteins than is possible with current methods. Jonathan Clinger, a postdoctoral researcher in the Department of Physics, in the College of Arts and Sciences (A&S), is lead author of the study, which was published Aug. 4 in the journal of the International Union of Crystallography. Current X-ray crystallography methods involve making “movies” – actually a series of snapshots – of a protein’s atomic structure over time, to reveal the steps in an enzymatic reaction, or how a photoactive protein responds to light. These images inform the design of optimized enzymes for biotechnology and pharmaceuticals. The most powerful current methods involve triggering a reaction within a protein crystal, collecting an X-ray diffraction pattern after a short time delay, and then repeating with different time delays. X-ray data from hundreds to tens of thousands of small protein crystals must be collected and processed to obtain a three-dimensional snapshot of the protein structure at just one time delay. “These are all very bespoke experiments that require a lot of overhead,” Clinger said. These methods require a complex experimental setup at a synchrotron or X-ray free-electron laser source, a team of scientists to operate it, massive amounts of protein and complex data analysis, making them largely inaccessible to most researchers. Only a handful of protein systems have been studied so far. In the new method – millisecond mix-and-quench crystallography, or MMQX, developed at the Cornell High Energy Synchrotron Source (CHESS) – a reaction is triggered by rapidly applying a reactant-containing solution to a protein crystal. The reaction is then allowed to proceed for a desired time. But instead of trying to quickly collect X-ray data before the reaction proceeds further, the crystal is cooled in a few milliseconds to 100 kelvins (minus 279.67 degrees Fahrenheit). The reaction is quenched – literally stopped cold – so X-ray data can be collected later. “Our approach allows anyone to get time-resolved data, using standard synchrotron beamlines and workflows,” said senior author Robert Thorne, professor of physics (A&S) and a Weiss Presidential Fellow. Far more data per crystal can be collected, Thorne said, in part because at cryogenic temperatures, protein crystals can tolerate much larger X-ray doses before showing damage. Data can be collected by one or more scientists working remotely using mail-in protocols on any automated crystallography beamline, at any synchrotron source. And now a single crystal can be sufficient, rather than hundreds of thousands, to obtain a snapshot of the protein structure at a given time delay. A key to the method is technology for ultra-rapid cooling of protein crystals based on earlier discoveries in the Thorne lab and commercially developed by Thorne’s company, MiTeGen. Postdoctoral researcher David Moreau, Ph.D. ’20, and Clinger constructed a mix-and-quench instrument and collaborated with Matt McLeod and Todd Holyoak of the University of Waterloo to study the enzymatic mechanism of PEPCK, an essential enzyme in glucose metabolism. The 40-millisecond time resolution in these proof-of-concept experiments is comparable to what has been achieved with other methods that require three to five orders of magnitude more crystals. And, according to Thorne, 1- to 2-millisecond time resolutions are feasible. “Time-resolved atomic resolution structural study of proteins need no longer be a specialist pursuit,” Thorne said. “MMQX will make it routine. It can be a powerful addition to the toolkit used by biologists and biotechnologist to dissect, optimize and inhibit biomolecular function.” The Center for High Energy X-ray Sciences (CHEXS) is funded by the National Science Foundation; the Macromolecular Diffraction at CHESS (MacCHESS) is funded by the National Institutes of Health and by the state of New York. Susan Newman is a science communicator for the Cornell Laboratory for Accelerator-based Sciences and Education. Physical Sciences & Engineering NYS Impact Media Inquiries Media Contact Becka Bowyer rpb224@cornell.edu 6072204185 Get Cornell news delivered right to your inbox. Subscribe You might also like CHESS receives $32.6M from NSF for new X-ray beamline NIH awards $17.4 million to Cornell for CHESS subfacility Gallery Heading × Previous Next Links About the Chronicle Media Relations Office Copyright Web Accessibility Assistance Contact Cornell Chronicle 312 College Ave Ithaca, NY 14850 607-255-4206 cunews@cornell.edu SUBSCRIBE Daily and weekly newsletters Feeds - RSS & JSON