Skip to main content Toggle navigation Search Cornell University Cornell.edu Media Relations Search Cornell University Cornell Chronicle Topics Architecture & Design Arts & Humanities Business, Economics & Entrepreneurship Computing & Information Sciences Energy, Environment & Sustainability Food & Agriculture Global Reach Health, Nutrition & Medicine Law, Government & Public Policy Life Sciences & Veterinary Medicine Physical Sciences & Engineering Social & Behavioral Sciences Coronavirus Campus & Community News & Events Public Engagement New York City Staff News Photos of the Day Big Red Sports Diversity In Memory Features NYS Impact Student Life Around Cornell All Stories In the News Expert Quotes Cornellians Credit: Provided Clara Rice ’21 on the bridge connecting Zambia and Zimbabwe at Victoria Falls, the largest waterfall in the world. Cornell celebrates bumper crop of Fulbright students By Jackie Swift May 25, 2022 Clara Rice ’21 knew she wanted to spend as much time as she could as a Cornell student living and learning abroad. When her plans for an internship in Kenya in the summer of 2020 were canceled because of COVID-19 travel restrictions, she looked for a new opportunity. Then she learned about the Fulbright U.S. Student Program, administered at Cornell by the Mario Einaudi Center for International Studies. She was drawn to the research fellowship, which allows recipients to define and carry out their own projects in a host country. “I was really excited by the way the Fulbright gave me the chance to choose anywhere in the world to travel and the opportunity to guide my own research,” she said. Rice is one of seven 2021 graduates and recent Cornell alumni who accepted Fulbright U.S. Student awards to research, study or teach English during the 2021-22 academic year. Despite COVID-related delays, the current Fulbrighters were all able to arrive in their host countries by April. “The pandemic brought disappointment and anxiety to all of us, but Fulbright applicants are more optimistic now,” said Stefan Senders, one of two Fulbright advisers at Einaudi. “They tend to have an eye to possibility, and they look for a path forward – whether in their own lives or in our shared existence. They want to make what impact they can.” This sense of optimism brought out a large pool of applicants this year across the country – and a bumper crop of 15 U.S. Student Program award winners at Cornell for 2022-23: Micah Benoit ’21 (College of Agriculture and Life Sciences): Research in Brazil Alethia Chan ’22 (CALS/Charles H. Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management): English teaching in Indonesia Rachel Christopherson ’22 (College of Arts and Sciences): Research in Germany Jay Doshi ’22 (CALS): Research in Canada Samantha Fountain ’22 (College of Human Ecology): Study in the United Kingdom Aadi Kulkarni ’22 (Cornell Jeb E. Brooks School of Public Policy and CHE): Research in Denmark Vanessa Olguín ’22 (A&S): Research in Peru Supriya Pandit ’22 (CHE): Research in India Megan Rochlin ’21 (A&S): English teaching in Brazil Brendan Rosen ’22 (CALS): Research in the Philippines Odeya Rosenband ’22 (A&S): English teaching in the Czech Republic Elena Runfeldt ’22 (CHE): Research in Barbados David Sheng ’22 (A&S): Research in Japan Catherine St. Hilaire ’22 (School of Industrial and Labor Relations): Research in Canada David Wang ’20 (A&S): Study in the Netherlands Cornell has a history of successful Fulbright applications. One in four Cornell applicants for the U.S. Student Program wins an award, while nationally the average is one in six. Since the 1940s, more than 500 Cornellians have traveled abroad through the program. Rice, who majored in health care policy, chose Zambia as her host country partly because she had lived in the capital city, Lusaka, while contributing to a nutrition research project through the Cornell Global Health Summer Program. She fell in love with the relaxed lifestyle, the friendliness of Zambians and the natural scenery, she said. “I felt comfortable knowing that my first experience living abroad for a year would be in a place where I already had a few connections and knew my way around some important logistics,” she said. She was able to travel in October to Zambia, where she is conducting a research project on disruptions in the country’s contraceptive supply chain. “I’ve learned a lot about how health supply chains are structured,” she said. “And I’ve solidified my interests in working in this field in the future.” Rising seniors, May graduates and recent alumni interested in applying for 2023-24 awards should email fulbright@einaudi.cornell.edu as soon as possible in order to meet this year’s Aug. 29 national deadline. For Rice, the application process brought clarity to her academic interests, while winning the award and traveling to Zambia opened up the world to her. “Given the flexibility of my self-directed project, I’ve been able to travel all over Zambia,” she said. “Recently, I attended two traditional ceremonies – N’cwala and Kuomboka – where I learned about the histories of two of the largest tribes in Zambia. The chance to attend these ceremonies and to make new friends from all over the world far outweighs anything I could have read in a book or learned in a classroom.” Read the full version of the story. Jackie Swift is a freelance writer for Global Cornell. Global Reach News & Events Media Inquiries Media Contact Gillian Smith gillian.smith@cornell.edu 607-254-6235 Get Cornell news delivered right to your inbox. Subscribe You might also like Fulbright winners hope for global research, teaching in 2021 Student works for global change through Fulbright program Gallery Heading × Previous Next Links About the Chronicle Media Relations Office Copyright Web Accessibility Assistance Contact Cornell Chronicle 312 College Ave Ithaca, NY 14850 607-255-4206 cunews@cornell.edu SUBSCRIBE Daily and weekly newsletters Feeds - RSS & JSON