Skip to content News Menu Search form Search term Home Find Stories For Journalists Contact Image credit: Getty Images May 25, 2022 Reducing gun violence: Stanford scholars tackle the issue Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email By Melissa De Witte After 19 children and two teachers were slaughtered by a gunman at Robb Elementary School in Uvalde, Texas, many Americans are asking, yet again, how to prevent future acts of senseless violence from occurring. What gun laws need to be changed? Why is it so difficult to pass regulations? How can Second Amendment rights be balanced with firearm safety? Stanford scholars have been studying these issues from a range of perspectives, including law, politics, economics, and medicine. Here are some of their findings. Update: May 25, 2022: This story was originally published on Feb. 26, 2018, and has been updated to include new content. crime scene tape with blurred forensic law enforcement background in cinematic tone and copy space (Image credit: Getty Images) Causes, impacts of gun violence Uncovering the causes of gun violence has been a challenge, in part because research is limited by federal legislation that constrains research funding on the issue. Scholar Nigam Shah at the Stanford School of Medicine has written about how this has affected empirical study. But that has not deterred scholars from examining its impacts. David Studdert, also at the School of Medicine, has studied the devastating consequences of gun violence, particularly the risks it poses to public health. Maya Rossin-Slater, an associate professor of medicine and a senior fellow at the Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research (SIEPR), has also looked at the long-term impact of gun violence, specifically among American children who experienced a shooting at their school. Rossin-Slater found that they have higher rates of absenteeism, lower high school and college graduation rates, and by their mid-twenties, earn lower incomes. Below is some of that research. (Image credit: Getty Images) Share this card Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email Medicine Californians living with handgun owners more than twice as likely to die by homicide, study finds Residents who don’t own a handgun but live with someone who does are significantly more likely to die by homicide compared with those in gun-free homes, research shows. New study of gun violence in schools identifies long-term harms Research from SIEPR’s Maya Rossin-Slater finds that students exposed to school shootings face “lasting, persistent” adversity in their educational and long-term economic outcomes. Social Sciences Shirin Sinnar on the Buffalo shooting, hate crimes, and domestic terrorism In the wake of the Buffalo shooting, Stanford Law School’s Shirin Sinnar discusses the scale of white supremacist violence in the U.S. and the rise of hate crimes. Disconnect: The gap between gun violence and research in numbers Gun violence is much discussed but little studied, largely due to federal decisions governing research funding. A new analysis highlights just how big the gap between the violence and our knowledge of it is. The answer? It’s huge. Supporting students exposed to school shootings Maya Rossin-Slater talks about her research into the mental health impact of severe school violence. Panel discusses how shootings affect those unscathed by bullets A panel of faculty members at the School of Medicine said shootings can affect the mental health of people close to the violence. California handgun sales spiked after two mass shootings In the six weeks after the Newtown and San Bernardino mass shootings, handguns sales jumped in California, yet there is little research on why – or on the implications for public health, according to a Stanford researcher. Mass shootings: Public face of a much larger epidemic While mass shootings have become the public face of gun violence, they account for less than 1% of the 40,000 firearm deaths each year. Short-term hospital readmissions for gun injuries cost $86 million a year A study from Stanford researchers has found that readmissions account for 9.5% of the $911 million spent annually on gun-injury hospitalizations. Supporting children through loss Rabbi Patricia Karlin-Neumann talks about how to help young people experiencing grief. Medicine Firearm injuries in children, teens costly for U.S. health care system, Stanford study finds The average cost of initial hospitalization to treat pediatric gun injuries is about $13,000 per patient and has risen in recent decades, a Stanford Medicine study found. Investigating psychiatric illnesses of mass shooters Ira Glick and his collaborators studied the psychiatric state of 35 mass shooters in the United States who survived the incidents, which took place between 1982 and 2019. Social Sciences The silent cost of school shootings SIEPR’s Maya Rossin-Slater finds the average rate of antidepressant use among youths under age 20 rose by 21 percent in the local communities where fatal school shootings occurred. Law & Policy New study analyzes recent gun violence research Consensus is growing in recent research evaluating the impact of right-to-carry concealed handgun laws, showing that they increase violent crime, despite what older research says. Medicine Handgun ownership associated with much higher suicide risk Men who own handguns are eight times more likely to die of gun suicides than men who don’t own handguns, and women who own handguns are 35 times more likely than women who don’t. Advice on how to cope with the threat of school shootings Victor Carrion offers advice on how families can cope with the stress of school safety. (Image credit: Getty Images) Reducing gun violence Many Americans are demanding practical steps to reduce gun crime. One way is to have more stringent gun safety policies, such as legislation requiring guns to be stored safely, more stringent background checks, or as President Biden announced Tuesday, a federal ban on assault weapons and high-capacity magazines. Research has shown that states with tighter policies save lives: One study by Stephanie Chao found that states with stricter gun laws have lower rates of gun deaths among children and teenagers, and states with child prevention access laws are linked with fewer gun suicides in this age group. “If you put more regulations on firearms, it does make a difference,” said Chao, assistant professor of surgery and senior author of the study. “It does end up saving children’s lives.” Her analysis found that states with the strictest laws had a mortality rate of 2.6 per 100,000 and for states with the least strict laws, mortality rate was almost double at 5.0 per 100,000. (Image credit: Getty Images) Share this card Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email Law & Policy John Donohue: One tragic week with two mass shootings and the uniquely American gun problem In a Q&A, Stanford Law School gun law expert John J. Donohue III discusses mass shootings in the U.S., the challenges facing police when confronting powerful automatic weapons and the prospect of gun safety laws. Law & Policy Lax state gun laws linked to more child gun deaths States with strict gun laws have lower rates of gun deaths among children and teenagers, and laws to keep guns away from minors are linked with fewer gun suicides in this age group, a Stanford study found. Social Sciences Improved gun buyer background checks would impede some mass shootings, Stanford expert says Stanford Law Professor John Donohue says a background check system that was universal and effectively operated could impede gun acquisition by people who commit mass shootings. How to solve more gun crimes without spending more money Simple tweaks to how police process bullet casings could dramatically improve their forensic data. Law & Policy Reducing civilian firepower would boost police and community safety, Stanford expert says In addition to restricting the firepower a person can amass, Stanford law Professor John J. Donohue advocates efforts to build trust between communities and law enforcement agencies as a way to enhance both police and citizen safety. Stricter gun laws reduce child and adolescent gun deaths, Stanford study finds Laws that keep guns away from young people are especially strongly linked to lower rates of gun suicides in youth. (Image credit: Getty Images) Gun legislation and policy For nearly three decades, law Professor John Donohue III has studied what can be done to prevent gun violence in the United States. A lawyer and economist, Donohue explores how law and public policy are connected to gun violence, including how gun laws in the U.S. compare to other countries, as well as how legislation varies across the states, to better understand the effect that has on rates of violence. “The U.S. is by far the world leader in the number of guns in civilian hands,” Donohue explained. “The stricter gun laws of other ‘advanced countries’ have restrained homicidal violence, suicides and gun accidents – even when, in some cases, laws were introduced over massive protests from their armed citizens.” Here are some of his findings, and other research related to legislating gun safety in the U.S. (Image credit: Getty Images) Share this card Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email Law & Policy Stanford’s John Donohue on guns, mass shootings and the law in the U.S. On Nov. 30, American students were once again the victims of a school shooting. Stanford law Professor John Donohue discusses the case and gun violence in the U.S. How U.S. gun control compares to the rest of the world While deaths from mass shootings are a relatively small part of the overall homicidal violence in America, they are particularly wrenching. The problem is worse in the U.S. than in most other industrialized nations. And it’s getting worse. 4 gun control steps U.S. needs now John Donohue pens an opinion piece for CNN laying out four steps the United States should take to strengthen gun legislation. Law & Policy Violent crime increases in right-to-carry states Stanford Law School Professor John Donohue found that states that adopted right-to-carry concealed handgun laws have experienced a 13 to 15 percent increase in violent crime in the 10 years after enacting those laws. Another mass shooting: An update on U.S. gun laws In a Q&A, John Donohue discusses gun safety law and legislative developments. Stanford GSE holds teach-in on research into gun violence in schools Education scholars look at the evidence behind policy ideas to address school shootings. Will Americans ever think differently about guns? Stanford medicine and law professor David Studdert thinks more public health evidence is needed before cultural attitudes around gun safety and violence will change. In The Spotlight Law & Policy Social Sciences Economics Law Medicine Politics Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email What to read next: Science & Technology Small modular reactors produce high levels of nuclear waste Small modular reactors, long touted as the future of nuclear energy, will actually generate more radioactive waste than conventional nuclear power plants, according to research from Stanford and the University of British Columbia. Science & Technology Q&A: How the aging immune system impacts brain health Katrin Andreasson, professor of neurology and neurological sciences, talks about the role the aging immune system plays in the development of age-related brain diseases. Science & Technology What the humble planarian teaches us about the building blocks of life A bioengineer studies the flatworms' ability to regenerate nerves, muscle, and other tissue. “One of the big questions we want to answer is how it does this on a genetic level?” Stanford Report To receive Stanford news daily, subscribe to Stanford Report. For Journalists Press Releases Media Contacts Stanford Experts See Also Contact Stanford News Faculty / Staff Resources Events Events calendar Stanford News is a publication of Stanford University Communications Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.