Skip to main content Toggle navigation Search Cornell University Cornell.edu Media Relations Search Cornell University Cornell Chronicle Topics Architecture & Design Arts & Humanities Business, Economics & Entrepreneurship Computing & Information Sciences Energy, Environment & Sustainability Food & Agriculture Global Reach Health, Nutrition & Medicine Law, Government & Public Policy Life Sciences & Veterinary Medicine Physical Sciences & Engineering Social & Behavioral Sciences Coronavirus Campus & Community News & Events Public Engagement New York City Staff News Photos of the Day Big Red Sports Diversity In Memory Features NYS Impact Student Life Around Cornell All Stories In the News Expert Quotes Cornellians Social & Behavioral Sciences How to get people to follow the rules: lessons from the pandemic’s ‘great experiment’ May 27, 2022 When a deadly global pandemic broke out, compliance — the act of following rules — became critical. Yet many people didn’t adhere to the rules. Professor John, from the Cornell Law School, explains how getting people to work together and follow rules takes careful thought and planning, and that compliance inside businesses and organizations is essential to accomplishing just about anything. Around Cornell Women resent compliments about communality at work May 27, 2022 When women and men are faced with positive gendered stereotypes, women experience more frustration and less motivation to comply with the expectation than men, according to new research. Students tackle community projects in moral psychology course May 24, 2022 Students in a new moral psychology class spent the semester working with local non-profits to tackle issues from migrant family justice to food insecurity to sustainable agriculture. Around Cornell Harrison College Scholars tackle interdisciplinary research projects May 18, 2022 This year’s graduating class of Robert S. Harrison College Scholars presented their final theses during a daylong event May 7 in Goldwin Smith Hall. Around Cornell Arts and Sciences faculty honored for teaching, advising excellence May 16, 2022 "These faculty members and graduate teaching assistants have made tremendous contributions for the benefit of our students, guiding their educational paths and molding their experiences." Around Cornell New Frontier Grants push boundaries in A&S research May 11, 2022 The College of Arts and Sciences awarded $1.25 million in grants to faculty members pursuing critical developments in areas ranging from quantum materials to sustainable technologies. Same-race friends help teens connect to school May 11, 2022 New Cornell psychology research highlights the power of peers to influence adolescents’ sense of belonging in diverse schools. Online retail images reveal skin tone discrepancies May 11, 2022 A Cornell study found that still images of models in online retail ads had statistically lighter skin tones than those in videos of the same product and model. They also found evidence of “tokenism” – one model who was considerably darker-skinned than the others. Undergraduate psychology conference to feature diverse research May 10, 2022 Thirty-five students will present on topics from implicit bias in person perceptions to early-life adversity in prairie voles and more. Around Cornell Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 Next page » Last page Last » Gallery Heading × Previous Next Links About the Chronicle Media Relations Office Copyright Web Accessibility Assistance Contact Cornell Chronicle 312 College Ave Ithaca, NY 14850 607-255-4206 cunews@cornell.edu SUBSCRIBE Daily and weekly newsletters Feeds - RSS & JSON