Skip to main content University of Wisconsin–Madison News Stem Cells at UW–Madison Artboard 1 In 1998, UW–Madison developmental biologist James Thomson introduced the world to the first laboratory-derived human embryonic stem cells. His lab's accomplishment underpins the new field of regenerative medicine, and the all-purpose cells are used worldwide to test drugs, develop treatments for diseases and further our understanding of basic human biology. Twenty years later, UW–Madison remains at the forefront, an internationally recognized leader in stem cell research. The Morgridge Institute for Research Presents Immortal: An oral history of stem cell discovery In November 1998, the journal Science published James Thomson's groundbreaking work on embryonic stem cells. There has been 20 years of progress since the initial discovery spawned a new field of research, and tremendous potential exists for the future. We reached out to the people who lived it, and they shared the experiences in their own words. This is their story. Read More » Stem Cell News A science trailblazer retires: Stem cell researcher James Thomson’s legacy changed the future of biology After more than 30 years with UW–Madison and 12 years with the Morgridge Institute for Research, Thomson has announced plans to retire in July. March 3, 2022 | Brian Mattmiller Mouse study may help doctors choose treatments for leukemia patients By exploring the ways mice responded, researchers hope to gain an understanding of the sorts of human health issues that may bring on a case of this life-threatening form of cancer. February 21, 2022 | Chris Barncard Stem cell project to create new model to study brain development and Down syndrome The research is funded through an $11 million Transformative Research grant from the National Institutes of Health, which supports exceptionally innovative or unconventional research projects with the potential to advance their field. October 7, 2021 | Charlene N. Rivera-Bonet Individualized brain cell grafts reverse Parkinson’s symptoms in monkeys UW researchers say the stem cell treatment is an "extremely powerful" step toward a treatment for millions of human Parkinson’s patients. March 1, 2021 | Chris Barncard UW–Madison leads DoD-funded effort to restore vision to injured service members and people with disease The technology will be based on a system in which human induced pluripotent cells are used to generate light-responsive eye cells called photoreceptors along with the cells that support them. December 11, 2020 | Kelly April Tyrrell Explore all stem cell stories » Stem Cell Resources UW–Madison Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine Center (SCRMC) » Regenerative Biology, Morgridge Institute for Research » Stem Cell Research Program, Waisman Center » National Institutes of Health » Can stem cells help me? » WiCell » 18/6 As of late 2017, there were 18 clinical trials using embryonic stem cells in six countries. 635 The number of people — faculty, staff, students — working in labs conducting stem cell or regenerative medicine research on the UW–Madison campus. 284 The number of stem cell–related patents issued to the Wisconsin Alumni Research Foundation as of May 2018. Media Contacts Brian Mattmiller Chief Communications Officer Morgridge Institute for Research bmattmiller@morgridge.org 608-316-4332 Kelly Tyrrell University Communications University of Wisconsin–Madison kelly.tyrrell@wisc.edu 608-262-9772 Gian Galassi Senior Media Specialist UW Health Public Affairs ggalassi@uwhealth.org 608-263-5561 Jordana Lenon Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine Center University of Wisconsin–Madison jlenon@primate.wisc.edu 608-263-7024, 608-263-2982 Feedback or questions? contact-us@uc.wisc.edu © 2022 Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System