Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation News Center Main navigation Calendar Categories Business and Economic Development Campus and Community Earth and Environment Health and Medicine Science and Technology Society and Culture Media Contacts Experts Guide Featured expert Find an expert Daily Digest Whistle Whistle Whistle archives Whistle classifieds Social Media Subscribe Features Features Features Archive Open Search Search Search Breadcrumb Home Johnny Smith Julius C. "Bud" Shaw Professor of Sports History School of History and Sociology Areas of expertise U.S. society and politics/policy perspectives Core research Public service, leadership, and policy Johnny Smith is a historian of the twentieth century United States, specializing in race, sports, and popular culture. He is also the undergraduate adviser for the Sports, Society, and Technology (SST) program. His newest book, Blood Brothers: The Fatal Friendship Between Muhammad Ali and Malcolm X (written with Randy Roberts), illuminates the pivotal relationship between the famous boxer and the Muslim minister. Blood Brothers reveals how Malcolm X awakened Cassius Clay's political consciousness. This dynamic brotherhood, fused together by racial pride and self-determination, transformed the new heavyweight champion--Muhammad Ali--into an international symbol of Black Power. His first book, The Sons of Westwood: John Wooden, UCLA, and the Dynasty That Changed College Basketball explores the emergence of college basketball as a national pastime and the political conflicts in college athletics during the 1960s and 1970s. Choice named The Sons of Westwood an "Outstanding Academic Title." His writing has appeared in the Wall Street Journal, Washington Post, The New Republic, Slate, Salon, The Daily Beast, Time.com, and The Undefeated. Most recently, he published "The Job Is Football: The Myth of the Student-Athlete" in The American Historian (August 2016). He teaches a range of courses, including: American History since 1877; History of Sports in America; Boxing, Race, and American Culture; and a seminar on Sports and Modern America. In the spring of 2015, Smith received the CETL/BP Junior Faculty Teaching Excellence Award. In 2014, he received the Ivan Allen College Teacher of the Year Award. He was also selected as a Class of 1969 Teaching Fellow during the fall 2014 semester. View all related images for distribution Social media links Website Faculty profile Image Assistant Professor Johnny Smith teaching class. Download Image Image Assistant Professor Johnny Smith Download Image Image Assistant Professor Johnny Smith Download Image Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites and Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Art Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education