Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: About Syracuse University News is produced by the Division of Communications. Our office is located in the Nancy Cantor Warehouse, 350 W. Fayette St., Syracuse, NY 13202. To contact a member of the media relations staff, email media@syr.edu. If you need to contact someone concerning internal communications or SU Today, send an email to internalcomms@syr.edu. Syracuse University News is updated daily with stories about the people, events and scholarship occurring on campus, in the City of Syracuse, at our regional locations throughout the country and across the globe. Syracuse University News also contains listings of University events, campus announcements, faculty and student news, and highlights from local, national and international press coverage. Visit our submission page to suggest a story idea or submit a campus announcement or calendar listing. Two times a week during the academic year (and once a week during the summer and winter breaks) staff curate and compile a summary of news from across campus in the form of an electronic newsletter, SU Today. To receive SU Today in your inbox, provide your email in the Subscribe to SU Today box on this page. In addition to producing Syracuse University News and SU Today, the staff provides: media relations for the University and central administration, including identifying and pitching newsworthy stories, op-eds and faculty experts; fielding incoming press queries; staging press conferences; supervising news and film crews visiting campus; collaborating with communications officers in the schools and colleges; and managing the hometown news program; news writing, editing and distribution services; communications counsel and support for Universitywide projects and special events; and distribution of campuswide announcements, Public Safety notices and other critical messages to the University community. Communications Contacts of All Schools & Colleges View Complete List Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Office of News Services Staff Jeff Stoecker Vice President and Chief Communications Officer 315.443.0190 jastoeck@syr.edu Jeff Stoecker joined Syracuse University in April 2020 as vice president and chief communications officer. Stoecker oversees all day-to-day operations of all communications functions at the University, including executive and internal communications and media relations. He also serves as the University’s primary spokesperson. Jeff leads the development of the University’s communications platform around issues facing Syracuse University, and higher education as a whole, and is focused on building on the momentum and success of the communications team. Sarah Scalese Senior Associate Vice President for Communications, Division of Marketing and Communications 315.443.8085 sescales@syr.edu As senior associate vice president for communications, Sarah oversees internal communications and media relations in the Division of Marketing and Communications. In collaboration with University leadership, Sarah develops plans and technologies that broaden the University’s internal and external communications, while improving its overall public relations effectiveness. Prior to joining Syracuse University in 2014, Sarah held leadership positions at Racepoint Global and Schneider Associates, both of which are Boston-based integrated marketing communications firms. She formerly served as director of communications for the Massachusetts House Minority Leader. Before transitioning into public relations, she produced and wrote newscasts for network affiliates in Boston; Albany, New York; and Jacksonville, Florida. She earned a bachelor’s degree in communications from Jacksonville University. Sarah and her husband, Justin Gravius ’04, reside in Marcellus and are avid Orange sports fans. John Boccacino Senior Internal Communications Specialist 315.243.9557 jmboccac@syr.edu A multimedia content creator, John writes stories that highlight the amazing accomplishments and accolades of Syracuse University's talented students, faculty and staff across all platforms, including as host of the ’Cuse Conversations podcast. John has more than 18 years of experience as a print and multimedia reporter, sports information director and, most recently, a content creator in the University’s Office of Alumni Engagement. John earned a bachelor’s degree in broadcast journalism from the Newhouse School and an executive master’s in public administration from the Maxwell School. A diehard fan of the Orange, Buffalo Bills and Chicago Cubs, he lives in Farmington with his wife, Sam, their two pugs, Wrigley and Ernie, and their cat, Toby. Roxanna Carpenter Communications Assistant 315.443.3043 rocarpen@syr.edu A lifelong artist, Roxanna is a 1973 graduate of SU's College of Visual and Performing Arts with a bachelor of fine arts in illustration. She grew up in north central Pennsylvania in the small burg of Montoursville, more than two hours from everything. After college and for nearly 30 years, she worked as a graphic artist and typographer, first in Seattle then Syracuse, before joining SU. She now works with people, words and images through News Services, providing administrative support and visual creativity. Her art finds expression in gingerbread and in paint. Roxanna’s creative passions also include quilting, t'ai chi and haiku. Kathleen Haley Director of Internal Communications 315.443.5420 kmhale02@syr.edu Kathleen writes stories about University life for the Syracuse University News site and assists in creating content and communication strategies for special projects, events and programs. She enjoys finding those hidden gems among the many compelling stories on campus. A Syracuse University graduate with degrees in newspaper journalism and political science, she worked at a couple of daily newspapers as a beat reporter for many years before returning to the University. Kathleen has read Jane Austen’s “Persuasion” too many times to count and enjoys biking and hiking. Keith Kobland Associate Director, Media Relations 315.443.9038 kkobland@syr.edu As associate director of media relations, Keith facilitates media requests involving the Syracuse University community assists with production of multimedia content for SU News. Keith graduated from SUNY Geneseo and spent three decades as a Syracuse broadcast reporter before arriving on the SU Hill, bringing a journalist’s perspective to the position along with extensive knowledge of local media. During his career, he’s covered some of the biggest stories to involve the University. Keith and his wife, Marybeth, are the proud parents of a son and daughter. Along with his media relations duties, Keith is a proud adjunct faculty member at the S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications. Daryl Lovell Associate Director, Media Relations 315.380.0206 dalovell@syr.edu As associate director of media relations, Daryl oversees national media outreach for Syracuse University, with a special focus on STEM subjects, retail and supply chain industry topics, and news and research connected to the University’s mission to serve veterans and military families. She previously worked as a media relations specialist at Cornell University before joining the Syracuse University media relations team in 2018. She started her career in the broadcast journalism industry, working at TV news stations in Elmira, New York, Syracuse and Toledo, Ohio. She is a member of the Public Relations Society of America and the Syracuse Press Club. As a proud native Detroiter, she is now happy to call Central New York home with her family. Jen Maser Associate Director of Internal Communications 315.443.5301 jlmaser@syr.edu Jen is an enthusiastic storyteller who loves uncovering and writing about the people, places and things that make Syracuse University a special place for so many. Prior to working in higher education, she managed internal and external communications in numerous industries, including health care, architecture/design and the nonprofit realm. Jen earned a bachelor’s degree in communications studies from SUNY College at Brockport and lives in Seneca Falls with her partner and a mutt named Jersey. In her free time she enjoys hiking, camping, yoga, reading spiritual texts and cheering for the Buffalo Bills. Ellen James Mbuqe Executive Director, Media Relations 315.443.1897 ejmbuqe@syr.edu A passionate communicator, Ellen oversees national media relations outreach for Syracuse University. She earned her journalism degree from Penn State University and recently completed an MBA from Ohio University. She started out as a crime reporter in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, before transitioning into nonprofit, arts and higher education media relations. A recent transplant to Central New York, Ellen enjoys exploring the great outdoors with her husband and children, rooting for the Steelers, and visiting museums when she gets the chance. Kelly Rodoski Senior Communications Manager 315.443.5381 kahoman@syr.edu Kelly focuses on public relations activities for Hendricks Chapel and such University initiatives as the University Lectures, Connective Corridor and Near Westside Initiative, Pan Am 103, and the annual Martin Luther King Jr. Celebration. Kelly has been a member of SU News since 1999 and previously was editor of the Syracuse Record. A native of Rome, N.Y., Kelly is a 1992 graduate of SU’s College of Arts and Sciences who has traveled to 40 of the 50 states and abroad but has only ever lived in Central New York. She loves to spend time with her family, travel and watch SU sports. Diane Stirling Academic Research Writer 315.663.4523 dstirlin@syr.edu Diane has worked as a daily newspaper reporter, marketing account manager and for many years, managing public and media relations, government affairs, issues advocacy and publications for the Oneida Indian Nation. She also developed content for an industry trade magazine, was a news and magazine writer for Cazenovia College and for six years, wrote about student and faculty achievements and information-field research for Syracuse University’s School of Information Studies (iSchool). She earned a journalism degree from SUNY Morrisville, and much later, a B.P.S. from Syracuse University's College of Professional Studies and an M.S. in information management from the iSchool. She lives in Oneida with her husband and their Plott hound mix, Brindy. Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.