Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Crowdfunding for A Place At The Table facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Tag: community service May 9, 2022 Krispy Kreme Challenge Meets $2 Million Commitment Park Scholars celebrate an achievement nearly two decades in the making. The funds directly impact North Carolina children and families at UNC Children's Hospital and NC State Park Scholars Children's Specialty Clinic. May 11, 2017 Building a Legacy NC State University alumna Clare Jordan founded the campus chapter of Habitat for Humanity more than 25 years ago. She now supports an endowment that will benefit students who are completing nonprofit internships. Mar 16, 2017 Carrying Water for a Cause How fast can you carry 5 liters of water for a mile? Find out on Centennial Campus' Oval on Sunday, March 26, and help raise funds and awareness for NC State's Wine to Water chapter. Jan 12, 2017 Come See NC State’s Build-A-Block A drop-in reception for those who have supported NC State's Build-A-Block partnership with Habitat for Humanity of Wake County will be held Wednesday from noon to 2 p.m. at the worksite off Lake Wheeler Road. RSVP by Friday to attend. Nov 17, 2016 Use Those Community Service Hours All SHRA and EHRA employees who work at least 20 hours per week are allotted up to 24 hours for volunteer activities, or one hour a week (up to 36 hours annually) for mentoring/tutoring in a school-affiliated program for “at-risk” students or five hours a month (up to 45 hours annually) for participation in a public school literacy program. Nov 17, 2016 NC Vision Zero Steps Up Highway Safety Effort Donate shoes for Sunday’s commemoration of the World Day of Remembrance on Centennial Campus. Nov 16, 2016 PowerAmerica Adds STEM Initiative for Scouts PowerAmerica has established North Carolina’s first STEM Scouts program at the Science House on Centennial Campus in conjunction with the Occoneechee Council, Boy Scouts of America. Nov 10, 2016 Deadlines for Donations Extended Faculty and staff can help college students around the state who are in need with donations to a pair of Staff Senate drives: restocking the Feed the Pack food pantry and donating to the Warm the Pack winter coat drive. Deadlines have been extended to serve more students across the UNC system. Oct 25, 2016 Pledge to Combined Campaign Through Nov. 18 Staff and faculty can choose from among almost 1,000 statewide charities as part of the State Employees Combined Campaign. The campaign drive began Monday and ends on Nov. 18. Oct 19, 2016 Help With Hurricane Relief Efforts There are multiple ways faculty, staff and students can help neighbors near and far who have been affected or displaced by the flooding of Hurricane Matthew. Check out all the resources available to the campus community, including what donations are needed for the Feed the Pack food pantry and the Food Banks of Central and Eastern North Carolina. Oct 13, 2016 Help Warm the Pack With Coat Donation The NC State Staff Senate is partnering with the Feed the Pack food pantry to collect new or gently used winter coats for students who may be in need of warm clothing this winter. Sep 7, 2016 Pack Builds a Block for Raleigh NC State's campus chapter of Habitat for Humanity broke ground on the largest college-affiliated building project in the country, with plans to build 11 town homes off Raleigh's Lake Wheeler Road. Aug 18, 2016 Pack2Pack Connects Those in Need With Household Goods On Aug. 14, more than 100 students were connected with lightly used furniture and household items through the Pack2Pack program, which was organized by Pack Promise intern Taylor Spoon through a grant from the NC State Sustainability Fund. Oct 14, 2015 Park Scholars Give $2 Million The Park Scholars, who have organized the wildly popular Krispy Kreme Challenge race since 2004, have committed $2 million to UNC Children's Hospital for the Krispy Kreme Challenge Children's Specialty Clinic at Rex Hospital in Raleigh. Oct 2, 2015 Crowdfunding for A Place At The Table A Place At The Table, a pay-as-you-can cafe on Hillsborough Street, is looking to raise $100,000 to pay for startup costs. The restaurant, the brainchild of NC State alumna Maggie Kane, hopes to open next summer. Posts navigation 1 2 Next Page Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.