Skip to main content Toggle navigation Search Cornell University Cornell.edu Media Relations Search Cornell University Cornell Chronicle Topics Architecture & Design Arts & Humanities Business, Economics & Entrepreneurship Computing & Information Sciences Energy, Environment & Sustainability Food & Agriculture Global Reach Health, Nutrition & Medicine Law, Government & Public Policy Life Sciences & Veterinary Medicine Physical Sciences & Engineering Social & Behavioral Sciences Coronavirus Campus & Community News & Events Public Engagement New York City Staff News Photos of the Day Big Red Sports Diversity In Memory Features NYS Impact Student Life Around Cornell All Stories In the News Expert Quotes Cornellians Law, Government & Public Policy How to get people to follow the rules: lessons from the pandemic’s ‘great experiment’ May 27, 2022 When a deadly global pandemic broke out, compliance — the act of following rules — became critical. Yet many people didn’t adhere to the rules. Professor John, from the Cornell Law School, explains how getting people to work together and follow rules takes careful thought and planning, and that compliance inside businesses and organizations is essential to accomplishing just about anything. Around Cornell Where red and blue meet: cancel culture, fair elections May 24, 2022 A new and uniquely constructed survey of American voters finds glimmers of hope that Democrats and Republicans can agree on steps needed to shore up an increasingly shaky democracy. Summit on democracy features high-level insight, surprising survey results May 18, 2022 To address the fragility of American democracy, the Institute of Politics and Global Affairs at the Cornell Jeb E. Brooks School of Public Policy is bringing together influential political leaders, policymakers and experts for a May 24 summit. Around Cornell Women use various tactics to accomplish boardroom goals May 18, 2022 Researchers discovered three groups of participation tactics in women directors; warmth-based tactics, competence-based tactics and hybrid tactics. Harrison College Scholars tackle interdisciplinary research projects May 18, 2022 This year’s graduating class of Robert S. Harrison College Scholars presented their final theses during a daylong event May 7 in Goldwin Smith Hall. Around Cornell National Zoning Atlas launched to make America's patchwork of codes accessible and comprehensible May 17, 2022 Professor of City and Regional Planning Sara Bronin's zoning atlas initiative is a first-of-its-kind effort to translate and standardize zoning codes across the U.S. into a single, accessible online resource. Around Cornell WHO collaborating center supports global nutrition research May 16, 2022 The World Health Organization has selected the Division of Nutritional Sciences to lead systematic reviews and training supporting the development of WHO guidelines and research networks. In State of the Brooks School address, Dean Barry outlines “an opportunity and an obligation” May 12, 2022 The Cornell Jeb E. Brooks School of Public Policy is about to conclude its first academic year. In a State of the School address to faculty and staff, Dean Colleen Barry outlined accomplishments from that year and new initiatives the school is about to launch. She also described the school's long-term goals including the goal of becoming one of the nation's pre-eminent public policy schools. Around Cornell Misperceptions can threaten scientific advancement May 5, 2022 Misperceptions of marginalized and disadvantaged communities’ level of concern regarding COVID-19 and other issues could undermine cooperation and trust needed to address collective problems, according to new Cornell-led research. Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 Next page » Last page Last » Gallery Heading × Previous Next Links About the Chronicle Media Relations Office Copyright Web Accessibility Assistance Contact Cornell Chronicle 312 College Ave Ithaca, NY 14850 607-255-4206 cunews@cornell.edu SUBSCRIBE Daily and weekly newsletters Feeds - RSS & JSON