Skip to Main Page Content ASU News ASU News Home Explore Discoveries Solutions Creativity Entrepreneurship Global Engagement Arizona Impact Sun Devil Life University News ASU Insight Videos Athletics Events Media Relations Manage Subscriptions Follow ASU News Expert Q&A Video series Got a Minute? Devils in the Details Spotlight Psyche mission Magazine ASU Thrive Books and essays Sun Devil Shelf Life Narrative Storytelling Arizona Impact ASU a major player in microelectronics January 20, 2022 University experts share insights about this microscopic world The field of microelectronics plays a macro-sized role in our lives. It’s responsible for the tiny brains — microchips — that power most electronic things these days: familiar technology like smartphones and TVs, important medical equipment from hearing aids to MRI scanners, and even everyday appliances like microwave ovens and thermostats. Our dependence on microchips is now underscored by the shortage that’s stalling the production of cars and cell phones. For supply and security reasons, there’s growing interest in making more semiconductors and microchips in the U.S. With its cutting-edge facilities, strategic partnerships, educational programming and research capability, Arizona State University is positioning Arizona as the perfect hub for this growing industry. MORE: How ASU and industry partners are boosting the semiconductor business in Arizona. What’s the difference between microelectronics, semiconductors and microchips? Basically, semiconductors are used to make microchips, microchips are physical devices you can hold in the palm of your hand, and microelectronics refers to the field or industry as a whole. Semiconductors are a type of material with the traits of both conductors, like aluminum, and insulators, like glass. Semiconductors such as silicon have enabled us to make electronic devices smaller, faster and more reliable. They usually come to fabrication plants as a thin, flat wafer, similar to a dinner plate. “When you have lots of different layers of semiconductors in various structures, you get devices like transistors, and devices wired together become microchips,” says Zachary Holman, an associate professor in the School of Electrical, Computer, and Energy Engineering. Nowadays, people often use the term “semiconductors” as a shorthand for chips and other devices made with semiconductor materials. Zachary Holman is reflected on a silicon wafer at the ASU MacroTechnology Works building at ASU Research Park. How small are microelectronic devices? The “micro” stands for micrometer, which is one-millionth of a meter. (An average human hair is around 60 micrometers thick.) Microchips themselves aren’t that tiny, but if you stuck one under a microscope, it would have features and regions at that micrometer scale. Today, some chips even have features on the nanometer scale. A nanometer is one-billionth of a meter. In 2021, the tech industry hailed the improved capacity of a supercomputing chip the size of an iPad, along with the creation of the world’s smallest single-chip system the size of a dust mite. Despite the dramatic size difference, both are microelectronic devices, because both have micrometer-scale features. The microchips found in everyday computers and smartphones range from the size of a fingernail to a postage stamp. How are microchips made? The manufacturing process has become much more sophisticated since the first microchip made its debut in 1959. It starts with design — engineers use a software program to lay out the microchip’s structure, like an architect creating the blueprint of a house. The design goes to a fabrication plant — often called a fab for short, or sometimes a foundry — which takes a base semiconductor wafer and layers different materials like metals, oxides and other semiconductors on top of it. “They also do patterning steps, which are similar to the old camera film exposure processes. After depositing a layer, the wafer goes into a chemical bath or a gaseous environment that removes material from select areas, while other areas are protected,” Holman says. “That process gets repeated up to hundreds of times to form all of the elements for that chip’s design.” These patterning steps etch the layered wafer to match the initial design. There are many chips per wafer, so once all its layers are complete, the fab “dices” it, separating out the individual chips like slices of a sheet cake. The final step is to package the chips by bonding them to circuit boards, those green plastic panels you find inside electronics. The fab ships the final creations to other manufacturers, who use them to make products such as cars, TVs and cell phones. Graphic by Shireen Dooling Why is there a microchip shortage right now? Are more fabs the solution? Manufacturers from tech, auto and other industries expected that their sales would go down during the COVID-19 pandemic, so they ordered fewer chips from fabs. However, pandemic optimism and vaccine availability in summer 2021 led to more consumer spending. Manufacturers suddenly had more demand than supply for microchip products. Now, fabs are being flooded with additional requests as many industries try to order more chips at once. “It's hard to increase the supply rapidly because the chip fabrication process takes months,” Holman says. “The fabs themselves are really complex and expensive. From the start of construction to a fab being operational is typically three-plus years.” Currently, most semiconductor and chip manufacturing happens overseas, with the U.S. accounting for just over 12% of manufacturing globally, according to the Semiconductor Industry Association’s 2020 report. Building additional fabs in the U.S. would help relieve similar global chip shortages in the future by adding to the world’s overall fabrication capability. If U.S. fabs prioritize orders from U.S. consumers, that could also help protect our domestic supply chain. What are the national security issues to consider with microelectronics? “Think of the U.S. Department of Defense’s computer systems, communications systems, transportation systems — they all rely on microelectronic devices to function properly,” says Nadya Bliss, executive director of ASU’s Global Security Initiative. These devices are integral not only to military operations, but also critical sectors like health care and the economy. If any of those were compromised, Bliss says, the consequences would also impact national security. In a recent report, the National Security Commission on Artificial Intelligence noted the need to develop a resilient microchip and semiconductor supply chain in the U.S. in order to stay ahead in the geopolitical technology arena. “Increasing the design and fabrication of these technologies in the U.S. would address a major national security vulnerability — that an adversarial nation could tamper with the technology at some point in the supply chain,” Bliss says. The Advanced Electronics and Photonics facility gives companies access to ASU experts and equipment so they can develop new materials, methods and designs for microelectronics at industry scale. Photo by Andy DeLisle How is ASU helping Arizona lead the U.S. microelectronics industry? An educated workforce is key for Arizona to become a home for microelectronics manufacturing. While ASU has been producing top-notch engineering graduates for 65 years, the Ira A. Fulton Schools of Engineering is now investing in a talent pipeline specifically for microelectronics with the creation of its new School of Manufacturing Systems and Networks. “With the new fabrication facilities coming into the Valley from Intel and Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Corp., we’re expecting over 10,000 new jobs,” says Kevin Reinhart, director of research project management at ASU’s Knowledge Enterprise. These companies and many others can take advantage of ASU’s research expertise and specialized equipment at ASU facilities like the Advanced Electronics and Photonics facility, ASU NanoFab and the Eyring Materials Center. There, they can develop new materials, methods and designs for microelectronics at industry scale. “At ASU’s MacroTechnology Works site, we’ve got 50,000 square feet of cleanroom facilities,” Reinhart says. “From a university perspective, we’re very unique in that aspect.” These facilities also provide opportunities for ASU students to gain the critical hands-on experience that employers want. (Find out how your company can partner with ASU.) In addition, ASU will use funds from Arizona’s New Economy Initiative to create five Science and Technology Centers, two of which will contribute to the state’s microelectronics industry — the Energy Materials and Devices Center and the Advanced Manufacturing Center. The university aims to bring even more funding for microelectronics to Arizona. ASU played a lead role in adding support for a domestic microelectronics industry — called the CHIPS for America Act — to the 2021 National Defense Authorization Act. If funding legislation passes, ASU will propose a National Network for Microelectronics with a university-supported core facility in Arizona. Fabrication plants use tons of water, so why are we building them in the desert? Water is a crucial part of the chip manufacturing process. Between adding each delicate layer of the wafer, the fab must wash away all residue so that no bacteria or particles obstruct the chips’ microscopic pathways. But to rinse off every speck of debris, the water itself has to be extra clean — no minerals, no organic material. Fabs create what’s called ultra-pure water for this purpose, and it’s so clean that it’s actually not safe for humans to drink. Creating ultra-pure water and washing wafers produces lots of leftover wastewater. So why bring more fabs to Arizona’s water-scarce desert? “The important question is not, 'Do we have enough water?' but, 'How do we invest our limited water?'” says Dave White, director of the Global Institute of Sustainability and Innovation and professor in the School of Community Resources and Development. “We need to look for the most efficient water uses that have the greatest social, economic, environmental returns. I would call semiconductor manufacturing in our region a water-smart industry.” Manufacturing brings many benefits to the state, including skilled, high-wage jobs and a supply of high-demand products. But the state benefits the fabrication plants as well — Arizona has a highly educated workforce and a low risk of environmental hazards such as earthquakes or hurricanes. Fabs in Arizona need to be innovative and efficient with their water use and reuse, but that’s just as true for cotton fields and homes, White says. Intel’s partnership with the city of Chandler is a prime example of how fabs can accomplish this. There, they take wastewater from Intel’s fabs and pump it back into the ground. As it filters through the earth, the water purifies naturally, and it also recharges the aquifer. Groundwater levels are concerningly low throughout the state, so the Intel-Chandler partnership is a solution for two pressing issues at once. Graduate student David Quispe works in the MacroTechnology Works building at ASU Research Park. What’s next for microelectronics? Talk about the future of microchips, and you’re sure to run into Moore’s law. It’s more of an idea than a proven scientific theory. Essentially, it says that microchips’ computational power doubles (and their size halves) about every two years. It implies that microchips will hit a limit where they can’t be improved on anymore. Holman compares Moore’s law to a scene from “Spinal Tap” where a rock musician shows off his amplifier that goes up to 11, instead of the usual 10. “Moore's law has been about one knob of optimization, namely making things smaller in two dimensions, and that knob has already been turned up to 11. That's why, going forward, the technical innovation in microelectronics is about building in three dimensions,” he says. Putting different capabilities that normally exist on separate chips — such as sound, display, computation and memory — together to create an all-in-one chip is another new direction for microelectronic technology, he adds. Additionally, microelectronics will be crucial in the shift to renewable energy. According to the U.S. Energy Information Administration, only 12.6% of our national energy consumption came from renewable sources in 2020. “How do we get closer to a hundred percent? Well, you need to have a lot more control over where electricity is being generated, where it's being consumed and stored, and when,” Holman says. Electronics that can share information and distribute power across the grid will allow us to draw from many renewable sources and know how much is available from a source at any given time. With around 300 days of solar-charging sunshine every year, coupled with its microelectronics research, development and fabrication capabilities, Arizona is an ideal place to find the technological solutions we need for a future that is both sustainable and leading-edge. Arizona Impact School of Electrical, Computer, and Energy Engineering Ira A. Fulton Schools of Engineering Global Security Initiative School of Manufacturing Systems and Networks Global Institute of Sustainability and Innovation School of Community Resources and Development Cybersecurity Engineering Energy Sustainability Community Faculty Policymakers Mikala Kass Communications Specialist , ASU Knowledge Enterprise 480-727-5616 mkass@asu.edu Next Story Study finds adaptability, rewards help increase physical activity Routines have a lot of benefits. They can provide stability and help us make progress toward our goals. But whether it’s for work or pleasure, too much of the same thing can always become a drudge — especially if you don’t treat yourself.In a paper recently published in the American Journal of Preventive Medicine, ASU College of Health Solutions Associate Professor Marc Adams details the res... Read the article More from Arizona Impact ASU students help Emerson School celebrate 100 years of history Tempe campus , Herberger Institute for Design and the Arts , The College of Liberal Arts and Sciences , School of Historical, Philosophical and Religious Studies Community progress in Maryvale based on coming together, hearing people, says former ASU program head Downtown Phoenix campus , Watts College of Public Service and Community Solutions , Community involvement , Community partnerships Harnessing the sun, powering the future Community involvement , Energy , Engineering , Renewable energy Solutions Study finds adaptability, rewards help increase physical activity Adaptive goals shown to help initiate daily activity 50% more than static goals. January 20, 2022 ASU professor shares how to set own physical activity goals Routines have a lot of benefits. They can provide stability and help us make progress toward our goals. But whether it’s for work or pleasure, too much of the same thing can always become a drudge — especially if you don’t treat yourself. In a paper recently published in the American Journal of Preventive Medicine, ASU College of Health Solutions Associate Professor Marc Adams details the results of behavior interventions that utilized adaptive goal setting and immediate reinforcement to get insufficiently active adults moving more. “We know that monitoring devices like Fitbits help people increase their physical activity, and we know that increased physical activity has long-term health benefits, including weight management, cardiovascular benefits and a reduction in cancer risk,” Adams said. But one big caveat of devices like Fitbits is they take a one-size-fits-all approach, or what’s known as static goal setting, where users try to hit the same, fixed goal each day. This approach doesn’t account for the sometimes subtle and nuanced tweaks needed for real behavior change, which can leave people feeling disappointed in themselves or, worse, cause them to give up altogether. Marc Adams “So we wanted to design more potent behavioral interventions than what’s standard now,” Adams said. In addition to comparing static goal setting with adaptive goal setting — the latter of which is based on a moving window of performance and uses an algorithm to adapt an individual’s goals based on their performance over time — Adams and his team compared immediate reinforcement with delayed reinforcement in the form of financial incentives for physical activity performed. The study, called WalkIT Arizona, equipped 500 adults in the Phoenix area with accelerometers that monitored their physical activity for a year. They were divided into a two (adaptive versus static goal setting) by two (immediate versus delayed financial incentive) condition factorial trial to see which interventions were most successful at increasing their walking. “What we found was the group that did the best was the one with adaptive goals and immediate reinforcement,” Adams said. In particular, adaptive goal setting helped participants initiate daily activity 50% more than static goals. And when it came to immediate versus delayed reinforcement, researchers saw about a 25% increase in the likelihood of initiating daily physical activity among those receiving immediate reinforcement. “What was really neat was that we also saw a difference between the immediate and delayed groups of about six and a half minutes a day of moderate intensity activity, which corresponds to about 46 minutes a week, or about a third of what the national Physical Activity Guidelines suggest,” Adams said. “So not only did immediate reinforcement help to increase the likelihood of someone initiating any physical activity at all, but also how long they were active.” The WalkIT Arizona study, which is still ongoing, is currently looking at how environmental factors play into individuals’ physical activity habits. To that end, 500 adults were recruited from an equal number of high- and low-income neighborhoods, as well as neighborhoods of both high and low walkability, meaning those with features such as sidewalks and traffic lights that make walking easier and those without such features. Adams expects to publish results on that soon. And for those of us whose physical activity monitors aren’t equipped with the researchers’ algorithm but want to give adaptive goal setting a try, Adams has a simple formula for tailoring physical activity goals based on performance. Simply look at the data from the last 10 days of your physical activity, add the highest number and the lowest number (of minutes, steps, crunches, what have you) and divide it in half. That number is your new minimum goal. And don’t get discouraged by setbacks. “We saw consistently, from every participant, that there's a lot of variability in people's physical activity patterns,” Adams said. “So what we’re trying to do is better understand and leverage that, and that means we also need to be OK with being kind to ourselves and giving ourselves realistic, achievable goals.” Top photo courtesy of iStock/Getty Images Solutions Healthy Living Research College of Health Solutions Faculty Community Emma Greguska Reporter, ASU News (480) 965-9657 emma.greguska@asu.edu Trending on ASU News University News School of Molecular Sciences celebrates 45 'Moore' years Tempe campus School of Molecular Sciences The College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Academics University News Investigating the mechanics of materials at the smallest scale Tempe campus Ira A. Fulton Schools of Engineering School of Sustainable Engineering and the Built Environment Engineering University News School of Molecular Sciences inaugural director retires after exemplary ASU career Tempe campus School of Molecular Sciences The College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Science Solutions PhD graduate seeks increased Latino access to mental health services Tempe campus T. Denny Sanford School of Social and Family Dynamics The College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Health care Solutions A new dawn for supercomputing at ASU Tempe campus Knowledge Enterprise Department of Physics School of Molecular Sciences Global Engagement Simple, inexpensive diagnostic technology to combat global threat of African Swine Fever Tempe campus Biodesign Institute School of Electrical, Computer, and Energy Engineering Biology and society ASU News Contact usManage Subscriptions ASU News ASU Insight Videos Media Relations Discoveries Solutions Creativity Entrepreneurship Global Engagement Arizona Impact Sun Devil Life University Admissions Financial Aid President's Office About ASU ASU Home Emergency Events ASU Events Athletics Maps and Locations Jobs Directory Contact ASU My ASU Copyright and Trademark Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Emergency