Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Close Search Tulane Search form Search this site Search search tulane.edu search news only Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Tulane News News Tulanian Magazine Events Experts Press Releases On Good Authority Podcast Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... News HomeNews Home /PR /Tulane researchers receive $1.4 million to pay attention Tulane researchers receive $1.4 million to pay attention August 14, 2015 1:15 PM Print to PDF Barri Bronston bbronst@tulane.edu 504-314-7444 golob-venable-mock.jpg Tulane researchers Edward Golob, Brent Venable and Jeff Mock. (Photo by Paula Burch-Celentano) Why are people startled by the sound of a car backfiring? What causes them to turn their attention away from what they are doing and toward the location of the sound? Edward Golob, an associate professor of psychology at Tulane University, is the principal investigator on a $1.4 million, five-year grant from the National Institutes of Health that will study how such auditory spatial attention, which scientists believe is vital to the survival of both humans and animals, operates in the brain. The study is an interdisciplinary collaboration with Brent Venable, Tulane associate professor of computer science, and Jeff Mock, Tulane research professor in psychology. The grant continues research on spatial hearing that Golob began in 2009 with a $768,443 Faculty Early Career Development Award from the National Science Foundation. “Spatial attention can operate much like how touching your phone automatically starts an app, in the sense that sounds can automatically grab attention and put it to work,” Golob said. “We are trying to understand Mother Nature’s engineering – cognition is the software of the app and the brain is the circuit board.” As part of the study, researchers will develop a computer program that simulates how attention works in the brain. “The outcomes will have practical significance because controlling attention is vital for avoiding accidents at all ages and maintaining independent living at older ages,” Golob said. “This project is also relevant to designing treatments for brain disorders such as post-traumatic stress disorder, stroke and potentially dementia.” Golob believes the interdisciplinary nature of his grant proposal stood out among NIH grant reviewers. “I think it offers a different approach. Teaming up with computer science opens up fresh questions about the brain and cognition that we’re trying to answer. I’m excited about what lies ahead.” Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane Home Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions Footer - Middle Column News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Footer - Right Column Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University