Skip to main content Visit Temple.edu Toggle Utility Menu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Search Site Search Temple Now Navigation - Go To - News by topic - Arts & Culture - Athletics - Campus News - Community Engagement - Global Temple - Research - Staff & Faculty - Student Success - Sustainability - Return to Campus - Visualize TempleAnnouncementsNewsletters - Temple Now subscriptionPublicationsTemple in the newsSocial MediaSpecial SeriesTemple MagazineAboutAccolades News by topic Announcements Newsletters Special Series About Arts & Culture What to read, listen to and watch to learn more about AAPI communities Athletics Introducing a new head coach of women’s basketball Campus News New General Education course to focus on AAPI identity and experiences Community Engagement President Wingard highlights Center City Business Association’s “Lunch with the City's Leaders” Global Temple Serving the American media from the Far East Research Temple-headquartered STARS Computing Corps receives a $3 million National Science Foundation grant Return to Campus Student community health ambassadors look out for their fellow Owls Staff & Faculty Temple thought leaders lend their voices to national conversation surrounding Roe v. Wade Student Success Temple Made for … building community Sustainability Charles Library earns LEED Gold certification Visualize Temple Charles Library shapes the future at Temple and beyond View Archives Home / News by topic Posted February 3, 2021 Flying Further, strategic planning process Flying Further together Executive Vice President and Provost JoAnne A. Epps shares why this is the right moment for the university to embark on a strategic planning process. As the university looks ahead to 2034, there’s a lot to consider. What will the Temple experience of tomorrow look like? With the landscape of higher education changing, and as we face new challenges, it’s important for us to be thoughtful about how we can respond to new opportunities and carry our values into the future. In this video, Temple Vice President and Provost JoAnne A. Epps explains why now is the right time for Flying Further, the university’s strategic planning process, and what she hopes the university will discover by engaging in it. “It’s always been important for us to think strategically about what we do, what we offer and how we can remain a destination of choice,” Epps said. “COVID has accelerated our attention to the force of change. We’ve learned a lot about our ability to deliver education in different ways, but the need for us to think thoughtfully is very important.” - Kim Fischer Temple University Strategic Marketing & Communications Bell Building 1101 W. Montgomery Avenue Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Directory Maps and Directions Contact RSS Facebook Twitter Pinterest LinkedIn.com YouTube Flickr TUPortal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Temple Now: The official source for Temple news. Copyright 2015, Temple University. All rights reserved.