Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: Campus & Community Eugene ‘Gene’ Anderson to Depart Syracuse, Tapped to Lead University of Pittsburgh’s Business School Thursday, May 26, 2022, By News Staff Share Whitman School of Management Gene Anderson Eugene “Gene” Anderson, dean of the Martin J. Whitman School of Management since 2017, today announced he will conclude his time at Syracuse University next month. After more than five years at the Whitman School, Anderson will return home to his native Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, to become the Henry E. Haller Jr. Dean of the University of Pittsburgh’s Joseph M. Katz Graduate School of Business and College of Business Administration. Alexander McKelvie, associate dean for undergraduate and master’s education and professor of entrepreneurship, will serve as interim dean, effective July 1, 2022. “The Whitman School has made real progress—both in terms of academic excellence and student success—under Gene’s leadership,” says Chancellor Kent Syverud. “Thanks to his vision and service, the Whitman School is stronger, more distinctive and better positioned for continued growth.” Some of Anderson’s noteworthy accomplishments include: hiring 21 full-time faculty with research interests that include business analytics, entrepreneurship and innovation, financial technology, machine learning and asset pricing, organizational diversity and inclusion, and sustainable investing; significantly expanding interdisciplinary initiatives, including proposing and leading the development of several new undergraduate dual degrees with the College of Arts and Sciences, Falk College of Sport and Human Dynamics, School of Information Studies and Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs; new dual master’s degrees with the College of Arts and Sciences, Falk College and Maxwell School; an M.D./MBA with SUNY Upstate; a new joint master’s degree in sustainable organizations and policy with Maxwell; the University’s first online undergraduate business degree with the College of Professional Studies; the nation’s first online J.D./MBA; and a certificate program in technology, law and entrepreneurship; launching a new undergraduate major in business analytics and new courses in analytics, diversity and inclusion, globalization, innovation, leadership, and entrepreneurship, along with expanding soft skills workshops and technical skill certification opportunities; and strengthening initiatives to increase faculty and student diversity, including hiring an executive director of institutional culture and implementing a wide range of diversity, equity, inclusion and accessibility (DEIA) initiatives to ensure equitable systems at Whitman and foster an environment that is welcoming to all. “Gene has contributed so much to our community and strengthened the Whitman School in measurable ways,” says Vice Chancellor and Provost Gretchen Ritter. “In his tenure at the helm, the Whitman faculty and programs have experienced outstanding success in advancing business education and research, and preparing the next generation of business professionals for a rapidly changing global marketplace that demands visionary, creative and innovative leadership.” Anderson came to Syracuse from the University of Miami School of Business Administration, where he served as dean for five years. Prior to that, he had spent more than two decades at the University of Michigan’s Ross School of Business. Anderson earned a doctorate from the University of Chicago and master’s and bachelor’s degrees from the University of Illinois at Urbana‐Champaign. “I have treasured every moment of my time here at Syracuse University,” says Anderson. “Perhaps most important are the opportunities our faculty and staff have created to equip students for success in this ever-changing world, and the tremendous expansion of those opportunities to women and underrepresented students. Nearly 90% of Whitman students find promising jobs within just a few months of graduation, and I have enjoyed watching them grow and expand the network of Orange alumni around the globe.” When McKelvie assumes the interim dean role on July 1, he brings with him nearly 15 years of scholarship and leadership at Syracuse University. He chaired the Department of Entrepreneurship and Emerging Enterprises at Whitman (2014-19) and his research is focused on innovation, new firm strategic management and growth, entrepreneurial decision making, and family business. McKelvie has helped design new courses and training programs for the University’s D’Aniello Institute for Veteran and Military Families, and continuously served on the CNBC Disruptor Advisory Council. He has received multiple teaching awards and was recently recognized with the George R. Burman Award for Entrepreneurial Leadership, presented to an outstanding individual—student, faculty or staff—who supports Whitman’s entrepreneurial initiatives. McKelvie grew up in Canada and lived in Sweden for eight years where he earned a Ph.D. from Jönköping International Business School (doctor of philosophy in business administration). “Alex’s long track record as a leader, innovator, educator and researcher will serve the Whitman School well during this time of transition,” says Ritter. “I am grateful for his dedication to the school’s students, faculty and staff, and am confident he will provide strong leadership and stability as we endeavor to identify the next dean while maintaining the tremendous growth trajectory at Whitman.” Details of a national search for the next Whitman dean will be forthcoming. Author News Staff Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi More In Campus & Community Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59 was only 5 years old when he developed a work ethic that would last a lifetime. The Syracuse University graduate and longtime member of the Board of Trustees first demonstrated his entrepreneurial spirit as a… COVID-19 Update: Effective Wednesday, June 1, Masking Level Returns to Yellow Dear Students, Families, Faculty and Staff: Recently the Onondaga County Health Department has reported a notable decline in new COVID infections and hospitalizations across the Central New York region. This positive trend, combined with significantly reduced population density on our… Preparing Students for a Life of Success Selecting a major and choosing a career path don’t have to be daunting experiences. While some students come to Syracuse University’s College of Arts and Sciences (A&S) or the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs (Maxwell) ready to declare… Digital Badges at Syracuse University: Recognizing and Authenticating Microcredential Moments in Higher Education As higher education continues to anticipate and react to the needs of an evolving workforce, new programs and various modalities have been introduced to provide just-in-time learning opportunities that meet the needs of hard and soft skills sought by employers…. 5 Things to Know About the JMA Wireless Dome Home to countless athletic competitions, five Orange teams, some of the most memorable moments in collegiate sports history and cherished University traditions. Host to Commencement, iconic performers, family-friendly entertainment, high school athletic events and graduations for local districts, and even… Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.