Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links University of Miami Division of University Communications Office of Media Relations Miller School of Medicine Communications Hurricane Sports UM Media Experts Emergency Preparedness Home Search News@TheU Explore Topics Latest Headlines Academics Arts and Humanities People and Community Research University All Topics A to Z Related Links Subscribe to Daily Newsletter Special Reports Social Networks For the Media Find University Experts Contact Us Life@TheU News and Info People and Culture Benefits and Discounts More Life@TheU Topics About Life@the U Connect and Share Contact Life@theU Events All Events Faculty and Staff Events Student Events TheU Creates (Arts and Culture Events) Undergraduate Students: Important Dates and Deadlines Submit an Event Miami Magazine News@TheU Life@TheU Events Miami Magazine More News Sites Admissions Alumni College of Arts and Sciences College of Engineering DCIE Frost School of Music Miami Herbert Business School Miller School of Medicine School of Architecture School of Communication School of Education and Human Development School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science School of Nursing and Health Studies The Graduate School Student Affairs Search News@TheU Explore Topics Latest Headlines Academics Arts and Humanities People and Community Research University All Topics A to Z Related Links Subscribe to Daily Newsletter Special Reports Social Networks For the Media Find University Experts Contact Us Life@TheU News and Info People and Culture Benefits and Discounts More Life@TheU Topics About Life@the U Connect and Share Contact Life@theU Events All Events Faculty and Staff Events Student Events TheU Creates (Arts and Culture Events) Undergraduate Students: Important Dates and Deadlines Submit an Event Miami Magazine More News Sites Admissions Alumni College of Arts and Sciences College of Engineering DCIE Frost School of Music Miami Herbert Business School Miller School of Medicine School of Architecture School of Communication School of Education and Human Development School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science School of Nursing and Health Studies The Graduate School Student Affairs News Home Stories 2022 May What’s open, closed on the University campuses for summer 2022 AAA People and Community University What’s open, closed on the University campuses for summer 2022 By News@TheU 05-17-2022 What’s open, closed on the University campuses for summer 2022 By News@TheU 05-17-2022 Find out what will be open, what will be closed, and what’s operating on a limited schedule until the Fall 2022 semester begins on Aug. 22. With another academic year in the books, here’s a look at the facilities and services that will be open, closed, or operating on a limited schedule during the summer semesters. For those starting classes in August, take a look ahead and review the Fall 2022 academic calendar, which includes dates for registration, holidays, and more. Dining Coral Gables Campus Visit UMDining or @umdining on Instagram for the most up-to-date information. Medical Campus Visit UMed Insider for a list of restaurant and food options. Marine Campus The SALT Waterfront Restaurant is open for lunch Monday through Friday, 11:30 a.m.–2:45 p.m. It closes after lunch and then reopens for dinner on Wednesday and Thursday from 4:30 p.m.–8:15 p.m., and on Friday from 4 p.m.–8 p.m. University Libraries Otto G. Richter Library Through Saturday, August 20: Monday–Thursday, 7:30 a.m.–9 p.m. Friday, 7:30 a.m. –6 p.m. Saturday, 10 a.m.–6 p.m. Sunday, noon–8 p.m. Monday, May 30: CLOSED Monday, June 20: CLOSED Monday, July 4: CLOSED Get more up-to-date information. Louis Calder Memorial Library (Medical Campus) Monday through Friday, 7:30 a.m.‑10 p.m. Saturday and Sunday, 10 a.m.-10 p.m. Closed: Memorial Day, Monday, May 30 and Independence Day, Monday, July 4 Get additional information. Lakeside Village Make an online appointment for Golden Touch Haircuts and Blow-dry Salon. The UPS Store Monday through Friday, 10 a.m.-5 p.m. Saturday, 12 p.m.-4 p.m. Sunday: Closed Outdoor Adventures Through August 5, the facility will open Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, 5-8 p.m. Closed: Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday, Sunday Outdoor Aventures is also closed May 28-30 and July 2-4. For more information regarding memberships visit the website. Department of Wellness and Recreation The Herbert Wellness Center is open through Sunday, August 21 Weekdays, 6 a.m.-9 p.m. Weekends, 8 a.m.-8 p.m. Monday, May 30, Memorial Day, closed. Monday, July 4, closed. View the Summer GroupX workout schedule. Classes are free with membership. You must register for a class through the UM Wellness app or at miami.edu prior to attending. You can register up to 72 hours in advance. Also, recent graduates can sign up to receive a special discount for the first year after a graduation and receive a free University of Miami duffle bag with the membership. Student Center Complex The following are the hours of operation for some of the most visited locations on the Coral Gables Campus. Donna E. Shalala Student Center (Including the Kornspan Study Lounge and the Law School Student Organization Suite) Through Saturday, August 20: 8 a.m.–8 p.m. Norman A. Whitten University Center Through Saturday, August 20: 8 a.m. –8 p.m. UC Pool Through Sunday, August 21: Noon-5 p.m. Campus Store Store hours vary. Get more information. Student Health Services Throughout the summer semesters, the Student Health Center will be operating on the following schedule: Weekdays: 8:30 a.m.–5 p.m. Check the Student Health Service for regular updates. Appointments are available at MyUHealthChart.com or by calling 305-284-9100. For all sudden, severe illnesses or injuries call 911. topics: People and Community University Campus University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 UM Network About UM UM News and Events Admissions Alumni Association UHealth Hurricane Sports University Hotline UM Culture Tools and Resources Academic Calendar People Search myUM CaneLink Blackboard Workday Employment Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices Title IX & Gender Equity Website Feedback