Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: Faculty Experts Back To All Experts J. Christopher Hamilton Assistant Professor, Television, Radio & Film 315.443.3377 jhamil07@syr.edu Field Law Television Radio & Film Expertise Career Development in Film Career Development in Television Digital Media Entrepreneurship Entertainment Law Film Industry Television Industry J. Christopher Hamilton is an assistant professor of television, radio, and film in the S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications at Syracuse University. As an attorney and professor, Hamilton’s work focuses on the monetization of content and leveraging distribution outlets in the television, film and digital streaming industries. In addition to brokering content deals and teaching about their dynamic revenue and financing models, Hamilton is also a passionate executive producer. Prior to joining Newhouse, Hamilton worked as a business affairs executive and attorney for media conglomerates such as ViacomCBS, Disney, Warner Media and then Lionsgate, as vice president of Digital Studios, Over-the-Top Services and International Co-Productions. After a career in cable television (MTV Networks), network television (ABC Studios) and over-the-top streaming (Kevin Hart’s “Laugh Out Loud Network”), Hamilton embarked on an entrepreneurial path as co-owner of streaming service Black and Sexy TV and closed development and distribution deals with networks like HBO and BET. Hamilton is also a frequent guest speaker at film festivals (South by Southwest and PAFF), media companies (Verizon-Yahoo) and professional organizations (the Black Entertainment & Sports Lawyers Association and Ghetto Film School), and the co-founder of a non-profit organization, Syracuse B.L.A.C., supporting the professional development of black law students and attorneys. Hamilton earned a Juris Doctorate and master’s degree in television, radio and film from Syracuse University. Hamilton also completed an executive training program at Harvard Business School through a fellowship underwritten by Lifetime Television. Read Full Bio Related Stories and Coverage NewsNation “Could Oscar slap put a dent in Will Smith’s bankability?” Saturday, April 2, 2022, By Lily Datz Reboot of The Wonder Years reflects a positive direction of change across the network television industry Wednesday, October 13, 2021, By Lily Datz Media, Law & Policy ‘Black Content Needs: Black Capital and Control?’ Thursday, March 4, 2021, By Lily Datz Knox News “What Regal’s shutdown and new furloughs mean for Knoxville-based theater company.” Sunday, October 25, 2020, By Lily Datz HR Drive “We’re the moral compass’: How HR can take the long view on the racial justice movement.” Monday, August 24, 2020, By Lily Datz The Cortland Standard “Work for what I want.” Saturday, August 22, 2020, By Lily Datz The Hollywood Observer “The Implications of the Biggest Legal Decision to Hit Hollywood in Decades.” Friday, August 14, 2020, By Lily Datz Morning Consult “Black Audiences Want Hollywood to Expand Beyond Slavery, Civil Rights Film Narratives.” Wednesday, July 8, 2020, By Lily Datz Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.