Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All Posts in #stadium Campus & Community Syracuse University, JMA Wireless Announce Naming Rights Partnership, Usher in the JMA Wireless Dome Era Thursday, May 19, 2022, By News Staff Syracuse University and JMA Wireless (JMA) today announced a 10-year partnership for naming rights of the University’s iconic on-campus stadium. For the first time since the venue opened its doors in 1980, the stadium will have a new name, only… Campus & Community Syracuse University Lights Up Green for Lyme Disease Awareness Tuesday, May 3, 2022, By News Staff If you were on campus last weekend and saw a green glow, be assured that it wasn’t a mistake. The stadium and the Hall of Languages were lit green on May 1 for World Lyme Day. The Central New York… Campus & Community Syracuse University to Rename On-Campus Stadium, Readies Next Phase of Transformation Wednesday, April 20, 2022, By News Staff For more than 40 years, the Carrier Dome has been synonymous with Syracuse University and Orange Athletics. Carrier’s historic 1979 gift represented the first naming agreement for a major stadium in college sports, and one of the first in all… Campus & Community Syracuse University Revises Entry Policy for Stadium Events Wednesday, March 23, 2022, By News Staff Following a comprehensive review of current public health conditions on campus and around Central New York, Syracuse University today revised its entry policy for events hosted by the University at the stadium. Specifically, and consistent with other large venue operators… Campus & Community Paul McCartney ‘Gets Back’ to Syracuse, Performing Live June 4; Tickets on Sale Feb. 25 Friday, February 18, 2022, By News Staff On June 4, Paul McCartney gets back to Syracuse for the first time in five years, as the Beatle brings his “Got Back Tour” to the Syracuse University stadium for a live performance as part of a 13-city road swing…. Campus & Community ‘Overwhelmingly Positive’ Response to University’s Free Community COVID-19 Testing Wednesday, January 12, 2022, By John Boccacino With access to COVID-19 tests becoming increasingly scarce in and around Central New York, Syracuse University began offering free COVID-19 testing to the Central New York community on Jan. 4. Announced earlier this month by New York State Gov. Kathy… Campus & Community Hoping for a ‘Robust Response,’ Operation Orange Warmup to Launch Saturday to Benefit Community Members in Need This Winter Wednesday, January 12, 2022, By John Boccacino The recent run of sub-freezing temperatures in Central New York serves as a crucial reminder of how important it is to wear proper clothing outdoors, such as winter coats, hats, boots, scarves and gloves. Unfortunately, there are members of the… Campus & Community Last Chance to Purchase Tickets for Faculty and Staff Appreciation Day Sept. 24 at the Stadium Monday, September 20, 2021, By News Staff Announced earlier this month, faculty and staff can purchase $5 tickets to the Friday, Sept. 24, football game in appreciation of all their hard work on behalf of the University. With kickoff at 8 p.m., faculty and staff and their… Campus & Community Faculty and Staff Appreciation Day to Be Held Sept. 24 at the Stadium Monday, September 13, 2021, By News Staff Syracuse University will celebrate faculty and staff with $5 football tickets at the stadium on Friday, Sept. 24, when the Orange take on Liberty at 8 p.m. Faculty and staff and their guests are invited to the Shaw Quad prior… Campus & Community Concessions Upgrades at the Stadium to Enhance the Game Day Experience for Fans Thursday, September 9, 2021, By Jennifer Horvath When the Carrier Dome opened back in 1980, the game day experience was different. Simple. Bare bones. You drove to the game, parked, watched the game, got back in your car, went home. “In the 1970s and 80s, there was… 12 Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.