Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia News Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Featured News Topics Video Books Podcasts All News Media Resources Awards & Milestones Arts & Humanities Politics & Social Justice Research & Discovery Photo of the Week Commencement 2022 Columbia News You are here: Home All News Columbia Reaches Tentative Agreement With SWC-UAW Announcement Columbia Reaches Tentative Agreement With SWC-UAW The Union has informed the university that its strike ended today at noon. Provost Boyce says that this agreement would make Columbia a leader in higher education. January 07, 2022 Photo by Eileen Barroso Columbia University and the Student Workers of Columbia-UAW have reached a Tentative Agreement on a four-year labor contract. The Union has informed the university that its strike ended today at noon. In a letter to the Columbia community announcing the news, Mary C. Boyce, the university provost and professor of mechanical engineering, wrote: "There is no doubt that this has been a challenging period for the University, yet all who were involved in collective bargaining shared the common goal of creating a stronger Columbia for those who teach and learn, conduct research, discover and innovate, work and study here." She added, "We are proud of this agreement, which would make Columbia a leader in higher education on a long list of issues affecting student employees, and we look forward to sharing more details in the coming days." The ratification process is expected to take three weeks. But Boyce is "optimistic that when the new academic term begins on January 18, Columbia will fully return to the normal rhythm of academic life, and to the pursuit of intellectual accomplishment and personal fulfillment that brings each of us to this great University." Get Columbia News In Your Inbox Tags Students Faculty Staff News June 01, 2022 Eric Kandel, Nobel Prize Winner and University Professor, to Retire June 01, 2022 Faculty Named Fulbright U.S. Scholars, Other Institutional Milestones June 01, 2022 Columbia Physicist Tanya Zelevinsky Wins 2022 Brown Investigator Award June 01, 2022 Celebrating Pride Month 2022 at Columbia May 31, 2022 A Cultural Critic Publishes Her Second Memoir Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close