UT Wordmark Primary UT Wordmark Formal Shield Texas UT News Camera Chevron Close Search Copy Link Download File Hamburger Menu Time Stamp Open in browser Load More Pull quote Cloudy and windy Cloudy Partly Cloudy Rain and snow Rain Showers Snow Sunny Thunderstorms Wind and Rain Windy Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Twitter email alert map calendar bullhorn Skip to content ↓ Information and resources related to COVID-19 Protect Texas Together Close Banner The University of Texas at Austin May 31, 2022 UT News Navigation Search Close Navigation UT News News Opinions Series UT Stories: COVID-19 What Starts Here Campaign Stories UT Research Science & Technology Health & Wellness Arts & Humanities Education & Leadership Business & Economy Campus & Community Policy & Law For Journalists Press Releases Media Contacts Experts Guide Pitch Form Archive UT Austin on Twitter UT Austin on Instagram UT Austin on Facebook UT Austin on LinkedIn Search for content on UT News Search Button Business & Economy May 12, 2022 Reached Your Entrepreneurial Limit? Hire a Marketer, Study Suggests Golden Pyramid was among the growing Nigerian businesses Stephen J. Anderson studied. Credit: World Bank. AUSTIN, Texas – Entrepreneurs who find themselves in over their heads could be better off hiring specialists than investing to improve their own skills, according to a study from researchers at The University of Texas at Austin and the World Bank. Stephen J. Anderson, assistant professor of marketing at the McCombs School of Business, joined David McKenzie, a World Bank lead economist, to compare the effectiveness of four interventions — training the owner, consulting, outsourcing an expert and insourcing a worker — in helping businesses overcome what the researchers dub “the boundary of the entrepreneur.” Stephen Anderson, Assistant Professor in the McCombs School of Business. Photo: Lauren Gerson. “All of these interventions work in different ways, but the insourcing and outsourcing interventions tend to provide the biggest bang for the buck,” Anderson said. “They also lead to good sales, profit and performance gains down the road. Hiring a marketing specialist proved especially critical.” The findings appear in the Journal of Political Economy. The researchers said entrepreneurs are wise to recognize their own constraints and take action, as successful entrepreneurs realize early on that they cannot be “a jack of all trades” and still achieve rapid growth. A standard approach is to train the owner in these skills, but Anderson wondered whether the entrepreneurial boundary could also be overcome by hiring specialists in marketing and sales or in finance and accounting. The research is embedded in the Growth and Employment project, a multiyear government program in Nigeria funded by the World Bank. While helping grow companies and improve employment worldwide, the program also allows researchers to conduct purer empirical tests, measuring the true effect of a specific business intervention more accurately than is possible in studies conducted in the U.S. For this study, researchers randomly assigned Nigerian entrepreneurs to a control group or one of the four interventions, providing subsidies to hire specialists and helping to screen the service providers for quality. Through audits and management surveys, the researchers then tracked the companies’ financial performance and business practices for the next two years to see which approach worked best. Of those entrepreneurs assigned to the insourcing or outsourcing groups, 80% chose to hire specialists with skills in marketing and selling. “If you don’t have money coming in, then you don’t have a business,” Anderson said. “So, intuitively, it makes sense, and these entrepreneurs maybe thought the same way.” Insourcing and outsourcing this kind of business expertise improved companies’ product innovation and expanded their digital marketing footprints on social networks. As a result, companies saw higher sales and profits. The study also informs governments and organizations about how best to help entrepreneurs in developing countries, Anderson said. Without access to financial and marketplace support to make the right hire, small businesses may be stunted. “We now know that facilitating access to skilled specialists helps owners move beyond the entrepreneurial boundary and grow their businesses,” Anderson said. Read the McCombs Big Ideas feature story, watch the video explaining Anderson’s work with entrepreneurs in Africa, and learn about his recent Paul Root Award. Copy link Email Share Link Twitter Share Link Facebook Share Link LinkedIn Share Link Tags: Business, McCombs School of Business Copy link Email Share Link Twitter Share Link Facebook Share Link LinkedIn Share Link Media Contact Jeremy Simon McCombs School of Business p: 512-232-6031 e: Jeremy.simon@mccombs.utexas.edu The University of Texas at Austin Explore Latest Articles May 25, 2022 Roger Bonnecaze Named Dean of the Cockrell School of Engineering Read More Roger Bonnecaze Named Dean of the Cockrell School of Engineering May 23, 2022 Low-Cost Gel Film Can Pluck Drinking Water From Desert Air Read More Low-Cost Gel Film Can Pluck Drinking Water From Desert Air May 23, 2022 Instability Can Benefit Teams with Different Expertise Read More Instability Can Benefit Teams with Different Expertise Subscribe to the TEXAS Newsletter UT Austin on Twitter UT Austin on Instagram UT Austin on Facebook UT Austin on LinkedIn UT News Home For Journalists Press Releases Media Contacts Experts Guide News Archive Pitch Form UT Austin Home Site Policies Web Privacy Policy Emergency Information Web Accessibility Policy Disability Resources © The University of Texas at Austin 2022