Skip to main content Toggle navigation Search Cornell University Cornell.edu Media Relations Search Cornell University Cornell Chronicle Topics Architecture & Design Arts & Humanities Business, Economics & Entrepreneurship Computing & Information Sciences Energy, Environment & Sustainability Food & Agriculture Global Reach Health, Nutrition & Medicine Law, Government & Public Policy Life Sciences & Veterinary Medicine Physical Sciences & Engineering Social & Behavioral Sciences Coronavirus Campus & Community News & Events Public Engagement New York City Staff News Photos of the Day Big Red Sports Diversity In Memory Features NYS Impact Student Life Around Cornell All Stories In the News Expert Quotes Cornellians New York City New cancer subtype may illuminate treatment strategy May 31, 2022 Researchers at Weill Cornell Medicine and Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center have identified a previously unrecognized form of hormone therapy-resistant prostate cancer, as well as a set of molecules that drive its growth. Weill Cornell Medicine Commencement returns to Carnegie Hall May 20, 2022 President Martha E. Pollack joined Deans Augustine M.K. Choi and Barbara Hempstead in conferring degrees on students graduating from Weill Cornell Medical College and Weill Cornell Graduate School of Medical Sciences, in the first in-person ceremony since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic. T cell behavior determines immunotherapy success May 9, 2022 New research from Weill Cornell Medicine investigators may help explain why immunotherapy doesn’t work for some cancer patients. Cell division finding could lead to new cancer treatments May 9, 2022 A protein called CDC7, long thought to play an essential role early in the cell division process, is in fact replaceable by another protein called CDK1, according to a study by investigators at Weill Cornell Medicine and the Dana Farber Cancer Institute. Protein contributes to drug tolerance in tuberculosis May 4, 2022 Weill Cornell Medicine researchers have identified a protein in Mycobacterium tuberculosis that contributes to drug tolerance, a phenomenon that allows bacteria to survive treatment with drugs that would normally kill them. Weill Cornell instills social justice, health equity in medical education May 3, 2022 The Anti-Racism Curriculum Committee at Weill Cornell Medicine is charged with reinvigorating the curriculum to ensure that medical students gain a firm understanding of how social, economic and policy factors influence health outcomes. $10M gift to A&S boosts College Scholar Program, scholarships May 2, 2022 The gift will designate the College Scholar Program as the Robert S. Harrison College Scholar Program, expanding support and funding for student research and summer experiences, creating new connections to Cornell’s New York City campuses and increasing scholarship funds available to undergraduates in A&S. Pollack, Pape elected to arts and sciences academy April 28, 2022 President Martha E. Pollack and Dr. Jean William Pape, M.D. ’75, professor in clinical medicine at Weill Cornell Medicine, have been elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Staff News Mixed-reality driving simulator a low-cost alternative April 28, 2022 Cornell Tech researchers have developed a mixed-reality driving simulator system that could lower the cost of testing vehicle systems and interfaces, such as the turn signal and dashboard. Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 Next page » Last page Last » Gallery Heading × Previous Next Links About the Chronicle Media Relations Office Copyright Web Accessibility Assistance Contact Cornell Chronicle 312 College Ave Ithaca, NY 14850 607-255-4206 cunews@cornell.edu SUBSCRIBE Daily and weekly newsletters Feeds - RSS & JSON