Skip to main content Visit Temple.edu Toggle Utility Menu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Search Site Search Temple Now Navigation - Go To - News by topic - Arts & Culture - Athletics - Campus News - Community Engagement - Global Temple - Research - Staff & Faculty - Student Success - Sustainability - Return to Campus - Visualize TempleAnnouncementsNewsletters - Temple Now subscriptionPublicationsTemple in the newsSocial MediaSpecial SeriesTemple MagazineAboutAccolades News by topic Announcements Newsletters Special Series About Arts & Culture What to read, listen to and watch to learn more about AAPI communities Athletics Introducing a new head coach of women’s basketball Campus News New General Education course to focus on AAPI identity and experiences Community Engagement President Wingard highlights Center City Business Association’s “Lunch with the City's Leaders” Global Temple Serving the American media from the Far East Research Temple-headquartered STARS Computing Corps receives a $3 million National Science Foundation grant Return to Campus Student community health ambassadors look out for their fellow Owls Staff & Faculty Temple thought leaders lend their voices to national conversation surrounding Roe v. Wade Student Success Temple Made for … building community Sustainability Charles Library earns LEED Gold certification Visualize Temple Charles Library shapes the future at Temple and beyond View Archives Home / College of Liberal Arts College of Liberal Arts New General Education course to focus on AAPI identity and experiences Type: News Story A new General Education course starting in spring 2023 in the College of Liberal Arts will concentrate on AAPI studies. May 24, 2022 Temple thought leaders lend their voices to national conversation surrounding Roe v. Wade Type: News Story Temple faculty completed nearly 20 media interviews this week discussing the ramifications of overturning Roe v. Wade May 4, 2022 First Rome Entry Year Program students to graduate from Temple Type: News Story Commencement 2022 includes the first Rome Entry Year Program students graduating from Temple. May 3, 2022 Temple Made for … McKinsey Type: News Story Alvira Bonsu, Class of 2022, will work at McKinsey & Company to help make a positive social impact. April 20, 2022 Meet 5 Temple professors who teach and research gender, sexuality and women’s studies Type: News Story Here are five professors at Temple who teach courses and conduct research on gender, sexuality and women’s studies. April 20, 2022 Thriving alumni businesses succeeded after finding support at Temple Type: News Story Two successful alumni discuss the ways Temple supported their ventures. March 25, 2022 How would a paid maternity leave policy benefit families? Type: News Story A paid family leave policy would benefit not just birthing mothers and their children, but fathers and adoptive parents. March 22, 2022 Connecting the dots between gun violence and drug markets Type: News Story A new study offers insights into what drives gun violence around Philadelphia. February 25, 2022 The recently launched Sonkin-Weisman Scholars Program is a top College of Liberal Arts recruitment tool Type: News Story The four-year scholarship offers a suite of funded experiential learning experiences. February 9, 2022 CLA alumnus and activist named a 2022 Marshall Scholar Type: News Story Osimiri Sprowal is one of only 41 students chosen for the scholarship this year. January 28, 2022 $1.3 million grant awarded for construction of Center for Anti-racism Research Type: News Story State Rep. Malcolm Kenyatta, KLN ’12, awards $1.3 million grant for the construction of the university’s new Center for Anti-racism Research. January 26, 2022 Temple PhD students receive prestigious F31 research grants Type: News Story Doctoral students begin their Ruth L. Kirschstein National Institutes of Health research fellowships. January 10, 2022 Honors Program appoints new leadership positions Type: News Story Amanda Neuber will become the new director of the Honors Program. January 6, 2022 The battle of Yorktown: Historic victory or tragic memory? Type: News Story College Liberal Arts faculty member Gregory Urwin uncovers the true history behind the Battle of Yorktown. January 3, 2022 An in-depth look at the race to space Type: News Story Temple experts dive into the ramifications of the billionaire race to space. December 16, 2021 Meet Temple’s new associate professors in the Department of Africology and African American Studies Type: News Story Ifetayo Flannery, Kimani Nehusi, Reynaldo Anderson and Nah Dove bring their expertise to the Department of Africology and African American Studies. December 14, 2021 MacArthur ‘genius grant’ winner Ibram X. Kendi shares how his time at Temple helped shape him Type: News Story A conversation with the bestselling author of "How to Be an Antiracist." December 14, 2021 Temple remembers the lives of five Owls with a candlelight vigil Type: News Story Students Samuel Collington, Katherine Keleman, Matthew Melendez, James Peterman and April Rochester passed away during the semester. December 8, 2021 Childhood friends turned Temple alumni reunite at Dunbar Type: News Story Temple alumni Daniel Mina and Justin Hall have reunited as the principal and assistant principal at Paul L. Dunbar Elementary School. November 15, 2021 The Evergrande debt crisis, explained Type: News Story Political science professor Roselyn Hsueh discusses how the company’s financial problems could jeopardize the Chinese economy. October 26, 2021 New book ‘Temple Made: Profiles in Grit’ profiles 30 Temple University alumni Type: News Story Alumna Ronnyjane Goldsmith’s book follows the journey of 30 influential Temple alumni. October 22, 2021 Philly Community Wireless offers internet for the community, by the community Type: News Story The group hopes to address inequalities in internet access that were highlighted by the COVID-19 pandemic. October 7, 2021 $5 million gift will support the liberal arts at Temple Type: News Story Anderson Hall to be renamed in honor of Leonard and Helena Mazur October 6, 2021 Unravelling systemic oppression through scholarship, advocacy and education Type: News Story Timothy Welbeck’s vision for The Center for Anti-racism Research October 5, 2021 After a year hiatus, Homecoming is set to return to universities this fall. Why did we miss it so much? Type: News Story Temple faculty members discuss why we missed Homecoming so much in 2020. September 24, 2021 Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next › last » Temple University Strategic Marketing & Communications Bell Building 1101 W. Montgomery Avenue Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Directory Maps and Directions Contact RSS Facebook Twitter Pinterest LinkedIn.com YouTube Flickr TUPortal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Temple Now: The official source for Temple news. Copyright 2015, Temple University. All rights reserved.