Skip to main content Main navigation Great Issues, New Perspectives Short Talks on Big Ideas Events Across Campus Welcome to Dartmouth NEXT, a virtual forum of big ideas—developed to bring the best of Dartmouth to our global community. Explore contemporary issues, engage in conversations around the world’s great challenges, and enjoy not-to-miss events from campus and ‘round the girdled earth. This is what’s NEXT for Dartmouth. The Urgency of Indigenous Fiction: A Conversation with Louise Erdrich ’76 Pulitzer-Prize winning author Louise Erdrich (Turtle Mountain Chippewa) ’76 joins N. Bruce Duthu (Houma) ’80, Samson Occom Professor of Native American & Indigenous Studies, to discuss the role of fiction writers and the explosion of contemporary Indigenous writing. Watch Now Go back to class with our expert Dartmouth faculty for short seminars on their academic passions. Learn more about groundbreaking research, new methods of teaching, and the ways our teacher-scholars are changing the world. Watch Now AMPLIFYING STORIES THROUGH ART Maxwell L. Anderson ’77, President of the Souls Grown Deep Foundation connects with Associate Professor of English and Creative Writing Kimberly Juanita Brown in a conversation about the vital intersection of storytelling, social justice, and the arts. Watch Now RETHINKING HEALTH CARE DELIVERY Leader in public health and former Dartmouth trustee John Rich ’80 talks with Director of The Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy and Clinical Practice Amber E. Barnato about new models of healthcare delivery, mental health, and the state of public health in cities. Watch Now GREEN BUILDING, ENERGY, AND OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FUTURE Known as the "Founding Father of LEED," Robert Watson ’84 talks with dean of the Thayer School of Engineering at Dartmouth Alexis Abramson about the inevitable role of green building on our global future. Watch Now HOT SEAT: LEADERSHIP IN TIMES OF CRISIS Jeff Immelt ’78 talks with Coxe Distinguished Professor of Management Vijay Govindarajan about how leaders need to persevere during turbulent times. Watch Now WILL WE EVER HAVE “AND JUSTICE FOR ALL?” MacArthur Fellow, legal scholar, and Pulitzer Prize-winning historian Annette Gordon-Reed ’81 discusses the paradox of America’s historic commitment to freedom and its real history of slavery and racism with Associate Professor of History Julia Rabig. Watch Now WHY IS THEATER IMPORTANT IN TIMES OF CRISIS? Tony Award-winning Broadway producer Daryl Roth P’93 GP’24 talks with Avalon Foundation Chair of the Humanities Peter Hackett ’75 about the unique ways live theater builds bridges across cultural divides and what post-pandemic theater may look like. Watch Now WHAT IS FACT AND WHAT IS FICTION? Creative Lead, Brand and Voice at Twitter Rembert Browne ’09 joins Assistant Professor of English and Creative Writing Joshua Bennett for a conversation about the challenges of storytelling via new media in the age of instantaneous communication. Watch Now WHAT DOES A RISING CHINA MEAN FOR THE U.S. AND THE WORLD? Former U.S. Secretary of the Treasury Henry M. Paulson Jr. ’68 H’07 talks with Associate Professor of Government Jennifer Lind about the delicate power dynamics and future of relations between the western world and rising superpower China. Watch Now WHY DOES SCIENCE MATTER? Join Latif Nasser ’08, host of the Radiolab podcast series and Netflix’s Connected: The Hidden Science of Everything for a conversation with Appleton Professor of Natural Philosophy and Templeton Prize-winning physicist Marcelo Gleiser about science skepticism and the need for empirical evidence as a way to keep our society whole. Watch Now Here are some upcoming events from all corners of Dartmouth that you won't want to miss. The Energy-Climate Nexus: Is There a Pathway to a Sustainable Biosphere? The current human economic system is having a critical impact on the Earth’s climate, and thus the sustainability of the planet to support human endeavors and the natural biosphere. William Schlesinger ’72 reviews the major anticipated impacts of climate change and outlines some potential avenues that can guide us for a better future. Schlesinger is president emeritus of the Cary Institute of Ecosystem Studies. Presented by the Arthur L. Irving Institute for Energy and Society Saturday, June 11, 2022 2:30–3:30 p.m. EST Learn more and register Pascuala Ilabaca y Fauna Hailing from Valparaiso, Chile, singer-songwriter Pascuala Ilabaca is a treasured voice in both the Latin American and world music scenes. Armed with her accordion and accompanied by her three-piece band Fauna, Pascuala performs empowering music that is rooted in Chilean traditional sounds but seamlessly integrates shades of jazz, pop, and rock. Presented by the Hopkins Center for the Arts On the Dartmouth Green Friday, June 24, 2022 5:30–7:00 p.m. EST Learn more and register Explore Events from Across Campus facebook instagram twitter