About Who Should Attend Program Curriculum Faculty FAQ Policies Impact In the Media Partnerships Companies Contact Apply Tuck Next Step About Who Should Attend Program Curriculum Faculty FAQ Policies Impact In the Media Partnerships Companies Contact Apply A virtual general management certificate program inspired by the needs of military veterans and elite athletes. Request More Information Applications are Open Why This Program The transition from the military or athletics into the civilian world is complex and demands new skills and knowledge. Tuck's Next Step program is your partner to navigate that transition and set your sights on a new horizon: a career in business. This rigorous virtual certificate program delivers an education experience that is both immersive and impactful. Together with the members of your cohort, you’ll be transformed. About Next Step Take Your Next Step Define Refine what you know, discover what you don't know, and build the right business acumen to help you move forward in your career. Connect Become a part of a powerful network. Our unparalleled career development resources and wide-ranging industry connections will fuel your transition. Empower Realize the power of your potential and gain the confidence to enter the competitive business world as a top candidate. Explore the Program Key Information Program Dates Our spring 2023 program dates and enrollment timeline will be announced soon. This will be a hybrid program with both virtual and on-campus modules. Program Fee Category 1: $5,000 Category 2: $2,500 The full program price is charitably underwritten by donors and Tuck; the participant fee covers the balance of tuition and materials. Apply Today Proven Success for Elite Athletes and Veterans Some of Tuck's most esteemed MBA faculty teach in Next Step, so the program is rigorous and intensive, offering veterans and elite athletes the opportunity to build the business know-how needed to excel in the next phase of their careers. Since the program began in 2017, our alumni have gone on to successful careers at major companies like Amazon, Goldman Sachs, and Facebook. Download Brochure The Next Step Advantage The Next Step Advantage Foundation in Business Acumen Career Development Skills Professional Exposure I wanted to see what the real world offered. This program was attractive because it’s not an MBA with a two-year commitment, but an opportunity to get my feet wet and realize what I don’t know. It’s kind of scary but also inspiring. Amit Patel Captain, U.S. Army Every day is filled with extremely dense experiences and skills that add onto each other. I’m drained at the moment, but at the same time stimulated, excited, and full of knowledge I didn’t have before I came. Caitlin Leverenz Smith Olympic Bronze Medalist, USA Swimming Team The initial day, all the military people clustered together and we used jargon and acronyms, but when we started mingling with the athletes, it all clicked. We have a lot in common. Jan Ingram Surface Warfare Officer, U.S. Navy I was amazed by how much I was able to absorb in such a short amount of time. Not only do the professors at Tuck possess this great knowledge of what they're teaching, but they're also passionate about it. Conlin McCabe Olympic Silver Medalist, Canada Rowing Team Would you like to learn more about Next Step? Request Information TUCK SCHOOL OF BUSINESS AT DARTMOUTH CONTACT US tuck.next.step@tuck.dartmouth.edu Stay Connected © , The Trustees of Dartmouth College. All rights reserved.