Toggle navigation News NGSS Program News Program Overview Program Overview Purpose and Principles Program Scope Summary Pennant Accounts Student Records (Pennant Records) University Catalog Curriculum Management Financial Aid (Pennant Aid) Program Governance Program Timeline Current Systems Freeze Overview Program Team Leadership Team Roster Organizational Chart Contact Penn Engagement Engagement & Advisory Groups Past NGSS Information Sessions Future NGSS Information Sessions System Outage System Outage Overview Support Instructor Support Resources Student Support Resources Academic Advisor Support Resources Welcome to NGSS: Next Generation Student Systems Deliver superior tools and processes so students—and those who teach, advise, and support them—can perform academic and financial tasks easily and effectively Welcome Path@Penn, Advising@Penn and Courses@Penn Access Path@Penn, Advising@Penn, Courses@Penn. Resources and support are available on the Pennant pages of the SRFS website. Recordings of the 2021-2022 information sessions and demonstrations are available now. For more information, please click here NGSS Information Session Overview: Building Pennant The NGSS program is deploying modern, flexible technology to advance Penn's missions of teaching, research, and service. The University's decentralized structure, along with the interdisciplinary strength that distinguishes Penn among its peers, demands core student information systems and work processes that facilitate collaboration across units, streamline administrative processes, and provide robust and friendly self-service capabilities. Read more NGSS News Student System Outage: June 17-20, 2022: Almanac, May 31, 2022: Read more Courses@Penn Launches on May 2, 2022: April 25, 2022: Read more Path@Penn and Advising@Penn: March 3-13, 2022: Almanac, March 22, 2022: Read more Path@Penn and Advising@Penn Now Available: March 14: Read more more news... Penn Engagement The new Pennant suite of systems and the associated changes to academic advising, financial aid, registration, and teaching affects almost everyone at Penn. The NGSS program is actively engaging the University community to ensure that students, faculty, staff, and postdoctoral trainees are prepared for the coming changes. Read more Additional Resources Contact Us Pennant Accounts Access and Support Pennant Records Resources & Support Report accessibility issues and get help © University of Pennsylvania. All rights reserved.