Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University NICER Lab Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home People Research Projects Publications Facilities News NICER Lab You are here: People Matthew Jerram Matthew Jerram Postdoc I work on developing stable isotope systems as tools for geochemical research. My interests cover low and high temperature environments, including topics such as tracing water pollution to the early evolution of the Solar System. Stable isotope compositions can be affected by a number of processes, such as evaporation, changes in redox state etc., therefore, if interpreted correctly, can provide a wealth of information. To develop our knowledge of these stable isotope systems I am combining theoretical calculations with high precision measurements on natural samples. My current work is on chromium (Cr) and antimony (Sb). Chromium has a variable geochemical behaviour, determined by its oxidation state. This is shown on Earth, where Cr behaved as a slightly siderophile element during core formation and now behaves compatibly during melting. This shows the changing redox conditions during the history of the Earth, with reducing conditions during core formation and oxidised conditions in modern mantle required to explain the current distribution of Cr in the Earth. Isotope ratios are collected using the Nu Instruments MC-ICPMS and TIMS at LDEO. Prior to moving to Lamont Doherty in the Autumn of 2019, I completed a DPhil at Oxford University. My thesis was written on high temperature Cr stable isotope variations in the deep Earth and Early solar system. Publications The δ53Cr isotope composition of komatiite flows and implications for the composition of the bulk silicate Earth Matthew Jerram Pierre Bonnand Andrew C. Kerr Euan G. Nisbet Igor S. Puchtel Alex N. Halliday PDF Download High-precision potassium isotopic measurements by collision cell equipped MC-ICPMS Heng Chen Naomi J. Saunders Matthew Jerram Alex N. Halliday Matthew Jerram Postdoctoral Research Scientist in the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, Lamont-DohertyEarthObservatory Google Scholar My Contact Info 61 Route 9W, Comer Building Room 221, Palisades NY 10964, United States +1 (845) 365-8918 [email protected] LinkedIn Columbia Affiliations Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory The Earth Institute Lamont-Doherty Earth ObservatoryComer Building · Palisades, NY Follow Us Twitter Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close