Skip to main content Nicholas School of the Environment Nicholas Social Media Facebook Instagram Linked In Twitter Youtube Utility navigation News Events Engage Give Menu About COVID Updates for NSOE Mission & History Dean's Message Duke Environment Magazine Locations & Facilities Diversity & Inclusion Giving Admissions Request Info How to Apply Tuition & Fees Financial Support & Aid FAQ Connect with Us Visit or Virtual Tour Admitted Students Academics Undergraduate Programs Earth & Climate Sciences Environmental Sciences & Policy Marine Science & Conservation Independent Study Graduation with Distinction Master's Programs Master of Environmental Management Duke Environmental Leadership Master of Environmental Management Master of Forestry International Master of Environmental Policy Concurrent Degree Programs Cooperative College (3-2) Program Master's Advising Guide Master's Projects Doctoral Programs Earth & Climate Sciences (ECS) Environment (ENV) Marine Science & Conservation (MSC) University Program in Ecology (UPE) University Program in Environmental Policy (UPEP) University Program in Integrated Toxicology and Environmental Health Column Heading Certificate Programs Executive Education Marine Lab Research Research Areas Atmospheric Science Climate Change Ecology & Conservation Economics, Policy & Governance Energy Environmental Health Food Systems Forests Geosciences Oceans Sustainability Technology Toxicology Urban Environment Water Wetlands Column Heading Grants Labs & Centers Publications Student Life Durham & Beaufort Student Groups Outreach Programs Social Media Directory Graduation People Leadership Faculty Staff Students Alumni Board of Visitors Careers For Students For Alumni For Employers Find Jobs & Internships Career Consultations Employment Data Keyword Breadcrumb Home Admissions Breadcrumb Home Admissions Advancing an environmental agenda requires four categories of leaders: researchers, educators, practitioners and citizens. We understand that your calling is not just about the pursuit of a job—it is about making a positive impact in the world. Master's Programs Admissions Request Info Sign up to receive event invitations, deadline reminders, and other important updates about master's degree programs at the Nicholas School. How to Apply Learn about admissions requirements and deadlines for applying to any of the master's degree programs at the Nicholas School. Tuition & Fees Our tuition costs are determined annually, ensuring expenses are reflective of the current marketplace. Your return on the investment you make in our programs opens up a world of opportunities to effect positive change in the world. Financial Support & Aid We are committed to supporting our students in pursuing their environmental education and we work hard toward providing assistance through merit scholarships and/or need-based grants. FAQ: Frequently Asked Questions Find out about demographics, financial aid, admissions requirements, test scores and prerequisite courses for our master's degree programs in this index of commonly asked questions. Connect with Us We invite you to connect with the Nicholas School to learn about our master’s programs, the admission process, what it’s like to be a student here, and how our alumni are making a difference in the world. Visit or Virtual Tour Want to get a sense for our culture, surroundings and the wealth of opportunities available at the Nicholas School? Attend a virtual event, arrange a personal visit, or tour our Durham campus and Marine Lab virtually. Admitted Students The Student Services team will work with you on course registration, graduation requirements, career and professional development, and executive education opportunities. Undergraduate Admissions Students interested in the Nicholas School’s undergraduate programs apply and are admitted through Trinity College of Arts and Sciences. PhD Admissions Students interested in the Nicholas School’s doctoral programs apply and are admitted through the Duke Graduate School. Duke University's Annual Clery Security Report As mandated by Federal Statute 20 USC § 1092: The Annual Security Report and Annual Fire Safety Report include institutional policies concerning campus safety and security, as well as statistics for the previous three years concerning reported crimes that occurred on Duke University property and on public property adjacent to campus and fires that have occurred in residence halls. A copy of this Report can be obtained by contacting the Duke Police Department at 684-4602 or writing to 502 Oregon Street, Durham, NC 27708 or by accessing https://police.duke.edu/news-stats/clery. Grainger Hall 9 Circuit Drive, Box 90328 Durham, NC 27708 Footer menu Apply Contact Give Duke Marine Laboratory Campus Duke Forest Intranet | Student Services Policies | Privacy | Accessibility | Feedback Copyright © 2022 Duke University. All rights reserved.