Skip to main content Magazine Utility Nicholas School Current Issue Past Issues Menu Research & Teaching Alumni Students Giving Dean's Message Keyword Breadcrumb Home Fall 2021 - 30th Anniversary Issue Celebrating 30 Years of Impact at the Nicholas School To celebrate the Nicholas School of the Environment’s 30th anniversary, we’ve compiled a list of 30 remarkable discoveries, innovations, and research initiatives that illustrate the breadth and depth of our faculty’s expertise and its far-reaching impacts. The examples span six broad areas: climate change; ecology and conservation; environmental and human health; resource management; technology and biotechnology; and earth processes. Limiting the list to 30 examples meant that lots of good stuff got left out, but we still think it’s a pretty awesome list. See what you think. 01 / 07 celebrating 30 years Climate Research Breakthroughs Climate change is the major challenge currently facing our planet. These remarkable breakthroughs in climate science from the Nicholas School’s last 30 years offer a glimmer of hope for tomorrow. go to stories & videos → 02 / 07 celebrating 30 years Technology & Biotechnology Research Breakthroughs Stretching their imagination: researchers develop new technologies for data collection and species mapping; uses for algae that go beyond biofuel and create biofeed for livestock. go to stories & videos → 03 / 07 celebrating 30 years Environmental & Human Health Research Breakthroughs Super sleuths uncover the dangers hiding in our drinking water, the soil, and the air we breathe, and how flame retardants are more harmful than helpful. go to stories & Videos → 04 / 07 celebrating 30 years Earth & Ecosystem Processes Research Breakthroughs Recasting long-held assumptions about environmental processes in wildfires, shoreline changes, soil, and the sea has been made possible through groundbreaking research data, gained in the era of the technosphere. go to stories & videos → 05 / 07 celebrating 30 years Ecology & Conservation Research Breakthroughs For these groundbreaking scientists, caring for endangered species and conserving their wild habitats will never go extinct. Top down or bottom up, their work has made a huge difference in the areas of ecology and conservation. go to stories & videos → 06 / 07 celebrating 30 years Resource Management Research Breakthroughs Discovering how to manage our natural resources through abundance and scarcity is the key to their, and our, very survival. And making sure our methodologies are up to snuff is just as important. Go to stories & Videos → 07 / 07 Celebrating 30 years Teaching & Outreach Innovations Creating pathways to knowledge and opportunities for hands-on learning, these imaginative teachers have helped engage minds and ignite many careers through our 30 years. go to stories & Videos → From the Dean Join Me in Celebrating the Nicholas School of the Environment’s 30th Anniversary “This year we celebrate 30 years of creating science and knowledge, cultivating environmental leaders, and making impact in the world. As I look ahead, I see 30 more years of scientific discovery and solutions for our future as we drive narratives of possibility for what we can achieve together.” Read More Celebrating 30 years Climate Research Breakthroughs Climate change is the major challenge currently facing our planet. These remarkable breakthroughs in climate science from the Nicholas School’s last 30 years offer a glimmer of hope for tomorrow. go to stories & videos → Celebrating 30 years Technology & Biotechnology Research Breakthroughs Stretching their imagination: researchers develop new technologies for data collection and species mapping; uses for algae that go beyond biofuel and create biofeed for livestock. go to stories & videos → Celebrating 30 years Environmental & Human Health Research Breakthroughs Super sleuths uncover the dangers hiding in our drinking water, the soil, and the air we breathe, and how flame retardants are more harmful than helpful. go to stories & Videos → Celebrating 30 years Earth & Ecosystem Processes Research Breakthroughs Recasting long-held assumptions about environmental processes in wildfires, shoreline changes, soil, and the sea has been made possible through groundbreaking research data, gained in the era of the technosphere. go to stories & videos → Celebrating 30 years Ecology & Conservation Research Breakthroughs For these groundbreaking scientists, caring for endangered species and conserving their wild habitats will never go extinct. Top down or bottom up, their work has made a huge difference in the areas of ecology and conservation. go to stories & videos → Celebrating 30 years Resource Management Research Breakthroughs Discovering how to manage our natural resources through abundance and scarcity is the key to their, and our, very survival. And making sure our methodologies are up to snuff is just as important. Go to stories & Videos → Celebrating 30 years Teaching & Outreach Innovations Creating pathways to knowledge and opportunities for hands-on learning, these imaginative teachers have helped engage minds and ignite many careers through our 30 years. go to stories & Videos → Duke Environment Magazine Fall 2021 - 30th Anniversary Issue Grainger Hall 9 Circuit Drive, Box 90328 Durham, NC 27708 Footer menu Apply Contact Give Duke Marine Laboratory Campus Duke Forest Intranet | Student Services Policies | Privacy | Accessibility | Feedback Copyright © 2022 Duke University. All rights reserved.