Skip to main content Toggle navigation Trending Oceanic Plastic Pollution Climate Resilience and Adaptation Sustainable Infrastructure Water Policy Energy Access Ecosystem Services More Environmental Inequality Environmental Data and Analysis View all Issues Main navigation About About the Nicholas Institute Our Impact People Board of Advisors Strategic Advisory Committee Annual Report Issues Experts Publications Events News NI @ Duke Search Search Pete Nicholas Peter M. Nicholas, a Duke alumnus whose volunteer leadership across more than three decades on the Board of Trustees, fundraising campaigns and school advisory boards was invaluable in advancing Duke’s teaching and research mission, died May 14. Read article from Duke Today Energy Insecurity From the Southeast Energy Insecurity Stakeholder Initiative, a new report provides recommendations with the potential to build regional networks that level existing hierarchies, bring out new voices, and give all communities in the Southeast a say in their energy future. Read recommendations Sustainable Infrastructure Watch the final session of the Sustainable Infrastructure: Putting Principles into Practice webinar series. In this session, we review and put into context all ten Sustainable Infrastructure Good Practice Principles. View recording Nicholas Institute iStock/doughnuts67 Featured Issue Climate Resilience and Adaptation Given accelerating global climate change, understanding and enhancing the ways in which our social and ecological systems can withstand, respond to, and recover from changes and disruptions is critical. ProjectU.S. Coastal Habitat Policy Review ExpertRachel Karasik Our Impact Christy Ihlo Joins Environmental Conservation Effort in Tanzania More impact stories > Publications A Menu of State Actions to Promote Forest Carbon Sequestration and Storage Stakeholder Recommendations for Reducing Energy Insecurity in the Southeast United States All publications Events The Evolving Technology Landscape for Gas-Fired Electricity Generation Thursday, June 2, 2022 - 2 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. Cleaning Up Without Messing Up, Session 1: The Cost-Benefit of Implementation of Cleanup Technologies Thursday, June 16, 2022 - 9 a.m. to 10:15 a.m. (ET) Cleaning Up Without Messing Up Session 2: The Need for a Regulatory Framework for Implementation of Cleanup Technologies Thursday, June 23, 2022 - 9 a.m. to 10:15 a.m. (ET) All events News Former Trustee Chair Peter M. Nicholas Dies at Age 80 May 16, 2022 Eight Faculty Teams Awarded University-Wide Collaboration Grants on Climate Change May 13, 2022 Q&A with Katie Warnell: Accounting for Nature’s Benefits to the U.S. May 10, 2022 All news About The Nicholas Institute for Environmental Policy Solutions at Duke University improves environmental policymaking worldwide through objective, fact-based research to confront the climate crisis, clarify the economics of limiting carbon pollution, harness emerging environmental markets, put the value of nature's benefits on the balance sheet, develop adaptive water management approaches, and identify other strategies to attain community resilience. About the institute > Subscribe to mailing lists > Our People Kay Jowers Director, Just Environments Kay Jowers is Director for Just Environments at Duke University’s Nicholas Institute for Environmental Policy Solutions. Her work focuses on analyzing state regulatory and policy approaches to addressing environmental issues and engages with environmental equity, ethics, and justice in particular. She co-directs the Environmental Justice Lab, a collaboration with the Duke Economics Department. FULL STAFF > The Nicholas Institute and Energy Initiative are merging. Work With Us Courses Bass Connections Support Our Research Contact Twitter Facebook LinkedIn YouTube Subscribe to mailing lists Staff