Nieman Foundation Fellowships Reports Lab Storyboard at Harvard Nieman Foundation at Harvard Donate Now To promote and elevate the standards of journalism Home Fellowships Current Fellows Events Awards & Conferences Alumni News About Nieman Foundation Fellowships Reports Lab Storyboard at Harvard Nieman Foundation at Harvard Donate Now T F FELLOWSHIPS Nieman selects 24 journalists for its 85th class of fellows The group will begin their studies at Harvard this fall AWARDS Tampa Bay Times wins Worth Bingham Prize The Tampa Bay Times was won the 2021 Worth Bingham Prize for Investigative Journalism for “Poisoned,” a series that revealed dangerous working conditions inside the Gopher Resource lead smelting plant in Florida. NIEMAN LAB Celebrating Brent Renaud The Nieman community remembers the work of filmmaker Brent Renaud, a 2019 Nieman Fellow who was killed on assignment in Ukraine. His Nieman classmate Juan Arredondo was also injured in the attack. AWARDS Jamie Kalven wins I.F. Stone Medal Jamie Kalven is winner of the 2022 I.F. Stone Medal for Journalistic Independence. For decades, he has documented police abuse, fought for access to public records and told the stories of the underserved. Fellowships Close video Since 1938, the Nieman Foundation for Journalism has brought more than 1,700 promising and accomplished journalists from 100 countries to Harvard for a year of study, innovation and experimentation. From the Curator Experiment, discover and innovate as a Nieman Fellow at Harvard Read more Alumni Perspectives Hear what fellows say about the impact of their time on campus Read more Apply Learn more about Nieman Fellowships and how to apply for one Read more Foundation News The Nieman Foundation for Journalism at Harvard announces the 85th class of fellows Journalist Philip J. Hilts, NF ’85, dies at 74 The Tampa Bay Times’ “Poisoned” investigation wins the 2021 Worth Bingham Prize The Madison County Record wins 2021 Taylor Family Award for Fairness in Journalism at Harvard Jamie Kalven wins the 2022 I.F. Stone Medal for Journalistic Independence at Harvard Afghanistan’s Rukhshana Media wins Lyons Award for Conscience and Integrity in Journalism at Harvard Winners and finalists of the 2022 J. Anthony Lukas Prize Project Awards announced Floyd McKay, NF ’68, journalist, educator and author, has died at 86 Brent Renaud, a 2019 Nieman Fellow, has been killed on assignment in Ukraine Columbia Journalism School and the Nieman Foundation announce shortlists for the 2022 Lukas Prizes Publications The Nieman Foundation publishes Nieman Reports, a website and quarterly magazine chronicling contemporary challenges and opportunities in journalism; Nieman Journalism Lab, a website reporting on digital media innovation; Nieman Storyboard, a website exploring the art and craft of nonfiction storytelling; as well as a series of print and e-books about current issues in journalism. Nieman Reports Recent Stories Judges, Too, Can Be Enemies of the Press What bullets do to bodies Nieman Lab Recent Stories How college students can help save local news Want to reach skeptics? Researchers suggest leaving the term “climate change” out of some news coverage Nieman Storyboard Recent Stories Eternal pain, intractable politics and public detachment A documentary film breaks rules and wins an Oscar Nieman Books How To Make J-school Matter (Again) Amy Webb's new approach to curriculum and classroom education Be the Disruptor Clayton M. Christensen applies the lessons of disruptive innovation to the media The Gates of Harvard Yard Pulitzer-winning Chicago Tribune architecture critic Blair Kamin on Harvard's iconic portals Telling True Stories Practical craft tips on narrative nonfiction from some of America's leading journalists Nieman Foundation Subscribe Twitter Instagram Facebook Help advance the Nieman Foundation’s mission “to promote and elevate the standards of journalism” by making a donation. Nieman Foundation To promote and elevate the standards of journalism Nieman Reports Covering thought leadership in journalism Nieman Lab Pushing to the future of journalism Nieman Storyboard Exploring the art and craft of story Nieman Foundation for Journalism at Harvard Walter Lippmann House One Francis Ave. Cambridge, MA 02138 617 495 2237 © 2022 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College Harvard Trademark Privacy Digital Accessibility