Nieman Foundation Fellowships Reports Lab Storyboard at Harvard Nieman Foundation at Harvard Donate Now To promote and elevate the standards of journalism Home Fellowships Current Fellows Events Awards & Conferences Alumni News About Nieman Foundation Fellowships Reports Lab Storyboard at Harvard Nieman Foundation at Harvard Donate Now T F Visiting Fellow Paul Salopek discusses plans for his Out of Eden walk around the world About Show section navigation Hide section navigation X About History Curators 75 Nieman Moments Contacts Advisory Board Annual Reports Ebooks Make a Gift Subscribe Directions Make a Gift As a nonprofit educational institution, the Nieman Foundation relies on the generosity of its supporters to fund the fellowships, publications and programs it administers. You can help sustain Nieman’s mission to promote and elevate the standards of journalism by making a donation. Give Online Donations to the Nieman Foundation can be made online through the Harvard University giving site following these steps. Please note that you are not required to log in to send a gift. Choose “Nieman Foundation” in the “Select a School/Affiliate” pull-down menu. Choose “General Support of the Nieman Foundation” in the “Select a Fund” section. Make a donation here Mail Your Gift Donations can also be made by check payable to the Nieman Foundation and mailed to: Nieman Foundation for Journalism at Harvard Development Office Walter Lippmann House One Francis Ave. Cambridge, MA 02138 For more information about contributing to the Nieman Foundation, including ways you can make a designated or planned gift, contact niemandevelopment@harvard.edu. Nieman Foundation Subscribe Twitter Instagram Facebook Help advance the Nieman Foundation’s mission “to promote and elevate the standards of journalism” by making a donation. Nieman Foundation To promote and elevate the standards of journalism Nieman Reports Covering thought leadership in journalism Nieman Lab Pushing to the future of journalism Nieman Storyboard Exploring the art and craft of story Nieman Foundation for Journalism at Harvard Walter Lippmann House One Francis Ave. Cambridge, MA 02138 617 495 2237 © 2022 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College Harvard Trademark Privacy Digital Accessibility