Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Academic Publications Magazine & Newsletters Alumni Internships Academics Academics Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Academic Misconduct Policy Pre-Law Program Pre-Med Program Life Long Learning Advising Departments & Schools Anthropology Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Facilities and Labs Contact Anthropology Art, Design & Art History School of Art, Design & Art History Undergraduate Programs Areas of Study Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Contact Art, Design & Art History Economics Department of Economics Undergraduate Programs Contact Economics Education Department of Education Undergraduate Programs Student Teaching Contact Education English & Creative Writing Department of English & Creative Writing Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs University Writing Program Research in English Contact English & Creative Writing Film Studies Department of Film Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Film Studies History Department of History Undergraduate Programs Contact History Language & Literature School of Language & Literature Hardesty Language Community Language Placement Contact Language & Literature Media Studies Department of Media Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Media Studies School of Music School of Music Undergraduate Programs Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Faculty Specialties & Instrument Music Auditions Music Scholarships Non-Music Majors Music Camps & Workshops Concerts with Commentary Béla Rózsa Music Competition Lorton Performance Center Contact Music Philosophy & Religion Department of Philosophy & Religion Programs Bell Distinguished Lectureship Contact Philosophy & Religion Political Science Department of Political Science Undergraduate Programs Contact Political Science Psychology Department of Psychology Undergraduate Programs Clinical Psychology Graduate Programs Industrial Organizational Psychology Graduate Programs Contact Psychology Sociology Department of Sociology Undergraduate Programs Contact Sociology Theatre & Musical Theatre Theatre & Musical Theatre Program Current Season Contact Theatre & Musical Theatre Interdisciplinary Programs Arts Management Program Classical Studies Environmental Policy Program International Engineering & Language Program Museum Science & Management Organizational Studies Program Women’s & Gender Studies Programs Faculty Facilities & Centers Facilities Centers Research Research Undergraduate Research Faculty Research Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Kendall College of Arts and Sciences Nimrod International Journal Nimrod International Journal of Prose and Poetry 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, Oklahoma 74104 918-631-3080 Email Masthead Nimrod Blog NIMROD Submissions Guidelines Nimrod Literary Awards Francine Ringold Awards Call for Manuscript Submissions Conference for Readers and Writers Current Issue Past Issues Forthcoming Issues Upcoming Events Subscriptions and Sales Artist Guidelines Frequently Asked Questions Writer Resources Our mission is discovery. Since its founding in 1956 at The University of Tulsa, Nimrod International Journal of Prose and Poetry’s mission has been the discovery, development, and promotion of new writing. Nimrod is published twice a year and features the best new poetry, short fiction, and creative nonfiction. Our spring issue is thematic and often dedicated to writers from one region of the world; we have devoted issues to China, India, Australia, Vietnam, the Celtic Fringe, and Mexico, as well as many other regions and countries. The spring issue also features the winners and finalists of our newest prize: The Francine Ringold Awards for New Writers, which recognize fiction and poetry by writers at the beginning of their writing careers. Our fall issue features the winners and finalists of The Nimrod Literary Awards: The Katherine Anne Porter Prize for Fiction and The Pablo Neruda Prize for Poetry. Selections from Nimrod have been included in The Best American Short Stories, Best Stories from the South, New Voices in American Fiction, Best New Poets, Best American Poetry, and many other noted anthologies. Since its beginning, Nimrod has attracted original work from such renowned writers as Michael Blumenthal, Mahmud Darwish, Mark Doty, Rita Dove, S. E. Hinton, Sue Monk Kidd, Maxine Kumin, Stanley Kunitz, Ursula K. LeGuin, Denise Levertov, Pablo Neruda, Alicia Ostriker, Linda Pastan, Octavio Paz, Isaac Bashevis Singer, William Stafford, and Mark Strand, among many others. Nimrod supports and defends the literary tradition of small magazines, spotlighting lesser-known poets and writers and providing foundations for their literary careers. We promote a living literature, believing that it is possible to search for, recognize, and reward contemporary writing of imagination, substance, and skill. On a national and international scale, Nimrod helps new writers find their audiences through publication in our semiannual journal. We offer new and promising work that may be unfamiliar to readers, such as writing from countries not well represented in the American mainstream, writing in translation, and writing from people of under-represented ages, races, and sexual identities. On a local scale, we sponsor writing workshops, readings, and classes to help illuminate the writing craft, and to allow readers direct contact with writers both well-known and newly-discovered. Our strong base at The University of Tulsa allows us to partner with other national and local organizations in many of our programs, reaching writers and readers of all demographics. On a personal scale, we continue our longstanding dedication to a full review of every submission to Nimrod by at least two readers from our Editorial Board. We also remain committed to responding personally to the hundreds of submissions we receive, often offering direct editorial feedback geared to helping writers expand their craft. We hope you will join us in our mission as a reader, donor, or submitter—or all three. A message to our friends regarding Nimrod operations during COVID-19 As the world faces the challenge of the COVID-19 pandemic, we want to let you know how Nimrod is being affected and what our staff is doing during these uncertain times. Nimrod operations are still open—we’re reading manuscripts, responding to emails, sharing information online, and more. Like many of you, however, our small staff is doing this mainly from home, as the University of Tulsa is currently an almost entirely remote campus. This means that some of our normal operations, such as sending out purchased copies of the magazine, may be delayed until we can get back onto campus for good. If you have purchased an issue or subscription, you will receive your issues—it just may take us a little longer to get them to you. We ask you to bear with us if we are slower than usual to respond to any request or need. We also recommend that anyone wishing to submit to the magazine do so online if at all possible, though we will, of course, still read all submissions sent by mail. This is a difficult and scary time for us all. One of the great gifts available to us while we hunker down at home or keep up our social distance, however, is literature. Stories and poems can take us anywhere—to distant places and times or even to realms that have never existed. They bring us laughs, distractions, and comfort when we need them. They remind us of our shared humanity, of the way that we are all in this together. Because of the great power of stories in times of crisis, we’re hoping to add some temporary content to our website and share work by our contributors as a small way to do our part to bolster spirits through words. Readers, look for solace in the pages of books. Writers, keep writing—we need your stories more than ever. Friends of all kinds, please stay safe and well. Submit Purchase Issues 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT