The following fields are required: Error has occurred. Please reload this page and try the operation again. Continuing Education Menu Courses Certificates FAQs Adv. Search Courses Certificates Account Student Login Instructor Login Group/Family Login 0 Home > Covid-19 Information Continuing Education Menu Courses Certificates FAQs Office of Non-Credit and Continuing Education The Office of Non-Credit and Continuing Education (ONCE) offers a wide variety of non-credit courses and certificate programs at the Ambler and Center City campuses that may help you to prepare for a new job, get ahead in your current job or explore new directions. Browse Our Digital Brochure Browse Offerings Online Courses About Summer Camps and Youth Programs Give your children and teens the chance to have a summer they’ll remember. Summer Education Camps for grades 2-12 and Pre-College Programs for high school students will let your child experience Temple firsthand. View Page Professional Development Gain access to a network of students and instructors to support you in your professional journey. Our professional development certificate programs provide the tools and strategies you need to advance in your career. View Page Lifelong Learning Join a wonderful community of learners ages 50 and older and attend classes in a wide variety of subjects. Pursue the joy of learning without the traditional academic requirements of tests and grades. View Page Personal Enrichment Explore a topic of interest, pursue a new hobby, or develop a new skill with non-credit courses and certificates. Topics range from graphic design, computer programming, art, gardening, interior design, and much more. View Courses Test Prep Learn test-taking tips and strategies from instructors who have experience writing the test questions themselves. Test prep courses and workshops are available for GMAT, GRE, LSAT, SAT and ACT exams. View Page Ambler Rentals Plan your next meeting or event at the spacious 187-acre Ambler Campus. With a 300-seat auditorium, smart classrooms, beautiful gardens and outdoor facilities, the Ambler Campus will make the perfect place for your event. View Page Back to Cards Choose A Topic: Creative Courses Culture and Language Digital Photography Landscape and Gardening Lifestyle and Finance Literature and History Show All Courses Choose a Topic: Creative Courses Culture and Language Digital Photography Landscaping and Gardening Lifestyle and Finance Literature and History Show All Courses Menu - Choose a Topic Filter Course Name Campus Availability Online Learning Resources Think you don't have time to take a course? Think again! We can help you learn online - anytime and anywhere! Temple University partners with providers such as ed2go to provide online courses and career training programs that can help you achieve your professional and personal goals. In addition, we offer the UGotClass series of online courses in partnership with LERN (Learning Resources Network). Develop skills for the 21st century, demonstrate your knowledge and boost your productivity! View the current UGotClass online course offerings. Courses The list of available courses is below. You can sort the list by the Course Number, Course Name, or Campus. To sort the list, simply click on the table heading (i.e. "Course Number", "Course Name", "Campus"). Filter Course Name Availability Our Mission The Office of Non-Credit and Continuing Education (ONCE) of Temple University is committed to providing quality, professional and accessible education, lifelong learning and training opportunities to empower adult learners, youth, businesses and organizations to achieve their professional performance and development goals and to provide valuable personal enrichment learning experiences. Learn new skills! Enrich your life! Looking to be more marketable in today's economy? Considering a second or even a third career? Exploring your passions for your own enjoyment? Temple University's Office of Non-Credit and Continuing Education (ONCE) offers a wide variety of non-credit courses and certificate programs at the Ambler and Center City campuses that may help you to prepare for a new job, get ahead in your current job or explore new directions. Non-Credit programs can provide you with learning opportunities at all phases of your life. With a variety of options to choose from, there's bound to be something of interest to you. Join our email list to receive our emails and latest information. From the Director I hope this message finds you and your loved ones well, safe, and healthy. As our nation, our community and our University continue to navigate the uncertainties in this pandemic world, we have planned our non-credit course offerings to be primarily online with live, synchronous sessions for the Summer 2022 semester. Pursue your educational and personal goals by taking a non-credit course. They can provide personal development and intellectual growth for individuals of all ages and backgrounds. Take this opportunity to expand your mind, discover more about yourself, and learn new information about areas of interest. Lifelong learning is more important to our lives and our community now more than ever. We look forward to seeing you this summer! Teach a Non-Credit Course Do you have a dynamic personality, expertise in a particular topic and the ability to teach? If you have a suggestion and are interested in teaching a new course, let us know. Please complete the online Non-Credit Course Proposal Form. Questions? Contact our office at ncce@temple.edu or (267) 468-8500. ONCE Staff Rhonda Geyer, Non-Credit Programs Director Antony DiBruno, Conference Services and Business Development Contact Information Email Address: ncce@temple.edu Telephone Number: (267) 468-8500 Fax Number: (267) 468-8506 ONCE Online Course Catalog COVID-19 Due to the pandemic, most of what we do has had to change dramatically. Presently we are not offering rentals to outside groups until further notice. Please feel free to contact the Conference Services department at (267) 468-8503 or email at rentambler@temple.edu for questions and information regarding our COVID procedures and future rentals. Meeting and Training Space at Temple University Ambler Our 187 acre Temple University Ambler campus features a well-appointed smart auditorium & classrooms, computer labs, and many other indoor and outdoor spaces and facilities. Many of our facilities and grounds are available to companies and organizations large or small for educational meetings, trainings, and conferences for reasonable fees. Learn more about booking meeting/training space. Contact Information Email Address: rentambler@temple.edu Telephone Number: (267) 468-8503 Office Address: Temple University Ambler 580 Meetinghouse Road Ambler, PA 19002 Classrooms × Computer Labs × Pools × Auditoriums × Gardens × Open Fields × Required fields are indicated by . Temple University Office of Non-Credit and Continuing Education Temple University Ambler 1515 Market St. Suite 400 Philadelphia, PA 19102 (267) 468-8500 ncce@temple.edu Temple University Continuing Education Systems Technical Assistance 1805 North Broad St. Carnell Hall 872 Philadelphia, PA 19121 215-204-4866 noncredit@temple.edu Site About Certificates Courses Privacy Statement Request Information Follow Temple University Browse additional REI Courses Browse additional REI Courses Copyright © 2022 Temple University. All Rights Reserved. We use cookies to ensure you the best experience. By using our website you agree to our cookie policy. Session Time-Out For security reasons and the protection of your personal information, your session will time out due to a period of inactivity in minute(s) and second(s). Click Extend My Session to continue. For security reasons and the protection of your personal information, your session timed out after a period of inactivity. You will be redirected to the home page. Extend My Session OK Confirm OK Cancel Alert OK Close dialog Privacy Policy The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) is a United States law that protects the privacy of student records. Temple University must have your explicit permission to release your contact information. Your Employer/Affiliation(s) listed above allow you to choose to have your employer/group billed or to avail of membership discounts (when applicable) when you enroll for courses. This choice will be presented to you each time you enroll. * Close Close dialog Cookie Policy Cookie policy This statement explains how we use cookies on our website. For information about what types of personal information will be gathered when you visit the website, and how this information will be used, please see our privacy policy. How we use cookies All of our web pages use "cookies". A cookie is a small file of letters and numbers that we place on your computer or mobile device if you agree. These cookies allow us to distinguish you from other users of our website, which helps us to provide you with a good experience when you browse our website and enables us to improve our website. Types of cookies we use We use the following types of cookies: Strictly necessary cookies- these are essential in to enable you to move around the websites and use their features. Without these cookies the services you have asked for, such as signing in to your account, cannot be provided. Performance cookies- these cookies collect information about how visitors use a website, for instance which pages visitors go to most often. We use this information to improve our websites and to aid us in investigating problems raised by visitors. These cookies do not collect information that identifies a visitor. Functionality cookies- these cookies allow the website to remember choices you make and provide more personal features. For instance, a functional cookie can be used to remember the items that you have placed in your shopping cart. The information these cookies collect may be anonymized and they cannot track your browsing activity on other websites. Most web browsers allow some control of most cookies through the browser settings. To find out more about cookies, including how to see what cookies have been set and how to manage and delete them please visit http://www.allaboutcookies.org/. Specific cookies we use The list below identify the cookies we use and explain the purposes for which they are used. We may update the information contained in this section from time to time. JSESSIONID: This cookie is used by the application server to identify a unique user's session. registrarToken: This cookie is used to remember items that you have added to your shopping cart locale: This cookie is used to remember your locale and language settings. cookieconsent_status: This cookie is used to remember if you've already dismissed the cookie consent notice. _ga_UA-########: These cookies are used to collect information about how visitors use our site. We use the information to compile reports and to help us improve the website. The cookies collect information in an anonymous form, including the number of visitors to the website, where visitors have come to the site from and the pages they visited. This anonymized visitor and browsing information is stored in Google Analytics. Changes to our Cookie Statement Any changes we may make to our Cookie Policy in the future will be posted on this page. * Close