The following fields are required: Error has occurred. Please reload this page and try the operation again. Continuing Education Menu Courses Certificates FAQs Adv. Search Courses Certificates Account Student Login Instructor Login Group/Family Login 0 Home > Covid-19 Information Continuing Education Menu Courses Certificates FAQs Pan-African Studies Community Education Program PASCEP About Resources Contact Personal Enrichment Enhance your skills, talents and craftiness while working on your mental wellbeing. Explore new opportunities and learn to enjoy YOU. View Courses Workforce Development Prepare for reacclimating into the workforce. Build your 21st Century skills, discover new occupations (Post Covid). Build a career path, learn new skills and target your education to meet your interest. View Courses Community Engagement PASCEP is dedicated to "KEEPING THE COMMUNITY INFORMED". Community Workshops provide information, resources and education. The workshops are also a platform for brainstorming, dialogue, and intellectual discourse. View Courses Adult Education The 'Willingness to Learn' is an academic skill and workforce competency. Do you want to complete your high school diploma, degree program, enter training or apprenticeship programs, and learn 21st century skills? View Courses Reentry Resources Courses and workshops that provide information, education, and resources to access opportunities and services for formerly incarcerated, recently returned and those involved in the criminal justice system and their families. View Courses Culture and Diversity PASCEP's foundation is built on addressing diverse views pertaining culture, race, and ethnicities, particularly African American and minority groups of color. Courses also address diversity in Philadelphia. View Courses Digital Equity and Access Technology is changing rapidly. Enhance your computer skills, learn to use your cell phones, and prepare to utilize technology in the 21st Century. View Courses Register Now The list of available courses is below. You can search through the courses using the filter below. You can also sort the list by the Course Number, Course Name, or Campus. To sort the list, simply click arrow next to the table heading (i.e. "Course Number", "Course Name", "Campus"). Menu - Choose a Topic Choose a Course Catagory: Personal Enrichment Workforce Development Community Engagement Adult Education Reentry Resources Culture and Diversity Digital Equity and Access Show All Courses Choose Course Catagory: Personal Enrichment Workforce Developmet Community Engagement Adult Education Reentry Resources Culture and Diversity Digital Equity and Access Show All Courses Course Name Campus Start Date End Date Start Time End Time Day Checkout Celebrating 40 years of Keeping the Community Informed The Pan-African Studies Community Education Program (PASCEP) is a low-cost, non-credit continuing education service of the Office of Community Relations. PASCEP has remained a pillar in the community for over 40 years and is the most unique community education program in Philadelphia. With over 25 volunteer faculty members, PASCEP offers a multitude of diverse courses, including Introduction to Computers, Financial Education, American Sign Language, Workforce Development, Rites of Passage, African Drumming, Etymology, Entrepreneurship, Sewing, Reentry Education, Real Estate, Hip Hop, Spanish, and much more. Learn More In Our Brochure The History of PASCEP PASCEP was founded in 1975 by the late Annie D. Hyman, a Temple University graduate and North Philadelphia community activist who sought to bring the University to the community. Prior to coming to Temple, the Community Education Program was held in community schools, churches, and centers. University faculty volunteered their time to teach classes. Ms. Hyman later obtained the support of Dr. Odeyo Ayaga, who was then Chairman of the Pan-African Studies Department, to seek Temple University's sponsorship of the Community Education Program. In the Spring of 1979, the University adopted the Program and it came to the campus under the auspices of the Pan-African Studies Department of the College of Arts and Sciences of Temple University. Faculty of the Pan-African Studies Department and other faculty continued to volunteer time to teach courses for PASCEP: Dr. Rita Smith, Dr. Audrey Pitman, Dr. Tran Van Dinh, Professor Sonia Sanchez, Professor Jacqueline Mungai, Dr.Wilbert Roget, Dr. C. T. Keto, Dr. Barbara Hampton, and Dr. Thaddeus Mathis, among others. Today the vast majority of PASCEP's courses are taught by volunteers from the community whose purpose is to give back to others what was given to them in knowledge, skill, inspiration, and example. Community self-help is no better exemplified than in the PASCEP philosophy and practice. Community Resources at PASCEP Educational and Informational Courses 3-10 week noncredit and continuing education classes Fall and Spring, Free Community Workshops, Certificate Programs for professional development (nominal fee). Reentry Services Reentry Workshop every Tuesday- Thursday, 9 a.m. - 12 p.m., JEVS -Looking Forward Philadelphia, Orientation and Employment assistance, education and work readiness skills preparation. Support Services Available. Workforce Connection Hub Lenfest North Philadelphia Workforce Initiative- My Place Campus adult literacy and education, City of Philadelphia Office Of Adult Education, collaboration with PA CareerLink, Graduate Philadelphia, Goodwill Industries and more. Weekly orientations, assessments and workshops for career development, training opportunities, and post-secondary education preparation. Employer spotlights for hiring, Work Readiness courses available. Helms Academy Goodwill Industries adult education support Alternative curriculum to acquire 30 College credits and obtain the commonwealth of PA secondary diploma Goodwill Reentry employment services available Keyspot Free Internet access Monday - Thursday, 1p.m. - 5 p.m. except during workshops, Computer basics classes and individual assistance available upon request. Call TODAY to Register for Individual Assistance Temple University - Office of Community Relations Pan-African Studies Community Education Program (PASCEP) 215-204-1993 (10AM - 4PM) Contact Information Email Address: pascep@temple.edu Telephone Number: (215) 204-1993 Program Office Address: Entertainment and Community Education Center 1509 Cecil B. Moore 2nd Floor Philadelphia, PA 19121 Required fields are indicated by . Temple University Pan-African Studies Community Education Program Entertainment and Community Education Center 1509 Cecil B. Moore, 2nd Floor Philadelphia, PA 19121 215-204-1993 pascep@temple.edu Temple University Continuing Education Systems Technical Assistance 1805 North Broad St. Carnell Hall 872 Philadelphia, PA 19121 215-204-4866 noncredit@temple.edu Site About Certificates Courses Privacy Statement Request Information Follow Temple University Browse additional PASCEP Courses Browse additional PASCEP Courses Copyright © 2022 Temple University. All Rights Reserved. We use cookies to ensure you the best experience. By using our website you agree to our cookie policy. Session Time-Out For security reasons and the protection of your personal information, your session will time out due to a period of inactivity in minute(s) and second(s). Click Extend My Session to continue. For security reasons and the protection of your personal information, your session timed out after a period of inactivity. You will be redirected to the home page. Extend My Session OK Confirm OK Cancel Alert OK Close dialog Privacy Policy The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) is a United States law that protects the privacy of student records. Temple University must have your explicit permission to release your contact information. Your Employer/Affiliation(s) listed above allow you to choose to have your employer/group billed or to avail of membership discounts (when applicable) when you enroll for courses. This choice will be presented to you each time you enroll. * Close Close dialog Cookie Policy Cookie policy This statement explains how we use cookies on our website. For information about what types of personal information will be gathered when you visit the website, and how this information will be used, please see our privacy policy. How we use cookies All of our web pages use "cookies". A cookie is a small file of letters and numbers that we place on your computer or mobile device if you agree. These cookies allow us to distinguish you from other users of our website, which helps us to provide you with a good experience when you browse our website and enables us to improve our website. Types of cookies we use We use the following types of cookies: Strictly necessary cookies- these are essential in to enable you to move around the websites and use their features. Without these cookies the services you have asked for, such as signing in to your account, cannot be provided. Performance cookies- these cookies collect information about how visitors use a website, for instance which pages visitors go to most often. We use this information to improve our websites and to aid us in investigating problems raised by visitors. These cookies do not collect information that identifies a visitor. Functionality cookies- these cookies allow the website to remember choices you make and provide more personal features. For instance, a functional cookie can be used to remember the items that you have placed in your shopping cart. The information these cookies collect may be anonymized and they cannot track your browsing activity on other websites. Most web browsers allow some control of most cookies through the browser settings. To find out more about cookies, including how to see what cookies have been set and how to manage and delete them please visit http://www.allaboutcookies.org/. Specific cookies we use The list below identify the cookies we use and explain the purposes for which they are used. We may update the information contained in this section from time to time. JSESSIONID: This cookie is used by the application server to identify a unique user's session. registrarToken: This cookie is used to remember items that you have added to your shopping cart locale: This cookie is used to remember your locale and language settings. cookieconsent_status: This cookie is used to remember if you've already dismissed the cookie consent notice. _ga_UA-########: These cookies are used to collect information about how visitors use our site. We use the information to compile reports and to help us improve the website. The cookies collect information in an anonymous form, including the number of visitors to the website, where visitors have come to the site from and the pages they visited. This anonymized visitor and browsing information is stored in Google Analytics. Changes to our Cookie Statement Any changes we may make to our Cookie Policy in the future will be posted on this page. * Close