University of Texas at Austin VISIT Hours - Tours - Parking Reading & Viewing Room Exhibitions Visit from Home Events Gift Shop ➚ COLLECTIONS Search the Collections Digital Collections ➚ Explore Art Early Books & Manuscripts Film Literature Performing Arts Photography Preservation & Conservation UT Campus Conservation Initiative Collection Development RESEARCH Search the Collections Access Policies, Rights & Reproductions Your Research Account Fellowships Awards LEARN Classroom Experiences Educational Resources Internships Programs & Symposia Group Tours GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Become a Member Community Partners Volunteer Subscribe to eNews ABOUT The Center Press Room Magazine ➚ Contact Us FAQ Join Give Shop Collections Welcome to WATCH and FOB Last Name: First Name: Search Tips WATCH and FOB are run jointly by the Harry Ransom Center and University of Reading Library. Please contact us if you have more current information to offer about an author's copyright holder or representative. Under no circumstances may addresses from WATCH be compiled, collected, or used for any purpose, commercial or non-commercial, other than that for which they are intended. The copyright to the WATCH list in its entirety is held by the compilers. Addresses may not be used for mass mailings ("spam") or databases without the express written permission of the individuals listed. All addresses are deemed to be "private." Writers Artists and Their Copyright Holders is a database of copyright contacts for writers, artists, and prominent figures in other creative fields. Firms Out of Business is a database with information about vanished publishing concerns, literary agencies, and similar firms. Search FOB Related Links New Search About WATCH U.S. Copyright U.K. Copyright Copyright Resources Contact Us Admission is free 300 West 21st Street Austin, Texas 78712 Map / Parking 512-471-8944 Hours - Exhibitions Tuesday–Friday 10am–5pm Saturday–Sunday Noon–5pm Closed Mondays Hours - Reading and Viewing Room Monday–Saturday 10am–4pm Closed Sundays Follow us on Instagram Subscribe to monthly eNews Text Alerts: Text ransomcenter to 833-500-1125 for event reminders. Contact Us Emergency Information Jobs Site Map Site Policies Web Accessibility Web Privacy Subscribe to eNews © Harry Ransom Center 2022