Skip to content Skip to navigation SUNetID Login SUNetID Login Sexual Violence Support & Resources Leave site now Navigation menu Home Urgent Help Urgent Medical Help Forensic Evidence Collection (i.e. SART Exam, “Rape Kits”) Confidential Counseling Police Emergency On-Call University Support Overseas Urgent & Non-Urgent Help Reporting Review My Options Report to Police Report to Stanford Report to Ethics & Compliance Office Record information in Callisto Safety / Accommodations Change My Housing Civil Restraining Order Emergency Protective Restraining Order Stanford No Contact Get Academic Support Help Others Help a Friend Help My Student Help a Colleague Help an Accused Student Upstander Intervention Policies Key Definitions Policy Prohibiting Sexual Violence Title IX & SHARE Procedures If you've experienced sexual and/or relationship violence, what happened is not your fault. You always deserve to be safe and respected. You may be experiencing a wide range of feelings, which are all valid. We invite you to use this website to navigate and choose the resources you want to use. Regardless of what you decide, there are many people at Stanford University who are committed to helping students, faculty, and staff. As a first step, consider speaking to a confidential counselor at the Confidential Support Team (650-725-9955) to help you navigate your options; they are available 24/7, including while the campus is physically closed due to Covid-19. Actions to Consider Actions to Consider if Outside the U.S. COVIDE-19 Update: We are still here to help! Emergency medical and police services described on this website continue to be available. Other Stanford services described on this website are available during the county's "shelter in place" through the remote options of zoom, phone, or by email. Please reach out to us whenever and wherever you are. Stanford’s sexual harassment and sexual violence policies continue to apply during remote learning. Any harassment or discrimination that occurs within a program or activity of the university, including all online instruction, is subject to university policies. Stanford will also respond to concerns in which harassment or discrimination happens outside of university matters where that conduct is so severe as to cause significant harm within the university community or to a community member. Home We can help you with... Urgent Help Medical Care Forensic Evidence Collection (i.e. SART Exam, “Rape Kits”) Confidential Emotional Support Police Emergency On-call University Support Overseas Urgent & Non-Urgent Help Reporting Review My Options How to Report to Police How to Report to Stanford Report to Ethics & Compliance Office Record Information in Callisto Safety Measures / University Accommodations Change Housing/Temporary Housing Restraining Order University No-Contact Letter Academic Support Helping Others The first 50 words to say are: I’m sorry that someone hurt you. How can I help? Stanford has resources to support you and help you decide what you want to do next. Would you like to speak to a confidential counselor or a staff person about your resources or reporting options? I am here to help you. Learn more about how you can help others Stanford Policies Key Stanford Definitions Policy Prohibiting Sexual Violence Title IX & SHARE Procedures Information for Accused Students Recommendations Confidential Emotional Support Title IX & SHARE Procedures Title IX Office Connect to a Stanford-Identified Attorney If you have experienced any form of sexual or relationship violence, we are here to support you. Confidential counseling, emergency response, and medical support are available to assist you 24 hours a day. You can choose the resources you're most comfortable contacting. You are not alone. There are people who can help you. Confidential Counseling CST: Confidential Support Team: (650) 736-6933 (8:30am-5pm M-F) or (650) 725-9955 (24-hour) YWCA Sexual Assault and Domestic Violence Support Line: (800) 572-2782 (24-hour) CAPS: Counseling and Psychological Services: (650) 723-3785 Faculty Staff Help Center: (650) 723-4577 Non-Confidential Resources and Reporting SHARE Title IX Office: Kingscote Gardens Suite 240, Stanford, CA; (650) 497-4955 SUDPS: Stanford University Department of Public Safety: 911 or (650) 723-9633 SHARE Title IX Education (for Faculty/Staff/Postdocs): Kingscote Gardens Suite 230, Stanford, CA; (650) 725-0646 SHARE Title IX Education (for Students): Kingscote Gardens Suite 220, Stanford, CA; (650) 725-1056 Additional Resources Student Title IX Process Quick Reference (coming soon) Transgender Support & Resources Stanford Sexual Violence Supportive Measures and Resources (PDF) Give Us Feedback The Provost has an advisory committee to review the pilot Student Title IX Process. If you have concerns about the process that you would like to share, please provide confidential feedback to the advisory committee, chaired by law professor Pam Karlan. Student Title IX Process Feedback Website Feedback Part of Stanford Institutional Equity & Access This website is a part of the suite of sites supporting Stanford’s goal of sexual respect and safety on campus. Institutional Equity & Access Related Offices and Information CST: Confidential Support Team Transgender Support & Resources Relationship Violence Support & Resources Sexual Respect SARA: Sexual Assault & Relationship Abuse Education & Response (now SHARE Title IX office) SHARE Title IX Office Sexual Harassment Policy Office (now SHARE Title IX Office) Diversity and Access Office Office of the Ombuds Non-discrimination Policy Contact Us SHARE Title IX Office Kingscote Gardens 419 Lagunita Drive Stanford, CA 94305 Phone: (650) 497-4955 titleix@stanford.edu Campus Map Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.