Menu Close Menu Skip to content Search for: Search About Co-Directors Welcome State of the Program Meta-Leader of the Year Award Contact Us People Crisis Leadership Training Testimonials Online Programs Time and Cost Effective Online Programs Engaging for Early to Mid-Career Professionals Immersive for Seasoned Professionals Residential Programs Executive Meta-Leadership Team Project Information Customized Leadership Programs Tuition Policy Leadership Curriculum Meta-Leadership Swarm Leadership Conflict Resolution & Negotiation Resources Aviation Public Health Initiative (APHI) Our Podcast: Leader ReadyCast Our Books Educational Videos Crisis Research Featured Publications Case Histories News Blog In the News Emerging Leaders in Crisis Program More Info Earn a Certificate from NPLI at Harvard. More Info Online Program Register now. Fall 2022: Crisis Leadership: Core Principles and Practices. Begins October 4, 2022. Register now. Leadership Training with MSAN Read More Military Spouse Advocacy Network (MSAN) announces the launch of the first Military Spouse Leadership Development Program (LDP). Read More FEMA Corps Case Study Read A template for developing the U.S. Public Health Jobs Corps. (Photo courtesy of AmeriCorps.) Read YOU'RE IT... for more information Become a better crisis leader while equipping yourself with tools for change and transformative leadership. for more information Core Crisis Leadership Online Training Program Fall starts October 4, 2022. Build critical skills by attending this leadership training program. Register Dr. Marcus comments on the latest issue regarding mask mandates "Airlines say mask mandates aren't needed anymore. Are filters enough to prevent COVID on airplanes?" Article in USA Today. Read Leading through Covid-19: A Meta-leadership Analysis The criticality of rapid, deep learning. The need for empathic leadership. The benefits of treating preparedness as investment rather than a cost. Read More Welcome to the National Preparedness Leadership Initiative A crisis leadership training and research program The NPLI at Harvard prepares leaders in the public, private, and non-profit sectors to handle crisis and significant change. Participants in our programs are leaders responsible for safety and security, business continuity, and disaster preparedness, mitigation, response, and recovery. The NPLI Leadership Difference ⇒ The foundation of our teaching is the Meta-Leadership framework and practice method. It combines conceptual rigor with pragmatic insights developed through faculty field research on events including: Hurricane Katrina; Boston Marathon bombings; infectious disease outbreaks, and more. Meta-leadership integrates applied neuroscience, game theory, psychology, group dynamics, and more into practical tools and techniques to improve leader effectiveness. Dr. Leonard J. Marcus, Dr. Barry Dorn, Joseph Henderson, and Eric J. McNulty are among the NPLI faculty who have been at the forefront of developing the Meta-Leadership framework and practice method. Featured Research NPLI and Disaster Recovery Institute International partner on COVID Lessons The criticality of rapid, deep learning. The need for empathic leadership. The benefits of treating preparedness as investment rather than a cost. These are three of the findings of research with nine global companies on cross-sector lessons learned through the Covid-19 response conducted by NPLI researchers along with partners from Disaster Recovery Institute International. Follow the link below to download your copy and use it to inform your planning for 2022 and beyond. https://npli.sph.harvard.edu/resources-2/featured-publications/ Podcast Leader ReadyCast is hosted by Eric McNulty our Associate Director. He introduces valuable insights from vanguard leaders and NPLI faculty members. Episode 42: How can age-old practices help improve performance and bolster resilience among preparedness and response professionals and their teams? Listen in as Karina de Allicon, an experienced business continuity leader and mindfulness authority explains. https://cdn1.sph.harvard.edu/wp-content/uploads/sites/2443/2022/05/Andrew-Schwartz-Allicon-Podcast.mp3 A Leadership Book Everyone Should Read… You're It: Crisis, Change, and How to Lead When it Matters Most Now out in Paperback! Today, in an instant, leaders can find themselves face-to-face with crisis. A pandemic. An active shooter. A media controversy. A cyber-attack. A product failure. In You’re It, the faculty of the NPLI take you to the front lines of some of the toughest decisions facing leaders–from how to mobilize during a hurricane or in the aftermath of a bombing to halting a raging wildfire. They also take readers through the tough decision-making inside the world’s largest companies, hottest startups, and leading nonprofits. Order Your Copy Today! Leadership Training Programs Build critical skills at our leadership training programs, workshops, and seminars. During the pandemic, come learn at Harvard virtually. More Information Authentic Leadership Engaging sessions in self-discovery led by Dana Born, retired Brigadier General USAF and Lecturer in Public Policy at HKS Center for Public Leadership. Watch here Join us on LinkedIn Follow us for leadership tips, faculty interviews and seminars, and more. Follow here Benefits of NPLI's Online Leadership Courses Myra M. Shird, PhD, NPLI Alum provides her perspective on our programs. Watch here News and Events For information on alumni projects, faculty interviews, and latest happenings. Read here Yes, I'd Like To Request an Online Training NPLI faculty are available for 60, 90, or 120 minute segments Get form here on Twitter RT @NOAA Seven Best Practices for Risk Communication Webinar, June 7 https://t.co/Im0o8k8qey @iarccorg @AEMO_EM… https://t.co/ncLwOZv4KJ RT @stratandbiz: “Elegant solutions mitigate stress in the system while fostering flow—the feeling that individual and collective effort ar… RT @stratandbiz: “Elegant solutions mitigate stress in the system while fostering flow—the feeling that individual and collective effort ar… @WDMills1992 @USCG Admiral Fagan and I went through @HarvardNPLI together - she is an amazing leader. “Elegant solutions mitigate stress in the system while fostering flow—the feeling that individual and collective ef… https://t.co/rsTnEdkBad Canada Funds NGOs to Build Capacity and Respond to Emergencies https://t.co/6GpaTawTeq @AEMO_EM @iarccorg… https://t.co/DfJe9RSi8E National Preparedness Leadership Initiative Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 8 Story Street, Suite 310, Cambridge, MA 02138 (617) 496-0867 Email: npli@hsph.harvard.edu Social View @HarvardNPLI’s profile on Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © The President and Fellows of Harvard College Loading Comments... You must be logged in to post a comment.