Skip to main content Hit enter to search or ESC to close Close Search Menu about visitor information who we are History of NRHC staff board facilities rental learn Ranch Life Learning field trips for k-12 Resources for Teachers adult group visits Kid & Family Activities From the Grass Roots explore Blog Museum Exhibits Trail of Steers Outdoor Historical Park The History of Cattle Breeds events Annual Meeting & Chuckwagon Breakfast Award Events Candlelight at the Ranch Kids’ Events Quanah Parker Day Ranch Day Summer Stampede Symposiums & Workshops support become a member/renew Donate Structure Sponsorship Volunteer Volunteer Events + Workshops Volunteer Resources store contact us about visitor information who we are History of NRHC staff board facilities rental learn Ranch Life Learning field trips for k-12 Resources for Teachers adult group visits Kid & Family Activities From the Grass Roots explore Blog Museum Exhibits Trail of Steers Outdoor Historical Park The History of Cattle Breeds events Annual Meeting & Chuckwagon Breakfast Award Events Candlelight at the Ranch Kids’ Events Quanah Parker Day Ranch Day Summer Stampede Symposiums & Workshops support become a member/renew Donate Structure Sponsorship Volunteer Volunteer Events + Workshops Volunteer Resources store contact us Real ranches. Real stories. Real heritage. NATIONAL RANCHING HERITAGE CENTER We will be CLOSED Monday, May 30th in honor of Memorial Day Become a member Join, renew or give a gift https://ranchingheritage.org/support/donate/ Donate Keep the heritage alive Volunteer Get involved in history Founders of the National Ranching Heritage Center sought to address the loss of historically significant ranch structures to time and the elements. Chartered as a Texas non-profit corporation in 1969, the Ranching Heritage Association’s stated purpose was to preserve the physical, social and cultural aspects of ranching and to perpetuate the traditions intrinsic values and history of one of our nation’s most important industries. Today, the mission of the National Ranching Heritage Center and Ranching Heritage Association is to preserve and interpret the history of ranching in North America and address contemporary ranching issues. visit upcoming events current exhibits ways to support HELP US PRESERVE THE HERITAGE OF THE RANCHING INDUSTRY. Join Today! Upcoming Events Trolley Tours March 17, 2022 Living History Saturdays May 7, 2022 Summer Stampede Western Art & Gear Show June 4, 2022 Summer Youth Classes June 13, 2022 Western Art Workshop with Jason Scull & Brandon Bailey September 26, 2022 National Golden Spur & Working Cowboy Awards October 15, 2022 Candlelight at the Ranch December 9, 2022 MORE EVENTS... Get Directions Get in Touch Join RHA Historical Park Hours Mon. – Sat. 10am-4pm Sun.- 1pm to 4pm Gallery Hours Mon. – Sat. 10am-5pm Sun. – 1pm to 5pm Closed on Texas Tech University holidays FREE ADMISSION (donations encouraged) Wheelchair and stroller accessible Only service animals allowed (806) 742-0498 ranchhc@ttu.edu 3121 4th Street Lubbock, Texas 79409-3200 Press © 2022 Ranching Heritage Association. The Ranching Heritage Association provides funds for the acquisition and care of The National Ranching Heritage Center historic structures and RHA-sponsored events, exhibits and educational programs. Join today and help preserve ranching’s heritage.