Skip to main content University of Washington University of Washington Quick Links Prospective Students Accepted Students Current Students Alumni Contact Us Naval Reserve Officer Training Corps University of Washington Naval Reserve Training Corps Menu Prospective Students Accepted Students Current Students Alumni Contact Us Scholarship Opportunities Come learn more about your opportunities North West Navy Midshipmen participating in Tug-of-War during Northwest Navy Husky Bn Wall of Alumni Learn more At the University of Washington Naval Reserve Officer Training Corps, our mission is to train and develop well-rounded Navy and Marine Corps Officers. Request Support Color Guard / JROTC Tour Request. Explore More Meet the Staff Come view our senior leadership. Explore More NROTC Life Check out what we do. Explore More Official Links Official Navy Website Navy Recruiting Website Official Marine Corps Website Marine Corps Recruiting Website Naval Education and Training Command NROTC Scholarship Program DON Freedom of Information Act Office No Fear Act DoD section 508 Accessibility Veterans Crisis Line Link Disclaimer UW NROTC Connect with us: Facebook Extra Links Official Website of the United States Navy Home Events Prospective Students Accepted Students Current Students Alumni Contact Us UW NROTC Privacy © 2022 University of Washington Naval Reserve Officer Training Corps | Seattle, WA Developed by Litthideth Phansiri Staff Sergeant Hendrix SSGT Hendrix UWNROTC AMOI Rank: Staff Sergeant Name: Brandon J. Hendrix Military Experience: Staff Sergeant Hendrix enlisted in the Marine Corps and underwent recruit training on 16 July, 2007 at Marine Corps Recruit Depot San Diego, California. In November 2007 Private First Class Hendrix attended his Military Occupation Specialty School at Fort Sill, Oklahoma for Cannon Crewman course. In February, 2008 Private First Class Hendrix reported to Kilo Battery 3D BN 12th Marines and served as a Cannoneer. In April 2008 Private First Class Hendrix was promoted to the rank of Lance Corporal. Lance Corporal Hendrix deployed to Okinawa, Japan in May of 2008 in support of the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit. Lance Corporal Hendrix returned from deployment in February of 2009. In April 2009, Lance Corporal Hendrix was promoted to the Rank of Corporal. In May 2011, Corporal Hendrix was assigned to Golf Battery 2nd Battalion 11th Marines. Corporal Hendrix attended Artillery Training School in 2011 where he received the billet of Section Chief. From October 2011 to May 2012, Corporal Hendrix Deployed to Kajaki and Shira Ghazi in the Helmand Province of Afghanistan in support of Operation Enduring Freedom. Corporal Hendrix served as a Howitzer Section Chief and 81mm Mortars Chief during this time. In May 2012, Corporal Hendrix was promoted to the rank of Sergeant. Sergeant Hendrix attended Drill Instructor school at Marine Corps Recruit Depot San Diego in October 2013 and was assigned to 3D Recruit Training Battalion Lima Company. In November of 2014 Sergeant Hendrix served as a Martial Arts Instructor at the Dojo on MCRD. Sergeant Hendrix returned to Lima Company at the end of 2015 where he served as a green belt Drill Instructor. In October of 2016 Sergeant Hendrix was assigned to Kilo Company where he served as a Senior Drill Instructor. Sergeant Hendrix was promoted to his current rank of Staff Sergeant in October of 2016. In January 2017, Staff Sergeant Hendrix was assigned to Romeo Battery 5th Battalion 11th Marines. Staff Sergeant Hendrix served as a Guns Platoon Sergeant and Launcher Section Chief. From May 2018 to November 2018 Staff Sergeant Hendrix Deployed to Okinawa, Japan in support of the Unit Deployment Program. In February of 2019 Staff Sergeant Hendrix reported to 3d BN 11th Marines where he was assigned as a Platoon Sergeant in Mike Battery. Staff Sergeant Hendrix served as the Battery Gunnery Sergeant for Kilo Battery from May 2019 to December 2019 and then deployed with Battery I in as the battery gunnery sergeant from September 2020 to March 2021. In March 2021 Staff Sergeant Hendrix assumed his duties as the Assistant Marine Officer Instructor (AMOI) at the University of Washington, Naval Reserve Officer Training Corps. Personal Decorations: Navy and Marine Corps Commendation Medal, Navy and Marine Corps Achievement Medal with two gold stars (in lieu of third award), and the Combat Action Ribbon. Hobbies, sports and interests: Parenting, Riding Motorcycles, Playing sports, Traveling × Jon-Paul Mickle Jon-Paul Mickle Program Coordinator University of Washington NROTC Jon-Paul Mickle is the University of Washington Program Coordinator for the Department of Naval Science, Navy Reserve Officer Training Corps. In this role he assists the students, staff and faculty with navigating the university system. He is a graduate of Illinois Central College, Southern Illinois University, Central Michigan University, the Marine Corps University and the National War College. He is also a 27 year veteran of the United States Air Force. × LT Morgan S. Bingle LT Morgan S. Bingle Lieutenant Morgan S. Bingle University of Washington NROTC Lieutenant Morgan Bingle is a native of Seattle, WA and graduated from the University of Idaho in 2014. LT Bingle commissioned through Officer Candidate School in 2016. In June 2016 he reported for his first tour onboard USS Mustin (DDG 89), homeported in Yokosuka, Japan. He served as the Auxiliaries Officer and Administration Officer throughout the ship’s basic phase and multiple patrols in the Sea of Japan, Philippine Sea, and South China Sea. In February 2019 he reported for his second tour as Navigator onboard USS Benfold (DDG 65), also homeported in Yokosuka, Japan. While onboard he supported one patrol in the East China Sea, an extended dry-dock period, and the ship’s basic phase. Lieutenant Bingle’s awards include the Navy Commendation Medal, Navy and Marine Corps Achievement Medal (two awards), and various unit awards. × Major Willet Bulldog Company Advisor Major Willet Marine Officer Instructor University of Washington NROTC Major Willett enlisted in the Marine Corps in January of 2001 and attended recruit training at 1st Recruit Training Battalion, Marine Corps Recruit Depot Parris Island, South Carolina. Upon completion, he attended the School of Infantry (SOI) where he received the MOS 0311, Infantry Rifleman. Following SOI, he reported to 3rd Battalion, 1st Marine Regiment where he served in the boat raid company. In 2003, Major Willett was assessed and selected to join 1st Reconnaissance Battalion. Major Willett completed the Reconnaissance pipeline and deployed multiple times in support of Operation’s Iraqi Freedom and Enduring Freedom. In 2006 Major Willett was honorably discharged from active duty and attended the University of Florida where he completed his degree in 2010. Upon Commissioning he attended The Basic School (TBS) in Quantico, Virginia. Following TBS, Major Willett reported to Marine Aviation Training Support Group-21 in Pensacola, Florida, for flight training. Major Willett was designated a Naval Aviator in August 2013 and reported to Marine Light Attack Helicopter Training squadron-303 (HMLAT-303) on Camp Pendleton for pilot qualification training in the AH-1W. Major Willett was then assigned to HMLA-269 at MCAS New River, North Carolina. He served with the “Gunrunners” from April 2014 to April 2017. During that time he deployed with the squadron in support of the Unit Deployment Program to Okinawa, Japan. In April 2017, Major Willett deployed as an Air Advisor and Joint Terminal Attack Controller with Task Force Southwest supporting Operation Freedom’s Sentinel and NATO Mission Resolute Support in Helmand, Afghanistan. In February 2018 he returned to the “Gunrunners” to serve in the Department of Safety and Standardization as a squadron Aviation Safety Officer. Major Willett reported to the Naval ROTC at the University of Washington in June 2019 where he currently serves as the Marine Officer Instructor, Battalion Operations Officer, Anti-Terrorism/Force Protection Officer and the Command Fitness Leader. Major Willett’s personal awards include the Navy and Marine Corps Commendation Medal, Navy and Marine Corps Achievement Medal with bronze star in lieu of second award and the Combat Action Ribbon. × Captain Allen Adkins Professor of Naval Science Commanding Officer University of Washington NROTC CAPT Allen D. Adkins was born in Dallas, Texas and is a graduate of the United States Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point. In 2002, CAPT Adkins served aboard USS SHILOH and deployed to the Northern Arabian Gulf where he served as Air Defense Commander for the ABRAHAM LINCOLN Carrier Strike Group in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom. In 2007, CAPT Adkins attended the Army Command and General Staff College where he earned his Master’s Degree in Military Arts & Science and his Joint Professional Military Education. CAPT Adkins other tours include Commanding Officer USS CORONADO, Officer in Charge of Afloat Planning Systems Atlantic, NATO Planning officer for the United Kingdom Maritime Battle Staff, and Branch Head at Naval Surface Mine and Warfighting Center. CAPT Adkins also deployed to Iraq as part of the UK-US coalition in support of Combined Task Force Iraqi Maritime. CAPT Adkins most recent assignment was serving as Commodore at Costal Riverine Group One in San Diego, California. His decorations include the Legion of Merit, Meritorious Service Medal, Joint Service Commendation Medal, Navy Commendation Medal, Navy Achievement Medal, and various unit and service awards. × LT Ricardo Caporale LT Ricardo Caporale Assistant Professor of Naval Science University of Washington NROTC Lieutenant Ricardo Caporale grew up in Beacon, New York, and has one younger brother. He is the son of Antoinette Griffin. Lieutenant Caporale graduated with honors from The Citadel, The Military College of South Carolina, and received his commission in 2015 through the Navy Reserve Officer Training Corps program. Lieutenant Caporale served his Division Officer Tours in USS ESSEX (LHD 2) as the Repair Division Officer and then as the Combat Electronics Division Officer; in USS CHAMPION (MCM 4), he served as the ship’s Navigation Officer. While serving aboard ESSEX, he completed a deployment to 5th and 7th Fleet to support Operation Inherent Resolve, saw an eighteen-month CNO Maintenance Availability, and served Temporary Assigned Duty in USS AMERICA (LHA 6) for RIMPAC. During his Navigator tour, he completed San Francisco Fleet Week, two Klein-5000 side-scan sonar hydrographic surveys supporting maritime home-defense operations, and a two-year CNO Maintenance Availability. He also served as the Electrical Division Officer while deployed on Temporary Assigned Duty in USS ANCHORAGE (LPD 23) to 5th, 6th, and 7th Fleet to support Operation Odyssey Resolve and screened for early command of a Mark VI Riverine Patrol Boat. LT Caporale currently serves as an Assistant Professor at the University of Washington NROTC. His awards include the Navy and Marine Corps Commendation Medal, the Navy and Marine Corps Achievement Medal, the Military Outstanding Volunteer Service Medal, and the Navy Battle “E” Ribbon. × LT Aaron Schmersahl LT Aaron Schmersahl Assistant Professor of Naval Science Aviation Officer University of Washington NROTC Lieutenant Schmersahl was born in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. He enlisted in the US Navy in November of 2001 as a Fire Control Technician aboard submarines. Upon completion of “A school” in Groton, Connecticut, Lieutenant Schmersahl was stationed onboard the USS Topeka SSN 754 homeported in San Diego, California. While stationed onboard USS Topeka, Lieutenant Schmersahl completed two western pacific deployments in support of national level intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance tasking. In 2007, Lieutenant Schmersahl received orders to Naval Recruiting District (NRD) Atlanta, where he served as an enlisted programs recruiter. While stationed at NRD Atlanta, Lieutenant Schmersahl prospected, mentored and screened candidates for careers in the US Navy. In 2008, Lieutenant Schmersahl was selected for the highly competitive Seaman-to-Admiral-21 program (STA-21) where he would join the NROTC unit as an officer candidate at the Georgia Institute of Technology. In June 2011, Lieutenant Schmersahl graduated with a Bachelor of Science in Business Administration and commissioned as an Ensign where he would then report to Pensacola, Florida as a student Naval Aviator. Lieutenant Schmersahl trained in the T-6B Texan with the VT-3 RED KNIGHTS in Milton, Florida and received follow-on multi-engine training in the TC-12B Huron with the VT-35 STINGRAYS in Corpus Christi, Texas. Lieutenant Schmersahl completed flight training in Jacksonville, Florida where he trained to fly the P-3C Orion maritime surveillance aircraft. Lieutenant Schmersahl reported to VQ-1 in Whidbey Island, Washington in 2013 where he completed multiple deployments to the seventh, sixth, and fifth fleets as an EP-3E Aries Aircraft Commander and maintenance Quality Assurance Officer in support of Operation Inherent Resolve and Operation Freedom Sentinel. In May 2018, Lieutenant Schmersahl reported to NAVCENT/5 th Fleet in Bahrain where he served as Battle Watch Captain, overseeing maritime exercise planning and operations for coalition and Fifth Fleet forces deployed to the Middle East. His personal awards include the Navy and Marine Corps Commendation Medal, Good Conduct Medal, and Navy and Marine Corps Achievement Medal in lieu of third award. Lieutenant Schmersahl resides in Kirkland, Washington with his wife and three children. He serves as the unit’s aviation advisor and has plans to continue flying in the greater Seattle area. × LT Megan Lum LT Megan Lum Assistant Professor of Naval Science Surface Warfare Officer Nuclear University of Washington NROTC LT Megan Lum was born and raised in Kaneohe, HI. In 2009 she accepted her admission to the University of Hawaii Manoa. In 2011 she transferred to the University of California, Riverside where she received a Bachelor of Science degree in Bioengineering. LT Lum was commissioned in February of 2014 as a Surface Warfare Officer assigned to the USS NEW ORLEANS (LPD-18) out of San Diego, Ca. Here she served as the Electronic Warfare Officer from 2014 through 2016 in support of signals analysis and identification. In 2016 she deployed for four months in support of South China Sea Operations. Ashore, LT Lum spent a year at Naval Nuclear Propulsion Training Unit qualifying to operate a naval nuclear propulsion plant. She was then assigned duty and as the Reactor Propulsion Division Officer aboard the USS NIMITZ (CVN 68). She then transitioned to both Reactor Training and Reactor Mechanical Division Officer billets while there. Personal decorations include two Navy achievement Medals and various unit awards. Updated: 26 November 2019 × LT Gary Oh LT Gary Oh Assistant Professor of Naval Science Surface Warfare Officer (SWO) University of Washington NROTC Lieutenant Oh was born in Incheon, South Korea, and raised in Anchorage, Alaska. He graduated with a Bachelor of Arts in Mathematic from Arizona State University and commissioned through the university’s Naval Reserve Office Training Command in 2014. A Surface Warfare Officer by trade, he reported to USS SHOUP (DDG 86) then stationed in Everett, Washington. There, he served as Combat Missiles division officer and Engagement Control Officer while participating in the joint training exercise Northern Edge 2015, and the multinational maritime warfare exercise Rim of the Pacific 2016. After completing nuclear training in Charleston, South Carolina, Lieutenant Oh reported to USS NIMITZ (CVN 68) in 2018 while undergoing an extensive dry dock and workup period in Bremerton, Washington. There, he served as the Reactor Controls division officer, and assistant Reactor Electrical Assistant. In June 2020, Lieutenant Oh received orders to the University of Washington NROTC Unit as the Surface Warfare adviser while obtaining his master’s degree in industrial and systems engineering at the university. His personal awards include the Navy and Marine Corps Commendation Medal, and the Navy and Marine Corps Achievement Medal. × LT Aaron Bishop Poseidon Company Advisor LT Aaron Bishop Assistant Professor of Naval Science Submarine Warfare Officer/Nuclear Power Officer University of Washington NROTC LT Aaron Bishop grew up in Huson, Montana and graduated from Frenchtown High School in 2008. He enlisted in the Navy as a Nuclear Electronics Technician, and while in the training program was accepted into the Seaman-to-Admiral 21 commissioning program. Through the STA-21 program he attended Oregon State University and completed a B.S. in Nuclear Engineering with a minor in Economics. He commissioned as an Ensign in 2014, and went on complete Naval Nuclear Power Training in Charleston, SC and Saratoga Spring, NY before being assigned to the USS California (SSN 781) out of Groton, CT. LT Bishop reported to the USS California in April 2016, where he served as the Chemical and Radiological Controls Officer, Diving Officer, and Assistant Operations Officer. He completed two EUCOM deployments over three years onboard California. In April 2019 LT Bishop was assigned to the PCU Montana (SSN 794) in Newport News, VA. He served as the Assistant Operations Officer and the Training Officer, acting as the operational subject matter expert for the pre-commissioned boat, and assisting in the testing of the nuclear systems. In September 2020 LT Bishop reported to the University of Washington. His personal awards include the Navy and Marine Corps Commendation Medal and the Navy and Marine Corps Achievement Medal with Gold Star. In addition to his duties as an instructor, LT Bishop is pursuing a Master’s degree in Industrial and Systems Engineering. In his free time, he enjoys backpacking, snowboarding, running, and attending Seattle Sounders games. × Captain Michael Lockwood Captain Michael Lockwood Professor of Naval Science Commanding Officer University of Washington NROTC Captain Lockwood was born and raised in Rochester, New York, and is a 1991 graduate of Rochester Institute of Technology where he earned a BS in Mechanical Engineering. He was commissioned via NROTC. He has served at sea as Assistant Chief of Staff for Operations and Plans (N3/N5) – Commander, Task Force SEVEN ZERO/Battle Force SEVENTH Fleet/GEORGE WASHINGTON Carrier Strike Group; Commanding Officer, Assault Craft Unit ONE; Chief Staff Officer, Destroyer Squadron NINE; Executive Officer, USS O’KANE (DDG 77); Assistant Chief of Staff for Manpower and Personnel (N1) – Commander, NIMITZ Carrier Strike Group; Combat Systems Officer/Weapons Officer in USS BUNKER HILL (CG 52); Fire Control Officer in USS THOMAS S GATES (CG 51); and Main Propulsion Assistant/Combat Information Center Officer in USS NEW ORLEANS (LPH 11). Captain Lockwood has completed nine deployments to the Western Pacific and Middle East, supporting Operations ENDURING FREEDOM, IRAQI FREEDOM, SOUTHERN WATCH, DAMAYAN, and RESTORE HOPE. Ashore, Captain Lockwood’s most recent assignment was to Tactical Training Group Pacific in San Diego, California, where he served as Operations and Plans Syndicate Chair. He has also served as Maritime Division Chief (J32), Operations Directorate of North American Aerospace Defense Command, Colorado Springs, Colorado; and at Industrial College of the Armed Forces, Washington, DC; and Naval Postgraduate School, Monterey, California. He holds a MS in National Resource Strategy from the National Defense University, and an MS in Applied Physics from the Naval Postgraduate School. His decorations include the Legion of Merit, the Meritorious Service Medal, the Navy Commendation Medal, the Army Commendation Medal, as well as other personal and unit level awards and citations. × Mr Dave Patton Mr. Patton Supply Technician University of Washington NROTC Mr. Patton is from Chicago, IL. He was enlisted in the Army for two years, most of which was spent in Germany. He ended his term as an E-4 with an MOS as Supply Technician. He joined the Coast Guard in 1979 as a Seaman Storekeeper and retired in August 2007 as a Chief Warrant Officer after 28 years of service. He has 11 years of sea duty and has been stationed aboard 6 Coast Guard Cutters, serving as a Department Head/Supply Officer aboard two. Mr. Patton has been awarded five Coast Guard Achievement medals, seven Good Conduct medals, two Armed Forces Expeditionary medals, two National Defense Service medals, the Global War on Terrorism Service medal, and the Humanitarian Service medal. He is married to wife Deborah and they have three children, Kevin, Samantha, and Linda. ×