Georgia Tech Naval ROTC Home History Prospective Midshipmen Scholarship New Student Indoctrination College Program Marine Program Naval Science Classes Visit Us Careers Summer Cruise Staff Alumni and Giving Alumni Giving NROTC FAQ CO Suggestion Box Contact Us Social Media Instagram Facebook Twitter The Lookout Menu Home History Prospective Midshipmen Scholarship New Student Indoctrination College Program Marine Program Naval Science Classes Visit Us Careers Summer Cruise Staff Alumni and Giving Alumni Giving NROTC FAQ CO Suggestion Box Contact Us Social Media Instagram Facebook Twitter The Lookout Home Previous Slide◀︎ Next Slide▶︎ First photoCurrent Slide Second photo. Third photo. Fourth photo. Fifth photo. Sixth photo. Seventh photo. Eigth photo. The NROTC Program was established to develop midshipmen mentally, morally, and physically and to imbue them with the highest ideals of duty, and loyalty, and with the core values of honor, courage, and commitment in order to commission college graduates as naval officers who possess a basic professional background, are motivated toward careers in the naval service, and have a potential for future development in mind and character so as to assume the highest responsibilities of command, citizenship, and government. COMMANDER’S GUIDANCE Imperative: Send Warfighters to the Fleet Mission: Train, lead, and mentor Midshipmen who embody Honor, Courage and Commitment in preparation for commissioning; who will ultimately lead Sailors and Marines to fight and win our nation’s wars. Command Pillars: Teamwork. Our Team is greater than the sum of its parts. Serve each other and want nothing but the best for your shipmates. Your individual accomplishments are made possible by your teammates. Ownership. Take personal responsibility for the performance, the appearance, and the reputation of our Command. Set high standards and expect high results. Always comply with policies and procedures, and when in doubt do what the book says. When something is not right, fix it. If you make a mistake, own it, improve from it, teach others, and move on. Posture for success, and execute with style and precision. Professionalism. We are Naval Officers, Midshipmen, and Professionals 24/7. As John Paul Jones said, ‘be the soul of tact, patience, justice, firmness, kindness, and charity.’ The foundation of any professional relationship is mutual respect. Treat everyone, regardless of rank, gender, race or creed the way you wish to be treated. As members of the maritime profession of arms, our professional ethic is what guides and steers our actions. Class of 2021 Commissioning Ceremony Information on 2 and 3 Year NROTC Scholarships is now available. Link to Suicide Prevention: Veterans Crisis Line Link to DOD Safe Helpline: Safe Helpline Phone: (877)995-5247 Contact Us Georgia Tech NROTC 151 Sixth Street NW Atlanta, GA 30332 Links Home History Prospective Midshipmen Contact Us NROTC FAQ Login © 2022 Georgia Tech Naval ROTC. Loading Comments... You must be logged in to post a comment.