Skip to site alert. Skip to content Columbia School of Nursing Students Alumni Faculty Contact Us Search Make a Gift About Us About Us Message From the Dean Leadership Faculty Our Culture News Events Facts and Figures Accreditation Make a Gift Contact Us Our Culture Diversity and Cultural Affairs Civility Statement Social Justice and Health Equity and Anti-Racism Commitment Sustainability Our History Jonas Partnership Join Our Team Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Learn about our commitment to social justice and health equality and anti-racism. View Our Progress Academics Academics A Columbia Nursing Education Admissions at a Glance Academic Programs Courses Financial Aid Continuing Nursing Education Helene Fuld Health Trust Simulation Center Academic Programs Doctor of Nursing Practice Doctor of Nursing Practice in Nurse Anesthesia Doctor of Philosophy Masters Direct Entry Program For Non-Nurses Masters in Advanced Clinical Management and Leadership Online Prerequisites for Entry to Nursing Transgender Non-Binary (Trans NB) Health Care for Advance Practice Nurses and PAs Palliative Care Throughout the Lifespan for Advanced Practice Registered Nurses (APRNs) Admissions at a Glance Learn more about Admissions at Columbia Nursing, including important dates and deadlines, and how to apply to all of our programs. Learn More About Admissions Research Research Research Faculty and Postdoctoral Fellows Research Areas of Focus Research Centers and Programs Training Programs Research Resources Research Centers and Programs Center for Health Policy Center for Improving Palliative Care for Vulnerable Adults with MCC Precision in Symptom Self-Management Center Center for Healthcare Delivery Research and Innovations Center for Research on People of Color Center for Sexual and Gender Minority Health Research Linking to Improve Nursing Knowledge Research Areas of Focus Explore the research areas of focus conducted by our faculty, postdocs, and students. View Our Focus Areas Patient Care Global Health Global Health Global Opportunities for Students Global Research International Visitors WHO Collaborating Center Contact Global Opportunities for Students Global opportunities for clinical practicum and research may be available for MDE and doctoral students at Columbia Nursing. Get More Information Jennifer E. Dohrn, DNP, CNM, FAAN Profile Navigation Overview Credentials & Experience Research Overview Established first freestanding birthing center in innercity community in Southwest Bronx under leadership of Dr. Ruth Lubic; works in ten sub-Saharan African countries since 1993 building capacity of nurses and midwives in HIV care, including first Project Director for PEPFAR/ICAP Global Nurse Capacity Building Program at Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health. Currently building nursing and midwifery research leadership network in Sub-Saharan Africa and Middle East. Teaches new course Addressing Population-Health Needs on a Global Scale. Academic Appointments Associate Professor of Nursing at CUMC Administrative Titles Assistant Dean, Global Initiatives Languages Spanish Gender Female Credentials & Experience Education & Training DrNP, Columbia University School of Nursing MS, Columbia University School of Nursing BS, CUNY Hunter College Honors & Awards 2012 Association of Nurses in AIDS Care. ANAC Frank Lamendola Achievement for Nursing Leadership in HIV Care. 2012 2008 Outstanding Achievement Award, Morris Heights Health Center, Bronx, NY, August 2008 2006 Glenda Garvey Teaching Academy, Fellowship for Founders' Group 2000 University of Chicago Alumni Public Service Citation Research Research Interests Increasing capacity of nurses and midwives in sub-Saharan Africa across different levels Nurse-Midwifery, Women's Health Selected Publications JAIDS Supplement (52(1), 2009. "The Impact of HIV Scale-Up on the Role of Nurses in South Africa: Time for a New Approach." First Author. Online Journal of Health Ethics, Vol. 1, No.1 (2006). Breastfeeding in the HIV epidemic: A midwife's dilemma in international work. Access at http://ethicsjournal.umc.edu Journal of the Association of Nurses in AIDS Care (2006). South African Nurse-Midwives in the midst of the HIVAIDS epidemic: An assessment of knowledge base regarding antiretroviral treatment. ACNM Journal of Midwifery and Women's Health, (50(4), 2005). Witnessing a difficult birth: The challenges South African nurse-midwives face in the midst of the HIV epidemic. Columbia University School of Nursing (2005). The doctorate of nursing practice DrNP: Setting a new standard in health care. Contributor. For a complete list of publications, please visit PubMed.gov Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Academics Research Patient Care Global Health Contact Us Students Alumni Intranet Careers Columbia University School of Nursing 560 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Back to top