Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home School of Nursing Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin School of Nursing News Events Directory Give Search Search Search Search About Expand Overview Dean's Welcome Values, Mission, & Goals Facts & Rankings History Accreditation Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Wellness Center Contact Us Academics Expand Overview Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Compliance Certification Professional Licensure Disclosures Students Expand Overview Prospective Students Current Students Career Services Student Organizations Office of Student Services Learning Enhancement and Academic Progress (LEAP) Center Research Expand Overview Centers & Initiatives Cain Center for Nursing Research Find Faculty Student Research Research News Alumni & Giving Expand Our Donors Alumni Awards Overview Make a Gift Update Your Information Advisory Council Contact Support the School Online Gift Shop Alumni Reunion Faculty & Staff Expand Overview Faculty Directory Staff Directory Forms, Policies and Procedures (EID) Staff Award Preceptors Faculty Position Openings Home Academics : Compliance Certification AHA Heartsaver First-Aid & AHA - BLS Provider Certification AHA Heartsaver First-Aid & AHA - BLS Provider Certification Click Here to Learn about COVID-19 Updates Due to ongoing Covid19 and campus restrictions, we have modified our certification courses to reflect the recommendations of the American Heart Association (AHA), University, and community policy. Avoid Close Contact and interaction between students Face masks are recommended but not required Wash hands and cover sneezes/coughs – use hand sanitizer regularly Adhere to AHA Covid19 classroom recommendations – No pocket masks and 1-1 checks If you are sick – don’t come to class If you have any questions pertaining to our certification courses, please email BLSClasses@nursing.utexas.edu. American Heart Association (AHA) Heartsaver First-Aid and AHA Basic Life Support (BLS) Provider is an instructor-led and video-based course that teaches students critical skills needed to respond to and manage a life-threatening emergency. Skills covered in this course include BLS CPR and the use of an AED for adult, child and infant; choking relief in adults and infants; and to promptly recognize a First Aid emergency. The course teaches In Facility Provider (IFP) skills and allows instructors to observe the students, provide feedback, and guide the students’ learning throughout the course. Dates/Times/Locations: Thursday, June 9, 2022 | 8:15am – 1:00pm | NUR 1.106 | View Map Thursday, June 23, 2022 | 8:15am – 1:00pm | NUR 1.106 | View Map Thursday, June 30, 2022 | 8:15am – 1:00pm | NUR 1.106 | View Map Friday, July 8, 2022 | 8:15am – 1:00pm | NUR 1.108 | View Map Thursday, July 14, 2022 | 8:15am – 1:00pm | NUR 1.106 | View Map Thursday, July 21, 2022 | 8:15am – 1:00pm | NUR 1.106 | View Map Cost: $60 Course Registration Process STEP 1 – SIGN UP: Participants must first check upcoming class schedule and secure your spot by enrolling in the class. Click here to enroll in First Aid and BLS (CPR) Once enrolled, return to this page and complete the payment process - Step 2 STEP 2 – PAYMENT: After you have enrolled, please make payment using the link below. Click here to make payment – $60 Contact: Please email BLSClasses@nursing.utexas.edu, and we will respond within 24 hours. NOTE: You are not guaranteed a spot in class until payment for registration has been submitted (step 2). If payment is not submitted upon registration, you will be dropped from the class. (Invoiced participants are exempt.) A cancellation fee of $10 will be charged to those who fail to attend a class unless prior notification has been given. *UT School of Nursing reserves the right to cancel a class with less than 5 participants registered. An email will be sent to those on the roster 24 hours before the class is cancelled. Academics Overview Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Compliance Certification AHA BLS (CPR) Certification AHA HeartCode BLS Classroom Skills Session AHA Heartsaver First-Aid & AHA - BLS (CPR) Certification AHA Heartsaver First-Aid Certification AHA Heartsaver First Aid CPR AED Certification Nurse & Patient Safety Certification Professional Licensure Disclosures School of Nursing School of Nursing 1710 Red River St. Austin, TX 78712 Phone: 512-471-7913 Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube About Academics Students Research Alumni & Giving Faculty & Staff News Events Directory Intranet UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022