Skip to site alert. Skip to content Columbia School of Nursing Students Alumni Faculty Contact Us Search Make a Gift About Us About Us Message From the Dean Leadership Faculty Our Culture News Events Facts and Figures Accreditation Make a Gift Contact Us Our Culture Diversity and Cultural Affairs Civility Statement Social Justice and Health Equity and Anti-Racism Commitment Sustainability Our History Jonas Partnership Join Our Team Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Learn about our commitment to social justice and health equality and anti-racism. View Our Progress Academics Academics A Columbia Nursing Education Admissions at a Glance Academic Programs Courses Financial Aid Continuing Nursing Education Helene Fuld Health Trust Simulation Center Academic Programs Doctor of Nursing Practice Doctor of Nursing Practice in Nurse Anesthesia Doctor of Philosophy Masters Direct Entry Program For Non-Nurses Masters in Advanced Clinical Management and Leadership Online Prerequisites for Entry to Nursing Transgender Non-Binary (Trans NB) Health Care for Advance Practice Nurses and PAs Palliative Care Throughout the Lifespan for Advanced Practice Registered Nurses (APRNs) Admissions at a Glance Learn more about Admissions at Columbia Nursing, including important dates and deadlines, and how to apply to all of our programs. Learn More About Admissions Research Research Research Faculty and Postdoctoral Fellows Research Areas of Focus Research Centers and Programs Training Programs Research Resources Research Centers and Programs Center for Health Policy Center for Improving Palliative Care for Vulnerable Adults with MCC Precision in Symptom Self-Management Center Center for Healthcare Delivery Research and Innovations Center for Research on People of Color Center for Sexual and Gender Minority Health Research Linking to Improve Nursing Knowledge Research Areas of Focus Explore the research areas of focus conducted by our faculty, postdocs, and students. View Our Focus Areas Patient Care Global Health Global Health Global Opportunities for Students Global Research International Visitors WHO Collaborating Center Contact Global Opportunities for Students Global opportunities for clinical practicum and research may be available for MDE and doctoral students at Columbia Nursing. Get More Information You are here Home > About Us > News Message From the Dean Leadership Faculty Our Culture News Publications Events Facts and Figures Accreditation Make a Gift Contact Us News Topics Research Publications, Awards, and Other News Columbia Nursing Magazine Coronavirus Updates Columbia Nursing Profiles Diversity and Cultural Affairs Academic Programs Messages from Dean Frazier View All Topics Search All News Keywords Top Stories Dean Rings in Nurses Week 2022 Columbia Nursing celebrates National Nurses Day Dean Frazier's Message Honoring National Nurses Week Dean Frazier celebrates 2022 National Nurses Week. Topic Messages from Dean Frazier Perspectives from the Class of 2022 We spoke with five outstanding soon-to-be-graduates about how their Columbia education prepared them for the pandemic and allowed them to follow their passions in nursing. Topic Columbia Nursing Profiles Columbia Nursing’s 2022 Campbell Award Honoree Campbell Award winner and DNP candidate Alden Bush, MS ‘20. Topic Columbia Nursing Profiles View All News In The Media A National Approach to Reducing LGBTQ+ Health Disparities Source: The Macy Foundation September 8, 2021 Tonda Hughes, PhD, was featured for her work addressing disparities in care for LGBTQ+ communities. Topic Research Transgender People Have Higher Risk of Heart Health Issues, Experts Say Source: Cronkite News September 7, 2021 Billy Caceres, PhD, was interviewed about heart health risks among transgender individuals. Topic Research Gender Research Source: Crain's Health Pulse August 30, 2021 Walter Bockting, PhD, was mentioned in an article about a $3.4M grant funding his new study examining psychosocial well-being and quality of life of individuals after gender-affirming surgery. Topic Research Columbia Nursing Researchers Get more than $6M for Asthma Studies Source: Crain's Health Pulse August 27, 2021 Maureen George, PhD, was interviewed about two new grants focused on bringing low-cost asthma interventions to under-resourced health centers. Topic Research View All In The Media Browse by Topics Columbia Nursing Magazine Country Roads May 9, 2022 Bassett practice integration program prepares students to treat rural populations. Topic Columbia Nursing Magazine A New Calling May 9, 2022 Second-career nurses and nursing students bring experience, confidence to the clinic. Topic Columbia Nursing Magazine Planning for a More Inclusive Future April 27, 2022 A new admissions process—built around a program called PLAN—aims to recruit students who will change the face of nursing. Topic Columbia Nursing Magazine Faculty Profiles Elizabeth Corwin on the Whys and Hows of Nursing Research March 9, 2020 Corwin believes everyone deserves good health. In her new role as vice dean of strategic and innovative research, she is championing the work of the school’s researchers to move toward that goal. Topic Research Speeding the Transmission of Health Information to the Underserved July 23, 2019 Adriana Arcia’s area of research focuses on the intersection of health disparities, maternal and neonatal health, and informed decision making. “In A World Where You Can Be Anything, Be Kind”: A Philosophy Panton Applies To Teaching and Patient Care April 8, 2019 Jaime Panton, DNP, has been a nurse for nearly 20 years, a career path which started when she was a student worker in a neonatology department. Student Profiles Portraits in Diversity November 9, 2020 The strengths that students from underrepresented populations and varied backgrounds bring to Columbia Nursing are as diverse as the students themselves. Here are some of their stories. Topic Columbia Nursing Magazine MDE-DNP Student Profile: Javier Torres November 11, 2019 Learn about Columbia Nursing MDE-DNP student Javier L. Aget-Torres, RN. Topic Doctor of Nursing Practice Program (DNP) Perspectives from the Class of 2022 May 10, 2022 We spoke with five outstanding soon-to-be-graduates about how their Columbia education prepared them for the pandemic and allowed them to follow their passions in nursing. Topic Columbia Nursing Profiles View All Topics Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Academics Research Patient Care Global Health Contact Us Students Alumni Intranet Careers Columbia University School of Nursing 560 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Back to top