skip to main content About Administration & Leadership Accreditation Campuses & Locations Diversity History News Academics Admissions Degrees & Programs Faculty & Staff Current Students Clinical Clinical Partnerships Clinical Learning Resource Center Community Partnerships & Initiatives Professional Education Research Resources Research Report Projects, Programs & Centers Center of Excellence in Forensic Nursing Give Search Search Close Menu Collapsed content that can be toggled with the menu button. Apply Alumni Contact News About Administration & Leadership Campuses & Locations Departments History Accreditation Professionalism News Academics Admissions Degrees & Programs Faculty & Staff Current Students Clinical Clinical Partnerships Clinical Learning Resource Center Community Partnerships & Initiatives Professional Education Research Research Resources Annual Research Report Projects, Programs & Centers Center of Excellence in Forensic Nursing Alumni Apply Calendars Contact Directory Employment Give News Parking Press & Media Webmail MSN Forensic Nursing Home Degrees MSN Forensic Nursing On This Page About Curriculum Cost of Attendance Dates and Deadlines Admission Criteria Application Requirements Attend an Information Session Related Pages HESI Admissions Assessment Exam Additional Program Information Student Resources Program Overview The Master of Science in Nursing-Forensic Nursing track prepares the graduate to care for victims and perpetrators of traumatic events or criminal acts through completion of a 36-semester credit hour curriculum. While caring for their patients, the forensic nurse is also responsible for observing, recognizing, collecting and documenting forensic evidence related to the traumatic event or criminal act for subsequent use in civil or criminal legal proceedings. The course instruction is delivered primarily online allowing students to balance career, family and other responsibilities while advancing their education. Students will be asked to come to Bryan-College Station for a limited number of class activities. On-campus clinical hours are required to meet the clinical objectives as set forth by the American Association of Colleges of Nursing for any MSN degree. Students will be expected to attend on-campus clinical experiences for NURS 653 Advanced Health Assessment to complete the required 45 clinical hours in two separate on-campus visits. Students will be responsible for obtaining their own preceptors for one course (NURS 638) taken in the last semester. Further information on preceptors will be provided at new student orientation. Students who relocate from one state to another state during the course of their enrollment may be unable to continue due to the regulations which many state boards of nursing impose regarding use of preceptors. Campus Locations Calendar MSN Forensic Nursing Curriculum Semester Curriculum Hours Fall NURS 617 Advanced Pathophysiology NURS 651 Health Care Quality Improvement & Informatics 3 3 Spring NURS 601 Foundations of Forensic Health Care NURS 618 Advanced Pharmacology NURS 652 Scholarship Integration and Application 2 3 3 Summer NURS 602 Victimology NURS 654 Prevention & Population Health 3 3 Fall NURS 603 Impact of Violence Across the Lifespan NURS 653 Advanced Health Assessment (45 *CLH) 3 3 Spring NURS 604 Forensic Investigation of Injury NURS 656 Leadership and Health Policy *Select from Prescribed Electives Below 2 3 1 - 3 Summer NURS 638** Advanced Clinical Practicum & Project (90 CLH*) 3 TOTAL (plus two or more hours of elective from choices below) 36 *CLH=Clinical Learning Hours **This course requires a preceptor. Please secure your preceptor at least 6 months prior to the first day of the semester. Elective Courses Select one elective course Hours NURS 610 Forensic Sexual Assault Examiner Course NURS 611 Clinical Pharmacology: Implications for Victims NURS 612 Human Trafficking NURS 613 Forensic Photography NURS 614 Forensic Healthcare Policy and Ethics NURS 615 Forensic Mental Health 3 1 1 1 1 1 Cost of Attendance For cost of attendance including estimated cost of tuition & fees, books & supplies, housing, etc., please visit the Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships website. Application Deadlines The MSN–Forensic Nursing track prepares the graduate to care for victims and perpetrators of traumatic events or criminal acts that result in trauma or death. While caring for their patients, the forensic nurse is also responsible for observing, recognizing, collecting and documenting forensic evidence related to the traumatic event or criminal act for subsequent use in civil or criminal legal proceedings. The majority of course instruction is delivered online allowing students to balance career, family and other responsibilities while advancing their education. Students complete 36 semester credit hours in six semesters taking six hours each term, including summers, to earn the degree. Students will be asked to come to Bryan-College Station for a limited number of class activities. On-campus clinical hours are required to meet the clinical objectives as set forth by the American Association of Colleges of Nursing for any MSN degree. Students will be expected to attend on-campus clinical experiences for NURS 653 Advanced Health Assessment, Students will complete the required 45 clinical hours in two separate on-campus visits. Students will be responsible for obtaining their own preceptors for one course (NURS 638) taken in the last semester. Further information on preceptors will be provided at new student orientation. Students who relocate from one state to another state during the course of their enrollment may be unable to continue due to the regulations which many state boards of nursing impose regarding use of preceptors. For questions, contact the College of Nursing at 979-436-0110 or con-admissions@tamu.edu. Application Opening Date October 1 Application Deadline December 1 Mandatory Orientation To be determined First Class Day August (fall term) If you have not received an admission decision through Nursing CAS by April 1 for fall admission, call (979) 436-0110 and ask to speak with an admissions advisor to check on the status of your application. Admission Criteria Admission to the college is competitive and applicants are evaluated on the following basis: Completion of elementary statistics with a minimum grade of "C" by the first class day Cumulative GPA on all graduate and undergraduate coursework Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) degree and RN license GPA on the last 60 hours of coursework Timed verbal responses and written assessments References - three academic and/or professional references Volunteer/community/military service Leadership/involvement/awards in professional activities TOEFL score, required of international applicants only History of withdrawals, repeats or failures will place applicant at a disadvantage Interview, if requested by Graduate Admissions, Progression and Graduation Committee Application Requirements Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) degree and RN license. NursingCAS application and nonrefundable application fee. Official college transcripts from each institution attended sent to NursingCAS. This includes Texas A&M University, if applicable. Completion of elementary statistics with a minimum grade of “C” by the first class day. Online interview and online written assessments through the secondary assessment provider, Kira Talent. Eligible applicants will be sent invitations to complete this portion following review of their NursingCAS application. Three professional reference evaluations (submitted in NursingCAS). Professional resume (submitted in NursingCAS). Recommended minimum 3.0 cumulative and last 60 hour GPA. International applicant credentials (if applicable). Prospective Student Information Sessions Interested students are invited to attend a Prospective Student Information Session (PSIS) to learn more about our programs leading to a Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN), a Master of Science in Nursing (MSN) or a Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP). These sessions will provide details on admission requirements, prerequisite coursework, student life, clinical experiences and other opportunities. Students are required to attend a PSIS prior to requesting an individual appointment. Reservations are required to attend a session Guests of registered attendees are welcome Sessions last approximately an hour to an hour-and-a-half VIEW UPCOMING SESSIONS Facebook Twitter Instagram Linked in Pinterest RSS YouTube Back to top Institution Health Science Center Dentistry Medicine Nursing Pharmacy Public Health Information Calendars Contact Us Diversity Emergency Information Emergency Plans Maps & Parking Press & Media Title IX Clery Annual Reports Resources Directory Facilities Work Request Howdy Portal Information Technology Intranet Libraries Mental Health Resources Webmail Texas A&M University · Texas A&M University System · State of Texas · Open Records · Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline · State Link Policy · Equal Opportunity / Nondiscrimination · Employment · Texas Veterans Portal · Security · Site Policies · Accessibility