Skip to site alert. Skip to content Columbia School of Nursing Students Alumni Faculty Contact Us Search Make a Gift About Us About Us Message From the Dean Leadership Faculty Our Culture News Events Facts and Figures Accreditation Make a Gift Contact Us Our Culture Diversity and Cultural Affairs Civility Statement Social Justice and Health Equity and Anti-Racism Commitment Sustainability Our History Jonas Partnership Join Our Team Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Learn about our commitment to social justice and health equality and anti-racism. View Our Progress Academics Academics A Columbia Nursing Education Admissions at a Glance Academic Programs Courses Financial Aid Continuing Nursing Education Helene Fuld Health Trust Simulation Center Academic Programs Doctor of Nursing Practice Doctor of Nursing Practice in Nurse Anesthesia Doctor of Philosophy Masters Direct Entry Program For Non-Nurses Masters in Advanced Clinical Management and Leadership Online Prerequisites for Entry to Nursing Transgender Non-Binary (Trans NB) Health Care for Advance Practice Nurses and PAs Palliative Care Throughout the Lifespan for Advanced Practice Registered Nurses (APRNs) Admissions at a Glance Learn more about Admissions at Columbia Nursing, including important dates and deadlines, and how to apply to all of our programs. Learn More About Admissions Research Research Research Faculty and Postdoctoral Fellows Research Areas of Focus Research Centers and Programs Training Programs Research Resources Research Centers and Programs Center for Health Policy Center for Improving Palliative Care for Vulnerable Adults with MCC Precision in Symptom Self-Management Center Center for Healthcare Delivery Research and Innovations Center for Research on People of Color Center for Sexual and Gender Minority Health Research Linking to Improve Nursing Knowledge Research Areas of Focus Explore the research areas of focus conducted by our faculty, postdocs, and students. View Our Focus Areas Patient Care Global Health Global Health Global Opportunities for Students Global Research International Visitors WHO Collaborating Center Contact Global Opportunities for Students Global opportunities for clinical practicum and research may be available for MDE and doctoral students at Columbia Nursing. Get More Information Columbia Nursing Celebrates 125 Years of Nursing Excellence Play video You are here Home > About Us > Our Culture > Our History Message From the Dean Leadership Faculty Our Culture Diversity and Cultural Affairs Civility Statement Social Justice and Health Equity and Anti-Racism Commitment Sustainability Our History Jonas Partnership Join Our Team News Events Facts and Figures Accreditation Make a Gift Contact Us Our History The History of Columbia University School of Nursing Columbia University School of Nursing's impact began over 125 years ago when it opened its doors in 1892. It was then that Anna C. Maxwell, the school's first dean, set the standard for nursing education and service that would become the foundation for Columbia Nursing's excellence for decades to come. It was Maxwell's pioneering spirit and unwavering belief in the power of nursing that opened new horizons for the profession and paved the way for today's nurse clinicians and scientists. Today, this legacy lives on, as Columbia University School of Nursing continues to innovate, lead, and transform the education and profession of nursing. Explore the timeline below to learn about Columbia Nursing's history and milestones. If you would like to learn more about our rich history of excellence and leadership, historical documents, yearbooks, announcements, annual reports, student handbooks, and alumni magazines are available digitally at the Augustus C. Long Health Sciences Library of Columbia University Archives and Special Collections site. Milestones 1892 Presbyterian Hospital Training School for Nurses is founded. Later renamed the Columbia University School of Nursing, it is one of the first nursing schools in the nation. 1892 Anna C. Maxwell becomes the school’s first dean. She served as dean until 1921. 1894 The school’s first class of 21 graduates. 1899 The Alumnae Association of the Presbyterian Hospital Training School for Nurses in the City of New York is incorporated. 1904 Florence Nightingale Hall, the school's first residence, opens on East 71st Street, opposite Presbyterian Hospital. 1904 Students staff Presbyterian Hospital’s new visiting nurse service, predecessor to the hospital’s department of social work, one of the first in the U.S. 1921 Helen Young serves as dean. She serves as dean until 1937. 1928 Maxwell Hall, the school’s new home, opens within the new Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center and plays a central role in helping to create the first medical center. 1937 The School of Nursing joins Columbia University. 1937 Margaret Conrad serves as dean. Conrad is the first leader of the school under its new affiliation with Columbia. She serves as dean until 1950. 1940 The first bachelor of science degrees are awarded to students. 1949 President Dwight D. Eisenhower (far left) congratulates graduates of the class of 1949. 1950 Eleanor Lee serves as dean. She serves as dean until 1950. 1952 Columbia Nursing becomes a member of the Association of Collegiate Schools of Nursing. 1956 Columbia Nursing becomes the first school to award a master's degree in nurse midwifery. 1958 Sylvia Whitehead, one of the school’s first African American student graduates from Columbia University School of Nursing. 1961 Elizabeth Gill serves as dean. She serves as dean until 1968. 1964 The Alpha Zeta chapter of Sigma Theta Tau Nursing Honor Society is formally installed. 1965 The psychiatric mental health nursing specialty is introduced. 1968 Mary Crawford serves as dean. She serves as dean until 1976. 1970 The first male students, Ramon Lavandero '72 and John Mladinich '72, are admitted into Columbia Nursing. 1976 Helen Pettit serves as dean. She serves as dean until 1981. 1981 Joann S. Jamann-Riley serves as dean. She serves as dean until 1985. 1981 The acute care specialty is introduced. 1984 The pediatric specialty is introduced. 1984 Oncology nursing specialty is introduced in collaboration with the Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center. 1984 The Georgian Building becomes the new home to Columbia Nursing students. 1986 Mary Mundinger serves as dean. She serves as dean until 2010. 1988 Columbia Nursing becomes the first nursing school to require all faculty to establish either a clinical practice or research program. 1990 The Family Nurse Practitioner Program is introduced. 1990 The Nurse Anesthesia program is introduced. 1994 Columbia Nursing establishes the Doctor of Nursing Science program (DNSc), which converts to the PhD program in 2008. 1995 Columbia Nursing becomes the first nursing school to establish an endowed chair in health policy. 1996 Columbia Nursing becomes the first school to be named a World Health Organization Collaborating Center for Advanced Practice Nursing, a designation recognizing its expertise and commitment to advanced practice nursing. 1997 Columbia Nursing establishes Columbia Advanced Practice Nurse Associates (CAPNA), the first independent primary care faculty practice. CAPNA nurse practitioners are compensated at the same rate as primary care physicians. 1998 Columbia University School of Nursing Alumni Association is established (2018 Board of Directors pictured). 2000 A groundbreaking Columbia Nursing study in the Journal of the American Medical Association conclusively shows no difference in patient outcomes for patients randomly assigned to nurse practitioners or physicians. 2002 Columbia Nursing becomes the first nursing school to establish a palliative and end-of-life care sub-specialty. 2004 Columbia Nursing is among the first schools to develop and offer a doctoral degree in clinical nursing, the Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP). 2010 Bobbie Berkowitz serves as dean. She serves as dean until 2018. 2010 Columbia Nursing forms a consortium with Oslo University School of Nursing and other European schools to develop advanced nursing curricula. 2012 Adult NP and geriatric NP programs combine to create the Adult Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner program. 2014 Columbia Nursing breaks ground at the site for the school's new building. 2015 The Jonas Center for Nursing and Veterans Healthcare moves into Columbia Nursing via an $11.1 million, 10-year grant. 2016 Columbia Nursing hosts the Global Nursing and Midwifery Clinical Research Development Initiative in Amman, Jordan. Experts from 22 countries in the eastern Mediterranean region identify methods to address critical regional health needs. 2016 Columbia Nursing debuts its Master's Direct Entry curriculum preparing nurses to serve as leaders in an evolving healthcare system. 2016 Columbia Nursing renames CAPNA as the Nurse Practitioner Group and opens a location in Washington Heights. 2017 Columbia Nursing’s new building opens. The school celebrates 125 years of transforming the education and profession of nursing. 2018 Lorraine Frazier serves as dean. 2019 Columbia Nursing forms its first Student Council in two decades. 2020 Columbia Nursing debuts its Online Prerequisites for Entry to Nursing (OPEN) program, allowing non-nurses to take prerequisites needed to apply to nursing or other health professions schools. 2020 Columbia Nurses serve on the COVID-19 pandemic front lines, including vaccination efforts. 2020 The Center for Research on People of Color is established. 2021 Columbia Nursing becomes the first nursing school to offer a Certificate of Professional Achievement in Transgender Health Care. 2021 The Centers for Healthcare Delivery Research and Innovations and Sexual Gender Minority Health Research are established. 2021 Doctor of Nursing Practice in Nurse Anesthesia Program launches. Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Academics Research Patient Care Global Health Contact Us Students Alumni Intranet Careers Columbia University School of Nursing 560 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Back to top