Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home School of Nursing Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin School of Nursing News Events Directory Give Search Search Search Search About Expand Overview Dean's Welcome Values, Mission, & Goals Facts & Rankings History Accreditation Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Wellness Center Contact Us Academics Expand Overview Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Compliance Certification Professional Licensure Disclosures Students Expand Overview Prospective Students Current Students Career Services Student Organizations Office of Student Services Learning Enhancement and Academic Progress (LEAP) Center Research Expand Overview Centers & Initiatives Cain Center for Nursing Research Find Faculty Student Research Research News Alumni & Giving Expand Our Donors Alumni Awards Overview Make a Gift Update Your Information Advisory Council Contact Support the School Online Gift Shop Alumni Reunion Faculty & Staff Expand Overview Faculty Directory Staff Directory Forms, Policies and Procedures (EID) Staff Award Preceptors Faculty Position Openings Research alt="Nursing Research" Research Research at The University of Texas at Austin School of Nursing is designed to improve the health of underserved, vulnerable, and under-studied populations. This approach supports the idea that nursing research underpins graduate education and advances the science of health promotion and disease prevention. Building on a combined 20-plus years of research experience, faculty at the nursing school have designed innovative and culturally appropriate programs to: Improve the health of those with chronic and disabling conditions such as asthma, diabetes, and multiple sclerosis Prevent health problems in homeless adolescents, low-income pregnant women, elders, and caregivers of frail or vulnerable family members. These nursing research projects avail graduate students with rich, complex and extensive training experiences that help develop leaders in nursing. The more than 610 PhD graduates of the School of Nursing have gone on to establish careers in academe, industry, and government. Research Overview Centers & Initiatives Cain Center for Nursing Research Find Faculty Student Research Research News Research Restart Below links contain information about UT’s and School of Nursing's phased approach to resuming research operations on campus in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic. School of Nursing - Research Restart (EID) Vice President for Research - Research Restart Cain Center for Nursing Research The Cain Center for Nursing Research was opened in September 1995 for the purpose of strengthening the support services available to faculty for developing their research programs. Learn About the Cain Center Services. Faculty Research Find the School of Nursing Faculty by their research expertise and area. Find Faculty Experts Centers & Initiatives Explore the list of Centers & Initiatives directed by the School of Nursing Faculty. List of Centers & Initiatives Student Research The School of Nursing is proud to highlight a selection of student research in this section. Explore Student Research Research News Read the research news that highlights the research done by our faculty and students. View All Research News Helpful Links School of Nursing Faculty Directory EUREKA - Undergraduate Research Research Standards School of Nursing School of Nursing 1710 Red River St. Austin, TX 78712 Phone: 512-471-7913 Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube About Academics Students Research Alumni & Giving Faculty & Staff News Events Directory Intranet UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022