Skip to site alert. Skip to content Columbia School of Nursing Students Alumni Faculty Contact Us Search Make a Gift About Us About Us Message From the Dean Leadership Faculty Our Culture News Events Facts and Figures Accreditation Make a Gift Contact Us Our Culture Diversity and Cultural Affairs Civility Statement Social Justice and Health Equity and Anti-Racism Commitment Sustainability Our History Jonas Partnership Join Our Team Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Learn about our commitment to social justice and health equality and anti-racism. View Our Progress Academics Academics A Columbia Nursing Education Admissions at a Glance Academic Programs Courses Financial Aid Continuing Nursing Education Helene Fuld Health Trust Simulation Center Academic Programs Doctor of Nursing Practice Doctor of Nursing Practice in Nurse Anesthesia Doctor of Philosophy Masters Direct Entry Program For Non-Nurses Masters in Advanced Clinical Management and Leadership Online Prerequisites for Entry to Nursing Transgender Non-Binary (Trans NB) Health Care for Advance Practice Nurses and PAs Palliative Care Throughout the Lifespan for Advanced Practice Registered Nurses (APRNs) Admissions at a Glance Learn more about Admissions at Columbia Nursing, including important dates and deadlines, and how to apply to all of our programs. Learn More About Admissions Research Research Research Faculty and Postdoctoral Fellows Research Areas of Focus Research Centers and Programs Training Programs Research Resources Research Centers and Programs Center for Health Policy Center for Improving Palliative Care for Vulnerable Adults with MCC Precision in Symptom Self-Management Center Center for Healthcare Delivery Research and Innovations Center for Research on People of Color Center for Sexual and Gender Minority Health Research Linking to Improve Nursing Knowledge Research Areas of Focus Explore the research areas of focus conducted by our faculty, postdocs, and students. View Our Focus Areas Patient Care Global Health Global Health Global Opportunities for Students Global Research International Visitors WHO Collaborating Center Contact Global Opportunities for Students Global opportunities for clinical practicum and research may be available for MDE and doctoral students at Columbia Nursing. Get More Information Columbia University School of Nursing Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Resources Volunteer Stay Connected Alumni Events Reunion Alumni Awards Alumni Job Board Contact Make a Gift Alumni Graduates of Columbia University School of Nursing join a distinguished cadre of nurses who hold leadership positions in hospitals, academia, federal agencies, professional organizations and associations, and state and local government. Alumni Association The School of Nursing Alumni Association plays a crucial role in advancing Columbia Nursing's community, educational goals, and the future of current students. Alumni Association Alumni Resources Alumni of Columbia Nursing are automatic members of the Columbia Alumni Association (CAA) with access to a wide array of benefits and resources at Columbia. Alumni Resources Volunteer Participate in Alumni Association committees, becoming a nurse preceptor, host an event, and much more. Volunteer Stay Connected We Want to Hear From You! We encourage Columbia Nursing Alumni to stay connected to our Alumni Office. Stay Connected Alumni Awards The Alumni Awards honor Columbia University School of Nursing alumni who are nurse leaders, have provided outstanding service to humanity, or have a distinguished career in nursing. Alumni Awards Alumni Job Board Columbia Nursing Alumni have full access to our job board, updated by employers looking to fill positions with Columbia nurses. Alumni Job Board Reunion Columbia Nursing's annual Reunion in May celebrates the legacy of Columbia Nurses and provides opportunities for alumni to reconnect across generations. Reunion Make a Gift By making a gift to Columbia Nursing, you are investing in our future nurse clinicians, scientists, and leaders. Make a Gift Events There are currently no upcoming events. View All Alumni Events Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Academics Research Patient Care Global Health Contact Us Students Alumni Intranet Careers Columbia University School of Nursing 560 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Back to top