Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home School of Nursing Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin School of Nursing News Events Directory Give Search Search Search Search About Expand Overview Dean's Welcome Values, Mission, & Goals Facts & Rankings History Accreditation Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Wellness Center Contact Us Academics Expand Overview Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Compliance Certification Professional Licensure Disclosures Students Expand Overview Prospective Students Current Students Career Services Student Organizations Office of Student Services Learning Enhancement and Academic Progress (LEAP) Center Research Expand Overview Centers & Initiatives Cain Center for Nursing Research Find Faculty Student Research Research News Alumni & Giving Expand Our Donors Alumni Awards Overview Make a Gift Update Your Information Advisory Council Contact Support the School Online Gift Shop Alumni Reunion Faculty & Staff Expand Overview Faculty Directory Staff Directory Forms, Policies and Procedures (EID) Staff Award Preceptors Faculty Position Openings Home Students : Students Organizations Students Organizations African American Nursing Student Association (AANSA) AANSA is an organization for pre-nursing, nursing and graduate students at The University of Texas at Austin School of Nursing. It provides services in the community through health awareness, leadership, mentorship and volunteer services. AANSA is dedicated to increasing the number of ethnic minority students by providing academic and psychosocial supports. All students, faculty and staff are welcome. Visit African American Nursing Student Association Association of Nurses in Graduate School (ANGS) ANGS is the official graduate student nursing organization recognized by The University of Texas at Austin. All graduate nursing students are automatically members and are encouraged to be active participants. ANGS stated purpose is to promote the educational and professional development of nurses enrolled in graduate school at The University of Texas at Austin. Visit Association of Nurses in Graduate School Hispanic Nursing Student Association (HNSA) HNSA is an official organization sponsored by the School of Nursing at The University of Texas at Austin. HNSA offers support and resources to students interested in pursuing a nursing degree. The purpose of HNSA is to promote academic, professional, and leadership skills by providing multiple social events, volunteering, and networking opportunities. Visit Hispanic Nursing Student Association The Longhorn Association for Men in Nursing (LAMN) LAMN is an organization that is founded to serve the underrepresented population of men at the The University of Texas School of Nursing. We as an organization mentor current male nursing students, encourage more men at the University and high school levels to enter the field of nursing, and aim to dissolve the stigma of men who are nurses. Visit The Longhorn Association for Men in Nursing Nurses Christian Fellowship (NCF) NCF is all about Christ-centered community. Our mission is to support nursing students and students looking to transfer into nursing by building relationships both with each other and with Jesus. Our mission is accomplished through weekly bible study and community group, guest speakers, volunteer opportunities, mentorships, and prayer meetings. Visit Nurses Christian Fellowship National Student Nurses Association (NSNA) NSNA’s mission is to mentor students preparing for initial licensure as registered nurses, and to convey the standards, ethics, and skills that students will need as responsible and accountable leaders and members of the profession. Founded in 1952, NSNA is a nonprofit organization for students enrolled in associate, baccalaureate, diploma, and generic graduate nursing programs. It is dedicated to fostering the professional development of nursing students. Visit National Student Nurses Association (NSNA) Student Community of Asian Nurses (SCAN) The purpose of the Student Community of Asian Nurses is to provide representation of the Asian nursing community and to provide an environment that promotes learning, discovery, freedom, leadership, individual opportunity, and responsibility within the entire nursing and pre-nursing community. Visit Student Community of Asian Nurses Sigma Theta Tau International (STTI) Epsilon Theta Chapter STTI is the honor society for nursing. Epsilon Theta Chapter is the local unit, which was chartered May 16, 1980 at The University of Texas at Austin School of Nursing. The purposes of Sigma Theta Tau are to recognize superior achievement, promote the development of leadership qualities, foster high professional standards, encourage creative work, and strengthen commitment to the ideals and purposes of the nursing profession. Visit STTI Epsilon Theta Chapter Texas Nursing Student Association (TNSA) TNSA is the statewide organization of nursing students. The organization addresses statewide issues, holds an annual state convention, and sponsors councils for training new officers of the individual school organizations. NSNA is the national organization of nursing students. The organization addresses national issues important to nursing students and also holds an annual convention. Officers for each organization are elected from member schools of nursing, and resolutions and bylaws are passed at the state and national conventions. Visit Texas Nursing Student Association The University of Texas at Austin Medical Reserve Corps (UTMRC) The idea to create a University of Texas at Austin Medical Reserve Corps (UTMRC) was generated by the University of Texas at Austin School of Nursing Disaster Committee. This is in response to the university’s need to organize and maintain a group of volunteers (comprising of faculty, staff, and students) willing and prepared to assist in public health issues and emergencies on and around campus. Visit The University of Texas at Austin Medical Reserve Corps (UTMRC) The University of Texas Nursing Students' Association (UTNSA) UTNSA is a pre-professional, student-run nursing organization. All undergraduate nursing students are encouraged to actively participate. The organization provides access to information, aids in communication between the School of Nursing faculty and students, undertakes community service projects and helps members develop leadership skills. Visit The University of Texas Nursing Students Association Students Overview Prospective Students Current Students Career Services Student Organizations Office of Student Services Learning Enhancement and Academic Progress (LEAP) Center School of Nursing School of Nursing 1710 Red River St. Austin, TX 78712 Phone: 512-471-7913 Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube About Academics Students Research Alumni & Giving Faculty & Staff News Events Directory Intranet UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022