skip to main content About Administration & Leadership Accreditation Campuses & Locations Diversity History News Academics Admissions Degrees & Programs Faculty & Staff Current Students Clinical Clinical Partnerships Clinical Learning Resource Center Community Partnerships & Initiatives Professional Education Research Resources Research Report Projects, Programs & Centers Center of Excellence in Forensic Nursing Give Search Search Close Menu Collapsed content that can be toggled with the menu button. Apply Alumni Contact News About Administration & Leadership Campuses & Locations Departments History Accreditation Professionalism News Academics Admissions Degrees & Programs Faculty & Staff Current Students Clinical Clinical Partnerships Clinical Learning Resource Center Community Partnerships & Initiatives Professional Education Research Research Resources Annual Research Report Projects, Programs & Centers Center of Excellence in Forensic Nursing Alumni Apply Calendars Contact Directory Employment Give News Parking Press & Media Webmail MSN Family Nurse Practitioner Home Degrees MSN Family Nurse Practitioner On This Page About Curriculum Cost of Attendance Dates and Deadlines Admission Criteria Application Requirements Attend an Information Session Related Pages HESI Admissions Assessment Exam Additional Program Information Student Resources Program Overview The Master of Science in Nursing-Family Nurse Practitioner track prepares the graduate to practice as a primary care provider to a wide range of patients while focusing on health promotion, risk reduction, disease prevention and illness management. The course instruction is delivered primarily online allowing students to balance career, family and other responsibilities while advancing their education. Students will be asked to come to Bryan-College Station for a limited number of class activities. On-campus clinical hours are required to meet the clinical objectives as set forth by the American Association of Colleges of Nursing for any MSN degree. Students will be expected to attend on-campus clinical experiences for NURS 653 Advanced Health Assessment to complete the required 45 clinical hours in two separate on-campus visits. Students will also be required to travel to campus one to two times during the semesters they complete Diagnostics and Procedures as well as their four (4) Primary Care courses. Practice experiences with a preceptor may be obtained within the student's community of residence as long as the placement aligns with course objectives. The final decision on appropriate preceptor and clinical placement is determined by the FNP Program Coordinator. Nurse practitioners are preferred although physicians or physician assistants may serve in some courses. In the event the student does not have a clinical preceptor, the College will place them, however, this may involve travel and lodging at the student's expense. Further information on preceptors will be provided at orientation. Applicants must reside in the state of Texas and hold an active, unencumbered RN license to be eligible to apply. Students who relocate out of state during the course of their enrollment may be unable to continue due to the regulations which many state boards of nursing impose regarding use of preceptors. Upon completion of course requirements, graduates of the MSN Family Nurse Practitioner program are eligible to sit for the American Nurses Credentialing Center's Family Nurse Practitioner and American Academy of Nurse Practitioners Certification Exams to be licensed as an Advanced Practice Nurse. Campus Locations Calendar The Traditional BSN, Second Degree BSN and MSN in Family Nurse Practitioner degree programs at Texas A&M University College of Nursing lead to a professional license or certification that is required for employment. Professional licensure/certification requirements vary from state to state, which may affect a student’s ability to apply for a professional license/certification upon the completion of the program. The U.S. Department of Education regulation, 34 CFR 668.43 (a) (5) (v), requires an institution to disclose whether the program will fulfill educational requirements for licensure or certification for each state. Texas A&M University College of Nursing has made the following determination regarding our curriculum: Program Meets State or U.S. Territory Requirements Does not meet A determination has not been made Bachelor of Science in Nursing TX, AL, AK, AZ, AR, CA, CO, CT, DE, FL, GA, HI, ID, IL, IN, IA, KS, KY, LA, ME, MD, MA, MI, MN, MS, MO, MT, NE, NV, NH, NJ, NM, NY, NC, ND, OH, OK, OR, PA, RI, SC, SD, TN, UT, VT, VA, WA, WV, WI, WY, District of Columbia (DC), Virgin Islands (VI), American Samoa (AS), Commonwealth of Northern Mariana Islands (CNMI), Guam (GU) Puerto Rico (PR), Marshall Islands (MH), Federated States of Micronesia (FM), Palau (PW) Master of Science in Nursing - Family Nurse Practitioner TX, AL, AK, AZ, AR, CA, CO, CT, DE, FL, GA, HI, ID, IL, IN, IA, KS, KY, LA, ME, MD, MA, MI, MN, MS, MO, MT, NE, NV, NH, NJ, NM, NY, NC, ND, OH, OK, OR, PA, RI, SC, SD, TN, UT, VT, VA, WA, WV, WI, WY, District of Columbia (DC), Puerto Rico (PR), Virgin Islands (VI), American Samoa (AS), Commonwealth of Northern Mariana Islands (CNMI), Guam (GU) Marshall Islands (MH), Federated States of Micronesia (FM), Palau (PW) We recommend students contact the appropriate state licensing agency in their state or the state where they intend to work to seek the most up-to-date information about state licensure/certification requirements before beginning the program. Additional licensing board information is available here. MSN Family Nurse Practitioner Curriculum Full Time Curriculum - 6 Semesters Semester Curriculum Hours Summer NURS 617 Advanced Pathophysiology 3 Fall NURS 618 Advanced Pharmacology NURS 621 Diagnostics and Procedures (16 CLH*) NURS 653 Advanced Health Assessment (45 CLH*) 3 2 3 Spring NURS 622 Primary Care of Families I (135 CLH*) NURS 652 Scholarship: Integration and Application 6 3 Summer NURS 624 Primary Care of Families III (135 CLH*) NURS 654 Prevention and Population Health 6 3 Fall NURS 623 Primary Care of Families II (135 CLH*) NURS 651 Quality Improvement and Health Informatics 6 3 Spring NURS 620 Advanced Roles NURS 625 Primary Care of Families - Practicum (180 CLH*) NURS 656 Leadership & Policy 3 4 3 TOTAL 48 *CLH = clinical learning hours. These reflect the courses that require practicum hours in addition to class time. Part Time Curriculum - 8 Semesters Semester Curriculum EFFECTIVE for new students entering fall 2018 Hours Fall NURS 617 Advanced Pathophysiology NURS 651 Quality Improvement & Informatics 3 3 Spring NURS 652 Scholarship: Integration and Application NURS 656 Leadership & Policy 3 3 Summer (10 week term) NURS 654 Prevention and Population Health 3 Fall NURS 653 Advanced Health Assessment NURS 621 Diagnostics & Procedures NURS 618 Advanced Pharmacology 3 2 3 Spring NURS 622 Primary Care of Families I 6 Summer NURS 624 Primary Care of Families III 6 Fall NURS 623 Primary Care of Families II 6 Spring NURS 625 Primary Care of Families - Practicum NURS 620 Advanced Roles 4 3 TOTAL 48 Cost of Attendance For cost of attendance including estimated cost of tuition & fees, books & supplies, housing, etc., please visit the Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships website. Application Deadlines The MSN-Family Nurse Practitioner track prepares the graduate to practice as a primary care provider to a wide range of clients while focusing on health promotion, risk reduction, disease prevention and illness management. The majority of course instruction is delivered online allowing students to balance career, family and other responsibilities, while advancing their education. When taking NURS 653 Advanced Health Assessment, students will be expected to attend two separate on-campus clinical experiences for a total of 45 hours to meet the clinical objectives of this course as set forth by the American Association of Colleges of Nursing for any MSN degree. Each clinical experience will include three full days of activities requiring overnight stays for students at a distance. Students will also be required to come to campus on 1-2 occasions during the semesters they complete their Primary Care courses. Practice experiences with a preceptor may be obtained within the student's work environment. It is the responsibility of the student to secure preceptors. Nurse practitioners preferred although physicians or physician assistants may serve in some courses. Applicants must reside in the state of Texas and hold an active, unencumbered RN license to be eligible to apply. Students who relocate out of state during the course of their enrollment may be unable to continue due to the regulations which many state boards of nursing impose regarding use of preceptors. Upon completion of course requirements, graduates of the Masters program are eligible to sit for the American Nurses Credentialing Center's Family Nurse Practitioner and American Academy of Nurse Practitioners Certification Exams. Application Opening Date October 1 Application Deadline December 1 Mandatory Orientation July First Class Day August If you have not received an admission decision through Nursing CAS by April 1 for fall admission, call (979) 436-0110 and ask to speak with an admissions advisor to check on the status of your application. Admission Criteria Admission to the college is competitive and applicants are evaluated on the following basis: Completion of elementary statistics with a minimum grade of "C" by the first class day Cumulative GPA on all undergraduate coursework Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) degree and RN license GPA on the last 60 hours of undergraduate coursework Timed verbal responses and written assessments References - three academic and/or professional references Volunteer/community/military service Leadership/involvement/awards in professional activities Preferred 1-2 years work experience as a baccalaureate RN TOEFL score, required by international applicants only History of withdrawals, repeats or failures will place applicant at a disadvantage Interview, if requested by Graduate Admissions, Progression and Graduation Committee Application Requirements Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) degree and RN license. NursingCAS application and nonrefundable application fee. Official college transcripts from each institution attended sent to NursingCAS. This includes Texas A&M University, if applicable. Completion of elementary statistics with a minimum grade of “C” by the first class day. Online interview and online written assessments through the secondary assessment provider, Kira Talent. Eligible applicants will be sent invitations to complete this portion following review of their NursingCAS application. Three professional reference evaluations (submitted in NursingCAS). Professional resume (submitted in NursingCAS). Recommended minimum 3.0 cumulative and last 60 hour GPA. International applicant credentials (if applicable). Prospective Student Information Sessions Interested students are invited to attend a Prospective Student Information Session (PSIS) to learn more about our programs leading to a Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN), a Master of Science in Nursing (MSN) or a Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP). These sessions will provide details on admission requirements, prerequisite coursework, student life, clinical experiences and other opportunities. Students are required to attend a PSIS prior to requesting an individual appointment. Reservations are required to attend a session Guests of registered attendees are welcome Sessions last approximately an hour to an hour-and-a-half VIEW UPCOMING SESSIONS Facebook Twitter Instagram Linked in Pinterest RSS YouTube Back to top Institution Health Science Center Dentistry Medicine Nursing Pharmacy Public Health Information Calendars Contact Us Diversity Emergency Information Emergency Plans Maps & Parking Press & Media Title IX Clery Annual Reports Resources Directory Facilities Work Request Howdy Portal Information Technology Intranet Libraries Mental Health Resources Webmail Texas A&M University · Texas A&M University System · State of Texas · Open Records · Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline · State Link Policy · Equal Opportunity / Nondiscrimination · Employment · Texas Veterans Portal · Security · Site Policies · Accessibility