Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home School of Nursing Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin School of Nursing News Events Directory Give Search Search Search Search About Expand Overview Dean's Welcome Values, Mission, & Goals Facts & Rankings History Accreditation Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Wellness Center Contact Us Academics Expand Overview Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Compliance Certification Professional Licensure Disclosures Students Expand Overview Prospective Students Current Students Career Services Student Organizations Office of Student Services Learning Enhancement and Academic Progress (LEAP) Center Research Expand Overview Centers & Initiatives Cain Center for Nursing Research Find Faculty Student Research Research News Alumni & Giving Expand Our Donors Alumni Awards Overview Make a Gift Update Your Information Advisory Council Contact Support the School Online Gift Shop Alumni Reunion Faculty & Staff Expand Overview Faculty Directory Staff Directory Forms, Policies and Procedures (EID) Staff Award Preceptors Faculty Position Openings Home Alumni & Giving : Advisory Council Advisory Council The Advisory Council of the School of Nursing was organized in the 1970’s. Members of the Council have included former students and graduates of the School, donors, healthcare and business professionals and other friends of the University. All share an interest in the furtherance and support of nursing education. The success of the School of Nursing depends in large measure on the continuing support of these dedicated community members. Pam Ballard Dr. Gaurdia Banister Pat Blandford Catheran Burnett Dr. Lizzie Perry Caldwell Jill Carr Kimberly Chapman Dr. Susan Cooley Christy Dauphin Audrey Decherd Dr. Ken Dion Susie Distefano Dr. Charles Felger John Gooding Corky Hilliard Suz Hindelang Dr. Carol Hudgings Dr. Ferne Kyba Mike Oldham Christy Rost Nancy Temple Nancy Tucker Dr. Mary Walker Pat Washburn Dr. Marlene Weitzel Dr. Susan Wilkinson Norine Yukon Alumni & Giving Our Donors Alumni Awards Overview Make a Gift Update Your Information Advisory Council Contact Support the School Online Gift Shop Alumni Reunion School of Nursing School of Nursing 1710 Red River St. Austin, TX 78712 Phone: 512-471-7913 Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube About Academics Students Research Alumni & Giving Faculty & Staff News Events Directory Intranet UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022