Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home School of Nursing Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin School of Nursing News Events Directory Give Search Search Search Search About Expand Overview Dean's Welcome Values, Mission, & Goals Facts & Rankings History Accreditation Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Wellness Center Contact Us Academics Expand Overview Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Compliance Certification Professional Licensure Disclosures Students Expand Overview Prospective Students Current Students Career Services Student Organizations Office of Student Services Learning Enhancement and Academic Progress (LEAP) Center Research Expand Overview Centers & Initiatives Cain Center for Nursing Research Find Faculty Student Research Research News Alumni & Giving Expand Our Donors Alumni Awards Overview Make a Gift Update Your Information Advisory Council Contact Support the School Online Gift Shop Alumni Reunion Faculty & Staff Expand Overview Faculty Directory Staff Directory Forms, Policies and Procedures (EID) Staff Award Preceptors Faculty Position Openings Home News Paving the Way for Student Success Paving the Way for Student Success Meet Janice F. Hernandez, DNP, RN, FNP-C, Clinical Assistant Professor and Division Chair of The Holistic Adult Health Division at the UT Austin School of Nursing. She received her Doctor of Nursing Practice Degree at the UT Austin School of Nursing and aims to motivate and inspire nursing faculty and students while leading and implementing changes that will pave the way for the success of those she meets. “I want to be an example for individuals to realize that the goals they thought were unattainable can become a reality.” Dr. Hernandez is preparing students at all levels of academia to be successful in nursing education through the development of multiple innovative coaching programs. As the academic sponsor for The Hispanic Nursing Student Association, she has guided students to become leaders and advocates in the community, encouraged them to support other college students interested in pursuing a degree in nursing, as well as mentoring high school students who are interested in the nursing field. Dr. Hernandez has also implemented coaching programs at the School of Nursing in which she is pairing junior level and senior level nursing students while preparing to expand this program to pairing local high school students with current nursing students. Through her role as President-Elect of the Hispanic Nurses Association Austin Chapter, Dr. Hernandez is connecting nursing students with nurses working in practice and has implemented Nursing Summer Day Camps at the middle school level with the collaboration of local community networks. She believes that introducing young students and parents to nursing, and pairing them with high school students in medical classes, will increase their success in nursing or in the medical field when they begin making college decisions. Her goal is to provide a strong foundation of support for students while also educating parents about the college process, finances, and nursing school. Prior to teaching at the UT School of Nursing, Dr. Hernandez worked as a Family Nurse Practitioner and launched “Ability Care Austin” a home-health agency that provides home health aides to individuals who require care at home. As a long-time caregiver with experience and insight to a world that is rapidly emerging, she decided to dedicate her work to assisting informal caregivers in maintaining a healthy work/life balance. Dr. Hernandez is currently working on publishing a guide that will help caregivers determine whether or not they are able to care for their loved one at home. Most importantly, she aims to provide caregivers with the tools to distinguish when they are no longer safe at home and recognize the emergency signs when the caregiver’s health or their loved one’s health is in jeopardy. “Supporting, educating and increasing culturally competent nurses to serve the world is what continues to drive and motivate me. I firmly believe that every mentor, leader, and influential educator I have encountered throughout my nursing education and career are what have given me the outlook, determination, and motivation to guide myself to reach levels in life never imagined!” May 6, 2022 Research Graduate Undergraduate Achievements & Awards Share this Email Twitter Facebook School of Nursing School of Nursing 1710 Red River St. Austin, TX 78712 Phone: 512-471-7913 Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube About Academics Students Research Alumni & Giving Faculty & Staff News Events Directory Intranet UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022