skip to main content About Administration & Leadership Accreditation Campuses & Locations Diversity History News Academics Admissions Degrees & Programs Faculty & Staff Current Students Clinical Clinical Partnerships Clinical Learning Resource Center Community Partnerships & Initiatives Professional Education Research Resources Research Report Projects, Programs & Centers Center of Excellence in Forensic Nursing Give Search Search Close Menu Collapsed content that can be toggled with the menu button. Apply Alumni Contact News About Administration & Leadership Campuses & Locations Departments History Accreditation Professionalism News Academics Admissions Degrees & Programs Faculty & Staff Current Students Clinical Clinical Partnerships Clinical Learning Resource Center Community Partnerships & Initiatives Professional Education Research Research Resources Annual Research Report Projects, Programs & Centers Center of Excellence in Forensic Nursing Alumni Apply Calendars Contact Directory Employment Give News Parking Press & Media Webmail MSN Nursing Education Home Degrees MSN Nursing Education On This Page About Curriculum Cost of Attendance Dates and Deadlines Admission Criteria Application Requirements Attend an Information Session Related Pages HESI Admissions Assessment Exam Additional Program Information Student Resources Program Overview The Master of Science in Nursing-Nursing Education track prepares the graduate to apply principles of education in the role of educator in various patient care settings and in institutions of higher education through completion of a 36-semester credit hour curriculum. The course instruction is delivered primarily online allowing students to balance career, family and other responsibilities while advancing their education. Students will be asked to come to Bryan-College Station for a limited number of class activities. On-campus clinical hours are required to meet the clinical objectives as set forth by the American Association of Colleges of Nursing for any MSN degree. Students will be expected to attend on-campus clinical experiences for NURS 653 Advanced Health Assessment to complete the required 45 clinical hours in two separate on-campus visits. Students will be responsible for obtaining their own preceptors for two courses taken in the later semesters. Further information on preceptors will be provided at new student orientation. Students who relocate to another state during the course of their enrollment may be unable to continue due to the regulations which many state boards of nursing impose regarding use of preceptors. Upon completion of course requirements, graduates of the MSN-Nursing Education program are eligible to take the Certified Nurse Educator (CNE®) Examination offered by the National League for Nursing. Campus Locations Calendar MSN Nursing Education Curriculum Semester Curriculum Hours Fall NURS 617 Advanced Pathophysiology NURS 651 Health Care Quality Improvement & Informatics 3 3 Spring NURS 618 Advanced Pharmacology NURS 652 Scholarship: Integration and Application 3 3 Summer NURS 630 Teaching and Learning Theory NURS 654 Prevention & Population Health 1 3 Fall NURS 631 Curriculum Foundations NURS 653 Advanced Health Assessment (45 CLH*) 3 3 Spring NURS 633 Teaching Strategies for Health Care Professionals NURS 656 Leadership and Health Policy 3 3 Summer NURS 632 Educational Assessment & Evaluation NURS 638** Advanced Clinical Practicum & Project (90 CLH*) 3 3 Fall NURS 634** Teaching Practicum (90 CLH*) 2 TOTAL 36 *CLH=Clinical Learning Hours **This course requires a preceptor. Please secure your preceptor at least 6 months prior to the first day of the semester. Cost of Attendance For cost of attendance including estimated cost of tuition & fees, books & supplies, housing, etc., please visit the Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships website. Application Deadlines The MSN-Nursing Education track prepares the graduate to apply principles of education in the role of educator in various patient care settings and in institutions of higher education through completion of a 36-hour curriculum. The course instruction is delivered primarily online allowing students to balance career, family and other responsibilities while advancing their education. Students will be asked to come to Bryan-College Station for a limited number of class activities. On-campus clinical hours are required to meet the clinical objectives as set forth by the American Association of Colleges of Nursing for any MSN degree. Students will be expected to attend on-campus clinical experiences for NURS 653 Advanced Health Assessment, Students will complete the required 45 clinical hours in two separate on-campus visits. Students will be responsible for obtaining their own preceptors for two courses taken in the later semesters. Further information on preceptors will be provided at new student orientation. Students who relocate to another state during the course of their enrollment may be unable to continue due to the regulations which many state boards of nursing impose regarding use of preceptors. Upon completion of course requirements, graduates of the MSN-ED program are eligible to take the Certified Nurse Educator (CNE®) Examination offered by the National League for Nursing. For questions, contact the College of Nursing Office of Admissions at 979-436-0110 or con-admissions@tamu.edu. Application Opening Date October 1 Application Deadline December 1 Mandatory Orientation To be determined First Class Day August (fall term) If you have not received an admission decision through Nursing CAS by April 1 for fall admission, call (979) 436-0110 and ask to speak with an admissions advisor to check on the status of your application. Admission Criteria Admission to the college is competitive and applicants are evaluated on the following basis: Completion of elementary statistics with a minimum grade of "C" by the first class day Cumulative GPA on all undergraduate coursework Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) degree and RN license GPA on the last 60 hours of undergraduate courseworkAdmission essay(s) Timed verbal responses and written assessments References - three academic and/or professional references Volunteer, community, military service Leadership, involvement, awards in professional activities TOEFL score, required of international applicants only History of withdrawals, repeats or failures will place applicant at a disadvantage Interview, if requested by Graduate Admissions, Progression and Graduation Committee Application Requirements Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) degree and RN license. NursingCAS application and nonrefundable application fee. Official college transcripts from each institution attended sent to NursingCAS. This includes Texas A&M University, if applicable. Completion of elementary statistics with a minimum grade of “C” by the first class day. Online interview and online written assessments through the secondary assessment provider, Kira Talent. Eligible applicants will be sent invitations to complete this portion following review of their NursingCAS application. Three professional reference evaluations (submitted in NursingCAS). Professional resume (submitted in NursingCAS). Recommended minimum 3.0 cumulative and last 60 hour GPA. International applicant credentials (if applicable). Prospective Student Information Sessions Interested students are invited to attend a Prospective Student Information Session (PSIS) to learn more about our programs leading to a Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN), a Master of Science in Nursing (MSN) or a Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP). These sessions will provide details on admission requirements, prerequisite coursework, student life, clinical experiences and other opportunities. Students are required to attend a PSIS prior to requesting an individual appointment. Reservations are required to attend a session Guests of registered attendees are welcome Sessions last approximately an hour to an hour-and-a-half VIEW UPCOMING SESSIONS Facebook Twitter Instagram Linked in Pinterest RSS YouTube Back to top Institution Health Science Center Dentistry Medicine Nursing Pharmacy Public Health Information Calendars Contact Us Diversity Emergency Information Emergency Plans Maps & Parking Press & Media Title IX Clery Annual Reports Resources Directory Facilities Work Request Howdy Portal Information Technology Intranet Libraries Mental Health Resources Webmail Texas A&M University · Texas A&M University System · State of Texas · Open Records · Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline · State Link Policy · Equal Opportunity / Nondiscrimination · Employment · Texas Veterans Portal · Security · Site Policies · Accessibility