Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home School of Nursing Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin School of Nursing News Events Directory Give Search Search Search Search About Expand Overview Dean's Welcome Values, Mission, & Goals Facts & Rankings History Accreditation Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Wellness Center Contact Us Academics Expand Overview Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Compliance Certification Professional Licensure Disclosures Students Expand Overview Prospective Students Current Students Career Services Student Organizations Office of Student Services Learning Enhancement and Academic Progress (LEAP) Center Research Expand Overview Centers & Initiatives Cain Center for Nursing Research Find Faculty Student Research Research News Alumni & Giving Expand Our Donors Alumni Awards Overview Make a Gift Update Your Information Advisory Council Contact Support the School Online Gift Shop Alumni Reunion Faculty & Staff Expand Overview Faculty Directory Staff Directory Forms, Policies and Procedures (EID) Staff Award Preceptors Faculty Position Openings Alumni & Giving alt="Luci Baines Johnson, Dean Emerita Billye Brown, Dean Stuifbergen, and Dr. Lynn Rew" Alumni & Giving The University of Texas at Austin is proud to have awarded more than 8,000 Nursing degrees. The School of Nursing's alums provide care across the United States and around the world. Our graduates not only provide direct care with great skill, intelligence and passion, they are also leaders in the profession and researchers dedicated to improving health care delivery. UT Austin School of Nursing alumni are why we say: “The future of nursing starts here.” Distinguished Alumni Award Susan M. Distefano, 2019 Recipient Susan (Susie) Distefano serves as the Senior Vice President and Chief Executive Officer of Children's Memorial Hermann Hospital, a 340-bed care quaternary children’s hospital with obstetrical services and executive lead for the Memorial Hermann Health System Women & Children’s service line. Learn about the Recipient Rising Star Alumni Award Julie A. Zuniga, 2019 Recipient Julie Zuniga is an Assistant Professor at The University of Texas at Austin. Dr. Zuniga received her BA from Austin College in Sherman, Texas, her MSN and PhD from The University of Texas at Austin School of Nursing, during which times she worked in infectious disease/internal medicine unit at the county hospital. Learn about the Recipient Alumni & Giving Our Donors Alumni Awards Overview Make a Gift Update Your Information Advisory Council Contact Support the School Online Gift Shop Alumni Reunion Give Now! Donor Spotlight “Fixing a Hole:” Couple finds supporting gerontological nursing “enormously satisfying” Read the Donor Spotlight School of Nursing School of Nursing 1710 Red River St. Austin, TX 78712 Phone: 512-471-7913 Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube About Academics Students Research Alumni & Giving Faculty & Staff News Events Directory Intranet UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022