Skip to site alert. Skip to content Columbia School of Nursing Students Alumni Faculty Contact Us Search Make a Gift About Us About Us Message From the Dean Leadership Faculty Our Culture News Events Facts and Figures Accreditation Make a Gift Contact Us Our Culture Diversity and Cultural Affairs Civility Statement Social Justice and Health Equity and Anti-Racism Commitment Sustainability Our History Jonas Partnership Join Our Team Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Learn about our commitment to social justice and health equality and anti-racism. View Our Progress Academics Academics A Columbia Nursing Education Admissions at a Glance Academic Programs Courses Financial Aid Continuing Nursing Education Helene Fuld Health Trust Simulation Center Academic Programs Doctor of Nursing Practice Doctor of Nursing Practice in Nurse Anesthesia Doctor of Philosophy Masters Direct Entry Program For Non-Nurses Masters in Advanced Clinical Management and Leadership Online Prerequisites for Entry to Nursing Transgender Non-Binary (Trans NB) Health Care for Advance Practice Nurses and PAs Palliative Care Throughout the Lifespan for Advanced Practice Registered Nurses (APRNs) Admissions at a Glance Learn more about Admissions at Columbia Nursing, including important dates and deadlines, and how to apply to all of our programs. Learn More About Admissions Research Research Research Faculty and Postdoctoral Fellows Research Areas of Focus Research Centers and Programs Training Programs Research Resources Research Centers and Programs Center for Health Policy Center for Improving Palliative Care for Vulnerable Adults with MCC Precision in Symptom Self-Management Center Center for Healthcare Delivery Research and Innovations Center for Research on People of Color Center for Sexual and Gender Minority Health Research Linking to Improve Nursing Knowledge Research Areas of Focus Explore the research areas of focus conducted by our faculty, postdocs, and students. View Our Focus Areas Patient Care Global Health Global Health Global Opportunities for Students Global Research International Visitors WHO Collaborating Center Contact Global Opportunities for Students Global opportunities for clinical practicum and research may be available for MDE and doctoral students at Columbia Nursing. Get More Information You are here Home > Academics > Academic Programs > Doctor of Philosophy > Admissions Doctor of Philosophy Admissions Apply International Students Estimated Funding Package Research PhD Faculty Meet Our Students Featured Graduates FAQ PhD Admissions Application Deadline December 2022 Estimated Funding Package Columbia University School of Nursing provides three years (eight semesters) of funding for tuition, related fees, health insurance, and stipend. Estimated Funding Package for the PhD Program Admission Criteria Bachelor's or Master's degree in nursing, or Master's degree in a related discipline (i.e. MBA or MPH) and a bachelor's degree in nursing (admitted applicants may be required to enroll in additional nursing credits to ensure adequate preparation) Note: Official transcripts from all institutions attended will be required prior to enrollment in the program. New York State RN licensure or eligibility International Applicants Only: TOEFL Exam Score For our general application requirements, please visit the Apply to the PhD Program page. Prerequisite Courses Applicants must complete prerequisite coursework for an accredited college or university. It is required that completed courses have a grade of a C or better. Note: Grades of C- or below are not sufficient as successful completion of the course. Applicants must plan their courses accordingly where if they need to retake the course, they have enough time to do so during the application process. This will guarantee completion prior to enrollment in the program. Graduate Level Health Policy Course - This type of course can vary. Applicants may mail the Office of Admissions to request review and approval of a proposed health policy course or for suggestions for approved courses. Prerequisite courses are required to be completed by the start of the program, not by the application deadline. Interviews PhD and MDE/PhD applicants will be invited to an interview by the PhD program. The timeframe on when interviews take place are as follows: PhD applicants - January 2022 MDE/PhD applicants - December 2021 International Applicants Beginning in Fall 2021, Columbia Nursing will fund international PhD students. Funding includes tuition and fees, Student Health Services health insurance, and a stipend. International applicants are encouraged to visit the Columbia University International Students & Scholars Office for information about housing, Visas, and other topics. Contact the Office of Admissions 560 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States 212-305-5756 nursing@cumc.columbia.edu Open location in Google Maps Walk-in Hours: Mon, Tue, and Fri: 10:00 AM - 4:00 PM Appointments Only: Wed and Thu: 10:00 AM - 4:00 PM Note: We are not accepting any walk-ins or in-person appointments until further notice. Join our mailing list and receive our digital brochure: Join Our Mailing List Apply to the PhD Program Apply to become a part of the Columbia Nursing PhD program. Apply to the PhD Program Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Academics Research Patient Care Global Health Contact Us Students Alumni Intranet Careers Columbia University School of Nursing 560 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Back to top