Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home School of Nursing Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin School of Nursing News Events Directory Give Search Search Search Search About Expand Overview Dean's Welcome Values, Mission, & Goals Facts & Rankings History Accreditation Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Wellness Center Contact Us Academics Expand Overview Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Compliance Certification Professional Licensure Disclosures Students Expand Overview Prospective Students Current Students Career Services Student Organizations Office of Student Services Learning Enhancement and Academic Progress (LEAP) Center Research Expand Overview Centers & Initiatives Cain Center for Nursing Research Find Faculty Student Research Research News Alumni & Giving Expand Our Donors Alumni Awards Overview Make a Gift Update Your Information Advisory Council Contact Support the School Online Gift Shop Alumni Reunion Faculty & Staff Expand Overview Faculty Directory Staff Directory Forms, Policies and Procedures (EID) Staff Award Preceptors Faculty Position Openings 2022 International Indigenous Nursing Research Summit alt="2022 International Indigenous Nursing Research Summit Banner" Join us for the 3rd International Indigenous Nursing Research Summit! The purpose of the Summit is to share research findings and approaches that address the health and well-being of Indigenous populations worldwide (e.g. Aboriginal, First Nations, Native Americans, etc.). The Summit will provide opportunities to learn about these populations in more depth and to network with nurse researchers who are actively working to improve the health and lives of Indigenous people. 2022 Summit Information Title: Honoring our Past, Present, and Future Conference Date: Thursday, November 3, 2022 - Friday, November 4, 2022 Conference Time: November 3, 8:00 am - 8:00 pm | November 5, 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Field Trip: Saturday, November 5, 2022, 7:30 am - 8:30 pm Conference Location: AT&T Hotel & Conference Center, 1900 University Ave, Austin, TX 78705, View Map Registration Cost: General Attendees $160 | Student Attendees $100 | Field Trip $75 Registration: Click Here To Register (Registration is open until Wednesday, October 26, 2022.) Call for Poster Presentations: Abstract Submission Deadline - Monday, August 8, 2022 Contact: For questions, please email us at nursing@utexas.edu. Registration Information Conference Registration Registration Deadline: Registration is open until Wednesday, October 26, 2022. Registration Cost: General Attendees Cost: $160.00 Student Attendees Cost: $100.00 Field Trip Cost: $75 (You must register for the 2022 Summit in order to register for the Field Trip.) Cancellation Policy: If you need to cancel your registration, you must email your cancellation notice to nursing@utexas.edu by Wednesday, October 12, 2022, in order to receive a full refund. Any cancellation after October 12th will incur a $50.00 cancellation fee and the remaining cost will be refunded. Substitutions from the same agency are allowed at any time with prior notification. You must email your substitution notice to nursing@utexas.edu. Click Here to Register Hotel Reservation The AT&T Hotel and Conference Center is the event destination for the 2022 International Indigenous Nursing Research Summit. Click on the "Make Hotel Reservation" link below to book your hotel room for the 2022 Summit at the AT&T Hotel and Conference Center at special rates. You can book, modify or cancel your hotel reservation at any time. Please call the phone numbers listed below if you have any questions about the reservation. Reservations Toll Free: 877-744-8822 Reservations Local Phone: 512-404-3600 Cancellation Policy: Cancellations will be accepted 72 hours prior to arrival. Cancellation after this time will result in one (1) night room rate and applicable taxes being charged to your credit card. Click Here to Make Hotel Reservation 2022 Summit: Call For Poster Presentations Abstract Submission Timeline: Tuesday, May 17, 2022 to Monday, August 8, 2022 (Late poster submissions will not be considered. Abstracts that are incomplete will be declined.) Faculty, community members, and graduate and undergraduate students are encouraged to submit abstracts for review. Poster presentations are invited that report research addressing: Any aspect of health disparities, health promotion, disease or illness prevention, or rehabilitation research conducted with Indigenous populations. OR Similar research as #1, but that was conducted with other (non-Indigenous) underserved groups, or on an under-researched phenomenon – as long as the abstract addresses how the approach could be applicable to Indigenous people. Note: Poster presenters must register for the 2022 International Indigenous Nursing Research Summit. Click Here To Register. Abstract Submission Requirements: Format: One page, single spaced, Arial or Calibri 11-pt font, 1” margins, 300-word max for content Title: Written in Upper and Lower Case (first letter capitalized), 15 word maximum Author(s): (format: Last name, First Initial., second author last name, first initial., etc.) – identify the designated presenter. At least one author must be the designated presenter. 300-word maximum for abstract content, organized by the following subheadings: Purpose (statement with brief background of the problem) Methods or Approach (study design, RQ/H, main measures) Results Conclusions Submission: Submissions are accepted by email only and must be received by Monday, August 8, 2022, 5pm CST. Application materials should be emailed to: nursing@utexas.edu. Questions: For questions, please email us at nursing@utexas.edu. School of Nursing School of Nursing 1710 Red River St. Austin, TX 78712 Phone: 512-471-7913 Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube About Academics Students Research Alumni & Giving Faculty & Staff News Events Directory Intranet UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022