Skip to main content University of Washington Executive Dean’s Blog Intranet Student Information DEI Quick Links About Office of the Executive Dean Diversity, equity and inclusion Join Our Team History Accreditation Map/Directions Contact us Academic programs Degree programs Graduate certificates Courses for non-majors Future students Admissions FAQs Ask admissions Doctoral and postdoctoral training Information sessions Student Spotlight Tuition exemption Faculty + Staff Research Laboratory services Research centers Community impact Alumni & friends Calendar Clinical precepting Latest news Make a gift Nursing Ph.D. Dream Project Dementia & Palliative Education Network Upcoming Events & Activities UW Nurse Camp Nursing Now NIEHS Worker Training Program Campuses Seattle Bothell Tacoma Menu Home About us Academic programs Future students Faculty and Staff Community impact Campuses May is National Nurses Month Learn More UW Ranked Nation’s Leading Public Nursing School Read More New Fund Established to Support DNP Students Read more Celebrating Black History Month Read more BSN program tied for #2 best program Read More NEXT NEXT TITLE HERE Information Sessions Covid-19 Information Research centers Continuing Nursing Education Events Alumni & friends Make a gift Latest News Executive Dean Emami Elected to Robert Wood Johnson Foundation Board of Trustees The Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF) has elected Executive Dean Azita Emami to the Board of Trustees. Read More 2021 Nurses of Influence We’re proud to share the 2021 Nurses of Influence! Read More Nursing Students at the Undergraduate Research Symposium Congratulations to all of our #HuskyNurses who are presenting their innovative research! Read More Sadak Named Interim Associate Dean of Academic Affairs The UW School of Nursing announces the appointment of Dr. Tatiana Sadak to serve as Interim Associate Dean of Academic Affairs, effective May 15, 2022. Read More Governor Inslee recognizes May as Nurses Month Join us in celebrating National Nurses Month! Read More Congratulations to our Husky 100! Shoutout to our Husky Nurses Rikhia Chatterjee and L'Oreal Kennedy for being part of the Husky 100 2022. Read More Renowned Reproductive Justice Informed Nurse Scientist to Join UW Dr. Monica R. McLemore, whose expertise is in reproductive justice and family health equity, will join the UW School of Nursing this summer. Read More Interim Graduate Program Directors Announced Announcing the selection of the interim graduate program directors Fran Lewis and Jen Sonney Read More University of Washington Ranked #1 Among Public Nursing Schools The UW School of Nursing has again been named America’s leading educator of nurses among public colleges and universities that offer graduate programs by US News & World Report. Read More Faculty and Alumni to be honored at 2022 WIN Conference The UW School of Nursing is proud to announce that several faculty and alumni will be honored at the Western Institute of Nursing annual conference, April 7-9. Read More Meet Some of Our 2022 Doctor of Nursing Practice Graduates Today, our Doctor of Nursing Practice graduates presented their final projects. Meet some of our incredible class of 2022 DNP students. Read More Congratulations Doctor of Nursing Practice Graduates Class of 2022! School leadership and DNP track leads shared a few words for the graduating class of DNP students. Read More University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA