skip to main content About Administration & Leadership Accreditation Campuses & Locations Diversity History News Academics Admissions Degrees & Programs Faculty & Staff Current Students Clinical Clinical Partnerships Clinical Learning Resource Center Community Partnerships & Initiatives Professional Education Research Resources Research Report Projects, Programs & Centers Center of Excellence in Forensic Nursing Give Search Search Close Menu Collapsed content that can be toggled with the menu button. Apply Alumni Contact News About Administration & Leadership Campuses & Locations Departments History Accreditation Professionalism News Academics Admissions Degrees & Programs Faculty & Staff Current Students Clinical Clinical Partnerships Clinical Learning Resource Center Community Partnerships & Initiatives Professional Education Research Research Resources Annual Research Report Projects, Programs & Centers Center of Excellence in Forensic Nursing Alumni Apply Calendars Contact Directory Employment Give News Parking Press & Media Webmail Graduate Certificate in Forensic Health Care Home Degrees Graduate Certificate in Forensic Health Care On This Page About Curriculum Application Requirements Admission Decisions Admission Criteria Laptop Requirements Entry Term Application Opening Date Deadline Date for all Credentials First Class Day Spring 2022 July 1 October 1 January 2022 The Graduate Forensic Health Care Certificate curriculum will prepare Registered Nurses to excel in this rapidly developing field by drawing from a broad body of academic knowledge in forensic health care to assist victims of violence and trauma. The course instruction is delivered online allowing students to balance career, family and other responsibilities while advancing their education. This graduate-level curricula is available only to registered nurses with a Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) degree and an active, unencumbered RN license. Students who relocate from one state to another state during the course of their enrollment may be unable to continue due to the regulations which many state boards of nursing impose regarding use of preceptors. Students enrolled in this 12 hour academic certificate program will complete four core courses totaling ten lecture hours, then complete a minimum of two additional hours from elective courses. All courses are online. Required Core Courses FORS 601: Foundations of Forensic Health Care (two lecture hours) FORS 602: Victimology: Clinical Implications and Applications (three lecture hours) FORS 603: Impact of Violence Across the Lifespan (three lecture hours) FORS 604: Forensic Investigation of Injury (two lecture hours) Electives: Students choose combination totaling two credits FORS 610: Forensic Sexual Assault Examiner Course (three lecture hours) FORS 611: Clinical Pharmacology: Implications for Victims (one lecture hour) FORS 612: Human Trafficking (one lecture hour) FORS 613: Forensic Photography (one lecture hour) FORS 614: Policy and Ethics Interpersonal Violence (one lecture hour) FORS 615: Forensic Mental Health (one lecture hour) Application Requirements Bachelor of Science in Nursing degree and active, unencumbered RN license. NursingCAS application and nonrefundable application fee. Official college transcripts from each institution attended sent to Nursing CAS. Must be received by the application deadline date. Professional resume or curricula vitae. Essay/personal statement. Recommended minimum overall grade point average of 3.0 (on a 4.0 scale) in all course work. Applicants with foreign credentials must submit a transcript evaluation report directly to the College of Nursing and official documents to the university. See other requirements. Because the majority of course content is delivered online, international students often are not eligible to apply. Admissions interview, if requested by Selection Committee. All required documents must be received by the deadline date. NOTE: The College of Nursing does not require the GRE or the GMAT. Degree & Licensure Applicants must hold a baccalaureate degree in nursing from an institution of higher education that is both accredited by the appropriate regional accrediting agency either the Accreditation Commission for Education in Nursing, 3343 Peachtree Road NE, Suite 850, Atlanta, GA 30326, 404-975-5000 or the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, 655 K Street, NW, Suite 750, Washington, DC 20001, 202-887-6791. Applicants must hold a current, unencumbered Registered Nurse license (if graduation from BSN program is pending, must show proof of conferred degree before entry and active RN licensure by the end of the first semester if admitted to the program). Application Complete a NursingCAS graduate application. Please carefully review additional admissions information on applying to Texas A&M University as a graduate, non-degree seeking student. Official Transcripts The College of Nursing requires official college transcripts from each institution attended sent to Nursing CAS. You must request ALL transcripts early so they are received by the application deadline date. In order to qualify for admission into a graduate non-degree (G6) program of study, an official transcript showing completion of a bachelor's degree is required. For bachelor's degrees completed outside the United States, a separate statement of award of degree or diploma is also required. Applicants currently pursuing a bachelor’s degree may apply, however, the certificate will not be awarded until the degree is completed. Applicants MUST list all colleges attended. Failure to list all institutions attended will result in an incomplete application. Supporting Documentation One Required Essay/Personal Statement Required essay should be uploaded electronically with the Apply Texas application or via the Texas A&M University Applicant Information System (AIS) Portal. Write to the following prompt: What is the role of forensics as it relates to health care today and how might obtaining this certificate enhance your professional development? Please limit your discussion to 600 words. Professional Resume Resume must be uploaded electronically to Nursing CAS. Applicants will be notified of the admission decision within six weeks of the application deadline. All communication from the Texas A&M College of Nursing is electronic. Official notifications will come through Nursing CAS. No orientation is required for the certificate program. Admission to the college is competitive and applicants are evaluated on the following basis: Cumulative GPA on all undergraduate and graduate course work Admission essay Professional resume or CV Volunteer/community/military service Leadership/involvement/awards in professional activities TOEFL score, required by international applicants only Interview, if requested by Selection Committee History of withdraws, repeats or failures will place applicant at a disadvantage Laptop Requirements Please review the technology requirements for the Texas A&M College of Nursing to ensure you have the proper equipment, software, etc. to complete course work after admission. Facebook Twitter Instagram Linked in Pinterest RSS YouTube Back to top Institution Health Science Center Dentistry Medicine Nursing Pharmacy Public Health Information Calendars Contact Us Diversity Emergency Information Emergency Plans Maps & Parking Press & Media Title IX Clery Annual Reports Resources Directory Facilities Work Request Howdy Portal Information Technology Intranet Libraries Mental Health Resources Webmail Texas A&M University · Texas A&M University System · State of Texas · Open Records · Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline · State Link Policy · Equal Opportunity / Nondiscrimination · Employment · Texas Veterans Portal · Security · Site Policies · Accessibility