Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home School of Nursing Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin School of Nursing News Events Directory Give Search Search Search Search About Expand Overview Dean's Welcome Values, Mission, & Goals Facts & Rankings History Accreditation Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Wellness Center Contact Us Academics Expand Overview Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Compliance Certification Professional Licensure Disclosures Students Expand Overview Prospective Students Current Students Career Services Student Organizations Office of Student Services Learning Enhancement and Academic Progress (LEAP) Center Research Expand Overview Centers & Initiatives Cain Center for Nursing Research Find Faculty Student Research Research News Alumni & Giving Expand Our Donors Alumni Awards Overview Make a Gift Update Your Information Advisory Council Contact Support the School Online Gift Shop Alumni Reunion Faculty & Staff Expand Overview Faculty Directory Staff Directory Forms, Policies and Procedures (EID) Staff Award Preceptors Faculty Position Openings Home Academics : Compliance Certification Compliance Certification The University of Texas at Austin School of Nursing offers quality American Heart Association (AHA) Basic Life Support (BLS) CPR, First Aid, and Nurse, Patient Safety to UT Austin employees & students, community healthcare professionals, and those who require certification for employment. The UT Austin Learning Enhancement and Academic Progress (LEAP) Center is an AHA approved training site aligned with St. David’s Institute for Learning Training Center. View the list of compliance certification courses for additional information. AHA BLS (CPR) Certification This is a video based course that teaches both single-rescuer and team basic life support skills for application in both prehospital and in-facility environments, with a focus on High-Quality CPR and team dynamics. 100% classroom training means students are with an AHA instructor for their entire learning experience. Learn about the AHA BLS (CPR) Certification AHA HeartCode BLS Classroom Skills Session A classroom skills session is the Hands-on Portion of an AHA HeartCode BLS eLearning course. This session focuses on meaningful skills practice, discussions of local protocols, and skills testing. Learn about the AHA HeartCode BLS Classroom Skills Session AHA Heartsaver First-Aid & AHA - BLS (CPR) Certification This is an instructor-led and video-based course that teaches nursing students critical skills needed to respond to and manage an emergency or until emergency medical services arrive. Skills covered in this course include the use of an AED for adult, child and infant; choking relief in adults and infants; and to promptly recognize a life-threatening emergency. The course teaches skills with the AHA’s research-proven practice-while-watching technique, which allows instructors to observe the students, provide feedback, and guide the students’ learning of skills. Learn about the AHA Heartsaver First-Aid & AHA - BLS (CPR) Certification AHA Heartsaver First-Aid Certification This is a video based and instructor-led course that teaches nursing students critical skills needed to respond to and manage an emergency until emergency medical services arrive. Skills covered in this course include first aid skills, infection control, assessing emergencies, using epinephrine pens and inhalers. This course will aid you in promptly recognizing and managing life-threatening emergencies. Learn about the AHA Heartsaver First-Aid Certification AHA Heartsaver First Aid CPR AED Certification This is an instructor-led and video-based course that teaches individuals in the community to provide first aid, cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR), and automated external defibrillator (AED) use in a safe, timely, and effective manner. The course teaches skills with the AHA’s research-proven practice-while-watching technique, which allows instructors to observe the students, provide feedback, and guide the students’ learning of skills. Learn about the AHA Heartsaver First Aid CPR AED Certification Nurse & Patient Safety Certification This consists of learning the five danger areas that are most common in the healthcare industry: musculoskeletal conditions; needle safety; workplace violence; preventing blood-borne pathogens; and other drug resistant organisms. This course will educate you about these risks, while teaching you how to navigate and manage them to keep the environment safe for everyone. Learn about the Nurse & Patient Safety Certification Academics Overview Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Compliance Certification AHA BLS (CPR) Certification AHA HeartCode BLS Classroom Skills Session AHA Heartsaver First-Aid & AHA - BLS (CPR) Certification AHA Heartsaver First-Aid Certification AHA Heartsaver First Aid CPR AED Certification Nurse & Patient Safety Certification Professional Licensure Disclosures School of Nursing Address The University of Texas at Austin School of Nursing 1710 Red River St. Austin, TX 78712 Map and Parking Map to the School of Nursing (NUR) Trinity Garage (TRG) & Health Center Garage (HCG) Closest Visitor Parking Garage to the School of Nursing Contact Information Compliance Certification BLSClasses@nursing.utexas.edu DeAnna Baker Project Manager Office: NUR 3.168 Phone: (512) 471-7961 Email: dbaker@nursing.utexas.edu School of Nursing School of Nursing 1710 Red River St. Austin, TX 78712 Phone: 512-471-7913 Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube About Academics Students Research Alumni & Giving Faculty & Staff News Events Directory Intranet UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022