Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site Equity Alumni Precepting at YSN News Event Calendar Give Now . Congratulations to the Class of 2022! COVID-19: Information for Yale University About Mission and Values History Dean's Welcome Staff Directory Visit Us Job Openings Enrollment Management Admissions Open House + Recruiting Events Registrar Office of Financial Aid International Students Campus Security Information Academics Graduate Entry Prespeciality in Nursing Master of Science in Nursing Doctor of Nursing Practice PhD Program in Nursing Post Master’s APRN Certificates Pre and Post Doctoral Research Academic Calendar School of Nursing Bulletin, 2021-2022 Simulation & Assessment Lab Students Student Life and Belonging Student Policies & Guidelines Student Awards Commencement Career Resources New Student Information Faculty Faculty Directory Faculty Practice Faculty Publications Faculty Research Faculty Toolkit for Success GLOBAL AFFAIRS & PLANETARY HEALTH Who We Are Educational Opportunities Global Health Resources Global Involvement Planetary Health Initiatives Yale Institute for Global Health Equity Alumni Precepting at YSN News Event Calendar Give Now Congratulations to the Class of 2022! Catch up on Old Campus Commencement festivities with this video, which opens with a cameo from Pediatrics NP Janice Lu '22 MSN. read more Congratulations to the Class of 2022! The Classes of 2020 and 2021 Make a Joyful Return to Yale The Classes of 2020 and 2021 returned to Yale to celebrate Commencement on May 14. Catch up on speakers and prizewinners here. read more The Classes of 2020 and 2021 Make a Joyful Return to Yale YSN Honors Distinguished Alumni and Decade Award Winners Bravo to DAA winners Shannon Fitzgerald ’80, Mary Geary ’74, and Beth Baldwin Tigges ’84 and Decade Award Winner Nicole Seagriff '11. read more YSN Honors Distinguished Alumni and Decade Award Winners Meet These Nurses We celebratied Nurses Week (May 6-12) by sharing insight and expertise from YSN faculty. read more Meet These Nurses YSN Students Honored in Creative Contest for Health Professions Taylor Evans ’24 MSN (from left), Clinical DNP student Jeremy Mills, and Zeynep Inanoglu ’24 MSN earned praise for creative writing and art. read more YSN Students Honored in Creative Contest for Health Professions Brian Roach Pivots from Banking at SOM to Nursing at YSN FNP student Brian Roach ’93 SOM, ’24 MSN quit his banking career and arrived at YSN via emergency services at the Grand Canyon. read more Brian Roach Pivots from Banking at SOM to Nursing at YSN Previous Next . Yale Nursing Matters Magazine Check out the newest issue to catch up on how our faculty, students, and staff have adapted to changing conditions at home and in the office throughout the Covid-19 pandemic. Belonging at Yale: YSN DEIB Plan Review the Belonging at Yale infographic for Yale School of Nursing. . The “Infection Prevention Compendium for Long-Term Care Facilities” is available online for free. Click here to view . The COVID-19 Nursing Toolkit is available Click here to view . Statement on Anti-Bias Click here to read the statement Academic Programs Latest News Yale Nursing Celebrates 2022 Delta Mu Honor Society Inductees June 1, 2022 Humor, Heartbreak, and Hope: The 2022 Creative Writing Awards May 27, 2022 Classes of 2020 and 2021 Return To Celebrate Alumni Commencement May 18, 2022 YSN Honors Distinguished Alumni and Decade Award Winners: Fitzgerald ’80 MSN, Geary ’74 MSN, Tigges ’84 MSN, Seagriff ’11 MSN May 10, 2022 see all YSN news Academic Programs Master of Science in Nursing The Master of Science in Nursing (MSN) curriculum is for RN entrants and is designed to prepare students for advanced practice and roles as clinician-scholars. Graduate Entry Prespecialty in Nursing The GEPN Program is a three-year, full-time course of graduate nursing study with no prerequisites that combines preparation in basic nursing with advanced preparation in a clinical specialty. Doctor of Nursing Practice Two post-master’s DNP programs: Leadership DNP Program for mid-career nurses focused on innovation in management, policy and systems leadership; Clinical DNP Program is for Advanced Practice Nurses who are interested in developing and enhancing their skills as clinical leaders and innovators. Doctor of Philosophy The program is designed to prepare nurse scientists to conduct cutting-edge research linking theory and clinical practice. Most Popular Links Academics Admissions Calendar Faculty Directory The Master of Science in Nursing, Doctor of Nursing Practice, and Post Graduate APRN Certificates at the Yale School of Nursing are accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, 655 K Street, NW, Suite 750, Washington, DC, 20001, 202-887-6791. Helpful Links YSN Library Canvas YSN Community Opportunities Yale West Campus Nondiscrimination & Title IX Yale Emergency Management University Policies It's Your Yale Education Verification Form e-Value Feedback Email Comments Leave this field blank Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram linkedin Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved