Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home School of Nursing Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin School of Nursing News Events Directory Give Search Search Search Search About Expand Overview Dean's Welcome Values, Mission, & Goals Facts & Rankings History Accreditation Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Wellness Center Contact Us Academics Expand Overview Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Compliance Certification Professional Licensure Disclosures Students Expand Overview Prospective Students Current Students Career Services Student Organizations Office of Student Services Learning Enhancement and Academic Progress (LEAP) Center Research Expand Overview Centers & Initiatives Cain Center for Nursing Research Find Faculty Student Research Research News Alumni & Giving Expand Our Donors Alumni Awards Overview Make a Gift Update Your Information Advisory Council Contact Support the School Online Gift Shop Alumni Reunion Faculty & Staff Expand Overview Faculty Directory Staff Directory Forms, Policies and Procedures (EID) Staff Award Preceptors Faculty Position Openings Home Students : Office of Student Services Office of Student Services The Office of Student Services serves both prospective and enrolled School of Nursing students. Dedicated staff members answer inquiries from prospective students and distribute information about undergraduate and graduate nursing degree programs offered at The University of Texas at Austin. Prospective and current students in these degree programs are served in a variety of ways and are encouraged to direct questions about admission, registration, scholarships, campus services, career and job placement, and other related concerns to the Student Services staff. Contact Information The Office of Student Services is staffed from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday. Students are seen primarily by appointment only, however, students may be seen on a walk-in basis for situations that can be addressed in approximately 15 minutes. Students with an emergency situation may see an advisor or the Assistant Dean for Student Services at any time. Office Location: NUR 2.400 Office Phone: 512-232-4780 Office Email: ss@nursing.utexas.edu Office Hours: Available by appointment; call 512-232-4780 to make an appointment if you have not already been assigned an advisor. You may schedule an appointment with your advisor online by visiting Undergraduate Student Advising & Registration or Graduate Students Advising & Registration. Contacts: For information on degree programs, contact Student Services. Students Overview Prospective Students Current Students Career Services Student Organizations Office of Student Services Student Services Blog Care Counselor Learning Enhancement and Academic Progress (LEAP) Center School of Nursing School of Nursing 1710 Red River St. Austin, TX 78712 Phone: 512-471-7913 Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube About Academics Students Research Alumni & Giving Faculty & Staff News Events Directory Intranet UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022