Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home School of Nursing Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin School of Nursing News Events Directory Give Search Search Search Search About Expand Overview Dean's Welcome Values, Mission, & Goals Facts & Rankings History Accreditation Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Wellness Center Contact Us Academics Expand Overview Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Compliance Certification Professional Licensure Disclosures Students Expand Overview Prospective Students Current Students Career Services Student Organizations Office of Student Services Learning Enhancement and Academic Progress (LEAP) Center Research Expand Overview Centers & Initiatives Cain Center for Nursing Research Find Faculty Student Research Research News Alumni & Giving Expand Our Donors Alumni Awards Overview Make a Gift Update Your Information Advisory Council Contact Support the School Online Gift Shop Alumni Reunion Faculty & Staff Expand Overview Faculty Directory Staff Directory Forms, Policies and Procedures (EID) Staff Award Preceptors Faculty Position Openings Home Alumni & Giving : Online Gift Shop Online Gift Shop How To Purchase Merchandise Merchandise Return and Exchange Policy How To Purchase Merchandise The School of Nursing is pleased to be able to offer the below items for sale! Follow the steps below to make an order for merchandise: Visit the School of Nursing - Online Gift Shop, add items to cart, and checkout. Payment can be made with available credit card types: VISA, MasterCard, American Express, and Discover. Once the order is complete, the order receipt/summary will be automatically emailed to the email address that you entered when checking out. Please allow for 3-4 weeks for orders to be processed and shipped. Merchandise Return and Exchange Policy Should you wish to return or exchange any merchandise you purchased, please email us at reunion@nursing.utexas.edu. Credit card purchases cannot be refunded until 48 hours after the purchase. This is to ensure that all processes have posted correctly before the reversal. Each request will be reviewed within 7-10 business days. In order for returns or exchanges to be processed, items must be new and in unused condition. Please allow 7-10 business days for any refunds to reflect on your credit card statement. Visit the School of Nursing - Alumni and Friends Merchandise The Lady with the Lamp reunion_shop_doll.jpg In honor of Florence Nightingale's 200th Birthday, you can purchase one of these unique Florence Nightingale Dolls produced by the United States Historical Society, in cooperation with the Florence Nightingale Museum located in London. This doll is a Limited Edition and is no longer in production. Purchase includes: Brand new doll in its original box, numbered certificate of authenticity, informational brochure, and bonus gold lantern charm. Standing 17 1/2" tall, the Florence Nightingale Doll is dressed in a hand-tailored outfit. The head, chest, arms, hands, legs, and shoes are made of fine bisque porcelain, kiln-fired, and painted by hand. Free Shipping! Price: $200.00 plus sales tax Size: 17 1/2" Tall Jr. Padfolio jr_padfolio.jpg This Ultrahyde junior padfolio includes a 5" x 8" writing pad, one pen loop, three business card holders, two flash drive holders, one mesh ID window, and one gusseted media pocket keep your most important implements on-hand. Zippered closure keeps your materials safe and secure when you are on the move. Free Shipping! Price: $25.00 plus sales tax Color: Terra Cotta Large Padfolio lg_pagfolio.jpg Made of simulated leather, this appealing padfolio features a curved exterior pocket, zippered closure, a multi-pocket organizer with a zippered closure, a slash pocket that fits most tablets, a pen loop, and 8-1/2 x 11 paper pad. Free Shipping! Price: $30.00 plus sales tax Color: Black Folding Umbrella umbrella.jpg This high-quality auto-open umbrella offers a sufficient 42" arc. The umbrella folds up to a neat 15-1/2" long and slides right into the matching nylon sleeve and Features a matte rubberized finish handle. Free Shipping! Price: $30.00 plus sales tax Size: 42" arc and 15-1/2' long Color: Black Through the Eyes of Nursing through_the_eyes_of_nursing.jpg “Through the Eyes of Nursing places the development of the University of Texas School of Nursing within the larger social, political, economic, nursing, and medical history of the twentieth century. The School of Nursing’s long history of excellent students, faculty, staff, alumni, and friends confirms the important role that the University of Texas has played in educating nurses and supplying nursing faculty and researchers across the nation. The book can inform future debates on who will provide health care, how much education is needed for practitioners and researched, and what educational and health policies can be effective to meet the many challenges in the twenty-first century.” Alexa Stuifbergen, PhD, RN, FAAN, Dean, The University of Texas at Austin School of Nursing, Laura Lee Blanton Chair in Nursing, and James R. Dougherty, Jr., Centennial Professor in Nursing. Free Shipping! Price: $20.00 plus sales tax Visit the School of Nursing - Online Gift Shop to Purchase T-Shirts Longhorn Nursing Black T-Shirt ln_black_tshirt.jpg Show your Nursing and UT pride with this colorful Longhorn Nursing T-shirt. Shirts are unisex and tend to run larger. Brand: Gildan 100% Heavy Cotton. They are not pre-washed. Free Shipping! Price: $25.00 plus sales tax Sizes: S-XL Price: $28.00 plus sales tax Sizes: 2XL-3XL Texas Nursing Black T-Shirt black_tshirt.jpg Show your nursing and UT pride with this black t-shirt from the School of Nursing! The Texas Nursing unisex T-shirt is 100% cotton, brand Gildan Heavy Cotton. They are not prewashed. Collector's Edition! Free Shipping! Price: $25.00 plus sales tax Sizes: S-XL Price: $28.00 plus sales tax Sizes: 2XL-3XL Texas Nursing Alumni Polo T-shirt alumni polo.png Show your nursing and UT pride with this Alumni Polo T-shirt from the School of Nursing! The Alumni Texas Nursing unisex polo T-shirt is 65/35 polyester/cotton. Brand: K500 Texas Orange Port Authority Silk Touch Polo. Link to measurements: K500 Port Authority Silk Touch Polo Measurements This item is only available for a limited time. Order now before they are gone! Free Shipping! Price: $39.99 plus sales tax Sizes: S-3XL Texas Nursing Burnt Orange T-Shirt alumni_polo.jpg Show your nursing and UT pride with this burnt orange t-shirt from the School of Nursing! The Texas Nursing unisex T-shirt is 100% cotton, brand Gildan Heavy Cotton. They are not prewashed. Free Shipping! Price: $20.00 plus sales tax Sizes: S-XL Price: $23.00 plus sales tax Sizes: 2XL-3XL Alumni & Giving Our Donors Alumni Awards Overview Make a Gift Update Your Information Advisory Council Contact Support the School Online Gift Shop Alumni Reunion School of Nursing School of Nursing 1710 Red River St. Austin, TX 78712 Phone: 512-471-7913 Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube About Academics Students Research Alumni & Giving Faculty & Staff News Events Directory Intranet UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022