Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home School of Nursing Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin School of Nursing News Events Directory Give Search Search Search Search About Expand Overview Dean's Welcome Values, Mission, & Goals Facts & Rankings History Accreditation Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Wellness Center Contact Us Academics Expand Overview Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Compliance Certification Professional Licensure Disclosures Students Expand Overview Prospective Students Current Students Career Services Student Organizations Office of Student Services Learning Enhancement and Academic Progress (LEAP) Center Research Expand Overview Centers & Initiatives Cain Center for Nursing Research Find Faculty Student Research Research News Alumni & Giving Expand Our Donors Alumni Awards Overview Make a Gift Update Your Information Advisory Council Contact Support the School Online Gift Shop Alumni Reunion Faculty & Staff Expand Overview Faculty Directory Staff Directory Forms, Policies and Procedures (EID) Staff Award Preceptors Faculty Position Openings Home Faculty & Staff : Staff Award Staff Award The School of Nursing values its employees. As a way of recognizing members of staff for their important contributions, we believe in rewarding staff employees who demonstrate a commitment to the goals and values of the University and the School. SoNStar is awarded every four months (January 1st, May 1st and September 1st) to any classified staff member, regardless of service length. From the list of nominees, the SoNStar Committee members (Heather Becker, DeAnna Baker, Elizabeth Heitkemper, and Lorraine Walker) will decide the winner. Selection Criteria Significantly improves internal or external customer service or increases faculty/staff/student satisfaction. Significantly improves a work process or increases the efficiency of a procedure or is innovative in terms of solutions, planning or organizational effort. Takes initiative to reduce organizational barriers through such activities as mentoring, voluntarily assisting coworkers and participating in cross-functional teams. Works to foster collaboration, communication and cooperation among colleagues and University and/or school constituents. Performs at a level above and beyond normal job requirements. Prizes $750 A framed certificate A reserved parking spot for four months SoNStar Nomination Form Anyone in the School of Nursing may nominate, including the SoNStar Committee, faculty, staff or students. You can nominate someone by completing the online SoNStar nomination form. Complete the SoNStar Nomination Form Eligible Staff Members of the SoNStar Committee and faculty are not eligible for the award. No staff will be designated as a SoNStar more than once in a two-year period. View the list of eligible staff for the SoNStar Award (EID) SoNStar Recipients SoNStar Recipients who are rewarding by the School of Nursing for their important contributions and for performing a level above and beyond normal job requirements. View the complete list of SoNStar Recipients (EID) Faculty & Staff Overview Faculty Directory Staff Directory Forms, Policies and Procedures (EID) Staff Award Preceptors Faculty Position Openings School of Nursing School of Nursing 1710 Red River St. Austin, TX 78712 Phone: 512-471-7913 Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube About Academics Students Research Alumni & Giving Faculty & Staff News Events Directory Intranet UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022