Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home School of Nursing Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin School of Nursing News Events Directory Give Search Search Search Search About Expand Overview Dean's Welcome Values, Mission, & Goals Facts & Rankings History Accreditation Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Wellness Center Contact Us Academics Expand Overview Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Compliance Certification Professional Licensure Disclosures Students Expand Overview Prospective Students Current Students Career Services Student Organizations Office of Student Services Learning Enhancement and Academic Progress (LEAP) Center Research Expand Overview Centers & Initiatives Cain Center for Nursing Research Find Faculty Student Research Research News Alumni & Giving Expand Our Donors Alumni Awards Overview Make a Gift Update Your Information Advisory Council Contact Support the School Online Gift Shop Alumni Reunion Faculty & Staff Expand Overview Faculty Directory Staff Directory Forms, Policies and Procedures (EID) Staff Award Preceptors Faculty Position Openings Home Alumni & Giving : Our Donors Our Donors The School of Nursing has benefitted from the generosity of alumni and community members, corporations, foundations, and organizations. In addition, current and former faculty members, staff, and even enrolled students have financially contributed to the success of our programs. Whether it’s creating an endowed scholarship; giving to a research fund; supporting our community outreach through the Wellness Center; or an unrestricted gift to the School’s current area of greatest need, donors provide additional and increasingly needed resources. You can join those making a difference at the School of Nursing! Become a donor today! Donor Spotlight Foundation Support Donor Spotlight Luci Baines Johnson and Ian Turpin, 2021 Jeff and Kim Chapman, 2020 Maureen and Robert Decherd, 2020 Luci Baines Johnson and Ian Turpin, 2020 John Chamberlain, 2019 Luci Baines Johnson, 2018 Earl and Myrtle Walker, 2018 Mary Lou Adams, 2017 Audrey Decherd, 2016 John and David Chamberlain, 2014 Julie Bailey, 2013 Pat Blandford, 2012 Foundation Support The School of Nursing is grateful to the following foundation and community partners for their support of our students, faculty, and programs. Susan G. Komen for the Cure – Austin Affiliate®: Their support of the Family Wellness Center’s Women’s Wellness Program which provides breast health screening, services, and patient navigation to under and uninsured women in the Central Texas area. Visit Susan G. Komen for the Cure – Austin Affiliate®. St. David’s Foundation: Their support of numerous programs and initiatives at the School of Nursing including the renovation of the first floor classrooms, expansion of the Family Nurse Practitioner and Family Psych/Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Programs, the establishment of the St. David’s Excellence Fund for Health Promotion and Disease Prevention Research, and their long-term support of the Wellness Center. Visit St. David’s Foundation website. Travis County Medical Alliance: Their support of the purchase of pediatric medical equipment for the Children’s Wellness Center. Visit the Travis County Medical Alliance website. Michael and Susan Dell Foundation: Their support of pediatric healthcare at the Wellness Center. Visit the Michael and Susan Dell Foundation website. Alumni & Giving Our Donors Alumni Awards Overview Make a Gift Update Your Information Advisory Council Contact Support the School Online Gift Shop Alumni Reunion School of Nursing School of Nursing 1710 Red River St. Austin, TX 78712 Phone: 512-471-7913 Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube About Academics Students Research Alumni & Giving Faculty & Staff News Events Directory Intranet UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022