Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home School of Nursing Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin School of Nursing News Events Directory Give Search Search Search Search About Expand Overview Dean's Welcome Values, Mission, & Goals Facts & Rankings History Accreditation Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Wellness Center Contact Us Academics Expand Overview Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Compliance Certification Professional Licensure Disclosures Students Expand Overview Prospective Students Current Students Career Services Student Organizations Office of Student Services Learning Enhancement and Academic Progress (LEAP) Center Research Expand Overview Centers & Initiatives Cain Center for Nursing Research Find Faculty Student Research Research News Alumni & Giving Expand Our Donors Alumni Awards Overview Make a Gift Update Your Information Advisory Council Contact Support the School Online Gift Shop Alumni Reunion Faculty & Staff Expand Overview Faculty Directory Staff Directory Forms, Policies and Procedures (EID) Staff Award Preceptors Faculty Position Openings Home News Category: Research News Category: Research Researching Affordable Health Interventions May 6, 2022 Meet Kavita Radhakrishnan, PhD, MSEE, RN, FAAN, Associate Professor at the UT Austin School of Nursing. Dr. Radhakrishnan’s research applies current and emerging technologies such as telemonitoring, connected sensors and digital gaming in order to resolve clinical nursing research problems such as heart failure self-management. The long-term goal of her research is to develop affordable and scalable health interventions that enable ‘aging in place’. Read more about Researching Affordable Health Interventions Paving the Way for Student Success May 6, 2022 Meet Janice F. Hernandez, DNP, RN, FNP-C, Clinical Assistant Professor and Division Chair of The Holistic Adult Health Division at the UT Austin School of Nursing. She received her Doctor of Nursing Practice Degree at the UT Austin School of Nursing and aims to motivate and inspire nursing faculty and students while leading and implementing changes that will pave the way for the success of those she meets. Read more about Paving the Way for Student Success Educating the Next Generation of Adult Gerontology Clinical Nurse Specialists May 6, 2022 Meet Carol Delville, PhD, APRN, ACNS-BC, FCNSI, Clinical Associate Professor at the UT Austin School of Nursing. Dr. Delville “Bleeds Burnt Orange” having obtained her BSN, MSN and PhD degrees from The University of Texas at Austin School of Nursing. She is currently the advanced practice Program Director for our Adult Gerontology Clinical Nurse Specialist program. Read more about Educating the Next Generation of Adult Gerontology Clinical Nurse Specialists Improving Public Health through Education and Outreach May 6, 2022 Meet Alexandra Garcia, PhD, RN, FAAN, Professor and Graduate Advisor for the UT Austin School of Nursing. “It is a privilege to work as a nurse and be a Graduate Advisor. These roles are very meaningful to me as I get to supervise our master's and doctoral students, who will make a difference in patients' lives, while teaching public health and conducting research which helps inform policymakers at organizational and governmental levels about how to improve health. Nursing has it all!” Read more about Improving Public Health through Education and Outreach Furthering Nursing Education through Teaching and Research May 6, 2022 Meet Laura Murphy, MSN, RNC-OB, Clinical Instructor, Alternate Entry Foundation Year Coordinator, two-time graduate from the UT Austin School of Nursing, and a current PhD Candidate with an anticipated graduation date of May 2022. Read more about Furthering Nursing Education through Teaching and Research Professors Honored by Prestigious International Society April 5, 2022 Sharon Horner, PhD, RN, FAAN, Dolores V. Sands Chair; and John Lowe, PhD, RN, FAAN, Joseph Blades Centennial Professor in Nursing, at The University of Texas at Austin School of Nursing, have been selected for induction into the Sigma Theta Tau International Nurse Researcher Hall of Fame. Read more about Professors Honored by Prestigious International Society Palliative and Long-term Care Leadership Leads to Prestigious National Award Jan. 19, 2022 Jung Kwak, PhD, MSW, FGSA, associate professor at The University of Texas at Austin School of Nursing, was awarded a Sojourns® Scholar Leadership Program award by the Cambia Health Foundation. She was one of ten emerging palliative care leaders selected from among a competitive pool of applicants. Read more about Palliative and Long-term Care Leadership Leads to Prestigious National Award School of Nursing Awarded Grant to Address Racism’s Impact on Indigenous Youth Oct. 29, 2021 The University of Texas at Austin School of Nursing is one of two organizations selected by the Rita & Alex Hillman Foundation for the 2021 Hillman Innovations in Care (HIC): Racism and Health Program. Read more about School of Nursing Awarded Grant to Address Racism’s Impact on Indigenous Youth Seeking Solutions to Diabetes-Associated Cognitive Impairment Oct. 4, 2021 Diabetes disproportionally affects the Latinx community as a whole, and few studies have been conducted on specific disease processes in Latinx ethnic subgroups. Dr. Cuevas, a first-generation Cuban American and nurse, is developing appropriate interventions that distinguish differences resulting from migration patterns, culture, gender, economics, and political realities of each Latinx subgroup in order to establish more specific guidelines for diabetes care. Read more about Seeking Solutions to Diabetes-Associated Cognitive Impairment Baby Steps in Genetic Research May Lead to Prevention of Preterm Births Sept. 14, 2021 AUSTIN, Texas — It has long been known that the earlier a baby is born, the higher the risk of death or serious disability. Approximately one in 10 babies are born too early in the United States every year. In a recent study, researchers investigated one source — the vaginal microbiome — to look for solutions. Read more about Baby Steps in Genetic Research May Lead to Prevention of Preterm Births 1 2 3 4 next › last » Explore News About: Achievements & Awards (55) Centers & Initiatives (49) Graduate (43) Research (32) Alumni (26) Student Life (26) Undergraduate (26) Lectureship & Talk (7) Training & Workshop (1) School of Nursing School of Nursing 1710 Red River St. Austin, TX 78712 Phone: 512-471-7913 Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube About Academics Students Research Alumni & Giving Faculty & Staff News Events Directory Intranet UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022