Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home School of Nursing Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin School of Nursing News Events Directory Give Search Search Search Search About Expand Overview Dean's Welcome Values, Mission, & Goals Facts & Rankings History Accreditation Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Wellness Center Contact Us Academics Expand Overview Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Compliance Certification Professional Licensure Disclosures Students Expand Overview Prospective Students Current Students Career Services Student Organizations Office of Student Services Learning Enhancement and Academic Progress (LEAP) Center Research Expand Overview Centers & Initiatives Cain Center for Nursing Research Find Faculty Student Research Research News Alumni & Giving Expand Our Donors Alumni Awards Overview Make a Gift Update Your Information Advisory Council Contact Support the School Online Gift Shop Alumni Reunion Faculty & Staff Expand Overview Faculty Directory Staff Directory Forms, Policies and Procedures (EID) Staff Award Preceptors Faculty Position Openings Home About : Values, Mission, & Goals Values, Mission, & Goals Values shared with the University Learning, Discovery, Freedom, Leadership, Individual Opportunity, and Responsibility Mission The purpose of the School of Nursing is to achieve excellence in undergraduate education, graduate education, research, and public service, advancing the missions of The University of Texas at Austin through: Preparing individuals at the baccalaureate level to assume roles in professional nursing practice; Preparing individuals at the graduate level to assume leadership in practice, education and research; Promoting excellence in nursing scholarship; Advancing the health of the public through developing and disseminating new knowledge about health, health care, and health care delivery through scholarly inquiry; and Providing consultation, health care programs, and health care services in response to emerging and urgent public health needs. Goals The mission of the School of Nursing will be met by working toward these goals: Maintaining excellence in curricula at all levels in order to challenge students to attain their full potential. Expanding recruitment and retention efforts to enlarge and diversify the pool of well-qualified student applicants. Generating research and scholarship that advances knowledge for nursing and health care. Actively recruiting and retaining a diverse faculty with a developing or established scholarship record, and/or clinical expertise, whose professional goals are aligned with the mission of the School of Nursing. Fostering faculty, staff, and student growth and development. Seeking endowments and other funds to support the mission of the School of Nursing. Performing continuous quality improvement to maintain curricular excellence in a constantly changing health care environment. Maintaining strong liaisons and creative service and learning partnerships with health providers and agencies, other schools and disciplines. Maintaining strong relationships with alumni, community groups, and other stakeholders. Upgrading facility and other learning resources in accord with evolving needs. Diversity & Inclusion Adopted by the UT Austin School of Nursing Faculty Organization, May 14, 2020 Together We Go Further: At The University of Texas at Austin School of Nursing we strive to embrace the value and power of diversity, equity, and inclusion. These principles fuel the achievement of our mission of excellence in education, research and service and connect us to the communities we serve. We are intentionally building an institutional culture that encourages and celebrates the unique contributions of everyone. Our school and community are stronger and healthier when we all feel respected, valued, and heard. About Overview Dean's Welcome Values, Mission, & Goals Facts & Rankings History Accreditation Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Wellness Center Contact Us Additional Resources School of Nursing Philosophy 2018-2023 Strategic Plan School of Nursing School of Nursing 1710 Red River St. Austin, TX 78712 Phone: 512-471-7913 Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube About Academics Students Research Alumni & Giving Faculty & Staff News Events Directory Intranet UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022