Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home School of Nursing Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin School of Nursing News Events Directory Give Search Search Search Search About Expand Overview Dean's Welcome Values, Mission, & Goals Facts & Rankings History Accreditation Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Wellness Center Contact Us Academics Expand Overview Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Compliance Certification Professional Licensure Disclosures Students Expand Overview Prospective Students Current Students Career Services Student Organizations Office of Student Services Learning Enhancement and Academic Progress (LEAP) Center Research Expand Overview Centers & Initiatives Cain Center for Nursing Research Find Faculty Student Research Research News Alumni & Giving Expand Our Donors Alumni Awards Overview Make a Gift Update Your Information Advisory Council Contact Support the School Online Gift Shop Alumni Reunion Faculty & Staff Expand Overview Faculty Directory Staff Directory Forms, Policies and Procedures (EID) Staff Award Preceptors Faculty Position Openings Spring 2022 Commencement Ceremony Congratulations to the Class of 2022! Friday, May 20, 2022 | Bass Concert Hall | Graduate Ceremony at 6:00 pm | Undergraduate Ceremony at 7:00 pm On Friday, May 20th, 2022, at 6:00 p.m. (CST), the School of Nursing will host a ceremony at the Bass Concert Hall in honor of the graduating Class of 2022. The School of Nursing community is excited to honor your achievements and celebrate this moment with your friends and family. Commencement Information Date: Friday, May 20, 2022 Time: Graduate Ceremony 6:00pm | Undergraduate Ceremony 7:00 pm Location: Texas Performing Arts Center’s Bass Concert Hall | View Map Parking in Close Proximity: San Jacinto Garage Contact: For questions, please email Student Services Office or call us at (512) 232-4780. View Digital Program (PDF) School of Nursing Video of School of Nursing Watch the School of Nursing Ceremony For those who cannot attend in person, ceremony will be livestreamed on the School of Nursing YouTube channel. Watch the Ceremony Important Information for Graduate Students Commencement ceremony check-in will take place at the Bass Concert Hall. Student should check in at the Loading Dock located on 2305 Trinity St. while family enter the Bass at the Main Entrance. Families, friends and guests do not need to check in. Graduate students participating in the ceremony must arrive for check-in by 5:30pm on the day of the ceremony. Students should come with their caps and robes on, and have their hood draped on their arm. The ceremony will begin at 6:00 p.m. and all students will be directed from the Loading Dock for the processional by the Faculty Marshal, Dr Sherri Innerarity. The ceremony will be livestreamed on the School of Nursing YouTube channel. Important Information for Undergraduate Students Commencement ceremony check-in will take place at the Bass Concert Hall. Student should check in at the Loading Dock located on 2305 Trinity St. while family check in will take place at the Main Entrance. Undergraduate students participating in the ceremony must arrive for check-in by 6:30pm on the day of the ceremony. Students should come with their regalia, stoles and cords. The ceremony will begin at 7:00 p.m. and all students will be directed from the Loading Dock for the processional by the Faculty Marshal, Dr Sherri Innerarity. The ceremony will be livestreamed on the School of Nursing YouTube channel. Important Information for Families and Guests Graduate Ceremony: Doors for guests will open at 5:15 p.m. and the ceremony will begin promptly at 6:00 p.m. For those who cannot attend in person, ceremony will be livestreamed on the School of Nursing YouTube channel. Undergraduate Ceremony: Doors for guests will open at 6:30 p.m. and the ceremony will begin promptly at 7:00 p.m. For those who cannot attend in person, ceremony will be livestreamed on the School of Nursing YouTube channel. Tickets are not required, and there is no guest limit. Seating is first-come, first-served. Accessibility entry is available at the main entrance, and a Bass Concert Hall usher will be on site to assist. Words of Wisdom Videos Isha Patel, BSN Graduate Brooke Rennie, BSN Graduate Kyndle Reece, BSN Graduate Josiane Natalie Henry, MSN Graduate University-wide Commencement Ceremony The University of Texas at Austin will hold a university-wide ceremony for all graduating students beginning at 7:30 p.m. on Saturday, May 21, 2022 at the Darrell K Royal Memorial Stadium. This year's UT guest speaker is College of Education alumnus, Emmanuel Acho! The university-wide ceremony requires tickets for graduates and guests. Guest tickets will be free and there is no limit to the number of guests a graduate may invite. They will be available online in mid-May. Graduates will also need a graduate ticket to gain access to the marshaling area, as is customary. These tickets are also free and will be available in mid-May online. For more information, please visit the university's commencement webpage. School of Nursing School of Nursing 1710 Red River St. Austin, TX 78712 Phone: 512-471-7913 Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube About Academics Students Research Alumni & Giving Faculty & Staff News Events Directory Intranet UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022