Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home School of Nursing Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin School of Nursing News Events Directory Give Search Search Search Search About Expand Overview Dean's Welcome Values, Mission, & Goals Facts & Rankings History Accreditation Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Wellness Center Contact Us Academics Expand Overview Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Compliance Certification Professional Licensure Disclosures Students Expand Overview Prospective Students Current Students Career Services Student Organizations Office of Student Services Learning Enhancement and Academic Progress (LEAP) Center Research Expand Overview Centers & Initiatives Cain Center for Nursing Research Find Faculty Student Research Research News Alumni & Giving Expand Our Donors Alumni Awards Overview Make a Gift Update Your Information Advisory Council Contact Support the School Online Gift Shop Alumni Reunion Faculty & Staff Expand Overview Faculty Directory Staff Directory Forms, Policies and Procedures (EID) Staff Award Preceptors Faculty Position Openings National Nurses Week 2022 Celebrating National Nurses Week May 6-12, 2022 The University of Texas at Austin School of Nursing celebrates National Nurses Week by highlighting a few of our alumni, students, and instructors who have heard and responded to the call of our profession amid challenging times. Read more about these leaders below and join us in our celebration of these everyday heroes. Make a Gift Researching Affordable Health Interventions Meet Kavita Radhakrishnan, PhD, MSEE, RN, FAAN, Associate Professor at the UT Austin School of Nursing. Dr. Radhakrishnan’s research applies current and emerging technologies such as telemonitoring, connected sensors and digital gaming in order to resolve clinical nursing research problems such as heart failure self-management. The long-term goal of her research is to develop affordable and scalable health interventions that enable ‘aging in place’. Read More Paving the Way for Student Success Meet Janice F. Hernandez, DNP, RN, FNP-C, Clinical Assistant Professor and Division Chair of The Holistic Adult Health Division at the UT Austin School of Nursing. She received her Doctor of Nursing Practice Degree at the UT Austin School of Nursing and aims to motivate and inspire nursing faculty and students while leading and implementing changes that will pave the way for the success of those she meets. “I want to be an example for individuals to realize that the goals they thought were unattainable can become a reality.” Read More Giving Back to the Nursing Profession through Service Meet Ken Dion, PhD, MSN, MBA, RN, FAAN, Inaugural Assistant Dean for Business Innovation & Strategic Relationships at the Johns Hopkins School of Nursing, President of Sigma the International Honor Society of Nursing, and a PhD Alumnus from the UT Austin School of Nursing. Read More Educating the Next Generation of Adult Gerontology Clinical Nurse Specialists Meet Carol Delville, PhD, APRN, ACNS-BC, FCNSI, Clinical Associate Professor at the UT Austin School of Nursing. Dr. Delville “Bleeds Burnt Orange” having obtained her BSN, MSN and PhD degrees from The University of Texas at Austin School of Nursing. She is currently the advanced practice Program Director for our Adult Gerontology Clinical Nurse Specialist program. Read More Improving Public Health through Education and Outreach Meet Alexandra Garcia, PhD, RN, FAAN, Professor and Graduate Advisor for the UT Austin School of Nursing. “It is a privilege to work as a nurse and be a Graduate Advisor. These roles are very meaningful to me as I get to supervise our master's and doctoral students, who will make a difference in patients' lives, while teaching public health and conducting research which helps inform policymakers at organizational and governmental levels about how to improve health. Nursing has it all!” Read More Furthering Nursing Education through Teaching and Research Meet Laura Murphy, MSN, RNC-OB, Clinical Instructor, Alternate Entry Foundation Year Coordinator, two-time graduate from the UT Austin School of Nursing, and a current PhD Candidate with an anticipated graduation date of May 2022. Read More Preparing the Next Generation of Nurse Educators Did you know that, in addition to educating the next generation of TEXAS Nurses, the UT Austin School of Nursing is also working to address the shortage of Nurse Educators? In Fall 2020, we launched the Certificate in Teaching Nursing Program which is designed for nurses who are seeking to enhance their teaching skills, and for those who are seeking an academic career in teaching nursing. All courses are fully online and, for those students who hold a master’s or higher degree, the Certificate in Teaching Nursing will qualify them to sit for the National League for Nursing’s certification exam! Read More Make a Gift Spotlights Read about Dara Vasquez, Tonychris Nnaka, Katherine “Kat” Carroll Britt, Hanade Abdalla, Eliana Gill, and Victoria Wright. Read the Spotlights Downloadable Images for Nurses Week Download Nurses Week Stickers Download Nurses Week Zoom Computer Backdrop Download Nurses Week Card School of Nursing School of Nursing 1710 Red River St. Austin, TX 78712 Phone: 512-471-7913 Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube About Academics Students Research Alumni & Giving Faculty & Staff News Events Directory Intranet UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022