Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home School of Nursing Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin School of Nursing News Events Directory Give Search Search Search Search About Expand Overview Dean's Welcome Values, Mission, & Goals Facts & Rankings History Accreditation Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Wellness Center Contact Us Academics Expand Overview Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Compliance Certification Professional Licensure Disclosures Students Expand Overview Prospective Students Current Students Career Services Student Organizations Office of Student Services Learning Enhancement and Academic Progress (LEAP) Center Research Expand Overview Centers & Initiatives Cain Center for Nursing Research Find Faculty Student Research Research News Alumni & Giving Expand Our Donors Alumni Awards Overview Make a Gift Update Your Information Advisory Council Contact Support the School Online Gift Shop Alumni Reunion Faculty & Staff Expand Overview Faculty Directory Staff Directory Forms, Policies and Procedures (EID) Staff Award Preceptors Faculty Position Openings Academics alt="Nursing Students" Academics The University of Texas at Austin School of Nursing offers nursing programs for both undergraduate and graduate degrees. Each nursing program is designed to prepare students for the clinical demands of the nursing field through strong academics and practice. Degree Programs Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) BSN program prepares graduates to work in a wide variety of clinical settings and provides the necessary foundation for masters and doctoral degrees in nursing. Graduates of the BSN program will be prepared to take the National Council Licensure Examination for Registered Nurses. Learn about the BSN Program Associate Degree in Nursing to Bachelor of Science in Nursing (ADN-BSN) Applicants with an associate’s degree in nursing (ADN) should apply through the university’s external transfer admission process. Accepted ADN applicants will take course work with the other BSN students. Apply for Transfer Admission Alternate Entry Master of Science in Nursing (AE-MSN) AE-MSN program is designed for people holding baccalaureate or graduate degrees in disciplines other than nursing and who are interested in pursuing both their Registered Nurse (RN) License and Master of Science in Nursing degree. Learn about the AE-MSN Program Master of Science in Nursing (MSN) MSN program is designed to provide the opportunity for advanced study in select areas of nursing science, professional foundations, related sciences, and modes of systematic inquiry related to advanced and specialized professional nursing practice. Learn about the MSN Program Alternate Entry Doctor of Philosophy (AE-PhD) AE-PhD program is designed for those who hold baccalaureate or graduate degrees in disciplines other than nursing. Each program of study allows an individualized plan of coursework consisting of prescribed graduate level RN foundation courses, and master’s level courses. Learn about the AE-PhD Program Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) Doctoral program prepares students to become researchers and to assume advanced leadership roles in nursing and health care delivery. Each student selects a focus area based on their nursing background, interests, and goals. Learn about the PhD Program Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) DNP program was developed to meet the demand for practitioners able to practice and to provide leadership at the highest levels of healthcare and to meet the demand for highly prepared clinical faculty for schools of nursing. Learn about the DNP Program Academics Overview Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Compliance Certification Professional Licensure Disclosures Visitor Information We are unable to make appointments, take walk-in appointments, or give tours at the School of Nursing at this time. We have information sessions scheduled throughout the semester, and we welcome you to any one of those. Visit our Events Calendar - Information Sessions for dates and times. For questions or more information, please email us at ss@nursing.utexas.edu. School of Nursing School of Nursing 1710 Red River St. Austin, TX 78712 Phone: 512-471-7913 Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube About Academics Students Research Alumni & Giving Faculty & Staff News Events Directory Intranet UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022