Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton A-Z Index Search Search Domains Search this site or CSUF general sites Search Type Site CSUF Search Site Menu College of Health and Human Development School of Nursing Main Navigation About Us Show Extended Director's Welcome Mission and Goals Student Focus Program Learning Outcomes High Impact Practices Strategic Plan Accreditation Programs Show Extended BSN PROGRAMS Traditional BSN CSUF Student Pathway BSN Upper Division Transfer BSN LVN-BSN Accelerated BSN RN-BSN Advising Appointment Request Attend an Information Session MSN PROGRAMS Leadership Nurse Educator School Nursing Women's Health Care School Nurse Services Credential DOCTORAL PROGRAM DNP (Nurse Anesthesia) DNP (Post-Master’s) Prospective Students Current Students Show Extended CLINICAL/PRACTICUM Placement Process Required Documents Placement Applications Facility Specific Documents Placement Evaluations BSN Skills Checklist RESOURCES Program Handbooks SON Resources SON Scholarships Technology Resources HHD Peer Mentoring STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS NSA STTI (Honor Society) Alumni Nursing Peer Tutoring Faculty/Staff Show Extended Faculty Resources Faculty Directory Staff Directory Employment Opportunities Alumni Contact Us Show Extended Faculty Directory Staff Directory Employment Opportunities News/Events Show Extended Events Calendar News Archive E-Newsletter Archive Sim Center SON Writing Center DAISY Awards SON Scholarships Robust Aging Program (RAP) Grants and Projects Load Social Media Icons Program Overview Curriculum Admission Requirementsopen/close sub-navigation Prerequisite Courses Degree Requirements Application Processopen/close sub-navigation Selection Process Admission Timeline FAQs Contact Us School Nursing Program Programs Offered California State University, Fullerton's (CSUF) School of Nursing (SON) offers the following program options for School Nurse education: School Nurse Services Credential (SNSC) - for those who hold a preliminary SNS Credential Master of Science in Nursing, School Nursing Concentration - for those who hold a clear SNS Credential Please view our online information session about the MSN School Nursing program. Which program is right for you? Those who hold a preliminary School Nurse Services Credential (SNSC) should apply for the SNSC program . Those who already hold a clear School Nurse Services Credential (SNSC) should apply for the MSN School Nursing program . MSN School nursing Overview The CSUF Nursing Faculty recognizes that school nursing practice requires significant autonomy and skill. The school nurse has responsibility to influence the health and well being of individual students and to advance their academic success and lifelong achievement. The school nurse also influences the health and well-being of families, communities and school district faculty and staff. Well prepared school nurses are critical to the health of our society. The concentration provides quality advanced practice education that emphasizes development of safe and effective school health care providers for a diverse population of children and families through acquisition of knowledge and skills that are commensurate with current evidence. Faculty are dedicated to preparing school nurses as advanced practitioners with skills to address the complex and unique role of the school nurse and with a strong foundation in school health care research, theory and practice. Faculty will provide a comprehensive educational foundation that encompasses child development and health, health management within school systems, and health education. This foundation prepares the professional school nurse to “facilitate positive responses to normal development; promote health and safety; intervene with actual and potential health problems; provide case management services; actively collaborate with others to build student and family capacity for adaptation, self management, self advocacy, and learning” (NASN, June 1999). This site is maintained by School of Nursing. Last Published 5/25/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact nursingweb@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.14 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.