Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton A-Z Index Search Search Domains Search this site or CSUF general sites Search Type Site CSUF Search Site Menu College of Health and Human Development School of Nursing Main Navigation About Us Show Extended Director's Welcome Mission and Goals Student Focus Program Learning Outcomes High Impact Practices Strategic Plan Accreditation Programs Show Extended BSN PROGRAMS Traditional BSN CSUF Student Pathway BSN Upper Division Transfer BSN LVN-BSN Accelerated BSN RN-BSN Advising Appointment Request Attend an Information Session MSN PROGRAMS Leadership Nurse Educator School Nursing Women's Health Care School Nurse Services Credential DOCTORAL PROGRAM DNP (Nurse Anesthesia) DNP (Post-Master’s) Prospective Students Current Students Show Extended CLINICAL/PRACTICUM Placement Process Required Documents Placement Applications Facility Specific Documents Placement Evaluations BSN Skills Checklist RESOURCES Program Handbooks SON Resources SON Scholarships Technology Resources HHD Peer Mentoring STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS NSA STTI (Honor Society) Alumni Nursing Peer Tutoring Faculty/Staff Show Extended Faculty Resources Faculty Directory Staff Directory Employment Opportunities Alumni Contact Us Show Extended Faculty Directory Staff Directory Employment Opportunities News/Events Show Extended Events Calendar News Archive E-Newsletter Archive Sim Center SON Writing Center DAISY Awards SON Scholarships Robust Aging Program (RAP) Grants and Projects Load Social Media Icons Program Overview Curriculum Admission Requirementsopen/close sub-navigation Prerequisite Courses Degree Requirements Application Processopen/close sub-navigation Selection Process Admission Timeline FAQs Contact Us MSN Nursing Leadership Program Overview The Master of Science in Nursing: Nursing Leadership Concentration (hereafter MSN Leadership) offers course work and clinical experiences which prepare nurses to expand their career options with a focus on leadership roles at the systems level for positions in administration and education and to create work environments that promote professional nursing. The degree prepares nursing leaders to apply their skills across the health care continuum, from acute care settings to community based agencies. Graduates may work in nursing administration at various levels of management, in a line or a staff position (in a specialized area such as quality improvement, staff/patient education, risk management, research or strategic planning) as well as in academic, consultative and case management positions. Students gain an advanced knowledge base and skill set that is grounded in the scientific discipline and art of professional nursing. This level of professional education is necessary to meet the needs of a complex and changing health care system and new client demands for optimum outcomes and quality. The degree program is designed to foster interdisciplinary collaborative skills and independent functioning within the focused specialty area of Nursing Leadership. "I completed my BSN at CSUF and had a great experience. When deciding on my MSN in leadership, it was the curriculum that helped me make that decision. The variety in the curriculum was the most attractive component to the MSN in leadership." - MSN Nursing Leadership Student This site is maintained by School of Nursing. Last Published 5/25/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact nursingweb@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.14 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.