Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home School of Nursing Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin School of Nursing News Events Directory Give Search Search Search Search About Expand Overview Dean's Welcome Values, Mission, & Goals Facts & Rankings History Accreditation Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Wellness Center Contact Us Academics Expand Overview Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Compliance Certification Professional Licensure Disclosures Students Expand Overview Prospective Students Current Students Career Services Student Organizations Office of Student Services Learning Enhancement and Academic Progress (LEAP) Center Research Expand Overview Centers & Initiatives Cain Center for Nursing Research Find Faculty Student Research Research News Alumni & Giving Expand Our Donors Alumni Awards Overview Make a Gift Update Your Information Advisory Council Contact Support the School Online Gift Shop Alumni Reunion Faculty & Staff Expand Overview Faculty Directory Staff Directory Forms, Policies and Procedures (EID) Staff Award Preceptors Faculty Position Openings Home Research : Cain Center for Nursing Research Cain Center for Nursing Research Overview The Cain Center for Nursing Research was opened in September 1995 for the purpose of strengthening the support services available to faculty for developing their research programs. Some services that are provided through the Cain Center are: Group grantwriting sessions, individual grantwriting consultation, mock study sections, and “think tanks” for faculty submitting research proposals for extramural funding. Support in preparation and submission of extramural faculty research and graduate student research training grant applications. Editing of faculty manuscripts and research proposals. Post-award fiscal management. Individual consultation in research methods and statistics. Individual consultation and group discussion to review summary statements from reviewers of previously submitted proposals. Assistance for faculty and students with obtaining Departmental Review Committee (DRC) and Institutional Review Board (IRB) approval for projects involving human subjects. Workshops on grant-related topics of interest for faculty. Notification of research funding opportunities. Cain Center Lab The Cain Center Lab has supported the research efforts of faculty and graduate students at the School of Nursing as well as the wider community for several decades. Our hardware includes PCs loaded with statistical software, a qualitative software program, a printer, and a scanner. Our friendly and experienced lab assistants are on hand to help you in many ways. Please refer to the Cain Center for Nursing Research Lab Policies and Procedures for detailed information. Preparing Data for Statistical Analysis: Watch the recording of Dr. Shelli Kesler’s, Associate Professor and Director of Statistical Services, January 12, 2022, presentation on Preparing Data for Statistical Analysis. Cain Center Policies & Procedures Video of Cain Center Policies &amp;amp; Procedures School of Nursing Research Committee Is available to provide feedback on Institutional Review Board (IRB) proposals from School of Nursing constituents (e.g., faculty, research scientists, enrolled students) during the planning phase prior to submission to the Institutional Review Board. Can advise early-stage professional-track and tenure-track faculty on human subjects’ research design and quality improvement. Advises the faculty and administrators concerning research-related policies and guidelines for the School of Nursing. Provides general information to students and faculty relative to the University’s human subjects’ protection review and approval process. Below are important links to IRB resources: The UT Research Management Suite is the online system for managing IRB processes, including investigator submissions. For a helpful guide, please view the UT Research Management Suite - IRB Module Frequently Asked Questions (PDF). You can sign up to receive an IRB newsletter with IRB updates. Click here to sign up for the UT Research Management Suite Project newsletter. The IRB office holds open office hours, times and days may vary – please refer to the IRB website for more information. Staff Dr. Sharon Horner Director Office: NUR 3.102H Phone: 512-232-4710 Email: shorner@mail.nur.utexas.edu Dr. Heather Becker Research Scientist Office: NUR 3.102N Phone: 512-471-9097 Email: hbecker@mail.nur.utexas.edu Dr. John Bellquist Editor Office: 3.102M Phone: 512-232-1835 Email: jbellquist@mail.nur.utexas.edu Dr. Shelli Kesler Director of Statistical Services Office: 3.426 Phone: 512-232-5292 Email: srkesler@austin.utexas.edu Cindy Taylor Grants & Contracts Specialist Office: 3.102K Phone: 512-232-4710 Email: ctaylor@nursing.utexas.edu Lab Assistants Emma Cho Email: emma90@utexas.edu Bo Ra Kim Email: lookviolet@utexas.edu Research Overview Centers & Initiatives Cain Center for Nursing Research Find Faculty Student Research Research News Research Restart Below links contain information about UT’s and School of Nursing's phased approach to resuming research operations on campus in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic. School of Nursing - Research Restart (EID) Vice President for Research - Research Restart Contact Information Physical Address: School of Nursing 3.102C View Map » School of Nursing School of Nursing 1710 Red River St. Austin, TX 78712 Phone: 512-471-7913 Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube About Academics Students Research Alumni & Giving Faculty & Staff News Events Directory Intranet UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022