Skip to Content Office of Veteran and Military Affairs Open Close primary navigation Search Search Best Place For VetsExpand Collapse section Chancellors’ Enduring Commitment Historic Overview: WWI-Present National Veterans Resource CenterExpand Collapse section About Why SU? Drone Timelapse Donate NVRC Virtual Tour Admissions Featured SU Military Alumni Wall of Service StudentsExpand Collapse section Student Resources Prospective Students Advising Housing and Childcare Education BenefitsExpand Collapse section Office of Veteran Success VA Benefits Continuing & Returning Students Post-9/11 GI Bill® Statement of Benefits Yellow Ribbon Program VA Educational Programs Breakdown Military Tuition Assistance ConnectExpand Collapse section Recent News Subscribe to our Newsletter Update Your Contact Info Veteran Career Services About UsExpand Collapse section Advisory Board Members Vice Chancellor OVMA Staff Office of Veteran Success Staff Army ROTCExpand Collapse section About Army ROTC ROTC EnrollmentExpand Collapse section Additional Learning Opportunities Schedule a Visit ScholarshipExpand Collapse section Army ROTC Application Faculty & Staff Contact Army ROTC Air Force ROTCExpand Collapse section About Det 535Expand Collapse section Cadre Commander’s Welcome Program OverviewExpand Collapse section How to Join Scholarship Leadership Training Officer Careers Program Requirements & Standards FAQ – Prospective Cadets FAQ – Parents Cadet LifeExpand Collapse section Detachment Resources Silver Wings Arnold Air Society The Blue Stars National Society of Pershing Rifles Why Syracuse UniversityExpand Collapse section Crosstown Schools Map and Directions About Syracuse Benefits For Cadets Alumni Contact AFROTC Videos Contact Us Support UsExpand Collapse section Veteran Legacy Fund Impact Targeted Support ImpactExpand Collapse section Annual Reports Fast Facts Search Search National Veterans Resource Center Home Syracuse University is The Best Place For Vets National Veterans Resource Center In this Section Our Home Link The Office of Veteran and Military Affairs calls the third floor of this state-of-the-art building our home where we can serve military-connected students, alumni, staff, and faculty. The NVRC is also the new home to the Institute for Veteran and Military Families, Office of Veteran Success, Veteran Career Services, Army ROTC and Air Force ROTC. By bringing these resources under one roof, OVMA can best serve the Syracuse University military-connected population. Watch The Opening Celebration! Link What is the NVRC? Link The National Veterans Resource Center (NVRC) represents an unprecedented commitment by Syracuse University to cultivate and lead innovative academic, government, and community collaborations positioned to empower those who have served in defense of the nation. This state-of-the-art facility, spearheaded by a transformational gift from Dan ’68 and Gayle D’Aniello, will serve as the center of veteran life on the campus of Syracuse University, in the local community, and across Central New York. Specifically, the NVRC will function as a bridge to forging public-private partnerships, a collaborative space to nurture academic research and actionable programming, and a forum to facilitate collaborative thought leadership – all for the purpose of advancing the social, economic, and wellness concerns of the nation’s veterans and their families. Take Virtual Tour Learn More About the NVRC Donate to NVRC Link Link Why Syracuse University? Link Syracuse University has an extensive history dating back to World War I when it comes to supporting veterans and military-connected students. Most notably was after World War II, SU Chancellor Tolley helped write the G.I. Bill and was a major contributing factor in helping veterans receive a higher education. This type of dedication to military-connected students and veterans continues today in a variety ways. Why the NVRC is located at Syracuse University Link Room Reservation Link While the centerpiece of student veteran life on campus, the National Veterans Resource Center (NVRC) also serves as a hub for all our students as well as a welcoming space for public and private events. Spearheaded by a transformational gift from Dan ’68 and Gayle D’Aniello, the NVRC represents an unprecedented commitment by Syracuse University to cultivate and lead innovative academic, government, and community collaborations positioned to empower those who have served in defense of the nation. COMING SOON Link In this Section National Veterans Resource Center Flag Raising About the NVRC Why SU? Live Construction Camera of the NVRC Donate to the NVRC National Veterans Resource Center Virtual Tour NVRC Construction Timelapse National Veterans Resource Center | Daniel & Gayle D’Aniello Building | 101 Waverly Ave, Syracuse, NY 13244 Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter Subscribe to Us on YouTube Follow Us on Instagram © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy