Skip to content Cornell University Search Close Navigation Search Search New York State Impact Stories Cornell Varna fire volunteers protect, serve, learn Facing high water, Hudson towns reimagine waterfronts Every day, in every county in New York, individuals, schools, businesses, entrepreneurs, local governments, families and communities depend on Cornell to turn discoveries into real-world solutions. As the state’s land-grant university, Cornell was founded to create knowledge with a public purpose and help ensure a vibrant, healthy future for all New Yorkers. Commitment to New York State $328M External federal, state and corporate research funding spent locally 900000 New Yorkers reached by Cornell Cooperative Extension each year 240000 NY youth participants in 4-H programs annually 27000 Local volunteers that help advise, plan, teach and mentor Impact stories Cheers to an ‘approachable’ Big Red Cranberry Sour beer Cornell’s fingerprints are all over the new Big Red Cranberry Sour beer, developed by the Big Red Brewing graduate student group and an alum-owned brewery. Cornell joins NY-led group to propose hydrogen energy hub Cornell and two Cornell research-startups have joined a consortium that aims to propose a Northeast research hub to make hydrogen a viable, clean-energy alternative to carbon-based fuels. Conference features business competitions, Entrepreneur of the Year presentation Tiffany Norwood ’89, Tribetan founder and Cornell Entrepreneur of the Year 2022, will be honored April 28-29 during Entrepreneurship at Cornell's Celebration event, a two-day conference. $6.75M EPA grant to fund Great Lakes food web monitoring Cornell has received a $6,749,825 grant from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to continue efforts to monitor and research the lower part of the food web. CCE helps NY residents, businesses and communities thrive. Experts at work Local Government Mildred Warner focuses on restructuring local government services to create sustainable and equitable communities. Learn more Indigenous History Kurt Jordan uses archaeology and anthropology to understand and connect to North American Indigenous communities around New York. Learn more Health Equity Dr. Monika Safford focuses on preventive health care, including responses to health disparities affecting marginalized communities. Learn more Sustainable Energy Max Zhang develops systems to make energy and communities more sustainable. Learn more Health Policy Isabel Perera focuses on labor’s influence on social welfare and how to bolster mental health policy. Learn more Health and Nutrition Roger Figeroa examines factors that affect health outcomes, with a focus on children’s nutrition in underrepresented and low-income communities. Learn more Animal and Human Health Gerlinde Van de Walle studies models for fighting diseases in animals as well as humans, including stem cell therapies. Learn more Food Policy Christopher Barrett’s research and outreach seeks to make food systems more healthy, equitable and sustainable. Learn more Labor and Employment Law Esta Bigler researches workforce issues and steers efforts to lower barriers to employment for those with criminal records. Learn more For more Cornell experts, contact: Office of Media Relations Cornell's Impact on New York State Cornell research delivers results that matter all around the state. Buffalo Public Schools using food truck to serve locally sourced meals Erie County A food truck, developed in part by Cornell Cooperative Extension, delivers free meals and NY-grown foods to Buffalo-area families in need. Artifacts from upstate Indigenous towns digitized, repatriated Ontario County A project by Cornell researchers, aided by Indigenous community members, has made Native American artifacts accessible online. Cornell Tech provides CS lessons for kids at home Bronx County Cornell Tech created virtual lessons to support K-12 computer science education in NYC public schools during the pandemic. Conservation, education drive Cornell-zoo partnership Onondaga County A longstanding connection between the Rosamond Gifford Zoo in Syracuse and Cornell provides care for endangered species. Alumnus creates fast COVID-19 test for NY residents Tompkins County Rheonix, led by Cornell graduate Greg Galvin, produced a rapid COVID-19 test, enabling Cayuga Health System to open one of the country’s first drive-through testing sites. CCE sows seeds to grow urban agriculture Kings County From the rooftops of New York City to the streets of Buffalo, urban farms are sprouting vegetables, fueling businesses and helping grow vibrant communities across New York. CCMR JumpStart program funding three NY companies Monroe County Rochester-based Otex Protective is paired with Cornell researchers and facilities to help develop and improve its products. Steep NYC traffic toll would reduce gridlock, pollution New York County A study by Cornell and the City College of New York demonstrates how to limit urban traffic congestion and greenhouse gas emissions. Cornell and DFA donate milk to regional food banks Wyoming County Partnering with the Dairy Farmers of America, Cornell donated milk to food banks to help needy families in western and central NY. Cornell engineers help local food bank improve operations Steuben County Cornell systems engineers helped a food bank, which serves six upstate counties, to more efficiently distribute food while also boosting community nutrition. NSF funding to help engineers improve infrastructure, communications Franklin County Cornell engineers are helping to design the nation’s first statewide Internet of Things public infrastructure. Cornell leads effort to provide masks for incarcerated people Dutchess County Cornell guided a statewide push to provide masks to the prison population, which is especially vulnerable to COVID-19. Cornell to help train state's pioneering public health corps Albany County Gov. Cuomo has tapped Cornell to develop and train workers needed for COVID-19 vaccine distribution and outreach programs. Ripple effect: Cornell helps restore Long Island's shellfish Suffolk County Cornell Cooperative Extension is restoring native shellfish to Long Island, rejuvenating its coastal waters, economy and culture. previous slide next slide Driving Regional Economies Business Incubators and Innovation Hot Spots CaRDI - Community and Regional Development Institute CCE Community and Economic Vitality CCMR Industrial Partnerships Center for Regional Economic Advancement Cornell AgriTech Cornell ILR in NYC Cornell in Buffalo Cornell University Cooperative Extension – New York City Grow-NY Harvest New York McGovern Center for Venture Development in the Life Sciences Advancing Technology Center for Advanced Technology Center for Technology Licensing Climate Smart Farming Cornell Atkinson Center for Sustainability Cornell Center for Materials Research Cornell Cooperative Extension Agriculture and Food Systems Improving Health Animal Health Diagnostic Center Cornell Center for Health Equity New York City Nutrition and Health Program New York Integrated Food Safety Center of Excellence Nutrition, Food Safety and Security, and Obesity Prevention Continue Exploring Attend events View events around New York State Read stories Explore on the Chronicle Watch videos View videos on YouTube If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, Contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.