Skip to main content | New York City Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Site Search Home About Lubin HouseFisher CenterDirectionsStaff DirectoryConnect on Social About Toggle Dropdown Lubin HouseFisher CenterDirectionsStaff DirectoryConnect on Social Faculty/Staff Function RoomsTravel Faculty/Staff Toggle Dropdown Function RoomsTravel Admissions Prospective Student EventsAdmitted Student EventsAdmissions Contact Admissions Toggle Dropdown Prospective Student EventsAdmitted Student EventsAdmissions Contact Academics Alumni Get InvolvedLifelong Career SupportOther Regions Alumni Toggle Dropdown Get InvolvedLifelong Career SupportOther Regions Experiences Support Toggle navigation Home AboutToggle Dropdown for About Lubin HouseFisher CenterDirectionsStaff DirectoryConnect on Social Faculty/StaffToggle Dropdown for Faculty/Staff Function RoomsTravel AdmissionsToggle Dropdown for Admissions Prospective Student EventsAdmitted Student EventsAdmissions Contact Academics AlumniToggle Dropdown for Alumni Get InvolvedLifelong Career SupportOther Regions Experiences Support Home /About/Staff Directory Staff Directory Accordion section Admissions Asma Malik Director of Admissions, Metropolitan New York Office 212.826.0335 amalik02@syr.edu Asma Malik is the Director of Admissions in the Metropolitan New York Office at Syracuse University. Asma Malik is responsible for the planning, development, and implementation of recruitment, admissions, and financial aid activities in the prospective areas. She received her B.A. in Education/B.S. in Biology from CUNY Hunter College and her M.A. from New York University in International Education with a focus on Higher Education. Yasmeen (Yas) Allen Assistant Director of Admissions yhassan@syr.edu Yas received her BA in Adolescent Education from St. Francis College and her MS in Forensic Science from Syracuse University. She comes to us with over two years of undergraduate admissions experience from St. Francis College, where she oversaw the student ambassador program and managed the conditional admission process. Before that, she worked as a residential assistant at Johns Hopkins Center for Talented Youth. Her recruitment territories will include Brooklyn (her hometown), Queens, and the Bronx. Amparo Silva Director of Global Partnerships 212.826.0329 assilva@syr.edu Amparo Silva is responsible for developing and implementing plans that support the universities' objectives to increase and enroll diverse student populations globally by increasing, building and maintaining partnerships with embassies, Education USA, community based organizations, high schools, counselors, alumni and prospective students and their parents. Donna DiFilippo Senior Secretary 212.826.0335 dmdifili@syr.edu Donna DiFilippo assists the Director and Associate Director in the planning, coordination, and implementation of recruitment and admissions activities conducted in the New York Metropolitan area. Donna also has some collaborating and coordinating responsibilities for activities that the Metropolitan Office of Admissions sponsors with other offices and departments. In her role, she can proudly boast that she is the primary intake for admission inquiries that come to the Lubin House. Advancement Rob Fairfield Executive Director for Regional Advancement 212.710.5585 rsfairfi@syr.edu Rob is focused on building deep and meaningful philanthropic relationships with alumni, parents and friends of Syracuse University in the tristate region. Prior to joining Syracuse University, Rob served as the Director of Development for Athletics at Fordham University. Rob has also served as a major gifts officer at Barnard College of Columbia University and gained regional experience as a remote major gifts officer for Oberlin College based in NYC. Tim Paul Director of Development, Regional Major Gifts 212.710.5584 tipaul@syr.edu Tim Paul serves as a Director of Development on Syracuse University’s advancement team in New York City. He is a part of an expanded team of gift officers working in the NY Metro region to enhance relationships with alumni, parents, and friends in order to help secure the future of Syracuse University through philanthropic support. Prior to joining the team at Syracuse University, Tim was the Assistant Development Director for Intercollegiate Athletics and the Newark College of Engineering at NJIT. Katie Hudson ’10 Director of Development 610-715-5276 kbhudson@syr.edu Katie serves as Director of Development on Syracuse University's advancement team in New York City. She is part of an expanded team of gift officers working in the NY Metro region to enhance relationships with alumni, parents, and friends to help secure the future of Syracuse University through philanthropic support. Prior to joining the team, Katie was the Senior Associate Director of Employer Relations at Columbia Business School and the Outcomes Manager at a NYC based education staretup called General Assembly. Katie holds a B.S. in Broadcast Journalism from the S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications and an M.S. in Nonprofit Management from Columbia University. Janey Ozoria Director of Development, NYC, Office of Multicultural Advancement 212.826.0320 jozoria@syr.edu Janey serves as a Director of Development on Syracuse University’s Office of Multicultural Advancement team. She is a part of an expanded team of gift officers working in the NY Metro region to enhance relationships with alumni, parents, and friends to raise funding for scholarships for underrepresented students at Syracuse University. Prior to joining the team at Syracuse University, Janey was the Director of Development at the nonprofit Prep for Prep and worked previously in nonprofits that provide educational access to students of color as well as in higher education. Janey holds a B.S. in Behavioral Sciences from Mercy College and a M.S. in Nonprofit Management from Columbia University. Alumni Engagement Pam Mulligan ’89 Executive Director, Alumni Engagement 212.710.5582 pamullig@syr.edu Pam is a proud Syracuse University alumna who leads the New York City based alumni engagement team and provides the strategic direction for alumni engagement programming, communications, and partnerships in the New York metro area, Syracuse University’s largest alumni base in the world. Pam collaborates with the event, advancement, and academic unit teams in creating and implementing effective ways to engage and establish lifelong relationships with Syracuse University’s alumni, donors, parents, friends, current students, and prospective students. Pam received dual Bachelor's Degrees from the Newhouse and Maxwell Schools. She received her Master of Arts degree in Corporate & Public Communications from Seton Hall University with a concentration in Business Administration/Marketing. Pam also received her Juris Doctor from Seton Hall Law School focusing on Entertainment Law. Pam has extensive experience in direct marketing and fundraising working with some of the most well known organizations, theatre groups, and publishers in the country. She also practiced law for over a decade. Pam believes strongly in volunteerism and has served the Syracuse University community for many years as an Admissions Representative, Alumni Club Leader, and as Vice President of the Syracuse University Alumni Association Board of Directors. Pam continues her volunteer leadership in the community including as a foundation trustee. Pam is married and resides in New Jersey with her husband, son, two dogs, and two cats. Lauren Scott Coordinator, Alumni Engagement lscott02@syr.edu Lauren supports Syracuse University alumni engagement programs throughout the tri-state area from New York City's Lubin House. She graduated from Bucknell University in 2017, where she worked in the University's Alumni Office as a student. Lauren remains a volunteer for the Bucknell Alumni/Parents Club of NYC and serves a resource for current students. Career Services Roshni D. Lal Assistant Director, Alumni Career Services, West Coast rlal01@syr.edu Roshni is responsible for assisting with all initiatives for career-related programming and services that engage Syracuse University alumni on the West Coast and beyond. These initiatives include career guidance and counseling, connections to jobs, networking opportunities, corporate connection initiatives, and professional development programming. Fisher Center Operations David Major ’02 Director of Facility Operations 917.722.1153 dsmajor@syr.edu David Major is responsible for all aspects of managing operations for the Center including scheduling space, coordinating the support of all programs and activities, supervising staff in day-to-day operations of the facility, and addressing all scheduled and emergency maintenance issues. An alumnus of Syracuse University’s College of Arts and Sciences, Major briefly worked for the University Art Collection upon graduating. Lubin House Operations Jonathan Teng Director of Operations 917-208-8240 jdteng@syr.edu Jonathan oversees a staff of 8 people at Lubin House to ensure its smooth operation as host for various events and room for faculty and staff to stay while visiting NYC. Alex Melito Assistant Director Events, Lubin House 914.519.7681 ammelito@syr.edu Alex oversees events and programs within the Lubin House as well as assists in managing events in the NYC area. Before joining the Syracuse team, she worked for Chef Michael White’s restaurant group; The Altamarea Group, and was the Events Assistant at Caramoor Center for Music and the Arts. Andrew Levy ’07 Billing and Overnight Rooms Manager 212.826.0324 anlevy@syr.edu Andrew Levy is responsible for the billing of administrative expenses, in-house events and functions, as well as the reservation process of overnight rooms. He began working at Lubin House in 2010, filling in at the front desk and in various administrative roles. He graduated from Newhouse in 2007 and holds a masters degree from Teachers College, Columbia University. He spent two years as a high school substitute teacher and coach in New Jersey, and a year student teaching in New York City public schools. Andrew is passionate about all things Orange, and spent three years as a student manager for the Syracuse Mens Basketball team. Ewa Niwelt Housekeeper eniwelt@syr.edu Ewa Niwelt is the Housekeeper for the overnight rooms at Lubin House. Ewa also helps out with event set up and clean up. Previously, she worked as a dental assistant. Jolanta Niwelt Events Coordinator jniwelt@syr.edu Jolanta Niwelt began her career as the housekeeper at Lubin House in 1998 and was promoted to Events Assistant in 2006. Nic Royero Building Coordinator jnreyero@syr.edu Juan Williams Night Desk jtwill02@syr.edu Newhouse in NYC Shelly Griffin Associate Director, Off-Campus Programs 315.443.4004 migriffi@syr.edu Shelly Griffin oversees day-to-day operations of extended campus initiatives including the LA Semester, Newhouse in NYC Semester, graduate industry seminars, benchmark and class trips, and serves as the campus point person for students, parents and visitors associated with these programs. She also builds relationships with alumni and donors in support of student opportunities in the entertainment industry. Cheryl Brody Franklin ’04 Director, Newhouse in NYC/Director, Strategic Initiatives - Newhouse 917.722.1154, Ext. 14 cherylbrody@gmail.com Cheryl graduated summa cum laude from the S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications where she majored in magazine journalism and Spanish. She worked in the industry for more than 10 years before leaving her job as a senior editor at InStyle.com in 2013 to launch and run Newhouse NYC. Michelle Hernández Program Manager (917) 722-1152 mherna07@syr.edu Michelle Hernández graduated from the Newhouse School where she majored in advertising with a minor in political science. She began her career as an associate buyer at Trilia Media, where she worked across a variety of clients and quickly grew into a media buyer role. After three years in the industry, her passion for learning and helping others achieve their goals led her to Newhouse NYC, where she now serves as the program manager. In her free time, Michelle enjoys painting, studying new languages, testing out recipes and exploring her neighborhood. Michelle lives in Brooklyn, but she will always consider Puerto Rico, where she was born and raised, her home. Syracuse Architecture NYC Angela Co Coordinator, Syracuse Architecture NYC 917.722.1156, Ext.16 anco@syr.edu In addition to her role as coordinator of the Syracuse Architecture NYC program, Angela Co is an assistant professor of architecture, teaching both vertical design studios and professional elective courses. She is also a principal of Co-LeCavalier, a design studio concerned with transforming everyday life at a range of scales, including furniture, buildings, and urban design. She was the recipient of the 2011-12 Arnold W. Brunner Rome Prize Fellowship in Architecture, and spent 11 months at the American Academy in Rome researching the Baroque city and constructing large balloon domes and donuts. Tepper Semester Footer Section Syracuse University New York City Joseph I. Lubin House 11 East 61st Street New York, NY 10065 Phone: 212.826.0320 Email: lubin@syr.edu Syracuse University Fisher Center 136 Madison Avenue 2nd Floor New York, NY 10016 Phone: 917.722.1151 Make a Gift NYC Links Upcoming Events Admissions Planned Giving Give Now Security and Safety Site Search Sitemap Syracuse University Links Syracuse University Home Syracuse University Alumni Syracuse University Admissions Syracuse University News Athletics Accessibility Privacy Policy Social Media Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Social Media Directory © Syracuse University. All rights reserved. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. back to top