Ohio State nav bar Skip to main content The Ohio State University Help BuckeyeLink Map Find People Webmail Search Ohio State Logo link to homepage Search the site Open site search Go to site search Site Navigation Menu About About OAA University Vision, Mission, Values Colleges, Units & Committees Regional Campuses Centers & Institutes Leadership OAA Leadership Council of Deans Senior Management Council Chairs & Directors Searches Shared Services Directory Academic Voices: A Provost's Blog University-wide Initiatives Early Scholars Program Provost’s Tenure-Track Fellow to Faculty Program General Education Shared Values University Naming Review Procedure Faculty Development Faculty Development Faculty Awards New Faculty New Faculty Resources New Faculty Program Faculty Development & Resources Appointments, Reappointments, Promotion & Tenure Emeritus Academy Office of Ombuds Services Academic Administration Accreditation Assessment Assessment Council on Academic Affairs Council on Academic Affairs Overview Meetings & Proposals University-Level Advisory Committee for General Education Commencement Speaker Advisory Committee Governance Institutional Research & Planning Integrated Physical Planning Unit-Level Strategic Planning Policies, Guidelines & Forms Policies, Guidelines & Forms Academic Organization, Curriculum & Assessment Handbook Policies & Procedures Handbook Academic Integrity Academic Integrity Overview Faculty Obligations Student Misconduct News & Announcements News Academic Administration Strategic Planning Strategic Planning Unit-Level Strategic Planning Large-scale strategic planning has long characterized Ohio State decision-making, investment, and institutional progress. In the last six years, however, strategic planning, with the leadership of the Office of Academic Affairs (OAA), has become more well defined, with processes clearly laid out and expectations transparent to all. All strategic planning is aligned with the university’s vision, mission, values, and its four core goals of teaching and learning, research and innovation, outreach and engagement, and resource stewardship. To ensure that these institutional goals are being measured and met, scorecards have been created for use by the Board of Trustees. The scorecards are updated in advance of each Trustees’ meeting and then reviewed by the relevant Board committee. Adjustments are made as warranted. The posting of the scorecards on the OAA website exemplifies the open, transparent strategic planning culture embraced by the Board and supported by the university community. Guiding Principles Unit-level strategic planning is aligned with and supports President Drake’s 2020 Vision and with the university’s mission/vision, values and core goals. The Office of Academic Affairs stewards unit-level strategic planning for the university. Colleges, regional campuses, and vice presidential units will have strategic plans. Each strategic plan will include measures that demonstrate progress toward the unit’s goals. Every college and vice presidential unit will make a version of its strategic plan publicly available. Strategic plans, goals, and measures will be evaluated through a collaborative, open process. All plans will be reviewed centrally and—as identified in collaboration with the units under review—by academic and administrative entities that are actively engaged with those units. Plan progress will be an element of deans’/vice presidents’ annual and reappointment reviews. Plans will be reviewed regularly and updated as need be. When there is a change in the leadership of a unit, the new leader, in collaboration with the unit, will reaffirm the strategic plan or revise it as needed. The strategic planning process will be linked to periodic external programmatic/academic unit reviews and accreditation efforts. Resources Strategic Plans Templates and Resources University Dashboard Dean Reappointment Reviews Academic Unit Review Internal Review Process Keeping Strategic Planning Current, Robust and Viable To encourage an ongoing culture of strategic thinking and accountability, OAA requires new and/or reappointed deans and vice presidents who report to the executive vice president and provost to revise or reaffirm their strategic plan in the first year of their tenure in that new role. Vice presidents and deans typically engage the full range of their constituencies in considering the existing plan and possible revisions to it. Revisions are drafted and then approved according to unit-level processes. A copy of the revised plan is forwarded to OAA, where it receives a first review, led by the vice provost for academic and strategic planning. Adjustments are made, as necessary, then OAA sends the plan out for broader review by six to eight units across the university. These units will normally have some affinity with the unit whose plan is being reviewed. They are identified by the unit involved in partnership with OAA. An important goal of such a review is to increase awareness of the unit being reviewed and promote linkages across units that lead to collaborative opportunities. To cite one recent example, the College of Social Work’s plan was reviewed by the College of Education and Human Ecology, the College of Public Health, John Glenn College of Public Affairs, Ohio State at Lima, the College of Arts and Sciences’ Division of Social and Behavioral Sciences, the Office of Outreach and Engagement, and OSU Extension. Reviewers are asked to provide feedback, guided by the following four questions: Did the plan clearly demonstrate the unit’s unique contribution in support of the university? Did the letter from the dean to the university community highlight the role of that unit? If your answer to either question is no, please explain. Did the plan provide an adequate internal and external scan of trends facing the unit? If not, how could the description of those trends be improved? Did the plan articulate clear strategic goals with specific targets? Did it adequately describe how these goals support the university’s core goals? If the answer to either question is no, what additional detail is needed?; and Can your unit help the unit being reviewed move its strategic agenda forward? How? Does the plan support and further the strategic goals of your unit? How? The vice provost sends the comments to the unit leader, who shares them within the unit. The name and contact information for each reviewer is included to ensure transparency and accountability, and conversation with the reviewers is encouraged by OAA. Final adjustments are made, as needed, and the plan is posted on the OAA strategic planning site. At the college and vice presidential unit level, still other tools help leaders develop and update their strategic plans. For example, to keep its plan viable, each of these units has developed a list of its top ten goals for the next two to three years. The vice provost meets with each dean and vice president in the fall and again in the spring to discuss his or her goals and respond personally to questions, offer advice, and understand how best OAA can support the unit’s efforts to achieve those goals. To promote accountability, deans’ annual reviews are based, in part, on their progress toward their goals. College strategic planning is also informed by academic program reviews at the department level. These reviews include a self-study, an external review, and a robust reporting process that involves the provost, the relevant dean, and the department chair. It results in the development of a detailed action plan that helps the department move forward in alignment with the college’s strategic plan. These reviews are a partnership of OAA and the unit under review. All of Ohio State’s 106 academic departments have been through their initial review, and OAA has now launched the second round of reviews. Contacts Vice Provost for Outreach and Engagement Ryan J. Schmiesing schmiesing.3@osu.edu Executive Assistant Jo'Vanna Zanders zanders.3@osu.edu Assistant Vice Provost Melinda Nelson nelson.19@osu.edu Address Office of Academic Affairs 203 Bricker Hall 190 North Oval Mall Columbus, OH 43210 Phone 614-292-5881 Fax 614-292-3658 Contact OAA academicaffairs@osu.edu Webmaster oaawebmaster@osu.edu Accessibility Sitemap Give to Ohio State Privacy Statement © 2022. The Ohio State University If you have a disability and experience difficulty accessing this content, contact the OAA digital accessibility coordinator at admin-oaadac@osu.edu