Skip to main content < × Penn COVID-19 Response > University of Pennsylvania Toggle Navigation Toggle Search Accessibility Menu Jump to… Main Content Search Main Navigation Utility Navigation Main menu Resources More Resources Complaint Resolution Policies Handbooks & Procedures Questions Concerns & Complaints Self ID and Penn People Laws & Regulations Accessibility More Accessibility Accommodation Services Committee for Accessible University Penn Accessible Transit Penn Buildings Forms Programming More Programming Training Events Recruitment More Recruitment Compliance Guidelines Staff Compliance Officers Diversity Search Advisors for Faculty Hiring Officers Faculty Search Information Community Posters About Utility Navigation A-Z Calendar Directory Maps Offices & Services Penn Home Webmail Back to Accessibility Menu Search Search Resources Office of Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Programs A variety of resources are available for recruiting faculty, staff and students. Policies, Handbooks & Procedures Useful information in understanding the rights and responsibilities of members of our community. Visit Policies, Handbooks & Procedures Questions, Concerns & Complaints Penn is strongly committed to providing respectful work and learning environments for all members of its community. Questions, Concerns & Complaints Complaint Resolution In any large and diverse organization such as the University of Pennsylvania, friction or misunderstandings may arise; corrections and adjustments can be made where appropriate. Visit Complaint Resolution Bias Reporting The University of Pennsylvania is an inclusive community in which we learn from the research, ideas, and experiences of other people on campus and around the world. We value open expression and the learning that comes from civil and rigorous debate. We also value and respect the dignity and worth of all members of our community. At times individuals or groups may believe they have experienced discrimination or bias or were negatively impacted by the actions of another member of the Penn community. Visit Bias Reporting Ombuds The Offive of the Ombuds offers an accessible and safe place to resolve differences, explore matters of concern, improve communication, and generate and evaluate options. Visit Ombuds Associate Vice President for Equity and Title IX Officer Visit AVP for Equity and Title IX Special Services (for immediate assistance) Go to Special Services Human Resources Staff & Labor Relations Visit HR Staff & Labor Relations University of Pennsylvania ©2022 University of Pennsylvania Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement