Skip to main content < × Penn COVID-19 Response > University of Pennsylvania Toggle Navigation Toggle Search Accessibility Menu Jump to… Main Content Search Main Navigation Utility Navigation Main menu Resources More Resources Complaint Resolution Policies Handbooks & Procedures Questions Concerns & Complaints Self ID and Penn People Laws & Regulations Accessibility More Accessibility Accommodation Services Committee for Accessible University Penn Accessible Transit Penn Buildings Forms Programming More Programming Training Events Recruitment More Recruitment Compliance Guidelines Staff Compliance Officers Diversity Search Advisors for Faculty Hiring Officers Faculty Search Information Community Posters About Utility Navigation A-Z Calendar Directory Maps Offices & Services Penn Home Webmail Back to Accessibility Menu Search Search Forms Office of Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Programs Voluntary Self-Identification | Accommodation Services | Permissible Requests Please use the link on the title of the form to download, complete, print and return to our office for processing. Forms are viewable and some are interactive using Adobe Acrobat Reader (PDF), unless otherwise notated. All forms require Adobe Acrobat Reader for viewing. If you do not have this software, you can download Adobe Acrobat Reader. Forms The following forms are offered through Penn links below: Bias Reporting Incident Form Staff Affirmative Action Compliance (PDF) Visit Work Day (Pennkey required) The University of Pennsylvania is an equal opportunity employer with a policy of nondiscrimination. As a federal contractor, Penn must comply with federal regulations pertaining to affirmative action, equal opportunity, nondiscrimination and reasonable workplace accommodations. We ask your assistance in helping us to meet our federal compliance obligations of monitoring our hire, internal hire and transfer processes. Voluntary Self-Identification We invite you to self-identify your sex, race, if you are a person with a disability or a covered veteran as defined on the Voluntary Self ID Form (PDF) or accessed through Penn People (Pennkey required.) Self-identification of a disability or veteran status is strictly voluntary. You may self-identify at any time during your employment with the University. Completed self-identification forms are maintained in files separate from that individual's personnel file and are held in strict confidence, except that: Administrators, managers, or supervisors may be informed of any work restrictions or reasonable accommodations; First aid or safety personnel may be informed, to the extent necessary, to administer any emergency treatment; and Government officials may review the forms in conjunction with an investigation or audit of the University's compliance with relevant federal, state or local law. The information you provide on this form will be maintained confidentially. Faculty and staff members must complete the form, print, sign and submit it to our office for updates to be made on personnel record or you may go to Penn People using your Penn key and password. Complaint Form (Harassment/Discrimination) (PDF) Complaint Form (Harassment/Discrimination) (Word) The form is a non-interactive PDF form. Please print out the form and submit the completed form and other necessary documents to the Office of Affirmative Action & Equal Opportunity Programs. Accommodation Services To Register for Accommodation Services: Complete our Reasonable Accommodation Request Forms and return them to oaaeop@pobox.upenn.edu. Request documentation from an appropriate medical provider and have it sent to OAA/EOP via email: oaaeop@pobox.upenn.edu or fax: (215)746-7088 Complete and submit additional forms for Parking accommodations as directed on the Penn Access Transit Form Reasonable Accommodation Request Form (PDF) Online Pdf form used to request reasonable workplace accommodations. Please type in all information, print, sign and submit form to our office. Reasonable Accommodation Medical Authorization Form (PDF / for medical provider) In addition to filling out the Reasonable Accommodations Request Form and/or the Penn Access Transit (HandyVan/ PAT) Request Form, staff or faculty members will need to submit a completed and signed Reasonable Accommodation Medical Authorization Form from their medical provider. This must be completed in order to begin the process of the employee's request. Penn Access Transit Request Form (PDF) Penn Access Transit (HandyVan/ PAT) Request Form is used to register Faculty and Staff for the use of the service. PAT service is transportation service available for faculty, staff and students with mobility and vision disabilities. You must have authorization from our office or Office of Student Disabilities Services (for students). Faculty and staff members must complete the form, print, sign and submit it to our office along with medical documentation to register for this service. Penn Access Transit Medical Authorization Form (PDF) Permissible Requests Request for Waiver Form (PDF) While we encourage all schools and centers to conduct full and open searches whenever a vacancy occurs, we recognize that there may be some circumstances in which a waiver of the process of posting and searching to fill a position may be justified. If the Hiring Officer believes that a vacant position might be eligible for a search waiver, they must submit the request for consideration. All requests for search waivers must be submitted by the appropriate HR Recruiter, who will forward it to the Office of Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Programs for review and approval. For further information refer to "Protecting Penn Data" on Penn Privacy website. For questions, email oaaeop@pobox.upenn.edu. University of Pennsylvania ©2022 University of Pennsylvania Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement