Skip to main content < × Penn COVID-19 Response > University of Pennsylvania Toggle Navigation Toggle Search Accessibility Menu Jump to… Main Content Search Main Navigation Utility Navigation Main menu Resources More Resources Complaint Resolution Policies Handbooks & Procedures Questions Concerns & Complaints Self ID and Penn People Laws & Regulations Accessibility More Accessibility Accommodation Services Committee for Accessible University Penn Accessible Transit Penn Buildings Forms Programming More Programming Training Events Recruitment More Recruitment Compliance Guidelines Staff Compliance Officers Diversity Search Advisors for Faculty Hiring Officers Faculty Search Information Community Posters About Utility Navigation A-Z Calendar Directory Maps Offices & Services Penn Home Webmail Back to Accessibility Menu Search Search Accommodation Services for Faculty, Staff & Visitors with Disabilities Office of Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Programs The University of Pennsylvania has equal opportunity and affirmative action programs for faculty and staff with disabilities. The Office oversees these programs and the provision of reasonable accommodations for faculty and staff as well as guests and visitors. Students with disabilities or applications for admission to the University should contact the Office of Student Disability Services for information or assistance regarding resources and services available. Federal law defines a disability as any physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities; or having a record of such an impairment; or being regarded as having such impairment. A "qualified individual with a disability" is a person as defined above who is capable of performing the essential functions of a particular job or of participating in a particular course of study with or without reasonable accommodations. The University provides reasonable accommodations for qualified faculty and staff with disabilities to allow them to perform the essential functions of their jobs. Determinations regarding what constitutes a reasonable accommodation are made on a case-by-case basis. Examples of reasonable accommodations may include: making programs and activities readily accessible to and usable by individuals with mobility other disabilities; modifying equipment or devices to allow people with disabilities to use them such as providing amplification for a telephone; modifying a work schedule; restructuring job responsibilities or reallocating non-essential (marginal) job functions; or providing printed materials in an alternative format that is accessible to individuals with visual impairments. Questions regarding reasonable accommodations may be directed to the Office of Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Programs. COVID 19 Vaccination Exemptions For individuals requesting a Medical or Religious Exemption for the COVID vaccination, use the following forms that can be found on Penn’s Coronavirus website at Home | Coronavirus (upenn.edu): University of Pennsylvania Medical Exemption Request Form (PDF) University of Pennsylvania Religious Exemption Request Form (PDF) Requesting Workplace Accommodations Faculty and staff who seek reasonable accommodations should contact the Office of Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Programs and complete two forms: Employees must complete the Reasonable Accommodation Request Form (PDF) Employees must have their medical provider complete the Reasonable Accommodation Medical Authorization Form (PDF) The requests and medical information provided with be treated as sensitive and confidential and will only be shared as necessary with those who have a need to know in order to provide the reasonable accommodation. Students who would like assistance related to their work-study or other employment at the University should also contact the Office of Student Disabilities Services, Learning Resources Center at (215) 573-9235. When determining whether a request for an accommodation is reasonable, the factors that are considered are whether the individual can fulfill the essential functions of the position with or without an accommodation and whether the provision of the accommodation would be an undue hardship for the University. The University does not provide accommodations that are deemed to be personal in nature (for example, wheelchairs, eyeglasses or personal care attendants.) Requesting Reasonable Accommodations for the Online Application Process Consistent with our commitment to equal employment opportunity, the University of Pennsylvania provides reasonable accommodations to qualified individuals with disabilities who need assistance in applying electronically for a position with the University, unless doing so would impose an undue hardship. To request a reasonable accommodation for the purpose of applying to a staff job, please email recruitment@hr.upenn.edu or call (215) 898-7287. To request a reasonable accommodation for the purpose of applying to a faculty job, please email oaaeop@pobox.upenn.edu or call (215) 898-6883. Reasonable accommodation requests are considered on a case-by-case basis. Funding for Accommodations If request for a reasonable accommodation is granted, the department is responsible for funding the accommodation. If the cost is beyond the department's capacity to support, the department should contact the dean or vice president responsible for their school or division to secure funding. University of Pennsylvania ©2022 University of Pennsylvania Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement