Skip to main content < × Penn COVID-19 Response > University of Pennsylvania Toggle Navigation Toggle Search Accessibility Menu Jump to… Main Content Search Main Navigation Utility Navigation Main menu Resources More Resources Complaint Resolution Policies Handbooks & Procedures Questions Concerns & Complaints Self ID and Penn People Laws & Regulations Accessibility More Accessibility Accommodation Services Committee for Accessible University Penn Accessible Transit Penn Buildings Forms Programming More Programming Training Events Recruitment More Recruitment Compliance Guidelines Staff Compliance Officers Diversity Search Advisors for Faculty Hiring Officers Faculty Search Information Community Posters About Utility Navigation A-Z Calendar Directory Maps Offices & Services Penn Home Webmail Back to Accessibility Menu Search Search Compliance Guidelines Visit Compliance Guidelines Hiring Officers Visit Hiring Officers & Managers Faculty Search Information Visit Faculty Search Information Hiring Officers and Managers Office of Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Programs Useful Guidelines for Hiring Officers and Department Managers Workplace Poster Requirements Government regulations mandate the display of certain posters in areas where a majority of employees tend to congregate. The Office of Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Programs (OAA•EOP) maintains display cases on the main campus and hospitals, ensuring that these posters are kept current. If you have posters in your area or need additional posters and need assistance on how to keep them current in accordance with regulatory requirements, please contact the OAA•EOP at (215) 898-6993, or email us at oaaeop@pobox.upenn.edu Downloads and Links for Hiring Officers and Managers HR Hiring Officer Handbook. This handbook is intended to assist Hiring Officers through the recruitment and hiring process. Each section reflects the various stages of this process. Please note that your Pennkey is needed to access the "Hiring Officer Handbook." HR Selection & Recruitment. Penn People website. (Pennkey required) Penn People (Information About Self Identifying) Race / Gender / Disability Status / Veteran Status) Voluntary Self ID Form. (PDF) Requesting a Waiver. (PDF) Staff Affirmative Action Compliance (PDF) (visit Work Day) (Pennkey required.) Staff Compliance Form Information. (PDF) Using a Search Firm For Staff Positions. University of Pennsylvania ©2022 University of Pennsylvania Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement