Skip to main content < × Penn COVID-19 Response > University of Pennsylvania Toggle Navigation Toggle Search Accessibility Menu Jump to… Main Content Search Main Navigation Utility Navigation Main menu Resources More Resources Complaint Resolution Policies Handbooks & Procedures Questions Concerns & Complaints Self ID and Penn People Laws & Regulations Accessibility More Accessibility Accommodation Services Committee for Accessible University Penn Accessible Transit Penn Buildings Forms Programming More Programming Training Events Recruitment More Recruitment Compliance Guidelines Staff Compliance Officers Diversity Search Advisors for Faculty Hiring Officers Faculty Search Information Community Posters About Utility Navigation A-Z Calendar Directory Maps Offices & Services Penn Home Webmail Back to Accessibility Menu Search Search Community Engagement & Partnerships Office of Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Programs University Resource Offices and Partners Penn faculty, staff and students have access to a variety of resources within their reach. Through our collaborative efforts it is our hope to address various needs of our Penn community. Please take a moment to browse through our listings below. Local, National and Global Engagement (Penn Compact) The Penn Compact “expresses our boldest aspirations for higher education—a compact based on our shared understanding that ‘Divided we fail. United we flourish.’” —Amy Gutmann Inclusion: Increase Access Innovation: Integrate Knowledge Impact: Engage Locally, Nationally, Globally Division of Public Safety - Department of Special Services The Department of Special Services offers a comprehensive victim support, sensitive crime investigation unit, and safety education program to assist members of the Penn community affected by criminal victimization. Members of the Penn community may inquire and receive support services when victimized by any type of crime. Economic Inclusion Plenary Committee Through its Economic Inclusion Program, Penn collaborates with local communities to: Increase employment opportunities by improving job skills and workforce capacity Support small businesses through the procurement of locally-provided products and services Aspire to 20%-25% of construction projects over $5 million are awarded to minority- and women-owned companies The Economic Inclusion Plenary Committee exists to provide oversight and strategy to the University in formulating and managing its Economic Inclusion initiative. Three subcommittees of the committee meet to review and monitor progress made in construction, workforce development and procurement, and report to the full Plenary Committee on a quarterly basis. Greenfield Cultural Center (GIC) The Albert M. Greenfield Intercultural Center was established in 1984 and welcomes all students interested in fostering intercultural understanding on campus. As a site of learning through cross cultural activism, reflection, and dialogue the GIC promotes co-curricular educational and cultural programs. The Center provides support to the United Minorities Council (UMC) and to its many constituent groups. It is also home to many popular intercultural programs. La Casa Latina La Casa Latina is devoted to developing greater awareness of Latino issues, culture and identity on Penn's campus. La Casa Latina provides a supportive environment where students are welcome to discuss and understand important issues that affect them as Latinos. The Center supports Latino Students through resources and services that foster the integration of their academic, social, cultural, and community service activities to enrich their Penn experience. La Casa Latina strives to be a Center where all Latinos and non-Latinos can participate and learn from each other in order to enrich the intercultural experience of the Penn Community. Martin Luther King Jr. Executive Planning Committee Each year, during the month of January, the University of Pennsylvania and our surrounding communities come together to commemorate the life and legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. The MLK commemoration reminds us of our interdependence and reaffirms our commitment to the betterment of our communities through civility and service. Opening our doors to embrace programming and visitors dedicated to realizing Dr. King's vision transforms the campus. Sharing our strengths and diversity as we commemorate Dr. King has an impact on the University that continues to be felt across campus and the Philadelphia community. Office of the Ombuds The University of Pennsylvania's Office of the Ombuds was established in 1971 to assist individuals to find solutions to problems that they may not have been able to resolve through normal channels. It is available for all members of the University community, with the exception of unionized workers at Penn and the employees of the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania. Students, faculty, staff, and administrators seek assistance in addressing a variety of problems: academic disputes, access to resources, conflict in the workplace, compensation equity, failure to follow university procedures, and interpersonal tensions. Office of the Vice Provost for University Life (U-Life) U-Life is new school, old school, where students go to school, all over Penn, and all about students. It meets them for morning coffee in Houston Hall, hangs through a study session at Weingarten, tracks them from Civic House to OFSA to the rest of their student life, and keeps them well in between. Where students need it, U-Life delivers. On campus and in the community, U-Life embodies the co-curricular experience. U-Life supports the successes of Penn students in and out of the classroom, on campus and across the world. U-Life helps to keep students well and ready to achieve. Penn African-American Resource Center (AARC) The AARC is a resource center dedicated to enhancing the quality of life of faculty, staff, and students at the University of Pennsylvania with a particular focus on those of African descent. Any person associated with the university may use these free and confidential services as needed. Penn Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender Center (LGBT) The LGBT Center at Penn, one of the oldest and most active programs of its kind in the country, supports Penn lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender students, staff, alumni, and faculty and increases the general Penn community's understanding and acceptance of its sexual and gender minority members. Established in 1982, the Center provides a variety of services throughout the year for and concerning Penn's lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender community. Penn Pan-Asian American Community House (PAACH) The mission of the Pan-Asian American Community House is to recognize and support the needs of Penn's Asian American and Pacific Islander communities, to develop programs that bridge Asian American Studies and student affairs, and to cultivate a greater sense of Pan-Asian American and Pacific Islander community. Its goals are: To foster participation in Asian American and Pacific Islander cultural, political, academic, leadership and community service activities To serve as a liaison to the University to communicate issues and implement initiatives relevant to Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders. Penn Professional Paid Staff Assembly (PPSA) The mission of the PPSA is to support and focus staff engagement and collaboration within the University of Pennsylvania community and to act as a productive resource for all of its members. The PPSA is a voluntary organization comprised of professional (monthly-exempt) staff members whose positions enhance, facilitate, and serve the teaching, research and service missions of the University of Pennsylvania. Penn Student Disabilities Services The University of Pennsylvania's Student Disabilities Services Office welcomes students with disabilities and provides reasonable accommodations to those who self-identify in compliance with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act and the Americans with Disabilities Act. Academic accommodations, auxiliary services, and technology are made available to students who meet established documentation guidelines. Policies and procedures have been developed to provide students with as much independence as possible, to promote self-advocacy, and to provide students with disabilities the same exceptional opportunities available to all Penn students. Penn Violence Prevention Committee (part of VAWA) Since 2003, Penn, along with Drexel and the University of the Sciences in Philadelphia, in cooperation with community-based partners, have joined together to develop the Campus Community Consortium to Reduce Violent Crimes against Women in University City. The organization is funded with a grant from the Department of Justice, as part of its Grants to Reduce Violent Crimes against Women on Campus Program. The Consortium has enabled the three universities to develop a comprehensive, coordinated response to violence against women on campus. The Consortium's goals are to develop and strengthen victim/survivor services, to strengthen effective security and investigative strategies, to combat violent crimes against women and to promote awareness and prevention through training and outreach programs. Penn Veterans Upward Bound The TRIO Veterans Upward Bound (VUB) Program at the University of Pennsylvania is a FREE, non-credited, non-profit, pre-college program federally funded with a grant from the U.S. Department of Education. The primary goal of TRIO VUB is to prepare eligible veterans to enter college, be successful in college, and to graduate from college. In order for students to be fully prepared for college, TRIO VUB emulates the college experience. High expectations are placed on students while attending TRIO VUB in order to support their success in the Program and later in college. Penn Weekly-Paid Professional Staff Assembly (WPPSA) The WPPSA represents all weekly-paid (non-union) professional employees on one of the university's main decision-making bodies: University Council and its committees. The WPPSA's primary goal is to represent the interests of its membership throughout all the segments of the University of Pennsylvania community. Any weekly-paid (non-union) employee can be a member of the WPPSA. Members of the WPPSA can sit on University Committees charged with making recommendations on issues of diversity, fairness, and policy. Members of the WPPSA also initiate programs of interest for the membership and the university community. Penn Women’s Center (PWC) For over 35 years, the Penn Women's Center has addressed the evolving needs of all Penn Women and, in doing so, supported their personal and professional development. It plays an advocacy and support role regarding issues of gender, equity, health, child care, workplace discrimination, domestic and sexual violence, and mental health. Its services include crisis intervention, institutional advocacy, policy development, networking, mentoring, and referrals. Penn’s Women of Color Planning Committee The National Institute for Women of Color (NIWC) proclaimed March 1, 1988 as the first National Women of Color Day. NIWC called upon all women and men to remember the legions of women of color, both those whose names and contributions spring readily to mind, and those ordinary women who made extraordinary contributions to their families, communities and the world. University of Pennsylvania Human Resources - Office of Staff and Labor Relations The HR Office of Staff and Labor Relations provides services to all employees to improve the quality of the work environment. University of Pennsylvania – Careers at Penn If you're talented and energetic, innovative and creative, and have the drive to make a difference, then consider a career at the nation's first University with a world-renowned reputation. The University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia's largest private employer, is continually searching for qualified individuals to join its dynamic university. A wide variety of positions are available at all times. Not only does Penn offer a unique environment within the city of Philadelphia to work, it also provides a wide array of employee benefits. From a competitive retirement program and comprehensive health care options to health promotion and wellness services and tuition assistance, there's a wealth of opportunities and resources available at Penn through Careers at Penn. University of Pennsylvania ©2022 University of Pennsylvania Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement