Skip to main content Search: Submit search Search filters Search This site Search Cornell Office of Academic Diversity Initiatives Main Menu Toggle Search Form Donate Signature Programs Home About Our Mission, Vision, and Values Our History Signature Programs Chi Alpha Epsilon National Honor Society EOP & HEOP Graduate Students Mentoring Undergraduates OADI Peer Mentor Program OADI Research Scholars Program Pre Professional Programs Ronald E. McNair Post-Baccalaureate Achievement Program Scholarship Programs Our Community Our Team Community Spotlights Calendar of Events Announcements Resources Advising Computers and Printing OADI Funding Student Employment and Co-Funding Tuesday Lunch Series Welcome The Office of Academic Diversity Initiatives (OADI) at Cornell University serves as a centralized hub that provides academic and professional-development support and resources for undergraduate students who are traditionally underrepresented and/or underserved in higher education. Book an Appointment Featured Learn About Our Advising Approach OADI utilizes a holistic advising approach when assisting our students. Learn more about our specific approach. Learn About our Signature Programs Learn about OADI’s Signature Programs including, the Arthur O. Eve Educational Opportunity Program and Higher Education Opportunity Program, the OADI Research Scholars Program, the Pre Professional Programs and the Ronald. E. McNair Post-Baccalaureate Achievement Program. Meet Our Team Learn about the professional, graduate, and undergraduate staff in OADI. Utilize Our Office Resources Learn about all of the resources OADI offers to assist students during their time at Cornell. Calendar of Events Sep 16 Open House 12:00pm429 Rockefeller Hall Event types: Cultural, Special Event, Networking Nov 11 Latina/o Studies Fridays with Faculty luncheon seminar 12:00pm429 Rockefeller Hall conference room Event types: Cultural, Seminar, Special Event See all OADI Events Announcements EXTENDED: OADI Summer Funding Applications Live - Closes May 1, 2022 OADI Summer Funding Applications are now being accepted. Due date extended to May 1, 2022. See all Announcements Student Spotlight Spotlight Grace Olivia Staes Meet OADI Peer Mentor Grace Staes. See all Spotlights Support Our Work Because of your gift, OADI is leading the way in inclusion, achievement, and developing a family environment. Our goal is to continue to invest in our scholar leaders so they can experience Cornell and beyond! Give Today Cornell’s Indigenous Land Acknowledgement The Office of Academic Diversity Initiatives recognizes the Cayuga Nation Land Acknowledgement. Also, we support the diversity initiatives of the University and believe in the moto “Any Person, Any Study.” Love OADI? Student Organization/Dept. Funding Individual Student Funding Student Employment Love OADI? Follow us! Quick Links Meet our Team Connect to an Advisor Join our Listserv Contact OADI Office of Academic Diversity Initiatives Suite 200 Computing & Communications Center (CCC) 235 Garden Ave. | Ithaca, NY 14853 (P) 607.255.3841 | 607.255.6384 (F) 607-255-9963 Monday-Friday 8:00AM-4:30PM University Privacy Web Accessibility Assistance