Skip to main content University of Wisconsin–Madison UW Crest Office of Business Engagement Advance your business with UW–Madison Search Menu open menu close What We Offer Expand Collapse Talent Solutions Professional Development Sponsored Research Access UW Technology Strategic Investment News Events Expand Collapse Campus Events Career Events Resources Expand Collapse For Entrepreneurs For UW Faculty and Staff About Contact Resources for Expand Collapse Faculty & Staff Resources for Entrepreneurs News Events Expand Collapse Campus Events Career Events About Us Talent Solutions with UW–Madison Access the best talent for your business through events, resources, and Handshake. Connect More Sponsored Research Tap into UW's academic and scientific expertise to advance your business. Get Started More Leinenkugel's, UW–Madison launch Diversity in Brewing Award Find out more More PARTNERING FOR SUCCESS The Office of Business Engagement connects industry with the research, talent and solutions of UW–Madison, one of the world’s top universities. We help companies achieve their goals, build relationships, and make an impact. Curious how UW–Madison can help your business? Let’s connect. Ask a Question SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS Explore UW-Madison solutions and partnerships that help you achieve your goals, with the Office of Business Engagement as your guide. Sponsored Research More Strategic Investment More Talent Solutions More Professional Development More Access UW Technology More News OBE’s Spring 2022 Update OBE keeps you up to date through our quarterly e-newsletter; here’s the latest issue for Spring 2022. Subscribe here (or, forward this newsletter to yourself or a friend). The UW–Madison Office of Business Engagement (OBE) helps … What higher education can learn from the business world: Takeaways from Showcase 2022 OBE Managing Director John Garnetti joined fellow business professionals at the UW–Madison Office of Strategic Consulting Showcase 2022 to discuss the differences—and some surprising similarities—between working in a corporate setting and higher education. The online … School of Computer, Data and Information Sciences Career Fair proves popular The School of Computer, Data & Information Sciences job fair on Feb. 15 at Union South featured a variety of employers offering opportunities to talented, innovative UW–Madison graduates and recent alumni. This year’s participating companies range from rapidly growing start-ups to industry-leading enterprises, firms whose primary products are software to those using technology to support infrastructure. More News More Sign up for email updates from OBE Get the latest news on UW–Madison partnerships with industry. Name Email Subscribe GET STARTED Talk to a member of our team. We'll help connect you with the resources of UW-Madison. Contact Us More Connect on LinkedIn More Connect on Twitter More Site footer content University logo that links to main university website Resources News Events For UW Faculty and Staff For Entrepreneurs About Us Contact Us UW–Madison Office of Business Engagement New address as of 2022: 97 Bascom Hall 500 Lincoln Drive Madison, WI 53706 Phone: 608-263-2840 twitter linkedin Feedback, questions or accessibility issues: web@umark.wisc.edu. This site was built using the UW Theme | Privacy Notice | © 2022 Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System.