Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown University OB/GYN Residency Program Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Divisions & Programs Fellowship Programs Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion Residency Rotations Specialty Programs Didactics & Simulation Mentorship Leadership Opportunities Resident Wellness Advocacy Faculty & Residents Leadership & Staff Current Residents Past Residents Resources For Current Residents For Prospective Residents Life in Providence Salary & Benefits Frequently Asked Questions Department Website Search OB/GYN Residency Program Female Pelvic Medicine and Reconstructive Surgery Fellowship Breadcrumb Home About Fellowship Programs The Division of Urogynecology and Reconstructive Pelvic Surgery at Women & Infants Hospital (WIH) of Rhode Island is the teaching affiliate of Brown University, and serves as a tertiary care center for women with pelvic floor disorders. The fellowship program in Female Pelvic Medicine and Reconstructive Surgery is a 36-month program for graduates of Obstetrics and Gynecology residencies, and a 24-month program for graduates of Urology residencies. Fellows have rotations in Urology, Colorectal Surgery, Global Health, and Gastroenterology for Women. Additionally, all fellows are expected to complete the WIH Fellows’ Workshop in Clinical Research Design offered annually through the Division of Research. Fellow education is a priority in the Division of Urogynecology and Reconstructive Pelvic Surgery, with scheduled fellow-directed didactics every Thursday morning. Also, fellows regularly participate in the clinical education of the OBGYN residents and Brown medical students. Fellows have additional opportunities to precept medical students while they are on their clinical rotations, lead Ob/Gyn-focused small-group activities for pre-clinical medical students, and deliver didactics to the residents through their formal curriculum and at weekly pre-operative conferences. There are 7 full-time, fellowship-trained faculty members, 2 nurse practitioners, 5 nurses, 4 fellows, and a full office staff. The Division has its own dedicated clinical offices with 12 exam rooms, a urodynamics suite, and 2 cystoscopy suites. Additionally, the Division has a strong commitment to research and includes 1 full time research nurse supervisor, 2 full-time research assistants and 1 research intern. Fellows are expected to complete an ABOG-approved research thesis and a quality project. All fellows have dedicated office space with a personal computer, camera, copier, and printer. Divisional seed grants are available to support fellow-initiated research projects, and financial support is provided for enrollment in the required two classes at the Brown University School of Public Health. Research and clinical time is scheduled in monthly or weekly blocks to accommodate fellows’ learning needs. Prerequisites ABOG eligibility and state medical licensing Program Curriculum Clinical inpatient and outpatient care Rotations in Urology, Colorectal Surgery and Gastroenterology for Women Annual research course offered by the Division of Research Additional courses in statistics and study design through Brown University Weekly pre-operative conferences and didactics ABOG –approved fellowship thesis and quality improvement project Salary and Benefits PGY 5-7 pay-scale Financial stipend for conferences, professional memberships, and educational materials Moonlighting opportunities are available for interested fellows – permissible after the first 6 months of fellowship with written permission from the program director Applications, Candidate Guidelines We participate in the NRMP match process. We have 4 fellows and take 2 fellows every third year. Please contact the fellowship coordinator for questions regarding deadlines, eligibility criteria, and application requirements. Additionally, current fellows are happy to answer any questions. Why Brown? Brown FPMRS trainees are provided with diverse clinical, surgical, and research opportunities that enable them to tailor their fellowship experience toward their career goals. The various areas of expertise of the faculty members, combined with the supportive environment at Women & Infants, create a fun and motivating learning environment that sets fellows up for success. Why Providence? Providence, Rhode Island, is a welcoming medium-sized city that has the culinary and artistic benefits of larger nearby cities, but has the added advantages of affordable cost-of-living, sparse traffic, and a beautiful ocean-side setting along Narragansett Bay. More information about Providence can be found on the residency website. Life in Providence Meet Our Team PGY-7 Evelyn Hall, MD PGY-6 Moiuri Siddique, MD, MPH Abhishek Sripad, MD PGY-5 Julia Shinnick, MD Incoming Fellow Fatima Jibrel, MD Faculty/Staff Kyle Wohlrab, MD Fellowship Director Mary Gervais Program Coordinator 1 of 3 2 of 3 3 of 3 Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Divisions & Programs Fellowship Programs Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion Residency Rotations Specialty Programs Didactics & Simulation Mentorship Leadership Opportunities Resident Wellness Advocacy Faculty & Residents Leadership & Staff Current Residents Past Residents Resources For Current Residents For Prospective Residents Life in Providence Salary & Benefits Frequently Asked Questions Department Website Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Female Pelvic Medicine and Reconstructive Surgery Fellowship Open details for Female Pelvic Medicine and Reconstructive Surgery Fellowship Bookmark this Page