Skip to Content Toggle navigation Menu Geosciences Departments & Centers Directory Giving News & Events Atmospheric Sciences Geography Geology & Geophysics Oceanography Environmental Programs Water Management & Hydrological Science Online Programs Geobusiness Resources Berg-Hughes Center for Petroleum and Sedimentary Systems Center for Atmospheric Chemistry & the Environment Center for Geospatial Sciences, Applications & Technology Center for Tectonophysics Geochemical and Environmental Research Group International Ocean Discovery Program Texas Sea Grant Southern Regional Climate Center Toggle navigation Menu Toggle navigation About About the Department What is Oceanography? Diversity and Climate in Geosciences Leadership & Vision History Employment Opportunities Seminar Schedule Giving Oceanography Spotlights Contact Us Academics Academic Advisors Majors & Minors Graduate Programs Online Programs NSF-Research Experience for Undergraduates (REU) Future Students Howdy! Majors & Minors Graduate Programs Careers in Oceanography How to Apply Transfers & Majors Changers Visit Us Undergraduate Students High Impact Opportunities Careers in Oceanography Transfers & Majors Changers Living Learning Communities Medallion Scholars Program Cool Geosciences Classes Graduate Students Graduate Programs MS & PhD in Oceanography MS & PhD Information Application Process Admission Requirements Program Curriculum Funding Elements of a Strong Application International Students Master of Ocean Science and Technology Graduate Handbook Careers in Oceanography Academic Advisors Research People Faculty Adjunct & Emeritus Faculty Research Staff Staff Graduate Students Academic Advisors Resources Labs & Services On the Ocean College News & Events Inside Geosciences College of Geosciences Departments Atmospheric SciencesGeographyGeology & GeophysicsOceanographyEnvironmental ProgramsWater Management and Hydrological Science Centers Berg-Hughes Center for Petroleum and Sedimentary SystemsCenter for Atmospheric Chemistry and the EnvironmentCenter for Geospatial Sciences, Applications and TechnologyGeochemical and Environmental Research GroupInternational Ocean Discovery ProgramSouthern Regional Climate CenterOffice of the Texas State ClimatologistCenter for TectonophysicsTexas Center for Climate StudiesTexas Sea Grant Offices Academic AdvisingBusinessCommunicationsDean's OfficeInformation TechnologyRecruitingOffice of the State Climatologist Texas A&M University Department of Oceanography Your browser does not support the video tag. Coming Fall 2022 The Department of Oceanography is becoming part of the College of Arts and Sciences in Fall 2022. Learn more about the College of Arts and Sciences HOWDY Texas A&M University Apply Now Visit Geosciences Visit Texas A&M Explore Oceanography Our Programs Majors & Minors Transfers & Major Changers Graduate Programs Online Programs NSF-Research Experience for Undergraduates (REU) Coolest Jobs on the Planet Careers for Oceanographers Leaders in Research Department Research Labs & Services NSF-RESEARCH EXPERIENCE FOR UNDERGRADUATES The Department of Oceanography and the Geochemical and Environmental Research Group (GERG) are proud to announce an NSF- Research Experience for Undergraduates (REU) program that will focus on "Observing the Ocean: hypoxia, harmful algae, oil spills, and ocean acidification." The REU program is open to undergraduate students from across the US. Find more information, requirements, and the application at the link below. REU Information Oceanography Spotlights Tyler Winkler “Take advantage of every opportunity that you can to learn something new. There is so much amazing science being done by Texas A&M Oceanographers, and the opportunities to grow as an early career scientist are limitless if you are willing to collaborate and learn from those around you!” - Tyler Winkler Read Winkler's Spotlight Charlotte Miller “At Texas A&M Oceanography department, you will never take a class where the professor isn’t incredibly passionate about what they are teaching. It’s infectious.” – Charlotte Miller '20 Read Miller's Spotlight Dr. Lei Hu “Texas A&M OCNG has nourished my passion in environmental sciences” – Dr. Lei Hu '12 (Ph.D.) Read Dr. Hu's Spotlight Faculty in the Department of Oceanography and KAMU-FM have created an oceanic science podcast, On the Ocean, that shares important facts about the ocean, marine creatures, and oceanographic research. KAMU-FM airs On the Ocean Tuesdays at 8:30 AM CT. Podcasts, text, and links will be uploaded on this site shortly after. Listen to On the Ocean News Chrissy Wiederwohl Awarded Provost Teaching Excellence Award The Texas A&M Oceanography professor was awarded the 2022 Provost Academic Track Faculty Teaching Excellence Award by the Center for Teaching Excellence. Yige Zhang Honored With F.W. Clarke Award The Geochemical Society bestows the honor on one scientist per year. Oceanography Graduate Students Receive Society For Underwater Technology Scholarships Two Texas A&M Oceanography graduate students received $2000 scholarships to further their research and studies. Texas A&M Awarded $5.4 Million From National Academies Gulf Research Program Texas A&M oceanographer Dr. Steven DiMarco will lead the new research consortium. Sediment Cores From Ocean Floor Could Contain 23-Million-Year-Old Climate Change Clues Texas A&M oceanographers are examining ancient methane gas ocean cores that reveal clues about global and environmental changes. Texas A&M Graduate Student Spends Fifty-one Days At Sea Studying Hydrothermal Vents Oceanography graduate student Nathan Lanning, joined the NSF-funded Plume Raiders Cruise to the Southern East Pacific Rise to investigate the chemistry of hydrothermal vent fluids in the area. More Geosciences News Events More Geosciences Events Department of Oceanography Texas A&M University 3146 TAMU College Station, Texas 77843-3146 Eller O&M 1204 ocng-staff-office@geos.tamu.edu (979) 845-7211 Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Explore Oceanography © College of Geosciences Texas A&M University Webmaster Emergency Protocol Accessibility Policies State of Texas Texas Veterans Portal Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline Statewide Search State Link Policy Open Records Notice of Nondiscrimination Institutional Resumes Accountability Course Schedules & Syllabus, Faculty CV Texas CREWS Texas A&M University is a member of The Texas A&M University System