Skip to content Skip to main nav Yale University Search Keywords Log in Sign up GSAS Yale College Center for International & Professional Experience Office of Career Strategy EMPLOYERS FACULTY/STAFF YALE CAREER LINK Who Are You? Undergraduates Masters PhDs & Postdocs Alums Families Prospective Students & Guests Communities What is a Community? Affinity/Identity Student Athletes First Generation and/or Low Income Students International Students LGBTQ Students Students of Color Students with Disabilities Student Veterans Career Exploring Careers Business, Law & Industry Common Good & Creative Careers Environment, Sustainability & Energy Gap Year & Short-Term Opportunities General Management & Leadership Development Programs STEMConnect Applying to Graduate & Professional School Graduate School Health Professions Business School Law School Get Advice Meet with OCS Student Organizations Workshop Request OCS Podcast Series Get Prepared Resumes Cover Letters & Correspondence Professional Conduct & Etiquette LinkedIn & Professional Online Identity Interview Preparation References Resource Database Jobs & Internships Yale Career Link Jobs, Internships & Other Experiences Funding Your Experience Career Fairs/Networking Events On-Campus Recruiting Job Offers & Salary Negotiation Jobs Feed Get Connected Networking Informational Interviewing Peer Networking Lists Outcomes YC First Destinations YC Four-Year Out Statistics & Reports About OCS Contact OCS Staff List OCS Mission & Policies Additional Yale Career Offices Customize your OCS Weekly Newsletter Upcoming Events June 01 Research Career Perspectives at the Interface Between Academia and Industry (In Person Event) Wed, Jun 1 at 11am - 12pm 02 Optometry Virtual Fair Thu, Jun 2 at 9am - 7pm 02 Dept. of Defense Virtual Career Fair - Students & Recent Grads Thu, Jun 2 at 10am - 1pm 03 McKinsey and Co Inc. Fri, Jun 3 at 12pm - 12:30pm 07 Career Strategy Essentials: Plan and Manage your Career Development (GSAS & Postdocs) Tue, Jun 7 at 12pm - 1pm 09 Career Strategy Essentials: Crafting an Effective Resume (GSAS & Postdocs) Thu, Jun 9 at 12pm - 1pm 09 McKinsey and Co Inc. Thu, Jun 9 at 12pm - 12:45pm 14 Career Strategy Essentials: Crafting Your Professional Narrative (GSAS & Postdocs) Tue, Jun 14 at 12pm - 1:30pm 16 Career Strategy Essentials: Crafting Your Professional Narrative (GSAS & Postdocs) Thu, Jun 16 at 12pm - 1:30pm 18 NAAHP 2022 Health Professions Student Symposium Sat, Jun 18 at 9am - 2:30pm See more events UNDERGRADUATES MASTERS PhDS & POSTDOCS ALUMS Latest News Yale Alumni Community Service Funded Internship (YACSF), Opportunities Now Available via CareerLink with $5,000 Stipend Share This: Share Yale Alumni Community Service Funded Internship (YACSF), Opportunities Now Available via CareerLink with $5,000 Stipend on TwitterShare Yale Alumni Community Service Funded Internship (YACSF), Opportunities Now Available via CareerLink with $5,000 Stipend on LinkedinShare Yale Alumni Community Service Funded Internship (YACSF), Opportunities Now Available via CareerLink with $5,000 Stipend on Facebook Copy Link The Yale Alumni Community Service Funded Internship (YACSF) program gives students the opportunity to experience paid eight-week community service positions within nonprofit organizations throughout the United States. The program has a close partnership with the local Yale Alumni Clubs who … By Jorimel Zaldivar Author info Jorimel Zaldivar Senior Associate Director for Common Good Careers Send Email website Read more » Upcoming Consulting Application Deadlines Share This: Share Upcoming Consulting Application Deadlines on TwitterShare Upcoming Consulting Application Deadlines on LinkedinShare Upcoming Consulting Application Deadlines on Facebook Copy Link Upcoming Consulting Application Deadlines Application deadlines for Bain, BCG, and McKinsey begin as early as July 7th. Refer to each firms’ website for the most current details on their application process, including deadlines, and to register for any upcoming events, and to apply. … By Yale Office of Career Strategy Author info Yale Office of Career Strategy Send Email website Read more » Two New Free Programs for Prospective Pre-Law Students Share This: Share Two New Free Programs for Prospective Pre-Law Students on TwitterShare Two New Free Programs for Prospective Pre-Law Students on LinkedinShare Two New Free Programs for Prospective Pre-Law Students on Facebook Copy Link Two New Free Programs for Prospective Pre-Law Students LSAC is offering two online programs to help students make sense of the law school admission process and the world of law school itself – (1) Law School Unmasked™, a program designed for students planning to enroll in law school this … By Elayne Mazzarella Author info Elayne Mazzarella Director of Career Services and Alumni Advising Send Email website Read more » RocketBlocks Interview Prep Share This: Share RocketBlocks Interview Prep on TwitterShare RocketBlocks Interview Prep on LinkedinShare RocketBlocks Interview Prep on Facebook Copy Link Yale OCS is pleased to offer students RocketBlocks an interactive web application that helps students prepare for case interviews in consulting, product management, product marketing and strategy + biz ops. Their approach is simple: decompose interviews into atomic skills and give … By Yale Office of Career Strategy Author info Yale Office of Career Strategy Send Email website Read more » Planning for Summer 2022 Share This: Share Planning for Summer 2022 on TwitterShare Planning for Summer 2022 on LinkedinShare Planning for Summer 2022 on Facebook Copy Link Regularly visit the Center for International & Professional Experience’s updates about the COVID situation. Yale College Students: The Summer Experience Award (SEA), formerly known as the DSA, is available for Summer 2022 (deadline to apply is May 1, 2022). The … By Yale Office of Career Strategy Author info Yale Office of Career Strategy Send Email website Read more » Career Strategy Essentials with the Office of Career Strategy (GSAS and Postdocs) Share This: Share Career Strategy Essentials with the Office of Career Strategy (GSAS and Postdocs) on TwitterShare Career Strategy Essentials with the Office of Career Strategy (GSAS and Postdocs) on LinkedinShare Career Strategy Essentials with the Office of Career Strategy (GSAS and Postdocs) on Facebook Copy Link Career Strategy Essentials with the Office of Career Strategy (GSAS and Postdocs) The Office of Career Strategy (OCS) will be hosting a career strategy essentials workshop series for graduate students and postdocs starting on Tuesday, June 7, 12-1pm EST. In these dedicated 1-hour workshops (virtual and in-person), we will cover strategies ranging … By Jacob Gonzalez Author info Jacob Gonzalez Senior Associate Director, Graduate and Postdoctoral Career Services Send Email linkedinwebsite Read more » Website Design through the WIX/Yale Partnership Share This: Share Website Design through the WIX/Yale Partnership on TwitterShare Website Design through the WIX/Yale Partnership on LinkedinShare Website Design through the WIX/Yale Partnership on Facebook Copy Link Wix.com is a leading cloud-based development platform with millions of users worldwide. Wix makes it easy for everyone to create a beautiful, professional website or online portfolio. Promote your business, showcase your art, set up an online shop or just … By Derek I. Webster Author info Derek I. Webster Senior Associate Director for Creative Careers Send Email linkedinwebsite Read more » Meta Design Summit Share This: Share Meta Design Summit on TwitterShare Meta Design Summit on LinkedinShare Meta Design Summit on Facebook Copy Link Meta Design Summit What is the Design Summit? The Design Summit will offer a series of virtual workshops and 1:1 mentorship for aspiring designers from underrepresented communities. The program will kick off with a two-day virtual course on July 21stand July 22nd, 2022, … By Kristin McJunkins Author info Kristin McJunkins Director, Health Professions Advising & STEM Connect Send Email website Read more » View All Blogs Sidebar Search Office of Career Strategy Search Keywords Yale Career Link ✔ Search Jobs and Internships ✔ Sign up for OCS & Employer Events ✔ Schedule Career Advising Appointments ✔ Connect through the Peer Lists Yale Career Link CareerShift ✔ Powerful job board that all Yale OCS students and alumni have access to ✔ Provides millions of contacts for networking (alumni) and find recruiters for various employers or by industry CareerShift Featured Videos Go to the video Introduction to OCS for Students Go to the video The Job Search Go to the video The Career Decision-Making Process More Videos Career Resources Skip filter options to posts Filter Clear Filter: See More Filters Filter Controls Resource Categories:Applying to Business School Applying to Graduate School Applying to Health Professions Programs Applying to Law School Career Overview GSAS/Postdoc Specific Resource High Level Resources Industry Publication International Leadership Development Networking Professional Association Student Outcomes Yale Resource Close Firsthand (previously Vault) Share This: Share Firsthand (previously Vault) on TwitterShare Firsthand (previously Vault) on LinkedinShare Firsthand (previously Vault) on Facebook Copy Link Vault and Firsthand have combined platforms! Firsthand provides company, profession, and industry overviews. https://yale.firsthand.co/ Yale email and netID sign-on for … Read More OCS YouTube Channel Share This: Share OCS YouTube Channel on TwitterShare OCS YouTube Channel on LinkedinShare OCS YouTube Channel on Facebook Copy Link OCS is excited to share our brand new YouTube Channel! You’ll find all our animated videos, panel talks, career development … Read More Pathways for Career Planning Share This: Share Pathways for Career Planning on TwitterShare Pathways for Career Planning on LinkedinShare Pathways for Career Planning on Facebook Copy Link No matter where you are in your career planning journey, the Pathways for Career Planning will point you in the … Read More A Mechanical Engineering Career Guide Share This: Share A Mechanical Engineering Career Guide on TwitterShare A Mechanical Engineering Career Guide on LinkedinShare A Mechanical Engineering Career Guide on Facebook Copy Link View Resource A Biomedical Engineering Career Guide Share This: Share A Biomedical Engineering Career Guide on TwitterShare A Biomedical Engineering Career Guide on LinkedinShare A Biomedical Engineering Career Guide on Facebook Copy Link View Resource An Electrical Engineering Career Guide Share This: Share An Electrical Engineering Career Guide on TwitterShare An Electrical Engineering Career Guide on LinkedinShare An Electrical Engineering Career Guide on Facebook Copy Link View Resource View All Resources YALE CAREER LINK LOG INTO YALE CAREER LINK TO MAKE AN APPOINTMENT, SEARCH AND APPLY FOR OPPORTUNITIES, ACCESS THE PEER LISTS, AND MUCH MORE! EXPLORE YALE CAREER LINK CONTACT & LOCATION Phone (203) 432-0803 Email careerstrategy@yale.edu Website http://ocs.yale.edu Address 55 Whitney Avenue, 3rd Fl. New Haven, CT 06510 SERVICE HOURS Academic Year Summer Hours M 8:30am - 5pm 8:30am - 4:30pm T 8:30am - 5pm 8:30am - 4:30pm W 8:30am - 5pm 8:30am - 4:30pm TH 8:30am - 5pm 8:30am - 4:30pm F 8:30am - 5pm 8:30am - 4:30pm The office is closed weekends, holidays, and recess days. Yale FacebookLinkedIn Office of Career Strategy The Office of Career Strategy works with students and alums of Yale College and Yale Graduate School of Arts and Sciences as well as Yale postdoctoral scholars from all disciplines. The Office of Career Strategy advisors help students, alums, and postdocs to clarify career aspirations, identify opportunities, and offer support at every stage of career development. Services offered by the Office of Career Strategy for Masters and Ph.D. students are part of a suite of resources supported by the Graduate School of Arts & Sciences to foster professional and career development. Career support for undergraduates is a part of a collection of support offered by the Center for International & Professional Experience. Contact 55 Whitney Avenue, 3rd Fl. New Haven, CT 06510 (203) 432-0803 careerstrategy@yale.edu About CIPE The Yale College Center for International and Professional Experience (CIPE) is a group of offices that work together, and with other academic advisers on campus, to support undergraduate students throughout their four years at Yale as they make decisions about their academic plans and explore career options. CIPE is composed of the Office of Career Strategy, the Yale College Office of Fellowships, Yale Summer Session, and Yale College Study Abroad. Visiting Yale Campus Tours Maps & Directions Yale Visitor Center Museums & Galleries New Haven More Visit Resources Privacy Policy | Terms of Service Copyright © 2022 Yale University Powered by uConnect Posting....