Skip to content Skip to main nav Yale University Search Keywords Log in Sign up GSAS Yale College Center for International & Professional Experience Office of Career Strategy EMPLOYERS FACULTY/STAFF YALE CAREER LINK Who Are You? Undergraduates Masters PhDs & Postdocs Alums Families Prospective Students & Guests Communities What is a Community? Affinity/Identity Student Athletes First Generation and/or Low Income Students International Students LGBTQ Students Students of Color Students with Disabilities Student Veterans Career Exploring Careers Business, Law & Industry Common Good & Creative Careers Environment, Sustainability & Energy Gap Year & Short-Term Opportunities General Management & Leadership Development Programs STEMConnect Applying to Graduate & Professional School Graduate School Health Professions Business School Law School Get Advice Meet with OCS Student Organizations Workshop Request OCS Podcast Series Get Prepared Resumes Cover Letters & Correspondence Professional Conduct & Etiquette LinkedIn & Professional Online Identity Interview Preparation References Resource Database Jobs & Internships Yale Career Link Jobs, Internships & Other Experiences Funding Your Experience Career Fairs/Networking Events On-Campus Recruiting Job Offers & Salary Negotiation Jobs Feed Get Connected Networking Informational Interviewing Peer Networking Lists Outcomes YC First Destinations YC Four-Year Out Statistics & Reports About OCS Contact OCS Staff List OCS Mission & Policies Additional Yale Career Offices Yale Arts Apprenticeship Program The Yale Arts Apprenticeship Program is an initiative that connects Yale undergraduates, particularly those on financial aid, with professional arts practitioners of any discipline. As an option within Yale’s Summer Experience Award (SEA) funding model, the Arts Apprenticeship must fulfill the same basic requirements. Additional details, as well as those specific to the Arts Apprenticeship are included below. Yale faculty, alumni, or other arts practitioners interested in featuring positions through the program should contact Yale’s Creative Careers advisor. Who is Eligible? Must be first-year, sophomore, or junior enrolled in Yale College. Must be first-time recipient of the SEA (formerly known as the DSA). Students that have previously used their SEA/DSA are not eligible. Must have secured an eligible summer opportunity. Must be recipient of Yale financial aid that includes Yale aid for the spring term leading up to the SEA summer. Which Opportunities are Eligible? Must be at least 30 hours/week, for at least 8-weeks over the summer months. Those 8-weeks do not have to be continuous if the mentoring Arts Practitioner agrees on a different schedule. The time commitment need not all be in direct contact with the Arts Practitioner. Independent projects, tasks, research, etc. can comprise much of the experience, as long as the Arts Practitioner is checking in regularly with the student to provide oversight and career-based context. The engagement for an Arts Apprenticeship should be established directly with an individual Arts Practitioner, with a strong, one-on-one mentoring and supervisory component. Arts Apprenticeship FAQs What artistic disciplines are compatible with the Arts Apprenticeship program? Any creative professional engaging work within an artistic field can be considered a candidate for establishing an Arts Apprenticeship. Examples include architects, creative writers, designers, visual artists, filmmakers, theater creatives, dancers and performance artists, musicians and composers. Please speak with the OCS Creative Careers advisor to discuss potential eligibility. Are there existing Arts Apprenticeships that can be funded with the SEA? Yes, examples of current, posted SEA eligible apprenticeships can be found on the sidebar of this page, or by searching within the Yale Career Link Job Board for the term Yale-coordinated “Apprenticeship”. These opportunities are open for application, but can also be seen as models to help the student or artist consider seeking out or developing their own eligible apprenticeship. My Yale professor also has a professional arts practice. Would a summer apprenticeship with his/her practice qualify for an SEA? Yale faculty members with an arts practice, willing to take on the necessary mentoring engagement, are acceptable candidates for the Arts Apprenticeship model. It is also possible that a research-based experience with a Yale arts faculty could be SEA funded. Please meet with the OCS Creative Careers advisor to discuss further. I have an unpaid opportunity with an arts-related for-profit company this summer, could I use the SEA to fund that opportunity? The SEA Arts Apprenticeship category is reserved for students planning a mentoring relationship with a practicing artist in the U.S. In order for it to be used to fund a summer engagement associated with a for-profit company in the U.S., the employer would need to be arts-related, and the supervisor of record would need to be willing to establish a clear mentoring relationship as a component of the experience: an appropriate apprenticeship experience needs to be supervised by an Arts Practitioner, and built around the individual mentoring relationship with that creative. What if the apprenticeship program requires me to pay tuition for the training, or the artist I’m working with needs to be financially compensated for his/her mentoring role? For an Arts Apprenticeship to be considered for SEA funding, financial compensation cannot be provided to the artist. In general, a tuition component is not allowed as part of an apprenticeship program; exceptions will need to be discussed with the OCS Creative Careers advisor. Skip filter options to posts Featured Articles Filter Clear Filter: See More Filters Filter Controls Advice & Insights External Articles Featured Events Featured Opportunities Guest Blog News & Updates Close Receiving Funding for your Summer Experience Award or Fellowship Award? Share This: Share Receiving Funding for your Summer Experience Award or Fellowship Award? on TwitterShare Receiving Funding for your Summer Experience Award or Fellowship Award? on LinkedinShare Receiving Funding for your Summer Experience Award or Fellowship Award? on Facebook Copy Link Receive Your Funding – Zelle Regarding your Summer Experience or Fellowship Award, we are asking you to take a moment to enroll in Zelle. In 2021 Yale implemented Zelle, a digital payment method to transfer money with faster results. This … By Lisa Blees Author info Lisa Blees Assistant Director, Programming & Internal Relations Send Email website Read more » The pros and cons of remote internships Share This: Share The pros and cons of remote internships on TwitterShare The pros and cons of remote internships on LinkedinShare The pros and cons of remote internships on Facebook Copy Link Internships can be great for building experience and making connections in your career, but as with anything there are downsides that should be considered. Generally, internships take up a lot of time but often don’t pay well if at all. … By Sean Kelly - College Recruiter Author info College Recruiter believes that every student and recent grad deserves a great career. Each year, we help more than 3 million students and recent grads find part-time, seasonal, internship, and entry-level jobs requiring 0-3 years of experience. facebooktwitteryoutubelinkedin Read more » Sidebar Specialty Advisors Derek I. Webster Meet Derek Career Resources Skip filter options to posts Filter Clear Filter: See More Filters Filter Controls Resource Categories:Applying to Business School Applying to Graduate School Applying to Health Professions Programs Applying to Law School Career Overview GSAS/Postdoc Specific Resource High Level Resources Industry Publication International Leadership Development Networking Professional Association Student Outcomes Yale Resource Close SEA: Application Share This: Share SEA: Application on TwitterShare SEA: Application on LinkedinShare SEA: Application on Facebook Copy Link The SEA Application for Summer 2022 is closed. Contact sea@yale.edu for any questions. View Resource View All Resources CONTACT & LOCATION Phone (203) 432-0803 Email careerstrategy@yale.edu Website http://ocs.yale.edu Address 55 Whitney Avenue, 3rd Fl. New Haven, CT 06510 SERVICE HOURS Academic Year Summer Hours M 8:30am - 5pm 8:30am - 4:30pm T 8:30am - 5pm 8:30am - 4:30pm W 8:30am - 5pm 8:30am - 4:30pm TH 8:30am - 5pm 8:30am - 4:30pm F 8:30am - 5pm 8:30am - 4:30pm The office is closed weekends, holidays, and recess days. Yale FacebookLinkedIn Office of Career Strategy The Office of Career Strategy works with students and alums of Yale College and Yale Graduate School of Arts and Sciences as well as Yale postdoctoral scholars from all disciplines. The Office of Career Strategy advisors help students, alums, and postdocs to clarify career aspirations, identify opportunities, and offer support at every stage of career development. Services offered by the Office of Career Strategy for Masters and Ph.D. students are part of a suite of resources supported by the Graduate School of Arts & Sciences to foster professional and career development. Career support for undergraduates is a part of a collection of support offered by the Center for International & Professional Experience. Contact 55 Whitney Avenue, 3rd Fl. New Haven, CT 06510 (203) 432-0803 careerstrategy@yale.edu About CIPE The Yale College Center for International and Professional Experience (CIPE) is a group of offices that work together, and with other academic advisers on campus, to support undergraduate students throughout their four years at Yale as they make decisions about their academic plans and explore career options. CIPE is composed of the Office of Career Strategy, the Yale College Office of Fellowships, Yale Summer Session, and Yale College Study Abroad. Visiting Yale Campus Tours Maps & Directions Yale Visitor Center Museums & Galleries New Haven More Visit Resources Privacy Policy | Terms of Service Copyright © 2022 Yale University Powered by uConnect Posting....