Skip to content Skip to main nav Yale University Search Keywords Log in Sign up GSAS Yale College Center for International & Professional Experience Office of Career Strategy EMPLOYERS FACULTY/STAFF YALE CAREER LINK Who Are You? Undergraduates Masters PhDs & Postdocs Alums Families Prospective Students & Guests Communities What is a Community? Affinity/Identity Student Athletes First Generation and/or Low Income Students International Students LGBTQ Students Students of Color Students with Disabilities Student Veterans Career Exploring Careers Business, Law & Industry Common Good & Creative Careers Environment, Sustainability & Energy Gap Year & Short-Term Opportunities General Management & Leadership Development Programs STEMConnect Applying to Graduate & Professional School Graduate School Health Professions Business School Law School Get Advice Meet with OCS Student Organizations Workshop Request OCS Podcast Series Get Prepared Resumes Cover Letters & Correspondence Professional Conduct & Etiquette LinkedIn & Professional Online Identity Interview Preparation References Resource Database Jobs & Internships Yale Career Link Jobs, Internships & Other Experiences Funding Your Experience Career Fairs/Networking Events On-Campus Recruiting Job Offers & Salary Negotiation Jobs Feed Get Connected Networking Informational Interviewing Peer Networking Lists Outcomes YC First Destinations YC Four-Year Out Statistics & Reports About OCS Contact OCS Staff List OCS Mission & Policies Additional Yale Career Offices Yale College First Destinations The Office of Career Strategy collects information about Yale College graduates. This tool allows users to search outcomes by year and major. Please visit Statistics & Reports for detailed reports. Helpful Tips on using the Interactive Tool: There is no Enter or Submit Button – Results will appear automatically with your selections Choose ‘All Years’ or ‘All Majors’- For results across years and majors or check one for more granular results. Default results will show the most recent Class Year. Uncheck selected major(s) to reset your search. To ensure student confidentiality, results are only reported in the aggregate and more granular data is not available through this public tool. The tool will return results with at least five responses. If you require additional information contact the Office of Career Strategy Most Recent Class Overview Knowledge Rate Success Rate Mean Starting Salary Top Five Industries 86.8% of those graduating between July 1, 2020-June 30, 2021 96.9% employed or in graduate school within six months of graduation $76,359 among graduates employed in the United States. Financial Services, Education, Technology, Consulting, and Healthcare All Years Class of 2021Class of 2020Class of 2019Class of 2018Class of 2017Class of 2016 Class All Academic Divisions/Schools All Academic Divisions/Schools All Programs/Majors All Programs/Majors Print Toggle charts First Destination First Destination refers to the postgraduate plans of Yale College graduates six months after graduation. The pursuits of Yale graduates include employment, graduate school, independent research, military service, and more. Top Employers The list of employers below indicates organizations that hired the most graduates in the selected year. This list changes every year, and the Office of Career Strategy works closely with employers across industries and functional areas. Employment Industry and Function It is notable that no single industry or functional area attracts Yale graduates as a critical mass, which is consistent with Yale’s liberal arts education through which graduates gain valuable skills desirable to many roles. Use the tabs below to view both function and industry choices. Function Industry Size of the Organization Yale graduates choose employers of all sizes and typically only about half of the graduates in each class choose the largest size employers (501+ employees). Starting Salary The salary information below is self-reported by graduates employed full-time in the U.S. and does not include bonuses or other forms of compensation. Time of Year Offer Received Although graduates report accepting their post-graduate positions throughout their senior year, typically 50% of graduates secure their full-time position in the spring of senior year or later. Co-Curricular, Research, and Study Abroad Experiences Yale students pursue an array of activities, including internships, research, study abroad, and volunteer work. The following shows the percentage of Yale students who undertook (1) credit-bearing study abroad experiences one or more times prior to graduation, (2) summer research opportunities, and (3) summer internships. Study Abroad Summer Research Summer Internships First Destination Locations When considering an entire Class, the majority remain in the U.S., while on average more than 10% reside outside of the country. NOTE: Hover over each state to see the percentage of graduates in that state. Grey indicates no graduates from this class year. United States World Top Universities The list below shows Universities most often attended by graduates in the selected year, however, Yale alums enroll in programs around the world. In the case where there are a significant number of graduates enrolled in a Professional School at a University, that School may be listed separately (for example Yale School of Public Health and Yale University). Advanced Degrees Pursued The chart below shows the graduate degrees being pursued immediately after graduation. Each year, more than 70% of Yale College graduates employed immediately after graduation indicate they intend to pursue a graduate degree in the next five years. We don’t have enough student data to show you these results. Close CONTACT & LOCATION Phone (203) 432-0803 Email careerstrategy@yale.edu Website http://ocs.yale.edu Address 55 Whitney Avenue, 3rd Fl. New Haven, CT 06510 SERVICE HOURS Academic Year Summer Hours M 8:30am - 5pm 8:30am - 4:30pm T 8:30am - 5pm 8:30am - 4:30pm W 8:30am - 5pm 8:30am - 4:30pm TH 8:30am - 5pm 8:30am - 4:30pm F 8:30am - 5pm 8:30am - 4:30pm The office is closed weekends, holidays, and recess days. Yale FacebookLinkedIn Office of Career Strategy The Office of Career Strategy works with students and alums of Yale College and Yale Graduate School of Arts and Sciences as well as Yale postdoctoral scholars from all disciplines. The Office of Career Strategy advisors help students, alums, and postdocs to clarify career aspirations, identify opportunities, and offer support at every stage of career development. Services offered by the Office of Career Strategy for Masters and Ph.D. students are part of a suite of resources supported by the Graduate School of Arts & Sciences to foster professional and career development. Career support for undergraduates is a part of a collection of support offered by the Center for International & Professional Experience. Contact 55 Whitney Avenue, 3rd Fl. New Haven, CT 06510 (203) 432-0803 careerstrategy@yale.edu About CIPE The Yale College Center for International and Professional Experience (CIPE) is a group of offices that work together, and with other academic advisers on campus, to support undergraduate students throughout their four years at Yale as they make decisions about their academic plans and explore career options. CIPE is composed of the Office of Career Strategy, the Yale College Office of Fellowships, Yale Summer Session, and Yale College Study Abroad. Visiting Yale Campus Tours Maps & Directions Yale Visitor Center Museums & Galleries New Haven More Visit Resources Privacy Policy | Terms of Service Copyright © 2022 Yale University Powered by uConnect Posting....