Skip to content Skip to main nav Yale University Search Keywords Log in Sign up GSAS Yale College Center for International & Professional Experience Office of Career Strategy EMPLOYERS FACULTY/STAFF YALE CAREER LINK Who Are You? Undergraduates Masters PhDs & Postdocs Alums Families Prospective Students & Guests Communities What is a Community? Affinity/Identity Student Athletes First Generation and/or Low Income Students International Students LGBTQ Students Students of Color Students with Disabilities Student Veterans Career Exploring Careers Business, Law & Industry Common Good & Creative Careers Environment, Sustainability & Energy Gap Year & Short-Term Opportunities General Management & Leadership Development Programs STEMConnect Applying to Graduate & Professional School Graduate School Health Professions Business School Law School Get Advice Meet with OCS Student Organizations Workshop Request OCS Podcast Series Get Prepared Resumes Cover Letters & Correspondence Professional Conduct & Etiquette LinkedIn & Professional Online Identity Interview Preparation References Resource Database Jobs & Internships Yale Career Link Jobs, Internships & Other Experiences Funding Your Experience Career Fairs/Networking Events On-Campus Recruiting Job Offers & Salary Negotiation Jobs Feed Get Connected Networking Informational Interviewing Peer Networking Lists Outcomes YC First Destinations YC Four-Year Out Statistics & Reports About OCS Contact OCS Staff List OCS Mission & Policies Additional Yale Career Offices Staff List Robyn Acampora Lisa Blees Denise Byrnes Julia Coppola Laurie Coppola Jeanine Dames Stephanie DelVento Lori Ferrara Stephanie Glover Jacob Gonzalez David Halek Elayne Mazzarella Kristin McJunkins Kelly McSergi Meredith Mira Hyun Ja Shin Derek I. Webster Jorimel Zaldivar Yuanyuan Zhang Holly Rudel Tom Santa Maria Prerak Juthani Jessica Lee Madeline Pages Ankita Sukthankar Olivia Wei Zenan Wang Chelsea Xu Haofan Li Alec Wood Emily Korzeniewski Nicholas Surdel Abhishek Dev Robyn Acampora Director of Strategic Initiatives and Public Service Careers Preferred Pronouns: she/her/hers Robyn joined the Office of Career Strategy in the fall of 2012 and is eager to meet with students who are at any point of their career exploration process. Robyn oversees the Common Good & Creative Careers team. She also manages a number of public service initiatives for the office including the Yale Alumni Community Service Fellowship and Yawkey Fellowship. She is the Office of Career Strategy liaison for student athletes. Robyn currently services on two professional association committees – the EACE Connections Committee, which manages the Professional Exchange and Road Trips to the Real World and the NACE Committee First Destinations Task Force. Before joining the Office of Career Strategy, Robyn spent seven years at Yale Law School’s Career Development Office as the Associate Director of Administration, where she worked on a number of public interest programs and was responsible for all postgraduate employment reporting. When she is not working, Robyn is typically either enjoying pizza nights and dance parties or attending/coaching an athletic event with her husband, two children and dog, Hogan. CareerPublic Sector & Non-Profit ConsultingCommon Good & Creative CareersNon-ProfitPolicy & Think TanksEnvironment, Sustainability & Energy Affinity/IdentityStudent Athletes PeopleCGCC - Career Coffee Chats Contact (203) 432-9459 55 Whitney Ave., 3rd Floor robyn.acampora@yale.edu ocs.yale.edu Schedule an Appointment Recent Posts Common Good Careers Advising continues to be available all summer! Student Athlete Career Advising Sessions Now Offered at Payne Whitney Gym on Tuesdays! Government & Communications Job Board Available to Yale Students! Career Change Ideas | How to Ease into Social-Impact Work How to Get an Internship in a Common Good Career (Nonprofit/Government) Lisa Blees Assistant Director, Programming & Internal Relations Preferred pronouns: she/her Lisa started her Yale career in 2004 and joined the Office of Career Strategy in 2006 where she supported Health Professions Advising and STEM Connect for several years. In 2021 she moved to her current role supporting office-wide initiatives in the Office of Career Strategy. In her free time, Lisa enjoys traveling with her family, playing with her two dogs, Cosmo and Louie, and listening to podcasts. Contact (203) 432-0818 55 Whitney Ave., 3rd Floor lisa.blees@yale.edu ocs.yale.edu Recent Posts Receiving Funding for your Summer Experience Award or Fellowship Award? Denise Byrnes Associate Director Preferred Pronouns: She/Her/Hers Denise focuses on employer development and engagement predominately within business, law and industry, while also advising students as they pursue their career goals. During her time at Yale, she has been actively involved with EACE having served on two committees, and more recently served on a committee for NACE. Prior to joining Yale, she advised MBA candidates while at the Lubin Graduate Center of Pace University. Denise began her career working in the financial sector and has held positions at two major financial institutions. She graduated from Stony Brook University and has a Master’s in Education from Fordham University. She enjoys cycling, hiking and paddle boarding. PeopleEmployers Contact (203) 432-9633 55 Whitney Ave., 3rd Floor denise.byrnes@yale.edu ocs.yale.edu Recent Posts The Best Managed Companies of 2021 Julia Coppola Senior Administrative Assistant Preferred Pronouns: She/Her/Hers Julia joined the Office of Career Strategy in August 2001. She coordinates the on-campus recruiting program, where she works with over 85 employers who conduct interviews with over 1,800 students each year. With positive energy and enthusiasm, Julia facilitates industry events where 200 employers meet with nearly 1,900 students and assists employers, students and alumns in navigating Yale Career Link. Oustside of work Julia enjoys baking, kayaking, hiking and being with family and friends PeopleEmployers Contact (203) 432-0804 55 Whitney Ave., 3rd Floor julia.coppola@yale.edu ocs.yale.edu Recent Posts 10,000 Entrepreneurs (10KE), a scholarship initiative Laurie Coppola Senior Associate Director Preferred pronouns: she/her Laurie advises and counsels undergraduates and alumni in Yale College and students in the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences interested in pursuing further education and careers in the healthcare and STEM fields. Prior to joining Yale, Laurie held various managerial roles for AT&T. During her tenure with AT&T, she managed a staff of over twenty employees and led process improvement efforts which enhanced the effectiveness, accuracy and delivery of billing information to customers. Laurie earned a B.A. from Albertus Magnus College. She embarked on her new career with the Office of Career Strategy after obtaining her M.S. in Human Services from Albertus Magnus College. Laurie’s latest opportunity has been teaching counseling techniques to students pursuing their undergraduate degrees in human services from her alma mater. As an active member of the National and Northeast Associations for Advisors in the Health Professions, Laurie attends annual conferences and meets with pre-health colleagues and representatives from health profession and medical schools. She is a member of the National and Eastern Associations of Colleges and Employers and the Connecticut Career Counseling and Development Association. CareerHealth ProfessionsDental SchoolMedical SchoolOther Health ProfessionsPublic HealthVeterinary School Contact (203) 432-0746 55 Whitney Ave., 3rd Floor laurie.d.coppola@yale.edu ocs.yale.edu Schedule an Appointment Recent Posts Looking for advice on how to prepare and study for the MCAT? Jeanine Dames Director, Office of Career Strategy and Associate Dean, Yale College Preferred Pronouns: She/Her/Hers Jeanine joined the Office of Career Strategy in the fall of 2011 after serving as a Director in the Career Development Office at Yale Law School, and a Senior Associate Director in the Career Development Office at the Yale School of Management. Prior to joining Yale, Jeanine worked in career services at both Fordham University School of Law and the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law in Manhattan. She is an active member of the National Association of Colleges and Employers and was a founding member of the Alumni Section of the Association of Legal Career Professionals. Prior to transitioning to career services, Jeanine was an attorney and practiced real estate and environmental law in New York and Connecticut. She also served as pro bono legal counsel for South Brooklyn Legal Services. She has a B.S. from Cornell University and a J.D. from Fordham University School of Law. Jeanine is an avid Greek Mythology fan and enjoys spending her free time with her husband, son and two dogs – Artemis and Atlas. PeopleFaculty/StaffFamiliesProspective Students & Guests Contact (203) 432-8040 55 Whitney Ave., 3rd Floor jeanine.dames@yale.edu ocs.yale.edu Connect on LinkedIn Stephanie DelVento Senior Administrative Assistant, Health Professions Advising/STEM Connect Stephanie joined the Office of Career Strategy in January 2022 as the Senior Administrative Assistant for the STEM Connect and Health Professions Advising team. Prior to joining Yale, Stephanie worked at a community college in Pennsylvania for 5 years supporting career services. She earned her master’s degree in higher education administration from New England College (2020) and she has a Bachelor’s degree in media and communication from Delaware Valley University (2016). Stephanie’s undergraduate experience in Career Services helped shape her decision to enter higher education post-graduation and she is excited to support programs that help students as they take the next step in their careers. In her spare time, Stephanie enjoys camping, kayaking, gardening, reading, and spending time with friends and family. Contact (203) 432-7782 55 Whitney Ave, 3rd floor stephanie.delvento@yale.edu Connect on LinkedIn Lori Ferrara Senior Administrative Assistant Preferred Pronouns: She/Her/Hers Lori joined the Office of Career Strategy in the spring of 2001 working with the domestic internship program. She now works with the Common Good & Creative Careers team and also supports graduate students in the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. Additionally, Lori oversees the weekly Yale College newsletter content compilation and distribution. She graduated with a B.S. in Marketing from Salve Regina University in Newport, RI. In her spare time she enjoys sports and hanging out with friends and family. Contact (203) 432-0811 55 Whitney Ave., 3rd Floor lori.ferrara@yale.edu ocs.yale.edu Recent Posts The Yale Peabody Museum Student Internships Americans For the Arts, Diversity In Arts Leadership program Upcoming Career Forums for Japanese-English bilingual students Strategies for Your Job & Internship Search Creating Compelling Resumes & Cover Letters Stephanie Glover Senior Administrative Assistant Stephanie joined the Office of Career Strategy in 1999. She has a Bachelor’s degree in Consumer Affairs in Management/Business Administration from Howard University. After graduating she worked as a fire and lawn equipment safety specialist with the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission in Bethesda, MD. Stephanie has a passion for health & wellness/nutrition and will be pursuing a second bachelor’s degree in Dietary Science at the University of New Haven in the fall. Stephanie lives in New Haven and when not at Yale she can be found gardening or working on a DIY project at home. She likes to travel, loves children and in her spare time she sings with her church choir and works with the Youth Ministry. Contact 203-432-0805 55 Whitney Ave., 3rd Floor stephanie.glover@yale.edu ocs.yale.edu Jacob Gonzalez Senior Associate Director, Graduate and Postdoctoral Career Services Jacob Gonzalez joined the Office of Career Strategy in the fall of 2021 to help graduate students and postdoctoral fellows leverage their degrees and training to find fulfilling careers outside of academia. Prior to joining Yale, Jacob served as the Associate Director for Career Advising (Sciences and Mathematics) at Wesleyan University supporting undergraduates, graduate students and alumni to explore and prepare for careers in STEM and healthcare-related fields. He was involved in biomedical research for ten years, participated in numerous professional development programs in the life sciences industry, then later transitioned to career services. Through his academic career and experiences as a biomedical scientist and career advisor, Jacob developed a passion for mentoring and supporting the professional development journeys of scholars across the arts and sciences. He earned a B.S. in Biochemistry from California State University, Fullerton and holds a Ph.D. in Cell Biology from Yale, where his research focused on epigenetic mechanisms of stem cell self-renewal. After graduating, Jacob completed a postdoctoral fellowship in cancer biology at the University of California, San Diego. He lives along the Connecticut shoreline in Old Saybrook with his wife, son and Vizsla dog. In his free time, Jacob is either backpacking or hitting the trails on his mountain bike. PeopleMastersPhDs & Postdocs Contact (203) 432-0810 55 Whitney Ave., 3rd Floor jacob.gonzalez@yale.edu ocs.yale.edu Schedule an Appointment Connect on LinkedIn Recent Posts Career Strategy Essentials with the Office of Career Strategy (GSAS and Postdocs) Matthew Ellis wins 2nd Prize at NAGS 3-Minute Thesis Competition Yale 2022 3-Minute Thesis Competition Winners Announced! 2022 3-Minute Thesis Competition Details & Deadlines David Halek Director of Employer Relations As the director of employer relations, David Halek is responsible for building and maintaining relationships with leading organizations that seek to grow their workforce with the talented graduates of Yale College, Yale Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, and Yale’s accomplished post-doctoral associates. Throughout his extensive career in both the private sector, and higher education, David has held leadership roles in strategic marketing, corporate relations, business development, institutional advancement, and operations management. Prior to joining Yale, David was director of institutional advancement services for Western Connecticut State University. Prior to that he was director of omni-channel marketing at boutique consulting firm, Peppers and Rogers Group, and was vice president of affinity marketing at Prudential Relocation Management. David earned a B.A. from the University of Rochester, and M.Ed. and Ed.S. degrees in higher education administration from the University of Florida. David also holds a professional certification in digital media marketing from New York University. PeopleEmployersFaculty/Staff Contact (203) 432-8043 55 Whitney Ave., 3rd Floor david.halek@yale.edu ocs.yale.edu Recent Posts Life Sciences Careers – Demand Outweighs Supply of Talent in Massachusetts FreeThink Technologies – Full Time Roles Yale Hosts NASA Scientists at “Increasing Human Potential Symposium” Mechanical Engineers, Electrical Engineers: Infinity Fuel Cell and Hydrogen, Inc. Writer’s Vision Grant – presented by Warby Parker and The Black List Elayne Mazzarella Director of Career Services and Alumni Advising Elayne has worked in Higher Education, specifically in Career Services for over 20 years and has been at Yale since 2003. Elayne is a general career advisor with a specialty in career exploration. Elayne works with undecided students, graduating seniors and is also a pre-law advisor. In addition, Elayne works with alumni throughout all stages of their career development process. Elayne is MBTI, Strong, SDS and Clifton StrengthsFinder certified. Elayne holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Mathematics from Manhattanville College; a Masters of Arts Degree in Psychology and a Master’s of Education Degree in Counseling Psychology from Teacher’s College, Columbia University. She has held leadership positions on the executive boards of the Eastern Association of Colleges and Employers, the Metropolitan New York College Placement Officers Association, the New York State Career Counseling Association, the Colleges of Worcester Consortium, the Northeast Association of Pre-Law Advisors and the executive board of the Connecticut Career Counseling and Development Association. CareerBusiness SchoolLaw School Affinity/IdentityLGBTQ Students PeopleAlums Contact (203) 432-9454 55 Whitney Ave., 3rd Floor elayne.mazzarella@yale.edu ocs.yale.edu Schedule an Appointment Recent Posts Two New Free Programs for Prospective Pre-Law Students OCS is hiring a Grad Student: Law School Personal Statement Reviewer Kristin McJunkins Director, Health Professions Advising & STEM Connect Preferred pronouns: she/her/hers Kristin McJunkins oversees advising and counseling for undergraduates and alumni in Yale College and students in the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences interested in pursuing further education in the health and medical fields, and is also a general advisor for STEM fields. A longtime higher education professional, Kristin began her career handling event planning and facilities management at Widener University, where she obtained a B.S. in Business Administration and M.Ed. in Education. Transitioning to advising services at the University of Pennsylvania, she coordinated the peer/faculty advising program for 1,600 first year undergraduates as well as managed special services for first-year students and sophomores, in the College of Arts & Sciences. In 2004, Kristin joined Johns Hopkins University as a Pre-Health and Pre-Law Advisor, and since 2006 has worked at Yale University, serving as Director since 2009. Kristin is an active member of the National and Northeast Associations for Advisors in the Health Professions, NACADA (The Global Community for Academic Advising), and the National and Eastern Associations of Colleges and Employers. CareerHealth ProfessionsDental SchoolMedical SchoolOther Health ProfessionsPublic HealthVeterinary School Contact (203) 432-0808 55 Whitney Ave., 3rd Floor kristin.mcjunkins@yale.edu ocs.yale.edu Schedule an Appointment View Calendar 2034320808 Recent Posts Meta Design Summit BWH: Technical Research Assistant I – Hematology (Battinelli Lab) Health Professions Electronic Personal Statement Review April 11 – July 31, 2022 MCAT (Medical College Admissions Test) Gap Year and Short-Term Opportunities Before Entering a Health Professions Program Kelly McSergi Assistant Director of Employer Relations Kelly McSergi, new to Yale in 2021, is the Assistant Director of Employer Relations. Kelly focuses on employer development and engagement with an emphasis on employers in government, non-profit, education, and the arts. Until recently Kelly served as employer relations manager in the career development center at the University of New Haven. Kelly earned a Bachelor of Fine Arts degree in Dance at Marymount Manhattan College. She then earned a Master’s in Education in Higher Education Leadership at Florida Atlantic University. Kelly has held various positions in alumni engagement, operations, and events at Marymount and Florida Atlantic University. In her spare time, she enjoys exploring new cities, being outside, and having a good cup of coffee. PeopleEmployers Recent Posts Paralegal Specialist at The Antitrust Division (Washington, DC) Current Opportunities with Boston Plan for Excellence EPA hiring Budget Analyst Public Interest Research Groups hiring Problem Solvers now! Social & Economic Recovery Strategy Fellowship in CT Governor’s Office Meredith Mira Senior Associate Director Preferred Pronouns: She/Her/Hers Meredith joined the Office of Career Strategy in the summer of 2013 where she advises students and alumni as they begin the process of articulating who they are, what they care about, their key skills, and how they want to make an impact in their communities. She has significant experience shaping post-graduate career paths and outcomes for a wide range of students, including those from first-generation and otherwise underrepresented backgrounds, helping them center their lived experiences within a broader understanding of institutional culture, relative privilege, and the world of work. Meredith completed her doctoral degree at the Harvard Graduate School of Education, where her research focused on how high school students from a range of racial and socioeconomic backgrounds become aware of social inequality and motivated to work towards social change. She is also part of the international Leading Change Network, which is a wide-ranging group of educators, researchers, and practitioners engaged in strengthening community organizing efforts throughout the world. Meredith lives in New Haven with her husband; together they are learning a lot from their two young children, whose worlds keep getting more interesting by the day. Contact (203) 432-0809 55 Whitney Ave., 3rd Floor meredith.mira@yale.edu ocs.yale.edu Schedule an Appointment Connect on LinkedIn Recent Posts Connecting with Faculty & Requesting Letters of Recommendation Breaking into Data Science out of Undergrad Applying To (and Paying For!) Graduate School (videos) Computer Science Industry Guide with Hiring Timeline Thinking about Applying to Grad School? Talk to Yale’s Grad School Advisors! Hyun Ja Shin Director, Graduate and Postdoctoral Career Services Since 2015, Hyun Ja has served as the Director of Graduate and Postdoctoral Career Services in the Office of Career Strategy. In this position, she oversees advising and programming to support graduate students and postdocs considering careers beyond the academy. Prior to this role, Hyun Ja performed strategic business analysis for Yale’s Vice President of Business Operations and Yale Conferences & Events, and served as the founding administrator for the Becker-Friedman Institute for Economics at the University of Chicago. Before moving into higher education administration, she was an economic consultant specializing in antitrust matters for Charles River Associates. She received a Ph.D. in economics from Yale University and her undergraduate degree from Princeton University. PeopleMastersPhDs & Postdocs Contact (203) 432-7274 55 Whitney Ave., 3rd Floor hyunja.shin@yale.edu ocs.yale.edu Schedule an Appointment Connect on LinkedIn Derek I. Webster Senior Associate Director for Creative Careers After graduating from Yale as a film studies major, Derek spent a decade in Los Angeles as a literary manager and script consultant. He now organizes and expands the university’s arts career resources. Derek works with students and alumni to explore creative careers, which can include pursuing recruited or external job searches; reviewing submission and pitch materials; improving networking approaches; and helping Yalies to navigate the arts, entertainment or communications related industries. Currently enrolled in the Fairfield Creative Writing MFA program, when not adventuring with his wife and precious/precocious children, Derek is prone to the occasional burst of fiction, both literary and genre: ivanhope.com/writing. CareerAdvertising, Marketing & PRStartups, Entrepreneurship & Freelance WorkCommon Good & Creative CareersArtsArchitectureDesignFashionFine & Visual ArtsMuseums & Arts AdministrationTheater, Dance & MusicMedia & CommunicationsDigital MediaEntertainmentJournalismMusic RecordingPublishing & Literary Affinity/IdentityFirst Generation and/or Low Income Students PeopleBuckley Media & Public Policy Funded InternshipsLos Angeles Arts Funded InternshipsPaul Block Journalism Funded InternshipsYale Arts Apprenticeship ProgramYale in Hollywood Summer Internship Program Contact 203-432-6173 55 Whitney Ave, 3rd Floor derek.webster@yale.edu ocs.yale.edu Schedule an Appointment Connect on LinkedIn Recent Posts Website Design through the WIX/Yale Partnership Fall Application Open for The New York Times Corps Craft & Career: Jennifer Harrison Newman MFA ’11, artistic director, performance artist – Part 1 & 2 Craft & Career: Sharon Louden Yale MFA, artist, educator, Chautauqua Institute – Part 1 & 2 Craft & Career: Zoe Hunter, Yale Tsai CITY – Part 1 & 2 Jorimel Zaldivar Senior Associate Director for Common Good Careers Jorimel joined the Office of Career Strategy in the fall of 2021. As a member of the Common Good & Creative Careers team (CGCC), he supports undergraduate students who are pursuing careers within education, government, and non-profits. Jorimel loves meeting with students as they reflect on their personal and professional development, prepare and plan towards achieving their career goals, and seek to maintain their wellness throughout the job search process. He also manages programming for the CGCC that include overseeing the Yawkey, Women in Government, and the Yale Alumni Community Service funded internships. Jorimel is a member of several career-related professional associations, and he is especially active within the Connecticut Career Counseling & Development Association. He studied history as an undergraduate at New York University, where he also earned his M.A. in Mental Health Counseling. Jorimel is a licensed professional counselor within the state of Connecticut and a national certified counselor. Among his favorite activities outside of work include going to the gym, listening to opera, and keeping up with his favorite heroes from Marvel and anime. CareerCommon Good & Creative CareersEducationGovernment Contact (203) 432-9453 55 Whitney Ave jorimel.zaldivar@yale.edu ocs.yale.edu Schedule an Appointment Recent Posts Yale Alumni Community Service Funded Internship (YACSF), Opportunities Now Available via CareerLink with $5,000 Stipend Association of Professional Schools of International Affairs (APSIA) Urban Land Institute (ULI) EdSurge: An Online Resource For Everything EdTech and More Yuanyuan Zhang Manager of Research, Data & Analytics Preferred Pronouns: She/Her/Hers Yuanyuan joined the Office of Career Strategy in the fall of 2020. As Manager of Research, Data & Analytics, she leads the analysis of OCS-wide data, and works with the leadership team on strategic planning. Prior to joining Yale, she worked at Rice University where she served as the Organizational Insight Analyst performing advanced and complex statistical work in support of the Office of Institutional Effectiveness. Before Rice, she was a Market Researcher at the International Facility Management Association, where she conducted research to help define market opportunities and product strategies, and to support planning and decision-making of the organization. Yuanyuan received her doctorate in Mass Communication from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. She lives in New Haven with her husband and their two children. During her free time, she enjoys Yoga, dance, and hiking with her family. Contact 203-432-6609 55 Whitney Avenue, 3rd Floor yuanyuan.zhang@yale.edu ocs.yale.edu Recent Posts Interdisciplinary Artificial Intelligence Teaching Opportunity – Summer 2022 Holly Rudel Graduate School Peer Advisor (STEM) Holly is a third-year Ph. D. student in Environmental Engineering. Her research focuses on optimizing the efficiency of nanomaterials in sorbing environmental contaminants through crystal-facet engineering. She is also involved on the board of the graduate Society of Women Engineers, where she has helped to facilitate a variety of events on campus. Prior to coming to Yale, Holly was a chemical physics major and varsity swimmer at Bowdoin College. She then spent a year as a middle school math and science teacher in northwest Massachusetts. She now works as an advisor for Yale undergraduates and alumni interested in applying to graduate school. Holly is an avid reader, crossword puzzle enthusiast, and cat-lover (especially her cat, Periwinkle). CareerGraduate SchoolSelecting a Graduate ProgramGraduate School Application Process & TimelineFinancing & Evaluating Graduate School Contact holly.rudel@yale.edu Schedule an Appointment Tom Santa Maria Graduate School Peer Advisor (Humanities & Social Science) I am a sixth-year student in Renaissance Studies and History with a focus on the religious and cultural history of early modern Europe along with early modern Catholicism, especially the activities of the Jesuits in the decades following the Council of Trent. My research interests relate to sense history and the challenges presented by the ambivalent role of the senses in the spiritual life. Should the senses be trusted as tools that move the mind to God and profit the soul leading to eternal life, or guarded as the gates of sin that incite the body to lust and damn the soul leading to eternal death? For sources I work with early modern devotional and theological writings as well as sermons. Thanks to good fortune, my research has brought me to Rome on a few occasions, and I hope to return there in future. Before Yale, I completed a master’s degree in theological studies at Boston College and received my undergraduate degree at the College of the Holy Cross where I completed the honors course in history, classics, and Catholic studies. While at Holy Cross, I also competed in varsity track and field and continue coaching and officiating to this day. I look forward to meeting with students and discussing post-graduate opportunities! CareerGraduate SchoolSelecting a Graduate ProgramGraduate School Application Process & TimelineFinancing & Evaluating Graduate School Contact thomas.santamaria@yale.edu Schedule an Appointment Prerak Juthani Prerak Juthani is currently finishing up a dual MD-MBA degree between the Yale School of Medicine and Yale School of Management. He graduated summa sum laude from UC Berkeley with a double major in Public Health and Molecular and Cell Biology. Prerak is immensely passionate about business and entrepreneurship. In fact, while applying for medical school, he created an organic chemistry board game called REACT!, which he brought to market by crowdfunding over $25,000; the game is currently for sale online, has sold 800+ copies worldwide, and has been featured by multiple news outlets including NPR, ABC7 News, and even the American Chemistry Society (ACS). Outside of medical school, Prerak also has his own YouTube channel (@Prerak Juthani, 29K subscribers, 2.6M+ views) and podcast called Red, White & Brown, which has over 10,000 downloads across 20 episodes (2 seasons) and has recently rceived over $5,000 in seed funding to promote more growth. The former is focused on increasing educational accessibility by providing tips for effective studying techniques. The latter is intended to provide an insight into the novel immigrant experiences of first-generation South Asian immigrants. Over the summer, Prerak interned as one of three MD-MBA fellows at Geisinger – one of the nation’s largest and most innovative healthcare systems. Long term, Prerak hopes to pursue an Internal Medicine residency and hopes to use the broadness of the specialty to merge his interest in business and medicine. Outside of academics, Prerak enjoys YouTube vlogging, running, listening to audiobooks, and spending time with friends and family. Contact prerak.juthani@yale.edu Schedule an Appointment Jessica Lee Drop-In Graduate Peer Advisor Jessica Lee is currently a 1Y MBA student at the Yale School of Management. Prior to enrolling at SOM, Lee worked in London as a Special Situations Cash Equities Trader at Barclays. She was responsible for analyzing merger-arbitrage opportunities, monitoring European M&A deal progressions, and managing the Special Situations trading book. Lee graduated from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, where she majored in Business Administration and minored in Asian Studies. She has studied in multiple countries, including South Africa, the UK, and India, and has also participated in exchange programs at the National University of Singapore and the Chinese University of Hong Kong. She serves as a member of UNC’s Young Alumni Leadership Council. Lee was born and raised in North Carolina, and enjoys running, yoga, traveling, and reading. A fun fact about her is that she is a black belt in Tae Kwon Do. Contact jessica.lee.jhl67@yale.edu Schedule an Appointment Madeline Pages Drop-In Graduate Peer Advisor Madeline Pages (she/her/hers) is a second-year MFA candidate in the Dramaturgy & Dramatic Criticism Department of the Yale School of Drama. She is a freelance dramaturg and producer, with a background in arts/non-profit administration and publishing. She has previously held artistic and/or literary positions at theater companies such as Shakespeare Theatre Company (DC), La MaMa Experimental Theatre Club (NYC), Signature Theatre Company (NYC), and Theatre For A New Audience (BK). She received a BA in English Literature from Barnard College. At Yale, Madeline is a member of the School of Drama Student Government, ActOUT, and the university-wide Performance Studies Working Group. Contact madeline.pages@yale.edu Schedule an Appointment Ankita Sukthankar Ankita is currently a 1Y MBA student at the Yale School of Management. This past summer, she was a product marketing intern on the Creative Cloud for Education team at Adobe. Prior to Yale, Ankita worked with EdelGive Foundation, a philanthropic foundation that funds non-profits in rural India. At EdelGive, Ankita was staffed on the Monitoring and Evaluation team, focusing on impact measurement, capacity building, and scale-up strategy development for high potential non-profits. She later worked as the Chief of Staff, driving key strategic initiatives, fundraising and marketing strategies, and thought leadership on behalf of the CEO. Ankita graduated from Brandeis University with a double major in Psychology and Education. She was born and raised in Mumbai, India, and is passionate about dance, food, travelling, and chasing sunsets. Contact ankita.sukthankar@yale.edu Schedule an Appointment Olivia Wei Drop-In Graduate Peer Advisor Olivia Wei is an MBA student at the Yale School of Management, class of 2022. Before starting her MBA, Olivia was a Management Consulting Manager at Accenture, primarily working on complex delivery of front office transformation programs for clients in the telecom and tech industries. Having made a career thus far of being a generalist, Olivia has worked on projects spanning strategy through to implementation in varied roles covering program management, business architecture, strategy & planning, requirements planning, process design, change management, devops, and product management. Olivia graduated from Wellesley College with a BA in International Relations: Economics, where she was a four-year student athlete and captain of the varsity fencing team. She loves spontaneous travel (pre-pandemic) and cooking & baking (especially post-pandemic). Contact olivia.wei@yale.edu Schedule an Appointment Zenan Wang McDougal Career Fellow Zenan Wang is a fourth-year Ph.D. student in the Department of Molecular, Cellular and Developmental Biology. His research focuses on the role of dietary fats in driving atherosclerosis. He joined the OCS team in March 2021 where he has been working with the management of the Yale GSAS Professional Experience (GPE) Fellowship. In addition to his role at OCS, Zenan is a Blavatnik Associate at the Yale Office of Cooperative Research, assisting with the marketing and commercialization of technologies developed by Yale researchers. Prior to coming to Yale, Zenan earned his Bachelor degree from Nanjing University in China. Zenan is an avid dog lover and an enthusiastic horse rider. Contact zenan.wang@yale.edu Recent Posts Apply for Fall 2022 GSAS Professional Experience (GPE) Fellowships! 2022 Summer Yale Graduate Impact (YGI) Fellowship for the Humanities [Openings available] Yale Graduate Impact (YGI) Fellowship for the Humanities [More Opportunities] 2022 Spring GSAS Professional Experience (GPE) Fellowship Applications NEW! Yale Graduate Impact (YGI) Fellowship for the Humanities Chelsea Xu McDougal Career Fellow Chelsea is a graduate student in Yale’s Interdepartmental Neuroscience Program. She received her B.S. in Neural Science from New York University, where she worked with Dr. Stefan Feske to examine the role of microglia in a mouse model of multiple sclerosis. Her interest in neuroimmunology and sex differences led her to join the late Dr. Ronald Duman’s lab to study the immune response in a mouse chronic unpredictable stress model and later, synaptic changes associated with the antidepressant action of allopregnanolone. She is currently working with Dr. Ifat Levy to study the computations of rewards and punishments in learning and decision-making. Contact chelsea.xu@yale.edu Recent Posts 2021 LSWC Breakout Group Insights & Summary Bain & Company – Application deadline is July 11 for consultant roles! Resource: Science Careers Mentoring Master Class: Peer Mentoring Groups The Kurds in the Middle East Haofan Li McDougal Career Fellow Haofan is a first-year Ph.D. student in the Department of Immunobiology at Yale University. She is broadly interested in the mechanisms of autoimmunity and allergy. Prior to coming to Yale, she earned her bachelor’s degree in molecular biology from Kenyon College. She also served as a diversity advisor as well as a stem mentor. She volunteered for the ATHENAS science program for middle school girls to heighten their experiences near and around science. Besides her roles as a McDougal Career Fellow and a graduate student, Haofan enjoys reading, gardening, and exploring new foods. Contact haofan.li@yale.edu Alec Wood McDougal Career Fellow Alec is a PhD student in musicology. A native of St. Louis, he earned a BA in Music and French from Grinnell College in 2019. His research, in dialogue mainly with media theory and continental philosophy, addresses the relationship of music to language and communication. He is especially interested in these issues as they pertain to music in digital culture and social media. Contact alec.wood@yale.edu Emily Korzeniewski McDougal Career Fellow Emily Korzeniewski is a Ph.D. candidate in the Department of Music. Her dissertation continues work developed in her master’s thesis on the fourteenth-century poet-composer Guillaume de Machaut and the mensural notation in his complete-works manuscripts. Although Emily’s primary research interests lie in the Middle Ages, her secondary research and teaching interests include contemporary Indigenous musics, a topic about which she is passionate as a member of the Citizen Potawatomi Nation. In addition to her role at OCS, Emily acts as a program assistant for the Yale University Library, helping to extend academic library resources to incarcerated students enrolled in college courses through the Yale Prison Education Initiative. Contact emily.korzeniewski@yale.edu Nicholas Surdel McDougal Career Fellow Nicholas Surdel is an experimental psychologist working in the Department of Psychology. He completed his undergraduate work at the University of Florida in 2018, his master’s degree at the College of William & Mary in 2021, and joined Yale’s Graduate School of Arts and Sciences in 2021. Although he has eclectic research interests, he largely focuses on how we form and update intuitive impressions about a robot’s capabilities. When he isn’t in the lab, you can find him delegating in Yale’s Graduate and Professional Student Senate, rowing as a captain in Yale Grad Crew, playing with his cat, or socializing around New Haven. Contact nicholas.surdel@yale.edu Abhishek Dev McDougal Career Fellow Abhishek is a second-year doctoral student in the Finance Department. His research interests are in entrepreneurial finance, market microstructure, and DeFi. Prior to joining Yale, he was a Research Associate at Harvard Business School and MIT Sloan School of Management. Abhishek is from Nepal and loves making jhol momos (dumplings). In his free time he likes birding, hiking, and playing ping pong. Contact abhishek.dev@yale.edu CONTACT & LOCATION Phone (203) 432-0803 Email careerstrategy@yale.edu Website http://ocs.yale.edu Address 55 Whitney Avenue, 3rd Fl. New Haven, CT 06510 SERVICE HOURS Academic Year Summer Hours M 8:30am - 5pm 8:30am - 4:30pm T 8:30am - 5pm 8:30am - 4:30pm W 8:30am - 5pm 8:30am - 4:30pm TH 8:30am - 5pm 8:30am - 4:30pm F 8:30am - 5pm 8:30am - 4:30pm The office is closed weekends, holidays, and recess days. Yale FacebookLinkedIn Office of Career Strategy The Office of Career Strategy works with students and alums of Yale College and Yale Graduate School of Arts and Sciences as well as Yale postdoctoral scholars from all disciplines. The Office of Career Strategy advisors help students, alums, and postdocs to clarify career aspirations, identify opportunities, and offer support at every stage of career development. Services offered by the Office of Career Strategy for Masters and Ph.D. students are part of a suite of resources supported by the Graduate School of Arts & Sciences to foster professional and career development. Career support for undergraduates is a part of a collection of support offered by the Center for International & Professional Experience. Contact 55 Whitney Avenue, 3rd Fl. New Haven, CT 06510 (203) 432-0803 careerstrategy@yale.edu About CIPE The Yale College Center for International and Professional Experience (CIPE) is a group of offices that work together, and with other academic advisers on campus, to support undergraduate students throughout their four years at Yale as they make decisions about their academic plans and explore career options. CIPE is composed of the Office of Career Strategy, the Yale College Office of Fellowships, Yale Summer Session, and Yale College Study Abroad. Visiting Yale Campus Tours Maps & Directions Yale Visitor Center Museums & Galleries New Haven More Visit Resources Privacy Policy | Terms of Service Copyright © 2022 Yale University Powered by uConnect Posting....