Skip to main content Princeton University Calendar Contact Us Office of the Dean of the College Search form Search Home About Curriculum Advising Advising in the Residential Colleges First Year Sophomore Junior Senior Choosing a Major Choosing a Certificate Departmental Advising Health Professions Advising Pre-Law Advising Program in Teacher Preparation Fellowship Advising Study Abroad Advising Time Away from Princeton: Taking a Leave of Absence How Do I…? Support Finding Help with Academic Work Course-Based Support Individual Peer Tutoring Consultations & Workshops Independent Work Writing & Research Finding Jobs, Internships & Fellowships Counseling, Personal Support & Disability Services Martin A. Dale '53 Fellowship Martin A. Dale '53 Summer Awards Senior Thesis Funding Financial Aid How Do I…? For Faculty & Staff Families Finding Help with Academic Work Course-Based Support Individual Peer Tutoring Consultations & Workshops Independent Work Writing & Research Finding Jobs, Internships & Fellowships Counseling, Personal Support & Disability Services Martin A. Dale '53 Fellowship Martin A. Dale '53 Summer Awards Senior Thesis Funding Financial Aid How Do I…? Finding Help with Academic Work Whether you are looking for help with papers, problem sets, exam preparation or time management, the University offers a wide range of support to help you succeed in your academic work. All you need is to know where — and when — to seek assistance. Students who take advantage of Princeton's collaborative resources tend to enjoy their academic work and achieve greater success. Every Princeton student, no matter how extraordinary, will need to ask for help at some point in their academic career. In fact, we hope and expect that students will seek out challenges and take some risks in choosing courses. Princeton courses are rigorous, and it’s perfectly normal to find the transition to college-level work overwhelming at times. Even if you go to class, participate in precepts, do the reading and take good notes, you may find at some point along the way that personal circumstances or unexpected distractions interfere with your ability to do your best work. If you start to feel challenged by material in one or more of your courses, asking for help is the smart thing to do. Don't delay, and don't wait until you feel lost or overwhelmed. Princeton semesters move at a fast pace, and the earlier you seek help and advice, the more options you will have. An important guide to finding the right source of help is your residential college dean or director of studies, so head straight to your college office when you are having difficulty. Your director of studies can advise you about your academic options, from changes you can make in your course placement or course schedule to the most useful academic resource for your particular situation. Fortunately, Princeton offers a vast array of academic resources, but it’s up to you to make use of them! Resources Publications Undergraduate Announcement Academic Integrity First-Year Academic Guide Princeternships: A Unique Student-Alumni Engagement Program Student Internship Policy View All Useful Websites Time Away from Princeton Center for Career Development McGraw Center for Teaching & Learning Office of Disability Services Writing Center View All Forms McGraw Center Appointment Writing Center Appointment Student Activities Fund Engine View All Academic Regulations Academic Calendars Publications Library Forms Library Useful Websites Frequently Asked Questions Course Books Purchasing Tool Directory Princeton University © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Office of the Dean of the College 4th Floor, Morrison Hall Princeton University Princeton, New Jersey 08544 USA Office Hours: 8:45 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday Website Feedback