Skip to main content Princeton University Calendar Contact Us Office of the Dean of the College Search form Search Home About Curriculum Advising Advising in the Residential Colleges First Year Sophomore Junior Senior Choosing a Major Choosing a Certificate Departmental Advising Health Professions Advising Pre-Law Advising Program in Teacher Preparation Fellowship Advising Study Abroad Advising Time Away from Princeton: Taking a Leave of Absence How Do I…? Support For Faculty & Staff Families In the Spotlight Faculty approve academic minors at Princeton Photo by Denise Applewhite, Office of Communications Written by: Denise Valenti, Office of Communications Princeton University students will be able to pursue minor courses of study outside of their primary discipline beginning in fall 2023. A proposal submitted by the Faculty Committee on the Course of Study to allow for academic minors was approved at the faculty meeting on April 25. Existing departments and programs will be able to offer a body of stand-alone coursework as a minor. Read more… Natalia Orlovsky named Princeton valedictorian, Frances Mangina selected as salutatorian Natalia Orlovsky, a molecular biology concentrator from Chadds Ford, Pennsylvania, has been selected as valedictorian of Princeton’s Class of 2022. Frances Mangina, a philosophy concentrator from Toronto, was named salutatorian. The Princeton faculty accepted the nominations of the Faculty Committee on Examinations and Standing at its April 25 meeting. Commencement for the Class of 2022 will take place at Princeton Stadium on Tuesday, May 24. Orlovsky and Mangina are expected to give remarks at the ceremony. Please read about Natalia Orlovsky and Frances Mangina on Princeton University's website. Read more… Labyrinth Books - Spring 2022 Course Books Starting 1/10/22 all coursebooks are available either in store or online at coursebooks.labyrinthbooks.com. 30% off all course materials. Save your receipts! Labyrinth Books buyback program guarantees savings of 55%-62.5%. For best selection, order what you need before the end of add/drop (2/4/). Ordering online and early will help you avoid lines and help us keep everyone safe! Questions? Email info@labyrinthbooks.com. Read more… Return to the Spring 2022 Semester: Memo from Vice President Calhoun and Dean Dolan January 19, 2022 We hope you’re well as we prepare for a fully in-person spring semester. Supporting the central academic and co-curricular Princeton experience requires that we all be mindful of our continued responsibility for the health and safety of ourselves and our community. Each of us recognizes how, in this difficult moment, our choices and actions may affect classmates, roommates, teammates, faculty and staff, and their families. Read more… Change in Winter Break Return Dates: Memo from Vice President Calhoun and Dean Dolan As we look forward to welcoming you back to campus for the Spring term, our primary goal is to maintain in-person classroom instruction and co-curricular activities, including varsity athletics, while also supporting the physical and mental health of our community. Because the pandemic continues and the highly transmissible Omicron variant presents yet another challenge to public health, the University has decided to organize a gradual return for undergraduate students. Read more… See all… Initiatives What’s New in the Classroom Princeton aims to be distinctive among research universities in its central and enduring commitment to undergraduate... Socioeconomic Diversity Princeton takes pride in its commitment to enabling students from all corners of society to benefit from our distinctive and... Educating Global Citizens In order to prepare Princeton students for leadership and service in an increasingly interdependent and culturally... Investing in Independent Work One of the defining elements of a Princeton education is independent work. Every A.B. student must complete a junior project... Dean Dolan's Downloads Handling Knowledge: Princeton University Press and the Pleasure of the Book Dean Dolan delivered these remarks at the 2019 Annual Meeting of the Princeton University Press (PUP) Association, at Prospect House, on Princeton’s campus, on December 12, 2019. She was invited to speak by the Press’s director, Christie Henry. I’m very honored to be speaking to you all on this occasion. Read more... Visit Dean Dolan's Blog Announcements August 18, 2021 Fall Course Reading Lists Available August 18 Fall Course Reading Lists Available August 18 Students will receive a 30% discount off the list price of... Read more… November 24, 2020 The University's response to coronavirus Princeton University is actively monitoring the situation around coronavirus (COVID-19). The latest University guidance for... Read more… See all… Academic Regulations Academic Calendars Publications Library Forms Library Useful Websites Frequently Asked Questions Course Books Purchasing Tool Directory Princeton University © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Office of the Dean of the College 4th Floor, Morrison Hall Princeton University Princeton, New Jersey 08544 USA Office Hours: 8:45 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday Website Feedback