Jump to main content Office of Disability Services Search form Search Main menu Home About ODS Ad Hoc Advisory Committee News Events Student Services Registration and Self-Identification Student Services Process Documentation Requirements Learning Disabilities/ADHD Physical/Sensory Disabilities Psychological Disabilities Temporary Disabilities Prospective Students Pre-Matriculation Services Initial Determination Forms Rights & Responsibilities ODS Rights & Responsibilities Students' Rights and Responsibilities Process for Resolving Issues Confidentiality AccessAbility Center Faculty ACCOMMODATE Faculty Student Resource Assistants Students Welcome to the Office of Disability Services Princeton University is committed to ensuring equal access to its curricular and co-curricular opportunities for students with disabilities. Offering a range of services, The Office of Disability Services facilitates reasonable accommodations to support our students with disabilities. The Office of Disability Services also serves as a resource to the many University administrative units and academic departments that have responsibility for or obligations to accommodate faculty, staff and campus visitors with disabilities. All students, faculty, staff and visitors are invited to contact us for more information. We may be reached by telephone at 609-258-8840 or by e-mail at ods@princeton.edu. Beginning Spring 2021, students and faculty will use the new disability management system, ACCOMMODATE, to navigate the accommodation process including making accommodation requests and sending notification letters to faculty. Student and Faculty Log in to ACCOMMODATE Need Help relating to ODS's disability management system, ACCOMMODATE? Email accommodatehelp@princeton.edu News Announcing New ODS Accommodation Process, Effective 2/1/21 Thursday, Dec 17, 2020 How to reach ODS now Wednesday, Mar 18, 2020 Guidance for Faculty and Students registered with ODS for guidance on accommodations in an online environment Tuesday, Mar 10, 2020 | More RSS feeds Events No upcoming events found. Important Forms Find all of the important forms you need in one place. Please use the free Adobe Acrobat Reader found here. Aryeh Stein-Azen Memorial Fund Request Aryeh Stein-Azen Memorial Fund Request Assistance Animal Addendum Assistance Animal Addendum Medical Disability Documentation Medical Disability Documentation Psychological Disabilities Diagnostic Report Psychological Disabilities Diagnostic Report Release of Information to ODS Release of Information to ODS Request for Accommodations Form Request for Accommodations Form Spring 2022 Semester Calendar Spring 2022 Semester Calendar Weekly Calendar Weekly Calendar Campus Resource Guide Are you experiencing a medical condition that requires special care? Is this resulting in unexpected medical expenses? Do you just need answers to questions about what help is available to you? Learn about on-campus and off-campus resources to help you navigate medical care or meet your associated needs. Discover available resources Secondary menu Contact & Directions Publications Policies Princeton, New Jersey 08544 USA - Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University