listings Roommates Subleases Resources College Legal Clinic Housing and Residential Engagement Parking and Transportation Services Titans Return Fall 2021 Update Virtual Student Services Renter Education Off-Campus Housing Marketplace What Are You Looking For? What Are You Looking For? Find Housing Find/List Roommates Find/List Sublets Post Listing Resources Find Off-Campus Housing International Students Our Mission In a city so large, it can be a challenge finding student-friendly places near CSU Fullerton. Whether you're a first-year student transitioning out of the dorms, a faculty member looking for short-term residency, or an International student looking for a place near campus, the CSU Fullerton Off-Campus Housing resource is here to help you with your search. Browse our list of resources and click on the active housing list for the most complete list of off-campus housing near CSU Fullerton. Have questions? Don't hesitate to reach out to the office Housing & Residential Engagement. Interested in living off-campus next semester? Browse our housing list to see what's available! First Steps What type of rental are you looking for? Do you need roommates? What is your budget? Consider these things before starting your search! Search Listings Head to the Listings page to view properties near CSU Fullerton. You'll be able to use filters to narrow down your search based on what you need. Contact Landlords Once you've found rentals that you like, reach out to the landlords via call or email to set up a showing! Featured University Village Fullerton 2000 Oxford AveFullerton, CA 92831 fav fav Featured S Bed University Village Fullerton 2000 Oxford AveFullerton, CA 92831 Ask Available: Call for Availability 18 mins To Campus 2 -4 Beds Beds Ask Price Call for Availability Availability Email Call Property Website Walk Time To Campus: 18 mins FAQ What is the closest neighborhood to CSU Fullerton? Downtown is the closest neighborhood to CSU Fullerton. When should I look for off-campus housing? You should start searching for off-campus housing in May to July for the following year. Do students at CSU Fullerton live mainly in houses or apartments? Students live mainly in apartments off-campus. Phone: (657) 278-2168 Email: housing@fullerton.edu Address: 1509 East Campus Drive Fullerton, CA 92834 LIVE-IN REQUIREMENT × All newly admitted First Year and Transfer students, under 21 years of age, with a home address outside of Pueblo County, who graduated high school or the equivalent in the preceding academic year are required to live on campus for two academic years (four complete academic semester, excluding summer). Students who violate this policy will be assessed the regular double room rate and meal plan. Committing to a lease outside of the Residence Halls does not exempt you from the requirement. Please make sure you are not bound by the requirement before committing to a lease. EXEMPTION REQUEST × This form is to request to live off campus if you are bound by the requirement. You must request this before July 12th to be approved to live off for the 2019-2020 academic year. Read the form thoroughly. Requests will only be reviewed if the form is complete. Filling out the form does not guarantee an exemption. Exemption status is emailed in the form of a letter to the student's email. Exemptions are reviewed between 5-7 business days after they have been submitted. https://bit.ly/2PSOLrU Disclaimer and Terms & Conditions RentalSearch Terms and Conditions READ THIS PAGE COMPLETELY. ITS EFFECT IS TO RELEASE COLORADO STATE UNIVERSITY, ITS GOVERNING BOARD, AND THE STATE OF COLORADO FROM ANY LIABILITY RESULTING FROM YOUR PARTICIPATION IN THE HOUSING INFORMATION AND REFERRAL SERVICE DATABASE, AND TO WAIVE ALL CLAIMS FOR DAMAGES OR LOSSES AGAINST THE UNIVERSITY WHICH MAY ARISE FROM SUCH ACTIVITIES EVEN IF THEY RESULT FROM NEGLIGENCE. In consideration for the voluntary use of the Off-Campus Life RentalSearch Service, and promising to take due care during such use, user (including user's heirs, assigns, and estate) agrees to save and hold harmless Colorado State University ("CSU"); Off-Campus Life ("OCL"); CSU's Service Provider, Rent College Pads, Inc., CSU employees, agents, and volunteers; CSU's Governing Board; and the State of Colorado from any and all liability, claims, losses, demands, actions, debts and attorney's fees arising out of or related to this service, claimed on account of, or in any manner predicted upon such use, including but not limited to loss or damage to the property of, injuries to, and/or death of user, which may or may not occur in connection to the performance or non-performance of any contract or conditions created thereby; or based upon any violation of any statute, ordinance, or regulation by user or by a third party against the interests of user. User understands that he or she is solely responsible for any costs arising out of any injury or damage that user may sustain through user's participation in normal or unusual acts associated with use of the Housing Information and Service database, regardless of whose fault may be the cause of user's injuries or damages, EVEN IF CAUSED BY CARELESSNESS OR NEGLIGENCE, so long as the conduct which caused the injuries or damages was not grossly negligent, or willful and wanton. User acknowledges and agrees that the inclusion in the RentalSearch Service of any available property or unit for rent or "roommate(s) needed" does not in any way constitute a warranty, endorsement, or representation as to the quality, safety, security or other features and characteristics of such property, its tenants, neighbors and/or its owner(s) or management agent(s). User understands and agrees that CSU, CSU's employees/agents/volunteers, OCL, CSU's Governing Board, and the State of Colorado disclaim any and all liability or responsibility for problems which may arise or losses which may occur with regard to such properties, rental units or with regard to disputes or altercations between 1) landlords/agents and their tenants 2) co-tenants 3) tenants and their neighbors and/or 4) the City of Fort Collins and either landlords or their tenants. User acknowledges and accepts that Off-Campus Life office does not inspect, review, recommend or endorse any of the facilities or tenants advertised nor does it interview or screen landlords, tenants, or roommates before allowing the posting of a listing. Nor does it investigate the history of the past tenancies of properties that are advertised on its database. Both Students and Landlords are strongly advised to adequately screen prospective co-tenants and parties with whom they may contract, and make a physical inspection of the premise prior to entering a contract. Agreements for housing should be made in writing. Both parties are advised to consult an attorney before entering into a binding legal agreement. Further, user hereby indemnifies and holds harmless The Board of Governors of the Colorado State University System and CSU, and their members, officers, agents, employees, volunteers, and any other persons or entities acting on their behalf, and the user's estate, successors and assigns for any and all of the aforementioned persons and entities, against any and all claims, demands, and causes of action whatsoever, whether presently known or unknown, of any person who suffers any injury, disability, death or other harm, to person or property or both, as a result of user's participation in the RentalSearch Service. User acknowledges that he or she has had sufficient time to review and seek explanation of the provisions contained above, have carefully read them, understand them fully, and agree to be bound by them. To assist students in locating potential off-campus options, Off-Campus Life operates the RentalSearch Service. The RentalSearch Service is a two-part "advertising" service that benefits both tenants and landlords. LANDLORDS: Landlords who are trying to fill their vacancies may contact CSU's Service Provider, Rent College Pads, Inc., via phone at (414) 882-3226 or by inquiring through the website. TENANTS: Students may visit Off-Campus Life via the Web, or in person and view potential options for their personal consideration. Review of materials and participation in the program does not guarantee placement, but may help in facilitating housing prospects that conform to an individual's requirements. The Off-Campus Life office does not inspect, approve or disapprove nor warrant accuracy of listings. The information listed is subject to change without notice, and has been voluntarily provided. Know your rights and responsibilities before signing any kind of lease. In case of questions and advice, please come and see us at Off-Campus Life, Rm. 274, Lory Student Center, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, CO 80523, (970) 491-2248 ph., or contact via email at offcampuslife@colostate .edu.