retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs MENU Search Search Housing and Roommates Apartment Finder Neighborhoods Types of Housing Finding a Roommate Roommate Agreement Apartment Search Guide Affordable Housing Tips for Renters Resources Guides and Forms Campus Resources Dining International Students Safety and Transportation Campus Safety Off-Campus Safety Transportation aUsTinite Events Connect Blog Contact Us Grid of four pictures, UT Shuttle bus stop, apartment complex, group of students at a restaurant, group of students playin spike ball Off-Campus Living Resources Sign up for our newsletter! Off-Campus Living Info Session Living off campus is an exciting opportunity to be part of the Austin and UT Austin community. Discover the resources available to you, plan your housing search and find out how to make your off-campus experience the best it can be. Get the details Apartment Finder Explore housing geared towards students, find roommates or list a sublease with our Off-Campus Housing Marketplace. Check it out Proactive Community Testing PCT is for patients who are feeling completely healthy. If you have any symptoms of COVID-19, no matter how mild, you must be tested at the UHS Symptomatic Testing Center. Learn more and schedule an appointment Featured Resources Protect Texas Together App The Protect Texas Together App will allow users to track symptoms before coming to campus, log in and out of campus rooms (for contact tracing purposes), download a campus pass, and get local COVID information and resources. International Students Find tips and resources for your UT Austin experience. Student Neighborhoods Explore the neighborhoods that surround UT using our interactive map and learn more about the students who live there, the neighborhood attributes and more. Off-Campus Safety Get the safety resources you need to feel confident off campus. Contact us! Location: New Student Services SSB, Suite 3.410 100 W Dean Keeton St. Austin, Texas 78712 Email: offcampus@austin.utexas.edu Phone: 512-471-3304 Instagram: Follow us Things to Consider When Moving Off Campus Moving off campus is an exciting step in your college career! This step may seem stressful, but it doesn't have to be. Learn More Related Sites UT Police Department Austin Police Department New Student Services University Housing and Dining Austin 3-1-1 University Health Services The information provided in this website is for informational purposes only, and does not constitute legal advice. The university does not endorse any of the third-party service providers referenced in or linked to from this website. Website information is subject to change without prior notice. UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022