Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Office of the General Counsel FAQ Get Legal Services Contact Search HOME Services Legal Services Notary Services People Resources Model Documents Publications & Advisories Copyright and Fair Use Conflict of Interest FAQs About Attorney-Client Privilege Contact Staff Summonses, Subpoenas, and Other Legal Notices: What To Do Entering or re-entering the U.S.: Guidance about Border Security Measures at Ports of Entry EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) New requirements for contracts with service providers who process personal data Copyright & Fair Use A Guide for the Harvard community. Breach of Data Security What to do if there is a breach in the security of personal information. Inquiries from Government and Regulatory Authorities Office of the General Counsel The OGC is responsible for all the legal work arising from the activities of Harvard’s Faculties and departments. Our mission is to render timely and thoughtful advice on the broad range of legal issues that the University, its faculty, and administrators confront on behalf of the University. ⚠️Fraud Activity Alert⚠️ Fraudulent Activity by Persons Posing as Harvard Procurement Staff (March 1, 2021) There has been an uptick in fraudulent Harvard purchase orders/requests that have been sent to external vendors, often with forged attachments. The purchase orders/requests fraudulently represent that they are coming from “Harvard Procurement” staff and often are inquiring about the purchase of branded marketing items (backpacks, water bottles, etc.) or asking vendors for sensitive tax information. While vendors have been reaching out to Harvard contacts to verify the legitimacy of orders, some vendors have experienced losses as a result of the scheme. A copy of the alert is available for review HERE. Legal Services Requests for legal assistance for University business should be directed to Bill Meyer, Julie Faber, or Javier Guzman. In the event that these people are unavailable and the matter requires immediate attention, please contact any of the other legal professionals in the Office of the General Counsel. Recent Developments 2020: A Year of Advocacy in Review January 4, 2021 2020 was unprecedented for many reasons, including that Harvard University saw the results of and participated both as a plaintiff and as a friend of the court in several lawsuits involving public policy issues of great importance to higher education. The matters below are reported in the order in which decisions were issued or cases were otherwise resolved. ... Read more about 2020: A Year of Advocacy in Review First Circuit Holds Harvard’s Admissions Program Does Not Unlawfully Discriminate November 12, 2020 The Federal Appeals Court rules that Harvard's race-conscious program is narrowly tailored to achieve diversity goals. The decision is available here. OGC Advisory Regarding Presidential Proclamation Barring the Entry of Certain Chinese Nationals June 5, 2020 The Office of the General Counsel has issued an advisory on the White House's Proclamation barring the entry of certain Chinese nationals. The advisory is available for review here. More Smith Campus Center, Suite 980 1350 Massachusetts Avenue Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138-3834 617-495-1280 People Staff Legal Professionals Resources Model Documents Copyright & Fair Use Attorney-Client Privilege Services Notary Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement