Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Open Mobile Navigation General Counsel Staff Contact Information Office of Governmental Relations Voting Information Federal Government Resources State Government Resources Organizations General Counsel Office of Governmental Relations Voting Information Federal Government Resources State Government Resources Organizations Office of Governmental Relations Welcome to the Office of Governmental Relations (OGR) webpages. The actions of local, state, and federal government have a significant impact on Baylor University. The OGR represents Baylor in these important governmental arenas and brings government officials to campus for speaking engagements, public forums, and informal sessions with students and faculty. Please contact the Office of Government Relations by email at ogr@baylor.edu or by calling (254) 710-3684. We look forward to hearing from you. Staff Rochonda Farmer-Neal, Director Mailing Address: One Bear Place #97133 Waco, Texas 76798-7133 Physical location: Pat Neff, Suite 306 General Counsel Office of Governmental Relations Staff Contact Information Office of Governmental Relations Back Voting Information Federal Government Resources State Government Resources Organizations General Information Academics & Research Administration Admissions Gateways for ... About Baylor Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate News Pro Futuris Search Social Media Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Accessibility Anonymous Reporting Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Digital Privacy Legal Disclosures Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678