Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Open Mobile Navigation General Counsel Staff Contact Information Office of Governmental Relations Voting Information Federal Government Resources State Government Resources Organizations Office of General Counsel The Office of General Counsel ("OGC") manages and supervises all legal affairs for the University. The General Counsel serves as the legal officer to the Board of Regents and the University. This office provides legal advice to the President, Board of Regents, faculty and administration on a broad array of legal issues and represents the University in all legal proceedings. The Office of General Counsel strives to advance the mission of the University and its complex constituency by providing timely advice toward sound decision making in all issues that face the University. The Office of General Counsel recognizes its role in Baylor's most recent strategic vision, Pro Futuris, which states: Aspirational Statement Five: Baylor will be a community recognized for Judicious Stewardship...where the value generated by and derived from a Baylor experience is supported through a diversity of revenues, prudent management of our resources and risks, and the pursuit of outstanding quality and character in every area of university life. Baylor will identify improvements in operational efficiencies and risk reduction without compromising educational quality and further promote a University-wide sense of responsibility for such improvements. The purpose of this site is to provide general information only, and nothing on this site should be construed as legal advice. If you have suggestions regarding information or educational topics which could be addressed on this website, please let us know. Due to our role as counsel for the University, attorneys in Baylor's Office of General Counsel are not permitted to serve as counsel to Baylor employees unless those employees are representatives of the institution on the specific legal matter. Attorneys in the Office of General Counsel are never permitted to represent or provide legal advice to students. While we have notaries in our office, they are only permitted to notarize documents related to Baylor business. Contact Us The Office of General Counsel is located on the second floor of Pat Neff Hall. Mailing address: Baylor University Office of General Counsel One Bear Place #97034 Waco, TX 76798 Phone: (254) 710-3821 Fax: (254) 710-3843 Map Find us on Baylor's campus map (link will open a new window). Staff Contact Information Office of Governmental Relations Back Voting Information Federal Government Resources State Government Resources Organizations General Information Academics & Research Administration Admissions Gateways for ... About Baylor Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate News Pro Futuris Search Social Media Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Accessibility Anonymous Reporting Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Digital Privacy Legal Disclosures Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678