Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Division of the Senior Vice President and General Counsel Home General Counsel Federal & State Relations Enterprise Risk Management University Governance Welcome Activism and Advocacy Information for Yale faculty, staff, and students about engaging in activism and advocacy on current issues within the context of a Yale affiliation. The Division of the Senior Vice President and General Counsel comprises four offices under the leadership of General Counsel, Alexander E. Dreier: the Office of the General Counsel, the Office of Enterprise Risk Management, the Office of Federal and State Relations, and the Office of Institutional Affairs. Office of General Counsel The Office of General Counsel (OGC) provides legal counsel, representation, and oversight of work on the wide range of legal matters affecting Yale University and its component organizations. OGC’s staff of professional attorneys advise administrators and faculty on legal and regulatory questions related to Yale’s activities, including transactional matters, dispute resolution, and policy formulation. They also represent the interests of the University in administrative and judicial proceedings. Office of Federal Relations The Office of Federal Relations (OFR) coordinates the University’s federal relations efforts. OFR monitors developments in federal legislative and administrative policies and advocates for policies and programs benefiting higher education and research and furthering the University’s mission. OFR follows a broad range of issues including student financial aid, funding for research, and legislation and regulation affecting intellectual property, immigration and visas, and tax rules affecting charitable organizations, as well as many other topics. Office of Enterprise Risk Management The Office of Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) coordinates the University’s risk management efforts and directs a comprehensive enterprise risk program. ERM is a resource for University managers and other members of the Yale community to obtain risk management advice so that they can carry out University activities in a manner that adequately considers safety, financial, reputational, and other risks. ERM also has primary responsibility for negotiating and ensuring the sufficiency of the University’s insurance portfolio and other risk and loss control programs. Office of Institutional Affairs The Office of Institutional Affairs supports the governance functions of the university. Its staff facilitate the work of the Yale Corporation (Board of Trustees), the university’s principal governing body, and the University Council, an advisory body to the president. The office communicates with administrators and units across campus on issues of governance policies and practices, particularly in relation to the activities of the board. Reaching Us 2 Whitney Avenue, 6th Floor New Haven, CT 06510 Phone: (203) 432-4949 Fax: 203-432-7960 View Campus Map Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Facebook Twitter Flickr iTunes YouTube