Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Office of Graduate Fellowships and Awards Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home About Us Staff Newsletter McKnight Doctoral and Dissertation Fellows OGFA Outreach External Funding Resources Grad Student Recognition Funding Alerts Funding Databases Graduate School Funding and Awards OGFA Resources Workshops Toolbox Grad Impact Meet the Team Graduate Student Profiles Research and Work In Action Reaching the Community Let's Meet FAQs Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Office of Graduate Fellowships and Awards Toggle navigation Home About Us Staff Newsletter McKnight Doctoral and Dissertation Fellows OGFA Outreach External Funding Resources Grad Student Recognition Funding Alerts Funding Databases Graduate School Funding and Awards OGFA Resources Workshops Toolbox Grad Impact Meet the Team Graduate Student Profiles Research and Work In Action Reaching the Community Let's Meet FAQs Current/Past Fellowship and Award Recipients Office of Graduate Fellowships and Awards The Office of Graduate Fellowships and Awards assists current FSU students with articulating their interests and ambitions in support of identifying and applying for external fellowships, scholarships, grants, and awards. Through our holistic approach, we are able to walk alongside students throughout the entire application process, offering tailored guidance at every step along the way. We regularly offer presentations and discussions for colleges, departments, meetings, and classes. Our workshops are designed to meet students where they are, covering both the basics of applying for external funding as well as in-depth advice for specific funding opportunities. The core expression of our mission, though, is the individual support we offer to students through one-on-one meetings, custom advice, and careful review of application materials. Legacy Sort 8 Legacy Priority 0 title-inside title-centered 2 Get Started Identify funding that best fits your academic and professional goals Read More Grad Impact Amplify the lived Graduate Student Experience through video and written narratives Read More Find Funding Identify funding that best fits your academic and professional goals Read More FAQ How can the Office of Graduate Fellowships and Awards be a resource to me? Read More Summer 2022 Workshops All workshops will be held via Zoom. Zoom links will be provided once the registration is submitted. For more information and to register for individual workshops, click the hyperlinked title. All students (undergraduate and graduate), faculty, and staff are welcome to attend. View all events... Mar 9 Academic Grant/English Teaching Assistant The Office of National Fellowships (ONF) and Office of Graduate Fellowships and Awards (OGFA) will host info sessions about the various Fulbright award... 11am I'm Going Mar 9 Funding Your Graduate Education: Database Search In this interactive session you will learn how to search and use the comprehensive funding database Pivot as well as other external award databases.... 1:30pm I'm Going Mar 22 Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowship Fellowships and Awards - Info Session 1pm I'm Going Mar 24 The Ins and Outs of Proposal Writing Join Evangeline Coker, Professional Development and Resource Specialist - Office of Research Development, who will provide tips on crafting a competitive research... 2pm I'm Going Mar 24 Fulbright GPS The Office of National Fellowships (ONF) and Office of Graduate Fellowships and Awards (OGFA) will host info sessions about the various Fulbright award... 4pm I'm Going Mar 28 Master's Pre-Defense Manuscript Submission Deadline This is the last day to submit a Master's thesis for the required pre-defense format review for students planning to graduate in Spring 2022. (See additional Manuscript... I'm Going Mar 29 Funding Your Graduate Education: Database Search In this interactive session you will learn how to search and use the comprehensive funding database Pivot as well as other external award databases.... 10:30am I'm Going Mar 30 AAUW Fellowships Fellowships and Awards – Info Session 2pm I'm Going Office of Graduate Fellowships and Awards 4001E Honors, Scholars, and Fellows House Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 850.645.0850 © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media