Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About Fogarty Global Health Fellows Program ARMHR Tulane Health Office for Latin America News and Events Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... TULANE OFFICE OF GLOBAL HEALTH Tulane Office of Global Health The mission of the Tulane Office of Global Health (OGH) is to foster interdisciplinary, collaborative research opportunities for faculty across Tulane University, and to promote global health research training opportunities for Tulane students. The Tulane Office of Global Health is a university-wide center, with representation from across Tulane University, including all of the schools and colleges: Newcomb-Tulane College, the School of Architecture, the A.B. Freeman School of Business, the School of Liberal Arts, the School of Medicine, the School of Professional Advancement, the School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, the School of Science and Engineering, and the School of Social Work. Additionally, the Office of Global Health has collaborative relationships with international organizations from a variety of countries, including Argentina, China, Democratic Republic of Congo, Honduras, Peru, and Zambia. Fogarty Global Health Fellows The FGHF program is a 12-month mentored research training program for pre- and post-doctoral candidates and is sponsored by the Fogarty International Center, as well as several individual NIH institutes, including the National Cancer Institute and the Office of Research for Women's Health. Learn More Advance Representation in Minority Health Research The new Tulane Program to Advance Representation in Minority Health Research (Tulane ARMHR) builds on the foundation of the past 14 years of funding through the Tulane-Xavier MHIRT Program to provide mentored research training experiences to graduate students from groups that are underrepresented in biomedical, behavioral, and social science research, including minority groups based on race/ethnicity, gender or sexual orientation, and socio-economic disparities. Learn More Resident Initiative in Global Health at Tulane Program The Resident Initiative in Global Health at Tulane (RIGHT) program will provide skills and training to residents interested in a career path in global health. Learn More Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University Office of Global Health 1440 Canal Street New Orleans, LA 70112 OfficeGlobalHealth@tulane.edu Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University