Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About Graduate and Professional Programs Academic Calendar FAQs Contact Us Featured Graduate Students and Postdoctoral Fellows Graduate Student Resources Prospective Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Graduate Housing Graduate Financial Aid Graduate Health Resources GSSA/OGPS Travel Funding Seminars and Workshops Career Resources Graduate Studies Student Associaton Graduate and Professional Student Association Postdoctoral Fellow Resources Postdoctoral Fellows at Tulane Postdoctoral Fellow Travel Funding NIH Individual Development Plans Seminars and Workshops OGPS Resources Graduate Council Terminal Degree Marketing Grants Graduate Policies PhD and Master's Program Reviews Best Practices Newsletter Opportunities for Current Graduate Students and Postdoctoral Fellows Quick Links Registrar Class Schedule Career Services Center Student Affairs Office of International Students and Scholars English Language Services Harassment Policy Report a Concern Schools School of Architecture A.B. Freeman School of Business School of Law School of Liberal Arts School of Medicine School of Professional Advancement School of Public Health & Tropical Medicine School of Science and Engineering School of Social Work About Graduate Student Resources Postdoctoral Fellow Resources OGPS Resources Quick Links Schools Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... OFFICE OF GRADUATE AND POSTDOCTORAL STUDIES Welcome to the Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies Welcome to OGPS! Welcome to the Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies (OGPS) at Tulane University! OGPS advances graduate education and enhances postdoctoral training through program oversight, policy development, and implementation of focused activities. OGPS is part of the Office of Academic Affairs. If you have general questions, please send them to ogps@tulane.edu If you have questions regarding career support, please contact Briana Mohan at bmohan@tulane.edu If you have questions regarding academic support, please contact Dr. Lauren Lukkarila at llukkarila@tulane.edu If you have questions regarding awards, grants, or other programs managed by OGPS, please contact Jennifer O'Brien-Brown at jobrien2@tulane.edu If you have questions regarding events and other programming at OGPS, please contact Amelia Manning at amanning1@tulane.edu Thank you, and take care! Graduate & Postdoctoral News This year, we welcomed almost 500 new PhD and master's students in a wide variety of disciplines across the School of Liberal Arts, School of Science and Engineering, School of Medicine - Biomedical Sciences. All students and postdoctoral fellows have access to the OGPS Canvas pages for more resources; if you believe you should have access but do not, please reach out to Jennifer O'Brien-Brown. Events & Workshops Events and Workshops will all be conducted online in the Fall 2021 semester to ensure that graduate students and postdoctoral fellows on all campuses have easy access. Please go to the OGPS Career Development Canvas page or the OGPS Academic Resources Canvas page to register for workshops. Calendar of Spring 2022 Workshops Donut Days! We are excited to bring back the popular Donut Day events at OGPS! In Spring 2022, we are offering opportunities for our grads and postdocs at both the Uptown and Downtown campuses! Feel free to stop by for a cup of coffee and a donut, starting at 9 AM until we run out. We look forward to seeing you there! Donut Days: Downtown Campus will be Wednesday, March 10 - located in Room 1525 of Richardson *Note on location: This office is located in the old Dean’s Hall in Hutchinson 1430 Tulane Ave, Room 1524. Currently, there is construction going on that is blocking the front entrance, turn right at the middle hallway (the one by the three elevators), go up those stairs, then turn right and the office is on the left around the corner at the end of that hallway. Donut Days: Uptown Campus will be Wednesday, March 24 - located in Suite 308 of Jones Hall, the OGPS Office External Funding Resources: Check out our list of external funding resources for fellowships, research grants, and postdoctoral training. *For more details on the workshops and seminars, please visit seminars and workshops. Check back for updates to the schedule. Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University