Let'S be Clear / OIE Get help now File a report Exit page Office of Institutional Equity Home Accessibility Discrimination & Harassment Employment Equity Title IX Religion Policies and Procedures OIE Team Our Mission The mission of UCF’s Office of Institutional Equity (OIE) is to ensure equal opportunity and to protect the civil rights of all University community members through proactive outreach, education, and effective response and resolution. The OIE supports a living, learning, and work environment that is free from discrimination, discriminatory harassment and retaliation where all members of the UCF community feel welcomed and valued. This includes OIE serving as the office of the ADA Coordinator and Title IX Coordinator. In furtherance of the University's commitment to equity, diversity and inclusion, OIE staff are responsible for the following activities: Compliance: monitoring the University’s compliance with equal opportunity and civil rights laws and related University policies and regulations. Complaint Resolution: investigating and/or otherwise resolving complaints of discrimination, discriminatory harassment, and/or retaliation. This includes complaints of being subjected to sexual violence, such as sexual assault, intimate partner violence and stalking. Employee Accommodations: facilitating employee requests for workplace accommodations pursuant to the Americans with Disabilities Act. Affirmative Action: developing and monitoring the University's Affirmative Action Plan. Recruitment and Hiring: facilitating and monitoring employee recruitment and hiring processes, and training employees (including search committee members) regarding applicable laws and best practices for search and hiring processes. Information: disseminating information about laws, policies, and procedures regarding equal opportunity and civil rights laws and related University policies and regulations for students and employees. Training: training faculty, staff, and students about their rights and responsibilities under applicable equal opportunity and civil rights laws and related University policies and regulations. Request OIE Training Let's Be Clear Let’s Be Clear, sex discrimination (including sexual misconduct) is not tolerated at UCF. OIE, along with campus partners, is responsible for responding to and providing resources for those involved in a report of sex discrimination. To learn more, please visit the University’s Let’s Be Clear website, which is a resource that explains what sex discrimination is, what to do if it happens, where to go for support, and more. To file a report related to sex discrimination, please click on “File a Report” at the top of this page. Learn More UCF IntegrityLine The UCF IntegrityLine is a secure reporting system administered by an independent third party. This service provides individuals who may be reluctant to report suspected misconduct through university administrative or central offices a way to report with complete confidentiality and anonymity. Available 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Speak Up Accessibility UCF is committed to providing equal access and full participation for individuals with disabilities within all University programs and activities. The Office of Institutional Equity (OIE) monitors the University’s compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act. The Director of OIE, Nancy Fitzpatrick Myers, serves as UCF’s ADA Coordinator and Section 504 Coordinator. These statutes prohibit discrimination on the basis of disability in any service, program or activity. In particular, OIE has responsibility for: resolving allegations of discrimination based on disability facilitating requests for workplace accommodations for employees with disabilities overseeing and ensuring University compliance with all relevant laws and regulations related to the ADA and Section 504, as well as other applicable state and local laws and University policies providing consultation, information and referral to appropriate resources for disability‐related issues providing training regarding the ADA and Section 504 Employees should direct requests for accommodations to the Office of Institutional Equity. Supervisors who receive an employee request for an accommodation should contact the OIE. Students should direct requests for accommodations to the Office of Student Accessibility Services. Anyone with questions or concerns can contact the ADA Coordinator/OIE by telephone: 407-823-1336; email oie@ucf.edu; or in person: 12701 Scholarship Drive, Orlando, FL 32816-0030. Americans with Disabilities Act Accommodations in Employment and for Members of the Public Animals as Accommodation Faculty Training Requests for Accommodation Accommodation Implementation Cost Form Request for Reasonable Accommodation – Employee Applicant Request for Reasonable Accommodation – Medical Certification Request for Reasonable Accommodation – Employee Applicant – Spanish Request for Reasonable Accommodation – Medical Certification – Spanish Report of Reasonable Accommodation Pregnancy Accommodation Request Form Procedure for Fundamental Alterations Review Public Request for Accommodation Discrimination Complaint Forms Discrimination Grievance Intake Form Discrimination Grievance Intake Form Spanish Discrimination, Retaliation and Harassment Complaint Form Discrimination & Harassment UCF’s Office of Institutional Equity (OIE) is committed to preventing and addressing discrimination, discriminatory harassment, and retaliation in the workplace and the educational environment, including educational programs and activities. The University's Prohibition of Discrimination, Harassment and Related Interpersonal Violence Policy (Nondiscrimination Policy) prohibits discrimination and harassment on the basis of an individual’s race, color, ethnicity, national origin, religion, non-religion, age, genetic information, sex (including pregnancy and parental status), gender identity or expression, sexual orientation, marital status, physical or mental disability (including learning disabilities, intellectual disabilities, and past or present history of mental illness), political affiliations, veteran’s status (as protected under the Vietnam Era Veterans’ Readjustment Assistant Act), or membership in any other protected classes as set forth in state or federal law. The Nondiscrimination Policy also prohibits retaliation against individuals who complain of discrimination and harassment, as well as individuals who participate in an investigation into such complaint. For more information about the Nondiscrimination Policy’s prohibitions of sex-based discrimination and sexual harassment (including sexual assault, sexual exploitation, intimate partner violence, stalking), please visit UCF’s Let’s Be Clear website. The OIE encourages all members of the University community to partner in ensuring an environment free of discrimination at all University-related activities and in the working and learning environments. To that end, incidents of discrimination or discriminatory harassment should be reported to OIE by calling our offices at (407) 823-1336 or by email to oie@ucf.edu. Reports may also be submitted to OIE using our Intake Form or Reporting Form Regarding Incidents of Sex Discrimination, Sexual Harassment, Sexual Misconduct or Interpersonal Violence. OIE is responsible for reviewing, and where applicable, objectively investigating complaints of discrimination and harassment based on protected classification to determine if employee conduct violates the University's non-discrimination policies. Where investigations reveal the presence of discriminatory or harassing behavior, OIE is responsible for making recommendations that are designed to mitigate the effects of discriminatory conduct. OIE also objectively investigates complaints of sex discrimination and sexual harassment (including sexual misconduct) against students. Individuals interested in filing a complaint with OIE may complete a Discrimination, Discriminatory Harassment & Retaliation Complaint Form, and are encouraged to do so as soon as possible. Discrimination & Harassment Resources Prohibition of Discrimination, Harassment and Related Interpersonal Violence Policy Age Code of Conduct Disability Gender Identity and/or Expression Genetic Information Marital Status National Origin Race Religion Religious Accommodation Guidelines Religious Observances Sex Title IX Overview Toolkit for Assisting Students Sexual Harassment Sexual Orientation Veteran Status Reporting Misconduct and Protection from Retaliation Discrimination & Harassment Reporting Campus Resource List Investigation Procedure Report Discrimination (Internal Resources) Report Discrimination (External Resources) Religious Observances University Non-Discrimination and Affirmative Action Programs University Regulation on Grievances Alleging Discrimination Prohibition of Discrimination, Harassment and Related Interpersonal Violence Policy What to Do - Supervisor Reporting Obligations What to Do When a Student Reports Discrimination & Harassment Forms Discrimination Grievance Intake Form Discrimination Grievance Intake Form Spanish Discrimination, Retaliation and Harassment Complaint Form Title IX Title IX is a federal law the prohibits discrimination based on the sex of employees and students of educational institutions that receive federal financial assistance. This prohibition includes prohibition of sexual harassment and sexual misconduct. OIE’s Assistant Director, Matt Ricke, serves as the University’s Title IX Coordinator. Anyone with questions or concerns can contact Dr. Ricke by telephone: 407-823-1336; email oie@ucf.edu; or in person 12701 Scholarship Drive, Suite 101, Orlando, FL 32816-0030. For more information regarding the University’s prohibition of sex discrimination, please visit the University’s Let’s Be Clear website, including About Title IX at UCF. In addition, Title IX prohibits discrimination based on pregnancy and parental status. UCF is committed to creating an inclusive environment for pregnant and parenting faculty, staff and students. Please visit the Pregnancy and Parenting section of the Let’s Be Clear website to learn more about this, including how to request reasonable accommodations as a result of pregnancy, childbirth or related conditions. Employment Equity The University is committed to ensuring access and equity to all qualified individuals to its employment opportunities, programs, and services and has developed policies, procedures, practices, and training in furtherance of this commitment. As a federal contractor, the University develops and monitors a robust plan for affirmative outreach and other efforts aimed at encouraging the participation and advancement of historically underrepresented groups. This includes good faith efforts specifically aimed at building institutional capacity in the area of inclusive excellence. UCF’s Office of Institutional Equity is responsible for ensuring the University’s compliance with various Affirmative Action and Equal Employment Opportunity (AA/EEO) rules, regulations, and reporting, monitoring the University’s search and hire process for compliance with AA/EEO regulations, and search committee education and training. As part of our compliance with state and federal AA/EEO regulations, we annually prepare an Affirmative Action Plan on behalf of the University, which is compiled using various workforce, payroll, and search committee data. Additionally, the OIE in partnership with Human Resources and Academic Affairs monitors the recruitment, search, and hire process for compliance with state and federal AA/EEO regulations and University policies. In addition to the Affirmative Action Plan, the OIE prepares the Florida Equity Report each year on behalf of the University in compliance with the Florida Educational Equity Act (F.S. Sec. 1000.5) and the Florida Board of Governors Regulation 2.003. Employment Equity Resources A&P Hiring Guide Code of Conduct 2021 UCF Florida Equity Report Internal Search Search Process Foreign Influence Screening Checklist Search and Screening Guidelines Search Firms Diversity Recruitment Resources Acceptable and Unacceptable Interview Questions A Guide to OIE’s Diversity Recruitment Resources Excelencia in Education’s Hispanic Serving Institutions with graduate programs Faculty Excellence Inclusive Hiring Toolkit HBCUs Listing Professional Associations and Job Boards Listing Recruiting a Diverse Faculty Women’s Colleges Listing Employment Equity Forms Search Committee Meeting Notice A&P Employment Reference Form Faculty Employment Reference Form USPS-OPS Employment Reference Form Vacancy Announcements Request for Exemption from Posting Religion The University of Central Florida is committed to providing welcoming and inclusive learning and workplace environments. As part of this commitment, the University will make good faith efforts to provide reasonable religious accommodations to faculty, staff and students whose sincerely held religious practices or beliefs conflict with a University policy, procedure, or other academic or employment requirement, unless such an accommodation would create an undue hardship. In keeping with the University’s commitment to building and maintaining a welcoming and inclusive work environment, the University will consider religious accommodation requests based on the totality of the circumstances. If you are seeking a religious accommodation please contact OIE by email (oie@ucf.edu) or by phone (407-823-1336) to initiate consideration of your request. A religious practice or belief is a sincerely held practice or observance that includes moral or ethical beliefs as to what is right and wrong, most commonly in the context of the cause, nature and purpose of the universe. Religion includes not only traditional, organized religions, but also religious beliefs that are new, uncommon, not part of a formal religious institution or sect, or only subscribed to by a small number of people. Social, political, or economic philosophies, as well as mere personal preferences, are not considered to be religious beliefs. A religious accommodation is a reasonable change in the work or academic environment that enables a student or employee to practice or otherwise observe a sincerely held religious practice or belief without undue hardship on the University. A religious accommodation may include, but is not limited to: time for prayer during a work day; the ability to attend religious events or observe a religious holiday; or any necessary modification to University policy, procedure or other requirement for a student’s or employee’s (or prospective employee’s) religious beliefs, observance or practice; provided such accommodation is reasonable and does not cause undue hardship. The University of Central Florida prohibits discrimination, harassment, and retaliation on the basis of religion. For more information, please refer to the University Policy Against Discrimination, Harassment and Related Interpersonal Violence. Policies and Procedures University Policies Prohibition of Discrimination, Harassment and Related Interpersonal Violence Title IX Grievance Policy Animals as Accommodation Code of Conduct Youth Protection Background Checks Reporting Misconduct and Protection from Retaliation University Regulations Religious Observances University Non-Discrimination and Affirmative Action Programs University Regulation on Grievances Alleging Discrimination University Procedures Amorous Relationship Disclosure Form for Employees Amorous Relationship Disclosure Form for Graduate Students Investigation Procedure Faculty Employment & Hiring Internal Search Search and Screening Guidelines Meet the Team Director & ADA Coordinator Nancy Fitzpatrick Myers, J.D. Director ADA Coordinator Nancy.Myers@ucf.edu Read Bio Marsha Kernica OIE Coordinator Marsha.Kernica@ucf.edu Read Bio Title IX Matt Ricke, Ph.D. Assistant Director Title IX Coordinator Matt.Ricke@ucf.edu Read Bio Amber Abud, M.S. Title IX Investigator Amber.Abud@ucf.edu Read Bio Lauren Wallace, J.D. Title IX Investigator Lauren.Wallace@ucf.edu Read Bio Kristy Beitler Title IX Investigator Kristy.Beitler@ucf.edu Read Bio EEO Investigations/ADA Jeffrey Scott EEO Investigator Jeffrey.Scott@ucf.edu Read Bio Rich Dicks, Jr. EEO Investigator Rich.Dicks@ucf.edu Read Bio Kristeena LaRoue Deputy ADA Coordinator Digital Accessibility & Universal Design Kristeena.LaRoue@ucf.edu Read Bio EEO & Search Compliance Pam Fletcher, M.B.A. EEO & Search Compliance Specialist Pamela.Fletcher@ucf.edu Read Bio Nika Gooding, PHR, SHRM-CP EEO & Search Compliance Specialist Nika.Gooding@ucf.edu Helpful University Resources and Contacts Resources Campus Resource List Gender-Neutral Restrooms UCF Lactation Rooms Office of Diversity & Inclusion – Chief Diversity Officer Ombuds Office UCF Police Department Just Knights Response Team (Bias Incident) Dean of Students Student Accessibility Services Student Care Services Office of Student Conduct Human Resources Employee Relations Employee Assistance Program Veterans Academic Resource Center UCF Victim Services Office of Compliance, Ethics and Risk University Audit Office of General Counsel President's Statement President's Statement Office of Institutional Equity Home Accessibility Discrimination & Harassment Employment Equity Title IX Policies and Procedures OIE Team 12701 Scholarship Drive, Suite 101, Orlando, FL 32816-0030 - Barbara Ying CMMS Building 81, Suite 101 Email: oie@ucf.edu Phone: 407-823-1336 Fax: 407-882-9009 © University of Central Florida × Get Confidential Help Now! UCF Victim Services is available 24/7 to provide assistance to you. Ask a question. Disclose a concern. Get confidential help. Text 407-823-6868 or Call 407-823-1200 Close × Filing a report Are you reporting information related to sex discrimination, sexual harassment, sex-based harassment, sexual violence, sexual assault, intimate partner violence or stalking? Yes No Close × Lauren Wallace, J.D. Title IX Investigator Lauren.Wallace@ucf.edu Since January 2019, Lauren Wallace has served as a Title IX Investigator with UCF’s Office of Institutional Equity. Lauren is responsible for investigating complaints of sex-based discrimination, including sexual harassment, dating violence, stalking and sexual violence. Prior to joining UCF, Lauren served as an Assistant State’s Attorney in Annapolis, Maryland. In that role, Lauren had responsibility for prosecuting various misdemeanor and felony crimes including sex-based offenses, domestic related assaults and violations of protective orders. Prior to her appointment as a prosecutor, Lauren served as a staff attorney for the YWCA of Annapolis and Anne Arundel County. In this capacity, Lauren represented survivors of domestic abuse in seeking civil peace and protective orders. Additionally, Lauren assisted clients with emergency custody petitions based on abuse and other domestically related civil matters such as divorce and permanent custody. Lauren earned her law degree, magna cum laude, from the University of the District of Columbia, David A. Clarke School of Law where she served as the President of the Student Bar Association and Associate Editor for the Law Review. Lauren earned her Bachelor of Arts Degree, magna cum laude, in Political Science and Women’s Studies from West Virginia University. Close × Nancy Fitzpatrick Myers, J.D. Director ADA Coordinator Nancy.Myers@ucf.edu Since January 2017, Nancy Fitzpatrick Myers has served as the Director of UCF’s Office of Institutional Equity, as well as UCF’s ADA Coordinator. Nancy is responsible for overseeing each of OIE’s areas of focus, including discrimination case management, campus-wide trainings related to nondiscrimination, facilitation of employee requests for accommodations based on disability, and search and hiring affirmative action and equal employment opportunity compliance. In addition, Nancy oversees UCF’s Title IX Coordinator, Matt Ricke, who is responsible for coordinating the University’s response to reports of sex-based discrimination, including sexual harassment and sexual violence. Prior to joining UCF, Nancy served as UConn’s Deputy Title IX Coordinator and the Director of Case Management for UConn’s Office of Institutional Equity. In that role, Nancy had responsibility for overseeing all investigations of claims of discrimination, harassment and retaliation, as well as campus-wide trainings for diversity and sexual harassment prevention. In this capacity, Nancy also had responsibility for the University’s compliance with the ADA, including facilitation of employee requests for accommodations. Prior to serving as the Director, Nancy was a Case Manager with the office and investigated complaints of discrimination and harassment involving University employees, including the preparation of written decisions and recommendations based on factual findings. Prior to joining higher education in 2012, Nancy was a partner with the New Haven law firm of Lynch, Traub, Keefe & Errante, P.C., where she practiced for approximately 10 years litigating various complex civil and criminal matters, including civil rights cases involving claims of discrimination, sexual harassment, and violations of Title IX. She practiced in State and Federal Courts throughout Connecticut, including the Connecticut Appellate and Supreme Courts and the Second Circuit Court of Appeals. In this role, she also engaged in extensive legal research and review of contractual, constitutional and education-related matters. During her law practice, Nancy served as President of the Young Lawyers Section of the New Haven County Bar Association, as a member of the Executive Committee for the New Haven County Bar Association, and as a member of the Friends Board for the New Haven Legal Assistance Association. Nancy earned her law degree, magna cum laude, from the University of Miami School of Law. Upon graduation from law school, she was selected to be a member of the prestigious Order of Coif, an honorary scholastic society for lawyers, judges and teachers who have attained high distinction for their scholarly or professional accomplishments. Nancy earned her Bachelor of Arts Degree, magna cum laude, in Political Science from Fairleigh Dickinson University. Close × Jeffrey Scott EEO Investigator Jeffrey.Scott@ucf.edu Jeff Scott joined UCF in June of 2021 as an EEO Investigator. Jeff is responsible for conducting internal investigations involving protected class discrimination, harassment and retaliation, as well as assisting faculty and staff with accommodations under the Americans with Disabilities Act. He also routinely strategizes with management and other units of the university on how to avoid issues related to protected class discrimination. Prior to joining UCF, Jeff served as Title IX Lead Investigator at Louisiana State University (LSU) in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. In that role, Jeff was responsible for reviewing, responding to, and investigating allegations of sex-based discrimination, including sexual harassment, dating violence, stalking and sexual violence. He also was responsible for providing training and workshops to LSU faculty, staff, and students regarding LSU’s policies prohibiting sexual harassment/misconduct and compliance with Title IX of the Education Amendments, as well as facilitating partnerships with campus partners to create uniform Title IX-related programming throughout the LSU community. Jeff also completed the FBI National Academy and served as a Special Agent with the FBI, specializing in civil rights investigations for 5 years. Jeff is a native of Virginia and earned his Bachelor of Business Administration degree from James Madison University. Close × Kristeena LaRoue Deputy ADA Coordinator Digital Accessibility & Universal Design Kristeena.LaRoue@ucf.edu Kristeena LaRoue (she/her/hers) joined the Office of Institutional Equity in June of 2020 as the Deputy ADA Coordinator for Digital Accessibility and Universal Design. In this role, Kristeena is responsible for developing and implementing institution-wide policies, processes, and initiatives related to digital accessibility. Prior to joining UCF, Kristeena served as the Associate Director for the Disability Resource Center and Access Technology Center at Missouri State University. In this role, Kristeena was responsible for determining accommodations for students with disabilities and managing the Access Technology Center, a Center tasked with the implementation of accommodations related to assistive technology and digital access. Kristeena collaborated with departments across the institution to develop and implement initiatives related to disability and accessibility. Kristeena developed and facilitated training sessions related to digital accessibility including topics such as document accessibility, website accessibility, social media accessibility, and Universal Design for Learning. Kristeena was a part of the team that developed Missouri State’s annual Disability Equity Week, a week of programming to celebrate and bring awareness to disability and accessibility. Kristeena previously served on the executive board of the Missouri Association on Higher Education and Disability. Kristeena currently serves on the leadership team of the Disability Knowledge Community and as the Disability Knowledge Community Representative for the Equity, Inclusion, and Social Justice Division for the National Association for Student Personnel Administrators (NASPA). Kristeena earned her M.S. in Student Affairs as well as a B.S. in Psychology and a B.S. Communications from Missouri State University. Close × Amber Abud, M.S. Title IX Investigator Amber.Abud@ucf.edu Since June 2018, Amber Abud has served as a Title IX Investigator with UCF’s Office of Institutional Equity. In this role, Amber is responsible for reviewing, responding to, and investigating allegations of sexual misconduct, sexual violence, stalking and sex-based/sexual harassment. Amber conducts neutral investigation of allegations of this nature made against both students and employees. Prior to joining OIE, Amber served with the University of Central Florida Police Department for 11 years. During her time there, she served as an Investigator as well as a Crisis Intervention Team Coordinator for the Department. Amber was assigned to the Investigations Unit and accepted general case assignments with special focus on matters involving sexual violence and sexual misconduct. Amber’s roles also focused on mental health awareness and training of department staff and partners about the ability to recognize a person in crisis and seek proper resources for those individuals within our community. During her investigative role at the UCF Police Department, Amber approached every case with neutrality and objectiveness which led to cases wherein Amber was able to substantiate the information and pursue criminal charges, as well cases wherein Amber determined that the allegations were not substantiated and no criminal charges were warranted. Amber continues to utilize her ability to approach cases in an objective and neutral manner in her investigative role at OIE. Amber earned her Bachelor’s degree in Criminal Justice from the University of Central Florida and completed a certificate for Criminal Profiling. Upon graduation from college, she continued her education by seeking out specialized trainings and coursework related to the area of sex crimes as well as completing her Master’s degree. Amber also was awarded Officer of the Year in 2016 by the UCF Police Department and promoted to the rank of Corporal returning to the Patrol, where she brought her experience and education to the field to share with Patrol and new officers Close × Matt Ricke, Ph.D. Assistant Director Title IX Coordinator Matt.Ricke@ucf.edu Dr. Matt Ricke (he/him/his) joined the Office of Institutional Equity as a Title IX Investigator in February 2018. In June 2018, Matt was promoted to his current role of Assistant Director/Title IX Coordinator. In this role, Matt manages the University’s Title IX compliance portfolio, ensuring effective, timely, and consistent investigations of reported incidents of sex discrimination, including incidents of sexual harassment, sexual violence, relationship violence, and stalking. Matt supervises UCF’s Deputy Title IX Coordinator, Dr. Abigail Malick, as well as the Title IX investigative team, Amber Abud, Lauren Wallace, and Kristy Beitler. Matt started his career in higher education in 2003. Most recently, Matt served as the Director of Student Success at Front Range Community College (Fort Collins, CO) where he coordinated student care services, student conduct, and counseling services. Matt chaired the behavioral intervention and threat assessment team FRCC. Prior to his appointment at FRCC, Matt worked at Naropa University (Boulder, CO) as Director of Student Life and eventually Interim Dean of Students. Matt established the Title IX compliance program at Naropa and served as its first coordinator. Matt facilitated the design and implementation of policies and procedures, selected and trained volunteer Title IX investigators, and conducted thorough, impartial investigations into sexual misconduct allegations. In addition to his administrative work, Matt has taught undergraduate and graduate courses in topics such as sociology of diversity, contemporary social problems, campus environments and student cultures, and mental health and accessibility in law enforcement. Matt has served as the co-chair of the Gender and Sexuality Knowledge Community with the National Association for Student Personnel Administrators (NASPA) as well as a faculty member for the NASPA Community Colleges Symposium. He served as a volunteer trainer with the Colorado Anti-Violence Program for four years, where he helped nonprofit agencies and law enforcement officers better understand violence within and against members of the LGBTQ+ community. Matt holds a B.A., cum laude, in Spanish from Western Michigan University, a M.S. in Experiential Education from Minnesota State University, Mankato, and a Ph.D. in Higher Education and Student Affairs Leadership from the University of Northern Colorado. As a scholar, Matt’s research interests include higher education crisis management, equity and inclusion, organizational learning, and personal meaning-making. Matt has additional training in investigative interviewing, mediation, restorative justice, mental health first aid, and trauma-informed practice, and is qualified as an MBTI practitioner and Strengths educator. Matt is an active presenter on Title IX, gender equity, and social justice at various regional/national conferences. Close × Marsha Kernica OIE Coordinator Marsha.Kernica@ucf.edu Marsha joined the Office of Institutional Equity in December 2016, and serves as the Equal Opportunity Program Coordinator. In that role, she is responsible for providing assistance with OIE investigations of complaints of discrimination, maintaining OIE’s database of matters, reviewing faculty hiring binders for compliance, facilitating training to search committees, producing requested reports, and supporting the Director with the day-to-day operations of the office, including budget oversight. Prior to joining UCF’s Office of Institutional Equity, Marsha worked for a private business in Oviedo. As part of their management team, she was responsible for the day-to-day operations, supervising staff, managing contractors and resources as well as budget oversight. Marsha is a long-time resident of central Florida, having grown up in Winter Park. She received her Associate of Arts degree from the University of Central Florida and her Bachelor of Science degree from Florida State University. She also is a proud “UCF Mom”. Close × Kristy Beitler Title IX Investigator Kristy.Beitler@ucf.edu Kristy Beitler has served as a Title IX Investigator with UCF’s Office of Institutional Equity since May 2020. In this role, Kristy is responsible for investigating incidents related to sexual misconduct, sexual harassment, and sex-based discrimination. Prior to joining OIE, Kristy served as a law enforcement officer and Investigator at the University of Nebraska Lincoln Police Department for 18 years. Kristy spent several years serving in the uniformed patrol division where she also served as a Field Training Officer and certified instructor. Kristy was promoted to Sergeant in 2015 and was subsequently assigned as the supervisor responsible for managing the department’s Investigations Division. Prior to her promotion, Kristy spent 5 years assigned to the Investigations Division as an Investigator where she was responsible for conducting neutral and objective investigations of major case incidents to include sexual assault, harassment, stalking and dating/sexual violence. Kristy has received specialized training in the areas of investigations, interviewing, case management and supervision. In addition to serving as an instructor and trainer within the University of Nebraska Lincoln Police Department throughout her career, Kristy also served as an instructor and teacher for Lancaster County Community Corrections where she taught STOP/Defensive Driving classes to members of the city of Lincoln and Lancaster County community. Kristy earned her Bachelor of Science degree in Psychology from York College. Kristy is currently completing her Master of Arts degree in Organizational and Global Leadership. Kristy was awarded Officer of the Year and was the recipient of the Capital City Foot Printer’s Award in 2016. Kristy was also the recipient of several other awards and commendations throughout her career to include multiple awards in the areas of Excellence and Teamwork. Close × Pam Fletcher, M.B.A. EEO & Search Compliance Specialist Pamela.Fletcher@ucf.edu Pamela Fletcher (she/her/hers) joined the Office of Institutional Equity in January of 2021 as an EEO & Search Compliance Specialist. In this role, Pam provides guidance relative to equal employment opportunity, Affirmative Action and the search process. She also utilizes statistical data for the purpose of planning, publication, benchmarking, program evaluation and compliance with government regulations. She assists with the preparation and updating of the University's federal Affirmative Action Plans and State of Florida Annual Equity Reports. Prior to joining UCF, Pam served as the Assistant Director of Employee Relations/Equity & Diversity at Lake-Sumter State College. In this role, Pam was responsible for labor relations, recruitment, and developing and implementing the College’s diversity and inclusion initiatives for staff, faculty, and students. Pam also was a member of the College’s union negotiations team. She developed, interpreted, and administered human resources policies and procedures. She supervised the recruitment function, including assessing applicant pool and search committee diversity, as well as identifying and utilizing diverse sourcing options. As chairperson of the Equity & Diversity Work Group, she developed, planned and implemented staff and student diversity and inclusion education initiatives related to cross-cultural conversations and conversations in inclusiveness. She facilitated training on performance management, goal setting, and cross-cultural and inclusive communications. Pam coordinated the College’s first annual Values/Spirit Week, Employee Appreciation Day, and Juneteenth celebration. Pam earned her M.B.A. in Human Resources and Information Systems from the University of Illinois at Chicago as well as a B.B.A. in Finance and Accounting from Loyola University of Chicago. Pam earned her Labor Relations Professional certification from the Florida Public Employer Labor Relations Association in 2019. She earned her SHRM-SCP (Society for Human Resources Management – Senior Certified Professional) and Diversity and Compliance Specialist certification in 2020. Close × Rich Dicks, Jr. EEO Investigator Rich.Dicks@ucf.edu Rich Dicks joined UCF’s Office of Institutional Equity as an Equal Employment Opportunity Investigator in September 2021. Rich is responsible for reviewing, responding to, and investigating allegations of protected class discrimination, harassment and retaliation, as well as assessing employee requests for accommodations under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). He has experience handling inquiries and investigations, as well as ensuring compliance with Civil Rights laws and providing department-wide training in the above areas. Before Rich joined UCF, he worked with several agencies beginning with the Michigan Department of Corrections as an Assistant Resident Unit Manager and later the Department of Police in Flint, Michigan. The cumulative experience and training to assess threatening and intimidating behavior and respond to sexual violence, stalking, and interpersonal violence developed his career path. After a lengthy career in corrections and law enforcement, he began a career in civil rights as an investigator with the Michigan Department of Civil Rights. While in that role, Rich addressed allegations of discrimination within the public and private sector, and higher education. Rich later joined the Florida Department of Children and Families (DCF) as a child protective investigator and transitioned to Operations Manager for the Office of Civil Rights. His role and responsibilities included serving as their Civil Rights Officer, Section 504/ADA Coordinator, Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) Officer, and Affirmative Action/EEO Officer. In all, he managed the region’s investigations, provided training to employees and contractors on how to identify and provide the preferred auxiliary aids and services to the deaf and hard of hearing, visually impaired, and limited English proficient (LEP) clients. Similarly, he handled all concerns of protected individually identifiable health information and contributed to creating a workforce that reflected the demographics of an underrepresented population. Rich later joined Montana State University (OIE-MSU) and served as one of two Civil Rights/Title IX Investigators. While serving in state government, Rich also began teaching online classes as an Adjunct at a private University and currently teaches Criminal Investigations and Law Enforcement in the 21st Century. Rich also expanded his experience in assessing sexual assaults and served as a Behavioral Health Clinician for the government of Broward County. During this time, Rich specialized in interviewing adults and conducting forensic interviews with children and teens impacted by sexual violence, abuse, and neglect. Likewise, he assessed interpersonal violence, rape, stalking, human trafficking, and recommended supportive and protective measures to minimize trauma and harm. Close × Request for Reasonable Accommodation Form Although OIE strives to review and facilitate accommodation requests as promptly as possible, please be advised that this process will not result in an immediate response. As part of this process, OIE may contact you to obtain additional information related to your request. Close × Public Request for Accommodation Form Although OIE strives to review and facilitate accommodation requests as promptly as possible, please be advised that this process will not result in an immediate response. As part of this process, OIE may contact you to obtain additional information related to your request. Close × Employee Applicant – Spanish Form Although OIE strives to review and facilitate accommodation requests as promptly as possible, please be advised that this process will not result in an immediate response. As part of this process, OIE may contact you to obtain additional information related to your request. Close