Office of International Programs Off screen: Skip to content Off screen: Skip to search Main Menu Menu Who We Are Facts and Figures Staff Our Programs Fellowship Advising Search Fellowships Meet Your Advisers Pre-advising Form Preparing Your Application General Advice Application FAQs Resources Connect Past Fellowship Recipients Fellowships Mentoring Program In the News International Internships About IIP IIP by the Numbers Search Internships Create Your Own Meet the IIP Team How to Apply IIP Application Timeline IIP Terms and Conditions Application FAQs Financial Matters Student Stories IIP 2021 Poster Winners Returning Home Novogratz Bridge Year About Bridge Year Mission, Values, Vision Why Bridge Year? FAQs In the News Support for Bridge Year Explore Locations Bolivia China India Indonesia Senegal Meet Our Volunteers Returned Volunteers Reflections and Connections Voices Past Events How to Apply Information for Families Contact Us Admission Ambassadors Study Abroad Getting Started Why Go Abroad? Types of Programs Advice by Department and Certificate Study Abroad Requirements Academic Year Policies Summer Policies Policies FAQs Meet Your Advisers Explore Programs Explore Programs FAQs Financial Matters Academic Year Summer Dean's Fund How to Apply Academic Year Petition Summer Application FAQs Returning Home Re-entry Practical Matters What's Next? Become a Global Ambassador Connect Contact Us Events Our Students International Eye Photo Contest Previous Winners This Year's Winners Resources Contact Us Fellowship Advising International Internships Novogratz Bridge Year Study Abroad Events News My GPS Search Search Home Our Programs Study Abroad Program Getting Started Why Go Abroad? Study Abroad Bridge Year Fellowships International Internships Why Go Abroad? Section Menu Getting Started Why Go Abroad? Types of Programs Advice by Department and Certificate Study Abroad Requirements Meet Your Advisers Explore Programs Financial Matters How to Apply Returning Home Connect Information For Families Faculty Exchange Students Why Go Abroad? Photo: Ryan Yao '20 Studying abroad allows students the opportunity to gain new perspectives and explore a new academic and cultural environment outside of Princeton. Not only does studying abroad expose students to complex world views and challenge them academically, but it also contributes to students’ individual growth and independence as they learn to navigate the real world. Many Princeton students report that their international experience was one of the most rewarding features of their college career. There are many benefits to integrating study abroad into your academic path at Princeton. Here are a few: Special Academic Opportunities: Take courses not offered at Princeton, have access to unique research materials, contact with foreign scholars and researchers in a particular field, conduct original research that can only be conducted on-site, and access other primary resources not available at Princeton. Foreign Language Competency: Living and studying in another language is one of the best ways to increase language fluency. Developing strong language skills through full language immersion benefits the scholarly work of all students and is a skill that is increasingly valued among all professions. Enhanced Professional and Academic Opportunities: Studying abroad increases your adaptability, resourcefulness, cross-cultural understanding, and many other skills that employers value in an increasingly global workplace. Studying abroad can also set candidates apart who are applying for international and/or post-graduate fellowships, such as the Fulbright Scholarship, Critical Language Scholarship, and more. Cross-Cultural Competency: Living and studying abroad exposes students to new perspectives that allow for critical reflection and deeper understanding of themselves, their culture, and the world. Student Experiences Read what some Princeton students had to say about their experiences abroad. Footer Office of International Programs Louis A. Simpson International Building Phone: 609-258-5524 Fax: 609-258-1019 oip@princeton.edu Make an Appointment A unit of the Office of the Dean of the College Visit Us Office Hours Monday-Friday: Academic Year: 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Summer: 8:30 a.m.- 4:30 p.m. Follow Us PrincetonOIP PrincetonBridgeYear PrincetonOIP novogratzbridgeyear Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University