Office of International Programs Off screen: Skip to content Off screen: Skip to search Main Menu Menu Who We Are Facts and Figures Staff Our Programs Fellowship Advising Search Fellowships Meet Your Advisers Pre-advising Form Preparing Your Application General Advice Application FAQs Resources Connect Past Fellowship Recipients Fellowships Mentoring Program In the News International Internships About IIP IIP by the Numbers Search Internships Create Your Own Meet the IIP Team How to Apply IIP Application Timeline IIP Terms and Conditions Application FAQs Financial Matters Student Stories IIP 2021 Poster Winners Returning Home Novogratz Bridge Year About Bridge Year Mission, Values, Vision Why Bridge Year? FAQs In the News Support for Bridge Year Explore Locations Bolivia China India Indonesia Senegal Meet Our Volunteers Returned Volunteers Reflections and Connections Voices Past Events How to Apply Information for Families Contact Us Admission Ambassadors Study Abroad Getting Started Why Go Abroad? Types of Programs Advice by Department and Certificate Study Abroad Requirements Academic Year Policies Summer Policies Policies FAQs Meet Your Advisers Explore Programs Explore Programs FAQs Financial Matters Academic Year Summer Dean's Fund How to Apply Academic Year Petition Summer Application FAQs Returning Home Re-entry Practical Matters What's Next? Become a Global Ambassador Connect Contact Us Events Our Students International Eye Photo Contest Previous Winners This Year's Winners Resources Contact Us International Eye Photo Contest Resources Events News My GPS Search Search Home Our Students Study Abroad Bridge Year Fellowships International Internships Our Students Our Students Eleanor Bauer '23 "As a Politics major, I am excited to apply the research and analytical skills I have learned at Princeton to the real world." IIP Shannon Chaffers '22 "I've...written a couple of stories about interesting places to visit in Spain, and a couple about Spanish history and culture, so even though I'm doing my internship remotely, I feel like I'm learning a lot about Spain from afar." IIP Carmen Chen ’21 “This internship was my first time traveling such a great distance alone, and living on my own. I learned many new skills at my internship, and I also learned to schedule my days around my job. During the two months I was in Dubai, I explored the city and discovered new foods and experiences that I will never forget.” IIP Beata Corcoran ’22 “Working at Philani I was immediately welcomed into the township community. I did my best to be a resource for women to speak with about their thoughts and concerns, both as a friend and as someone who could help them work together to solve some of the challenges women have been facing there…I feel so lucky to have been trusted with so many personal conversations and to have been confided in, instead of treated as an outsider due to our different backgrounds.” IIP Arabella Dill-Macky '23 "Never let an opportunity slip you by – you will likely never have that chance again! Even if you’re feeling tired or overwhelmed in the moment, take advantage of every new experience offered to you." IIP André Koch Liston '23 "Don't be afraid to explore something you never touched before, even if you have no clue how it works – your advisor and your future self will thank you for it." IIP Julio Lins '23 "Use your internship experience to discover what excites you and what doesn't. You don't have to know, from day one at Princeton, which career path you want to follow. An internship is a great opportunity for trial and error." IIP Jake Marsh ’22 “Training with the National Olympic Wrestling team has not only expanded my cultural knowledge, but my wrestling abilities as well. Being able to connect through a sport instantly gave me 12 friends from the start. Training in a foreign country has been an experience I will never forget and friends I will stay in contact with.” IIP Michael Milam ’20 “[Going abroad] was one of the most important things about my college experience -- be sure to take advantage of these opportunities while they are available, and while you have the freedom to enjoy them.” Bridge Year Study Abroad Jenny Na '24 "It's also been incredibly rewarding to witness my contributions yield tangible impacts on a firm that is run on such a large scale! In the first two weeks of my internship, I produced transaction comparables to gauge whether one of our investment targets was overvalued, and my work played a role in CJ ENM's decision not to invest in the company." IIP Jonathan Ort ’21 “Befriending my Argentine coworkers presented both a daunting challenge and an invigorating opportunity. During my first weeks at the office, I struggled to converse with people, largely on account of being self-conscious about my limited Spanish. Yet, as time went by, I had many low-stakes, one-on-one conversations with my coworkers. Ultimately, getting to know them in an informal way very much helped me feel comfortable and valued at the office. Now, I anticipate staying in touch with at least a dozen of the people I've come to know.” IIP Ashley Scott ’21 “I feel more grounded. Although I still have moments where I complain about things that I never would have in Senegal, I think that with the experience I have a greater appreciation for the immense differences and unexpected similarities between people. My world is no longer simply made up of my immediate family and the friends that I make in school; I have a broader understanding of the world that I got from being out there.” Bridge Year Liam Seeley ’23 “I was challenged in a highly non-institutionalized setting to question the systems that I continue to live in, whether they invoke notions of individual or collective power, privilege, identity, colonialism, 'service,' art, love, gratitude, and all those other human things. This is fundamentally personal but also academic in its implication as my participation in a larger scholarly discourse of the world.” Bridge Year Rachel Silverman ’20 “I learned about the tutorial system at Oxford which was great to have exposure to an alternative academic system. I benefited from developing relationships with my professors through one-on-one or two-on-one tutorials.” Study Abroad Grace Simmons '22 "Given the increasing urgency of improving global mental health following the onset of the pandemic, it has been extremely rewarding to apply the skills and knowledge gained from my past neuroscience and global health coursework on such a relevant project. Overall, it has been really fun getting to know the other members of the lab, exchanging ideas, and broadening my perspective." IIP Leah Mildred Smith ’22 “An international experience at Princeton is an opportunity not to be passed up. Whether an internship abroad or a whole semester, either service work or other fields, Princeton has many choices to offer with total academic and financial support. Princeton will help you and prepare you for the most meaningful experience, and you will come back to campus changed for the better. DO it!” IIP Footer Office of International Programs Louis A. Simpson International Building Phone: 609-258-5524 Fax: 609-258-1019 oip@princeton.edu Make an Appointment A unit of the Office of the Dean of the College Visit Us Office Hours Monday-Friday: Academic Year: 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Summer: 8:30 a.m.- 4:30 p.m. Follow Us PrincetonOIP PrincetonBridgeYear PrincetonOIP novogratzbridgeyear Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University