Office of International Programs Off screen: Skip to content Off screen: Skip to search Main Menu Menu Who We Are Facts and Figures Staff Our Programs Fellowship Advising Search Fellowships Meet Your Advisers Pre-advising Form Preparing Your Application General Advice Application FAQs Resources Connect Past Fellowship Recipients Fellowships Mentoring Program In the News International Internships About IIP IIP by the Numbers Search Internships Create Your Own Meet the IIP Team How to Apply IIP Application Timeline IIP Terms and Conditions Application FAQs Financial Matters Student Stories IIP 2021 Poster Winners Returning Home Novogratz Bridge Year About Bridge Year Mission, Values, Vision Why Bridge Year? FAQs In the News Support for Bridge Year Explore Locations Bolivia China India Indonesia Senegal Meet Our Volunteers Returned Volunteers Reflections and Connections Voices Past Events How to Apply Information for Families Contact Us Admission Ambassadors Study Abroad Getting Started Why Go Abroad? Types of Programs Advice by Department and Certificate Study Abroad Requirements Academic Year Policies Summer Policies Policies FAQs Meet Your Advisers Explore Programs Explore Programs FAQs Financial Matters Academic Year Summer Dean's Fund How to Apply Academic Year Petition Summer Application FAQs Returning Home Re-entry Practical Matters What's Next? Become a Global Ambassador Connect Contact Us Events Our Students International Eye Photo Contest Previous Winners This Year's Winners Resources Contact Us Fellowship Advising International Internships Novogratz Bridge Year Study Abroad Events News My GPS Search Search Home Our Programs Study Abroad Program Getting Started Types of Programs Study Abroad Bridge Year Fellowships International Internships Types of Programs Section Menu Getting Started Why Go Abroad? Types of Programs Advice by Department and Certificate Study Abroad Requirements Meet Your Advisers Explore Programs Financial Matters How to Apply Returning Home Connect Information For Families Faculty Exchange Students Types of Programs Photo: Lacey-Ann Wisdom '17 Your choice of study abroad program type will depend largely on your reasons for going abroad. As a rule of thumb, it is best to study in an environment that will give you maximum exposure to the culture and language of the host country. As you look through the available options for study abroad, you may find the information below helpful. Also, you will find it helpful to meet with a study abroad adviser. Semester and Academic Year Programs Princeton offers a list of over 100 pre-approved semester/academic year programs where students can take courses abroad for credit. Students may take courses at a foreign institution directly, via a third-party provider, or a combination of both. Princeton also offers a few faculty-led semester-long programs. Depending on the program you choose, there will be varying levels of immersion, independence, and administrative/academic support. Read through the descriptions below to learn more about the main features of each program type, but please keep in mind that each program may have its own unique characteristics. Your choice of program will depend largely on your own personal and academic goals for study abroad, which we encourage every student to discuss with a study abroad adviser. Direct Enrollment Fellow Classmates: Students from the host university Location of Courses: Local university Academic Culture: Usually a more independent-learning environment; less contact with professors, less assignments throughout the semester, and more heavily weighted exams Calendar: Students follow the host institution’s academic calendar; could start or end sooner or later than Princeton On-site Support: Usually less academic/student life support; students are expected to be more independent and self-motivated Field-based Fellow Classmates: Other Princeton students Location of Courses: Local university or research facility Academic Culture: Heavily focused on field work under the supervision of Princeton faculty/local staff Calendar: Aligns with Princeton calendar On-site Support: Princeton faculty/staff and local staff support students Princeton Exchange Program Fellow Classmates: Students from the host university Location of Courses: Local university Academic Culture: Usually a more independent-learning environment; less contact with professors, less assignments throughout the semester, and more heavily weighted exams Calendar: Students follow the host institution’s academic calendar; could start or end sooner or later than Princeton On-site Support: Usually less academic/student life support; students are expected to be more independent and self-motivated Princeton Faculty-Led Fellow Classmates: Could be only Princeton students, or both Princeton students and local students Location of Courses: Local university or research facility Academic Culture: Varies Calendar: Varies On-site Support: Princeton faculty/staff and local staff support students Third-Party Provider Fellow Classmates: Could be a mix of U.S. students and local and international students or only students from other U.S. institutions Location of Courses: Normally a hybrid of courses offered at a study center (which contains offices, classrooms, computers, etc.), and/or courses directly enrolled at local university Academic Culture: Students have the chance to experience both courses at the program study center, and host-country academic culture Calendar: Provider programs typically follow the U.S. academic calendar, while students taking local university courses would also need to abide by their calendar. On-site Support: Usually a high-level of support provided through the provider staff SPIA Task Force Seminar Fellow Classmates: Students from the host university (for regular classes) and SPIA students for the task force seminar Location of Courses: Local university Academic Culture: SPIA seminar focused on public policy research combined with local university courses Calendar: Varies On-site Support: Varies Summer Study Abroad Programs If your particular academic, athletic, or other co-curricular commitments do not allow you the flexibility to study abroad during the academic year, there are many options to study abroad during the summer as well. You may choose from a rich selection of Princeton faculty-led program, as well as non-Princeton summer programs for transfer credit (pending pre-approval). Read below for more information. Princeton Summer Study Abroad Programs Princeton Summer Study Abroad Programs are programs taught by Princeton faculty where participants earn Princeton course credit. These programs include the Princeton language immersion programs (Princeton in Spain, Princeton in Beijing, etc.), content-based programs (Archaeology in the Field, Plato in Paris, etc.), and the PIIRS Global Seminars. More information can be found within the summer study abroad brochures in GPS. Non-Princeton Summer Study Abroad Programs These are non-Princeton summer programs where students can take courses for credit transfer. In order for credit to be considered, non-Princeton summer programs must be offered by an accredited four-year institution and be at least four weeks in duration, with 30 contact hours for a content course or 60 contact hours for a language course. More information can be found on the Non-Princeton Summer Study Abroad program brochure. Footer Office of International Programs Louis A. Simpson International Building Phone: 609-258-5524 Fax: 609-258-1019 oip@princeton.edu Make an Appointment A unit of the Office of the Dean of the College Visit Us Office Hours Monday-Friday: Academic Year: 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Summer: 8:30 a.m.- 4:30 p.m. Follow Us PrincetonOIP PrincetonBridgeYear PrincetonOIP novogratzbridgeyear Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University