Skip to Main Content Brown University Office of Institutional Research Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Staff Web Update Schedule Institutional Data Common Data Set Alumni Outcomes Factbooks Surveys HEOA & Professional Licensure Disclosures Data Cookbook Contact Search Office of Institutional Research Surveys The Office of Institutional Research and senior administrators are regularly informed by surveying various constituencies within the University community. Breadcrumb Home Institutional Data Sub Navigation In This Section Common Data Set Alumni Outcomes Factbooks Surveys Survey Schedule Climate, Diversity & Inclusion Use of the Open Curriculum First-Year Experience Student Engagement Senior Survey Master's Student Experience Doctoral Student Experience HEOA & Professional Licensure Disclosures Surveys The Office of Institutional Research and senior administrators are regularly informed by surveying various constituencies within the University community. The Office of Institutional Research and senior administrators are regularly informed by surveying various constituencies within the University community. We conduct these surveys independently, as well as in conjunction with institutional peer groups and other University offices. Surveys are generally conducted on a set schedule; however, shifting priorities can change the schedule. Our surveys cover a wide range of topics that include satisfaction with services, experiences in the concentration, use of the open curriculum, climate and diversity, and participation in activities. Please explore the results of our surveys, which we have organized by topic. Climate, Diversity and Inclusion Part of the continued data collection efforts connected to Pathways to Diversity and Inclusion: An Action Plan for Brown University, the Campus Climate and other surveys help Brown to understand the experiences and perspectives of our faculty, staff and students. Use of the Open Curriculum Since 1969, Brown's undergraduates have been the architects of their own education through the Open Curriculum. Unlike students at most other universities, who have to complete a set of core courses before graduating, our students have the freedom to create their own course of study. First-Year Experience First-year students are surveyed so that we can learn more about them and their experiences as they transition from high school to college. Why did they choose Brown, who are they, and what did they do during their first year? Student Engagement Student engagement is a vital part of the undergraduate educational experience. Numerous studies have shown that students who are actively engaged with their classes, faculty, and peers, and who are involved in activities outside of the classroom are more likely to have high achievements and to graduate. One way of measuring student engagement is through the use of surveys - in our case, the Enrolled Student Survey. Senior Survey Graduating seniors are asked to reflect on their undergraduate education and provide their assessment of areas such as academic life, campus life, and resources and services. Master's Student Experience Graduate students are asked on a yearly basis to assess their program, master's education at Brown, advising and mentoring, and the general climate. Doctoral Student Experience Graduate students are asked on a yearly basis to assess their program, doctoral education at Brown, advising and mentoring, and the general climate. Staff Pulse Survey Administered to University staff to gain insight into their work experiences during the Covid-19 pandemic. Access to this summary report is limited to staff and faculty. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Staff Web Update Schedule Institutional Data Common Data Set Alumni Outcomes Factbooks Surveys HEOA & Professional Licensure Disclosures Data Cookbook Contact This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Surveys Open details for Surveys Bookmark this Page