Skip to Main Content Brown University Office of Institutional Research Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Staff Web Update Schedule Institutional Data Common Data Set Alumni Outcomes Factbooks Surveys HEOA & Professional Licensure Disclosures Data Cookbook Contact Search Office of Institutional Research Staff The Office of Institutional Research operates within the Office of the Provost. Our staff have a wide range of experiences within higher education. Breadcrumb Home About Sub Navigation In This Section Staff Web Update Schedule Staff The Office of Institutional Research operates within the Office of the Provost. Our staff have a wide range of experiences within higher education. Katharine Tracy Barnes Director of Institutional Research Tracy received a Bachelor's degree in Psychology and Hispanic Studies from Brown University and an MA in Clinical Psychology from Clark University. She has been with the Office of Institutional Research since it began when it evolved from the Registrar's Office, where she had been working at the time. As Director of OIR, Tracy supports planning and evaluation efforts of the University, coordinates Brown's responses to externally mandated reporting, and provides information for institutional affiliations and accreditation. Karen Baptist Senior Associate Director of Institutional Research Karen received a Bachelor's degree in psychology from SUNY Geneseo and an MSc in education from Alfred University. She has been with the Office of Institutional Research at Brown since 2005, having previously worked in institutional research at Bridgewater State University, Colgate University, and Alfred University. Karen is a past chair of Brown's Staff Advisory Council. Her favorite type of chart is the jitter plot. Mary Heather Smith Senior Institutional Research Analyst Mary Heather has been with the Office of Institutional Research since 2013. Prior to that, she worked in institutional research and student advising at Hamline University. She has a bachelor’s degree in behavioral sciences from the University of Chicago, a master’s in English from the University of Wisconsin, and got partway through a Ph.D. in English at the University of Minnesota. Mary Heather likes to spend her lunch hours exploring Brown’s various museums and galleries. Kimberly Buxton Senior Institutional Research Analyst Kim earned a Bachelor’s degree at Slippery Rock University for programs in psychology and philosophy. She earned an MA in cognitive and social processes and a graduate certificate in institutional research at Ball State University. Kim joined the Office of Institutional Research at Brown in 2017. She enjoys cleaning data and proofing reports (that aren't her own). Margot Saurette Executive Assistant and Project Coordinator Margot is a 33 year employee of Brown and has been with the Office of Institutional Research since summer 2018. After serving for over 32 years in the Diversity Office and the Office of Facilities Management, she currently serves the University by splitting her time between two departments. As Executive Assistant in the Office of the Provost she supports the Deputy Provost of Academic Affairs with oversight of the external department review process, Corporation meeting support and also serves as administrative support for the Academic Priorities Committee among other projects as needed. As part of her position in Institutional research, she provides administrative support for the office staff needs, tracks projects for the group for annual summaries, schedules committee meetings and provides support for larger projects as needed. She is also creating a tracking project for the NEASC accreditation process that will ease the burden of compiling ten years of information regarding the review of our program. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Staff Web Update Schedule Institutional Data Common Data Set Alumni Outcomes Factbooks Surveys HEOA & Professional Licensure Disclosures Data Cookbook Contact This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Staff Open details for Staff Bookmark this Page