Skip to main content DISCLOSURES Academic Programs Cost of Attending - Camden, Newark, and New Brunswick Credit Hour Policy Drug Free Schools and Campuses Act Equity in Athletics Disclosure Act Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act Financial Aid Fire Safety Graduation Rates Institutional and Specialized Accreditation Institutional Refund Policy Licensure NJ College Student and Parent Consumer Information Act Peer-to-Peer File Sharing Policy Prohibiting Discrimination and Harassment Post-Graduate Placement Information Professional Licensure Disclosures Public Safety Information Services for Students with Disabilities Teacher Preparation Program Pass Rates Title IV Academic Program Lengths Title IV Cohort Default Rates Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 Transfer of Credit Policies Vaccine Policies Voter Registration Withdrawal from Institution - Undergraduate and Graduate Academic Programs Information concerning the university’s current degree programs and other educational programs, the instructional, laboratory, and other physical facilities which relate to academic programs, and the institution’s faculty and other instructional personnel is available in the Rutgers catalogs. Institutional plans for improving academic programs include activities of the Center for Teaching Advancement and Assessment Research, which provides resources and information on the improvement of teaching; provides resources and assistance in the use and development of teaching assessment methods; provides resources and assistance in the use and development of learning outcome assessment; and conducts research on new methods of teaching, learning and assessment practices and disseminates the results throughout the university. Cost of Attending - Camden, Newark, and New Brunswick The following links to College Navigator provide information concerning the estimated total cost of attending Rutgers as an undergraduate student: Rutgers University–Camden Rutgers University–Newark Rutgers University–New Brunswick The cost estimates on College Navigator include: tuition and fees charged to full-time and part-time students; estimates of costs for necessary books and supplies; estimates of typical charges for room and board; and estimates of transportation and other costs for students. In addition, the Rutgers student accounting website provides detailed, university-wide information on tuition, fee, and room/board charges for the current academic year, and the Rutgers financial aid website offers a net price calculator to estimate the difference between “sticker price” and actual charges for prospective Rutgers students after financial aid is considered. Credit Hour Policy Rutgers University has policies approved by its Board of Governors that speak to the issue of credit hour assignment. These include the preamble to the Academic Regulations Controlling the Educational Divisions of the University (Rutgers Policy #10.2.1) and the Units of Credit (Rutgers Policy #10.2.4) policies. The latter defines course credit as the "academic currency" of the university that is to be used by all schools and colleges. It delegates the authority for determining course credit by the "college, school, or Faculty authorizing the course." Related university policies that guide the use of credit assignment include: Student Scholastic Standing and Graduation (Rutgers Policy #10.2.5) Course Attendance (Rutgers Policy #10.2.7) Maximum and Minimum Loads (Rutgers Policy 10.2.8) The determination of course credit within each school or college of the university is informed by New Jersey Administrative Code Title 9A (see Sub-Chapter 1:9A:1-1.2 and Sub-Chapter 2: 9A:1-2.1 a -e). Credit hour decisions for online and hybrid courses and other alternative format courses are also governed by the tenured and tenure-track full time faculty within the colleges and schools of the university, in conformity with standard accepted practice in higher education. Each school has its own procedures for how this is accomplished, depending upon size of school and the concomitant faculty, as well as tradition. In some instances, for example, within the largest academic unit at Rutgers, the School of Arts and Sciences, online and hybrid courses proceed through a formal faculty process that begins by review and recommendation from a curriculum committee and then a faculty vote on course approval. At the Graduate School-New Brunswick, these courses and complete degree programs are vetted by faculty committee and then approved by the graduate faculty. Policies in the Rutgers University Policy Library are maintained and regularly updated/amended according to Rutgers Policy: Formulation and Issuance of University Policies. The faculties at Rutgers have primacy in setting the policies and procedures of credit hours for their respective schools and units. Through each school’s faculty, Rutgers has a clear and sustainable process for creating courses and deciding how many credits they will carry. Each school has its own set of bylaws that grant power to standing faculty entities, usually a faculty curriculum committee, which includes an ongoing process of review and assessment of assigned credit hours. Illustrative examples of this activity within the colleges and schools of the university include the School of Arts and Sciences, School of Communication and Information, Graduate School-New Brunswick (see page 3 section 2.7), School of Environmental and Biological Sciences, Newark School of Arts and Sciences, and the School of Management and Labor Relations. Drug Free Schools and Campuses Act Rutgers has adopted university-wide policies regarding alcohol and other drugs for both students (10.2.14) and employees (60.1.11). Information on the risks associated with alcohol and drug use, along with a listing of resources available to members of the university community dealing with alcohol or drug concerns, is posted on the Alcohol and Other Drug Information website. Additional information regarding alcohol and drug use, including the university’s student code of conduct and relevant New Jersey laws, is also available on that site. Equity in Athletics Disclosure Act In compliance with the Equity in Athletics Disclosure Act, Rutgers provides information on men's and women's athletic programs, including the number of participants by gender for each varsity team, operating expenses, recruiting expenditures, athletically related student aid, and revenues. The first report was issued October 1996, with annual updates thereafter. The reports through 2008 are available at the reference desks of the main branches of the university library system (Alexander Library, Library of Science and Medicine, Robeson Library, and Dana Library), and at the intercollegiate athletics office of each campus. The reports for 2009 and later are below, and all reports can be found on the U.S. Department of Education Office of Postsecondary Education Equity in Athletics Disclosure website. Rutgers University–Camden, 2021 EADA Report Rutgers University–Newark, 2021 EADA Report Rutgers University–New Brunswick, 2021 EADA Report Rutgers University–Camden, 2020 EADA Report Rutgers University–Newark, 2020 EADA Report Rutgers University–New Brunswick, 2020 EADA Report Rutgers University–Camden, 2019 EADA Report Rutgers University–Newark, 2019 EADA Report Rutgers University–New Brunswick, 2019 EADA Report Rutgers University–Camden, 2018 EADA Report Rutgers University–Newark, 2018 EADA Report Rutgers University–New Brunswick, 2018 EADA Report Rutgers University–Camden, 2017 EADA Report Rutgers University–Newark, 2017 EADA Report Rutgers University–New Brunswick, 2017 EADA Report Rutgers University–Camden, 2016 EADA Report Rutgers University–Newark, 2016 EADA Report Rutgers University–New Brunswick, 2016 EADA Report Rutgers University–Camden, 2015 EADA Report Rutgers University–Newark, 2015 EADA Report Rutgers University–New Brunswick, 2015 EADA Report Rutgers University–Camden, 2014 EADA Report Rutgers University–Newark, 2014 EADA Report Rutgers University–New Brunswick, 2014 EADA Report Rutgers University–Camden, 2013 EADA Report Rutgers University–Newark, 2013 EADA Report Rutgers University–New Brunswick, 2013 EADA Report Rutgers University–Camden, 2012 EADA Report Rutgers University–Newark, 2012 EADA Report Rutgers University–New Brunswick, 2012 EADA Report Rutgers University–Camden, 2011 EADA Report Rutgers University–Newark, 2011 EADA Report Rutgers University–New Brunswick, 2011 EADA Report Rutgers University–Camden, 2010 EADA Report Rutgers University–Newark, 2010 EADA Report Rutgers University–New Brunswick, 2010 EADA Report Rutgers University–Camden, 2009 EADA Report Rutgers University–Newark, 2009 EADA Report Rutgers University–New Brunswick, 2009 EADA Report Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act ("FERPA") is a federal law that gives students in higher education various rights with respect to their education records. Rights afforded to you under FERPA include the right to inspect and review your education records, the right to request amendment of records you believe are inaccurate or misleading and the right to prevent disclosure of information from your education records without your prior consent, subject to some specific exceptions. The University Ethics and Compliance website provides notice about your rights under FERPA.. FERPA permits disclosure of "directory information" such as name, phone number, address and e-mail address without your prior consent unless you specifically request that it be kept confidential. More information on directory information. If you have questions about your rights under FERPA, you may contact the University Ethics and Compliance Director of Privacy at (973) 972-8000 or ferparu@rutgers.edu. Financial Aid The university’s Office of Financial Aid sends out an annual notice to Rutgers students providing them with required consumer information related to the financing of their education using federal, state, local or institutional aid. A copy of the yearly notification may be viewed here. Fire Safety An annual fire safety report includes statistics regarding the number/causes of all fires in on-campus housing facilities, number of fire injuries and deaths, and value of property damage. The report also includes information concerning each on-campus student housing fire safety system, the number of regular mandatory fire drills, fire safety policies and education programs, and plans for any needed fire safety improvements. This report is included in the university’s annual Safety Matters publication, here. Graduation Rates The IPEDS Graduation Rate Survey is an annual report of graduation rates of the university’s degree-seeking, full-time undergraduate students by gender and race/ethnicity, and by sport for those who received athletically related student aid. Graduation rates of degree-seeking, full-time undergraduate students at Rutgers University–Camden, Rutgers University–Newark, and Rutgers University–New Brunswick are available through College Navigator. In addition, six-year graduation rates by various student characteristics, including financial aid status, are provided at the following links: : Universitywide Rutgers University–Camden Rutgers University–Newark Rutgers University–New Brunswick Graduation rates of those Rutgers students who received athletically related student aid are available here. And more information on the academic performance of Division 1 student athletes at Rutgers–New Brunswick can be found here. Institutional and Specialized Accreditation Rutgers University is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education,1007 North Orange Street, 4th Floor, MB #166, Wilmington, DE 19801 (267-284-5011). The Middle States Commission on Higher Education is an institutional accrediting agency recognized by the U.S. Secretary of Education and the Council for Higher Education Accreditation. That accreditation was reaffirmed in 2013 following a Periodic Review Report. Documents describing the institution’s accreditation may be downloaded from the university web site or reviewed during regular office hours by contacting the Office of Institutional Research and Academic Planning, Geology Hall, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, 85 Somerset Street, New Brunswick, NJ 08901-1281 (848-932-7956). The Middle States Commission on Higher Education web site includes information on how to file a complaint regarding an accredited institution. Certain programs at Rutgers are subject to specialized accreditation. Information about programs that have received accreditation by agencies recognized by the Council for Higher Education Accreditation or the U. S. Department of Education can be found here. Documents describing accreditation or approval of university programs may be reviewed during regular office hours by contacting the Office of Institutional Research and Academic Planning. Institutional Refund Policy The University Finance and Administration’s Student ABC website provides information regarding policies and procedures for the return of refundable portions of costs paid to the university in the event a student withdraws from the university or payments credited to a student’s term bill exceed the amount due. Licensure Rutgers University is licensed by the State of New Jersey. For more information, please contact The Office of the Secretary of Higher Education. Documentation describing the university’s licensing may be reviewed during regular office hours by contacting the Office of Institutional Research and Academic Planning, Geology Hall, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, 85 Somerset Street, New Brunswick, NJ 08901-1281 (848-932-7956). Instructions for filing complaints with the New Jersey Office of the Secretary of Higher Education can be found here. New Jersey College Student and Parent Consumer Information Act The New Jersey College Student and Parent Consumer Information Act requires each New Jersey four-year public college and university to display on its website comprehensive information on the cost of attendance, the graduation rates of admitted students, and the faculty of the institution. The statute specifies certain required data for inclusion and calls for the Secretary of Higher Education to create a comparative profile of the student consumer information reports for the New Jersey Higher Education website . Rutgers University information is accessible here. Peer-to-Peer File Sharing Unauthorized distribution of copyrighted material, including unauthorized peer-to-peer file sharing, may subject individuals to civil and criminal liabilities. The penalties for violation of Federal copyright laws may be found here. Violations of copyright law also violate University policy and may result in disciplinary action as outlined in the Code of Student Conduct (10.2.11) . Specific Rutgers policies on copyright-related matters include the Acceptable Use Policy for Computing and Information Technology Resources (70.1.1) and the Copyright Policy (50.3.7). : Policy Prohibiting Discrimination and Harassment Rutgers University prohibits discrimination and harassment based upon race, religion, color, national origin, ancestry, age, sex, sexual orientation, pregnancy, gender identity and expression, disability, genetic information, atypical hereditary cellular or blood trait, marital status, civil union status, domestic partnership status, military service, veteran status, and any other category protected by law. Discrimination and harassment compromise the integrity of the university and unfairly interfere with the opportunity for all persons to fully participate in the academic, work, and living environment of the university. While promoting an environment free from discrimination is everyone’s responsibility, the following staff members have been designated to respond to: Complaints Against a Student: Michelle Jefferson, Director, Office of Student Conduct (732-932-9414, or conduct@echo.rutgers.edu). Complaints Against an Employee: Lisa Grosskreutz, Director, Office of Employment Equity (848-932-3973, or lisa.grosskreutz@rutgers.edu). For more information, see Rutgers’ Policy Prohibiting Discrimination and Harassment. In addition, Rutgers’ Title IX Policy and Grievance Procedures describes the ways in which Rutgers will respond to reported instances of sexual harassment that fall within the definition of sexual harassment set forth in the Title IX regulations. Post-Graduate Placement Information Information is provided on various Rutgers websites about employment of graduates, success of graduates taking professional licensing exams, and participation by graduates in graduate and professional education. The information is gathered from sources such as alumni surveys, student satisfaction surveys, the National Survey of Student Engagement, state data systems, or other relevant sources. Examples: Career Exploration and Success – Post-Graduation Survey Student Experience in the Research University (SERU) Survey School of Law New Jersey Medical School Rutgers Business School–Newark and New Brunswick Occupational Therapy Assistant Physical Therapy – Doctorate Physician Assistant – Masters School of Engineering Professional Licensure Disclosures In accordance with revised federal regulations regarding professional licensure disclosures (effective July 1, 2020), information about academic programs at Rutgers whose coursework may be associated with the attainment of certain professional licenses in the State of New Jersey and elsewhere can be found at following Professional Licensure Disclosures webpage. Public Safety Information Information regarding public safety at Rutgers is available in the annual security report "Safety Matters". For each of Rutgers regional campuses the report includes statistics for the previous three years concerning reported crimes that occurred on campus; in certain off-campus buildings or property owned or controlled by Rutgers University; and on public property within, or immediately adjacent to and accessible from, the campus. The report also includes institutional policies concerning campus security, such as policies concerning alcohol and drug use, crime prevention, emergency procedures, the reporting of crimes, sexual assault, and other matters. A paper copy of “Safety Matters” can be obtained at each RUPD headquarters or by emailing clery@ipo.rutgers.edu. The locations of the RUPD headquarters are listed below: Rutgers University-Camden: 409 North 4th Street Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences at Newark: 5 Bruce Street Rutgers University-Newark: 200 University Avenue Rutgers University-New Brunswick: 55 Paul Robeson Blvd The federal Campus Sex Crimes Prevention Act requires Rutgers to issue a statement advising the campus community where information concerning registered sex offenders may be obtained. This information is accessible here. Services for Students with Disabilities Students with disabilities at Rutgers are entitled to the same benefits, the same quality of student life, and are subject to the same academic requirements as other students. Rutgers is committed to providing reasonable accommodations to meet the needs of eligible students. Rutgers Access and Disability Services coordinates accommodations for students with disabilities across the university. Local disability services offices can be found at the following locations: Office of Disability Services-Camden Rutgers-Camden Learning Center Armitage Hall, Room 231 311 North 5th Street Camden, NJ 08102-1405 Phone: 856.225.2717 E-mail: disability-services@camden.rutgers.edu Office of Disability Services-New Brunswick Lucy Stone Hall, Suite A145 Livingston Campus 54 Joyce Kilmer Avenue Piscataway, NJ 08854-8045 Phone: 848.202.3111 E-mail: dsoffice@echo.rutgers.edu Office of Disability Services-Newark Paul Robeson Campus Center 219 350 Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Dr. Newark, NJ 07204 Phone: 973.353.5375 E-mail: ods@newark.rutgers.edu Office of Disability Services-RBHS Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences Rutgers University 65 Bergen Street, Suite 1441 Newark, NJ 07107 Phone: 973.972.5396 E-mail: odsrbhs@ca.rutgers.edu Complaints or grievances regarding Rutgers' compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 or Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act may be directed to the university’s Compliance Helpline (1-833-783-8442) in the Office of University Ethics and Compliance. Teacher Preparation Program Pass Rates In compliance with the Higher Education Opportunity Act, Rutgers provides data on Teacher Preparation Program pass rates and related issues. Detailed information is available here. Title IV Academic Program Lengths Per current federal guidelines, student eligibility for direct subsidized loans is limited to 150% of the normal program length required to earn a specific credential at an institution. (For example, 150% is six years for a typical four-year bachelor’s degree program.) Normal timeframe is defined as the expected amount of time it takes most full-time students at an institution to earn the credential, although some students may take more or less time than the majority to do so. For this purpose, Rutgers University uses definitions of normal program length available here. Additional information regarding the 150% federal direct subsidized loan limit may be found at the following website: https://ifap.ed.gov/150-percent-direct-subsidized-loan-limit-information Title IV Cohort Default Rates The U.S. Department of Education calculates cohort default rates for an institution’s student borrowers who default within a three-year period of time on certain Federal loan programs. Presently, the Department has posted cohort default rates for Rutgers for fiscal years 2016, 2017, and 2018. For more information on cohort default rates, including national and state averages, see the Default Management website maintained by the U.S. Department of Education. The Associate Director of Compliance, University Enrollment Services, will report any changes to Rutgers University’s Cohort Default Rate (CDR) to Institutional Research. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 is a federal law that prohibits sex discrimination in education. It reads: “No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance.” Sex discrimination includes sexual harassment and sexual assault. While it is often thought of as a law that applies to athletics programs, Title IX is much broader than athletics and applies to many programs at Rutgers. While compliance with the law is everyone’s responsibility at the university, listed below are the staff members who have primary responsibility for Title IX compliance: Complaints Against a Student: New Brunswick, Jackie Moran, Title IX Coordinator, Director of Compliance (848-932-8576), Bishop House, 115 College Avenue, Room 206, New Brunswick, NJ 08901, jackie.moran@rutgers.edu. Newark, Ednin Martinez, Title IX Coordinator, Assistant Director (973-353-1906), 123 Washington Street, Newark, NJ 07102, em1096@newark.rutgers.edu. Camden, Allison Wisniewski, Title IX Coordinator, Associate Dean of Students (856-225-6422), 326 Penn Street, Camden, NJ 08102, aemery@camden.rutgers.edu. RBHS, Susan Hamilton, Title IX Coordinator, Assistant Vice Chancellor (973-972-9794), 65 Bergen Street, Newark, NJ 07101, susan.hamilton@rutgers.edu. University-Wide Title IX Coordinator, Judy Ryan, Enterprise Risk and Institutional Compliance Officer (732-235-5304), One World's Fair Drive, Somerset, NJ 08873, judy.ryan@rutgers.edu. Complaints against a student may be filed online. Complaints Against an Employee: Lisa Grosskreutz, Director, Office of Employment Equity (848-932-3979), 57 US Highway 1, New Brunswick, NJ 08901, lisa.grosskreutz@rutgers.edu. Complaints Related to Intercollegiate Athletics: Kathleen Hickey, Title IX Coordinator, Senior Associate Athletics Director for Olympic Sports (848-445-7899), 83 Rockefeller Road, Piscataway, NJ 08854, khickey@scarletknights.com. For more information, see Rutgers’ Policy Prohibiting Discrimination and Harassment. In addition, Rutgers’ Title IX Policy and Grievance Procedures describes the ways in which Rutgers will respond to reported instances of sexual harassment that fall within the definition of sexual harassment set forth in the Title IX regulations. For those wishing to file an external complaint of gender-based misconduct, or for those who have inquiries regarding the application of Title IX, please contact the U.S. Department of Education, Office for Civil Rights. Transfer of Credit Policies Information regarding transfer of credit and other matters of interest to transfer students is posted on the Rutgers undergraduate admissions and graduate admissions websites. Specific transfer of credit policies for individual schools at Rutgers are available in the school catalogs. For students transferring to Rutgers from an in-state county college, details on the statewide transfer agreement between New Jersey’s community colleges and the state’s four-year public colleges and universities can be found here. Vaccine Policies Institutional policies regarding general immunization requirements (10.3.13), and those for COVID-19 specifically (10.3.14), are available through the university’s policy library. Voter Registration New Jersey voter registration information includes qualifications of an eligible applicant, the registration deadline to vote in the next election, voter registration application form, and address to mail application. Withdrawal from Institution - Undergraduate and Graduate Information concerning the requirements and procedures for students seeking to officially withdraw from the university is available here. Students seeking a temporary leave of absence from the university should contact their dean’s office or consult their school website for guidance on how to proceed. Leave of absence guidelines from the Rutgers Business School and the School of Engineering are offered here as examples.