Skip to Main Content Brown University Global Brown International Students and Scholars Secondary Navigation Navigation About Search Menu Site Navigation Home International Students Planning for Brown Arriving at Brown Currently at Brown International Scholars Before You Arrive Once You Arrive J-1 Scholars J-1 Student Interns H-1B Scholars O-1 Scholars NAFTA TN Scholars B-1/Visa Waiver for Business Working and Living Moving to Providence Health and Safety Social Security Driver's License or State I.D. Taxes Banking and Finance Legal and Immigration Resources Resources for Dependents Food, Shopping and Recreation Transportation and Hotels Traveling What to Bring When Traveling Important Travel Updates I-94 Record Travel Outside the U.S. Travel Within the U.S. Announcements Search Global Brown International Students and Scholars Once You Arrive What you should do within the first week of your arrival. Breadcrumb Home International Students Arriving at Brown Sub Navigation In This Section Before You Arrive Once You Arrive International Student Orientations Global Brown Center for International Students Mandatory Check-in All students attending Brown University in F-1 or J-1 status are required to complete an online check-in process with OISSS within 3 business days of their arrival on campus. Please do not delay this process as it might result in unnecessary complications with respect to ID card issuance and payroll. Also, U.S. regulations require students to confirm their arrival at a new university within 30 days of the program start date listed on Form I-20/DS-2019. Failure to check-in constitutes a violation of your nonimmigrant status. Please have the following available as electronic files when completing the online check-in form: Passport ID page I-20/DS-2019 (signed by the student) I-94 record OR I-94 card (little white card issued by immigration officer for those crossing a land border). If applicable provide the same documentation for any dependents who were issued Forms I-20/DS-2019. Log in to your OISSS Gateway portal to begin the New Student Registration request after you arrive in the U.S. Academic and Administrative Requirements Refer to the Your First Days at Brown checklist for additional check-in instructions and information. Get your Brown ID Card. Check in with other departments on campus that may be expecting to meet with you (i.e. your sponsoring department, Graduate School, BioMed Office of Postdoctoral and Graduate Studies, Brown Business Center (BBC) etc.). F-1/J-1 Student Arrival Checklist Living Arrangements and Getting Settled Find a place to live (if you have not done so already). Order the necessary utilities for your home if you need to (electricity, water, gas, internet, phone, etc). Open a bank account. Figure out your means of transportation (car, taxi, bus, bicycle, walking). International Student Orientations Orientations for international students are mandatory and will familiarize you with Brown policies and resources. Health Insurance Information regarding health insurance requirements and resources. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home International Students Planning for Brown Arriving at Brown Currently at Brown International Scholars Before You Arrive Once You Arrive J-1 Scholars J-1 Student Interns H-1B Scholars O-1 Scholars NAFTA TN Scholars B-1/Visa Waiver for Business Working and Living Moving to Providence Health and Safety Social Security Driver's License or State I.D. Taxes Banking and Finance Legal and Immigration Resources Resources for Dependents Food, Shopping and Recreation Transportation and Hotels Traveling What to Bring When Traveling Important Travel Updates I-94 Record Travel Outside the U.S. Travel Within the U.S. Announcements Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Once You Arrive Open details for Once You Arrive Bookmark this Page