Skip to Main Content Brown University Global Brown International Students and Scholars Secondary Navigation Navigation About Search Menu Site Navigation Home International Students Planning for Brown Arriving at Brown Currently at Brown International Scholars Before You Arrive Once You Arrive J-1 Scholars J-1 Student Interns H-1B Scholars O-1 Scholars NAFTA TN Scholars B-1/Visa Waiver for Business Working and Living Moving to Providence Health and Safety Social Security Driver's License or State I.D. Taxes Banking and Finance Legal and Immigration Resources Resources for Dependents Food, Shopping and Recreation Transportation and Hotels Traveling What to Bring When Traveling Important Travel Updates I-94 Record Travel Outside the U.S. Travel Within the U.S. Announcements Search Global Brown International Students and Scholars Information for International Students and Scholars The Office of International Student and Scholar Services (OISSS) supports the integration of international students and scholars into the Brown community. Information for International Students and Scholars The Office of International Student and Scholar Services (OISSS) supports the integration of international students and scholars into the Brown community. We warmly welcomes you to Brown's international community of more than 2,700 international students, scholars and their families representing over 100 countries. International Students The University is committed to empowering international students to thrive in all aspects of their lives while at Brown. International Scholars Brown University's international scholar population is made up of approximately 600 scholars. These scholars include visiting professors, visiting researchers, visiting teaching associates, postdoctoral research associates, faculty, and staff. Latest New & Alerts May 11, 2022 OISSS Announcements: Travel Signatures/OPT/CPT Reminder, STEM Extension for J-1 Students, Special Student Relief (SSR) & TPS March 23, 2022 Immigration Attorney Session: Employment and Visa Options for International Students and Scholars March 16, 2022 Temporary Protected Status (TPS) Designated for Afghanistan & Ukraine March 2, 2022 Annual Income Tax Return Filing March 2, 2022 Annual Income Tax Return Filing Step-by-Step Guide January 28, 2022 F-1/J-1 Student Reminders: Address/Phone Reporting and CPT/OPT Workshops December 3, 2021 International Travel Updates November 8, 2021 New OISSS Gateway Portal Launches November 4, 2021 Immigration Attorney Session, Upgraded OISSS Gateway Portal, Travel Signature, Presidential Proclamation on Travel, Electronic I-20s March 16, 2021 Be aware of tax and immigration scam attempts! Working and Living General information and resources about pre-arrival planning, administrative information, and local resources. What to Bring When Traveling Know what required documents to carry with you when traveling as an international Brown student or scholar outside the U.S. with plans to return and resume J-1 or F-1 status. Contact The Office of International Student and Scholar Services Contact Information Schedule an Advising Appointment Office Hours Important Links I-94 Printout (Get Most Recent I-94) SEVP Portal Reset Request Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home International Students Planning for Brown Arriving at Brown Currently at Brown International Scholars Before You Arrive Once You Arrive J-1 Scholars J-1 Student Interns H-1B Scholars O-1 Scholars NAFTA TN Scholars B-1/Visa Waiver for Business Working and Living Moving to Providence Health and Safety Social Security Driver's License or State I.D. Taxes Banking and Finance Legal and Immigration Resources Resources for Dependents Food, Shopping and Recreation Transportation and Hotels Traveling What to Bring When Traveling Important Travel Updates I-94 Record Travel Outside the U.S. Travel Within the U.S. Announcements Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Information for International Students and Scholars Open details for Information for International Students and Scholars Bookmark this Page