Skip to Main Content Brown University Global Brown International Students and Scholars Secondary Navigation Navigation About Search Menu Site Navigation Home International Students Planning for Brown Arriving at Brown Currently at Brown International Scholars Before You Arrive Once You Arrive J-1 Scholars J-1 Student Interns H-1B Scholars O-1 Scholars NAFTA TN Scholars B-1/Visa Waiver for Business Working and Living Moving to Providence Health and Safety Social Security Driver's License or State I.D. Taxes Banking and Finance Legal and Immigration Resources Resources for Dependents Food, Shopping and Recreation Transportation and Hotels Traveling What to Bring When Traveling Important Travel Updates I-94 Record Travel Outside the U.S. Travel Within the U.S. Announcements Search Global Brown International Students and Scholars About About The Office of International Student and Scholar Services (OISSS) serves as a resource to admitted international students, faculty and researchers and their families as well as academic departments, and other administrative offices on and off campus. The mission of the Office of International Student and Scholar Services (OISSS) is to support the University’s internationalization and to facilitate the integration of international students and scholars into the Brown community. OISSS provides advising services with respect to immigration and visa matters, work permission, orientation, cultural adjustment and personal concerns. OISSS provides consulting services to hiring academic departments, and handles the immigration related aspects of the hiring process for nonimmigrant faculty, researchers, and staff. OISSS is organized under the Office of Global Engagement (OGE). Staff Back to Top Elke Breker Director Elke_Breker@brown.edu Kelsey Dennis Assistant Director, International Student Services Kelsey_Dennis@brown.edu Sonja Paulson Assistant Director, International Student Services Sonja_Paulson@brown.edu Laura Beth Montague Assistant Director, International Scholar Services Laura_Beth_Montague@brown.edu Brian Williamson Administrative and Systems Coordinator Brian_Williamson@brown.edu Office Hours Back to Top Due to University guidance related to Covid-19 health concerns, the Office of International Student & Scholar Services (OISSS) will continue to work remotely until further notice. During this time, we are available via email and phone/zoom consultations. Appointments Back to Top To set up an individual appointment with a student/scholar advisor, please select an applicable link below, or email. Appointments should be made at least 24 hours in advance. Students can book advising appointments online: Undergraduate students Master's students PhD students and Visiting Research Fellows (VRF's) Scholars (Postdocs, Visiting Scholars, Scientists, Professors, etc., as well as J-1 Student Interns) can email Laura Beth Montague or OISSS to set up a mutually convenient advising appointment via phone or Zoom. Contact & Location Back to Top Campus Location OISSS is located on the third floor of the Page-Robinson Hall. Email oisss@brown.edu Student Questions For a faster response, Brown students can submit a question online Phone Number +1 (401) 863-2427 Fax Number +1 (401) 863-7543 Mailing Address OISSS Page-Robinson Hall, 3rd Floor, Room 313 69 Brown Street, Box 1906 Providence, RI 02912 USA Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home International Students Planning for Brown Arriving at Brown Currently at Brown International Scholars Before You Arrive Once You Arrive J-1 Scholars J-1 Student Interns H-1B Scholars O-1 Scholars NAFTA TN Scholars B-1/Visa Waiver for Business Working and Living Moving to Providence Health and Safety Social Security Driver's License or State I.D. Taxes Banking and Finance Legal and Immigration Resources Resources for Dependents Food, Shopping and Recreation Transportation and Hotels Traveling What to Bring When Traveling Important Travel Updates I-94 Record Travel Outside the U.S. Travel Within the U.S. Announcements Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search About Open details for About Bookmark this Page