Skip to Main Content Brown University Global Brown International Students and Scholars Secondary Navigation Navigation About Search Menu Site Navigation Home International Students Planning for Brown Arriving at Brown Currently at Brown International Scholars Before You Arrive Once You Arrive J-1 Scholars J-1 Student Interns H-1B Scholars O-1 Scholars NAFTA TN Scholars B-1/Visa Waiver for Business Working and Living Moving to Providence Health and Safety Social Security Driver's License or State I.D. Taxes Banking and Finance Legal and Immigration Resources Resources for Dependents Food, Shopping and Recreation Transportation and Hotels Traveling What to Bring When Traveling Important Travel Updates I-94 Record Travel Outside the U.S. Travel Within the U.S. Announcements Search Global Brown International Students and Scholars Social Security The Social Security number (SSN) is a nine-digit number issued to U.S. citizens, permanent residents, and temporary workers under section 205(c)(2) of the Social Security Act. Breadcrumb Home Working and Living Sub Navigation In This Section Moving to Providence Health and Safety Social Security Social Security Number Support Letter - International Students Driver's License or State I.D. Taxes Banking and Finance Legal and Immigration Resources Resources for Dependents Food, Shopping and Recreation Transportation and Hotels This number's primary use is to track individual's Social Security accounts. However, the number has over time become the primary individual identification number in the U.S. including for the purpose of filing income tax returns for those who have been employed in the U.S. Once you have received a SSN, by the Social Security Administration (SSA) the number is yours for life, as long as you have the appropriate employment authorization. The SSN can ONLY be obtained once an individual has a job offer and employment authorization. Applying for a Social Security Number Anyone who works in the U.S. must have a Social Security card with a Social Security number. Numbers will only be issued to people who are eligible to be employed in the United States. Numbers are not issued for purposes of general identification (driver licenses, tax returns, bank accounts, phone service, etc. Bank accounts can be opened by completing IRS Form W-8, Certificate of Foreign Status.) Nonimmigrants ineligible for a Social Security Card are still able to receive a Rhode Island Driver License. If you have only just arrived in the U.S. to begin your academic program/or employment, please wait at least two weeks from the time of your entry to the U.S. and completion of F-1/J-1 registration, before applying for a Social Security card. Typically it takes the Social Security Administration up to two weeks to access your U.S entry records. Applying earlier or prior to completion of F-1/J-1 registration will not speed up the process, but may result in a notification from Social Security that your records could not be verified. The Social Security card application form and additional information is available from available online at the Social Security Administration. What To Bring to Social Security Administration Office To obtain a Social Security card, present the following documents, along with a completed Social Security card application, in person to a Social Security representative. All documents submitted to the Social Security Office must match EXACTLY with the spelling of all names, date of birth, etc. of Department of Homeland Security’s records. F-1 Students J-1 Students J-1 Scholars H-1B Scholars F-1 Students Valid Passport I-94 admission record Valid Form I-20 Proof of employment, such as a job offer letter If employment is on-campus during your academic program, you will need to submit a letter from OISSS authorizing on-campus employment If employment is off-campus or at Brown after you have completed your degree, you will need to submit other valid employment authorization (i.e. CPT I-20 or OPT EAD). J-1 Students Valid Passport I-94 admission record Valid Form DS-2019 Proof of employment, such as a job offer letter or paystub If employment is on-campus during your academic program, you will need to submit a letter from OISSS or your J-1 sponsor authorizing on-campus employment If employment is off-campus or at Brown following the completion of your degree, you will need to present documentation of authorized Academic Training employment authorization. J-1 Scholars Valid Passport I-94 admission record Valid Form DS-2019. Brown University Appointment Letter According to the Social Security Administration J-1 short-term scholars that will have appointments for less than 1 month will not be eligible for a Social Security Number even if they will receive pay from Brown University. Without a Social Security Number you will be subject to federal income tax withholding. H-1B Scholars Valid Passport I-94 admission record I-797 Approval Notice Brown University Appointment Letter Where To Apply Social Security Administration 6th Floor One Empire Plaza Providence, RI 02903 Hours Monday through Friday 9am to 4pm. Saturday: Closed Sunday: Closed Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home International Students Planning for Brown Arriving at Brown Currently at Brown International Scholars Before You Arrive Once You Arrive J-1 Scholars J-1 Student Interns H-1B Scholars O-1 Scholars NAFTA TN Scholars B-1/Visa Waiver for Business Working and Living Moving to Providence Health and Safety Social Security Driver's License or State I.D. Taxes Banking and Finance Legal and Immigration Resources Resources for Dependents Food, Shopping and Recreation Transportation and Hotels Traveling What to Bring When Traveling Important Travel Updates I-94 Record Travel Outside the U.S. Travel Within the U.S. Announcements Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Social Security Open details for Social Security Bookmark this Page