Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site Office of International Students & Scholars Getting Started Campus & Community Life Programs & Events Immigration Travel & Visas Employment & Taxes For Departments About Home > Programs & Events > Events Calendar Events Calendar Primary tabs All Upcoming(active tab) This Month Throughout the year OISS is hosting both on-demand programs and in-person events. Please continue to check the calendar as new events will be added on an ongoing basis. 9 Jun OISS Summer Lunch Meet-Up Thursday 12:30pm to 1:30pm This summer, join us for lunch most Thursdays in June and July to get out of your labs and away from your reading to meet some new people! We ask that you bring your own lunch with you, but OISS will provide something sweet for dessert (which may be fruit or chocolate!). We will meet at the picnic tables at Science... LEARN MORE > REGISTER HERE > 9 Jun Summer ISPY Gatherings Thursday 2:30pm to 4:30pm This summer, we are excited to invite our International Spouses & Partners at Yale (ISPY) community back into our building. We have reserved our downstairs conference room as a gathering space for spouses and partners every week on Thursdays from 2:30-4:30pm. This will start on Thursday, June 9th and run through... LEARN MORE > REGISTER HERE > 9 Jun Summer Kickoff at Bear’s Smokehouse BBQ Thursday 4:30pm to 6:30pm Join us to kick-off our summer programs with a meet-up at The Stack by Bear’s Smokehouse BBQ! This is a great opportunity to meet other international students and scholars who will be in New Haven this summer and socialize over a game of cornhole (we will teach you, don’t worry!). OISS will provide a few small... LEARN MORE > REGISTER HERE > 14 Jun Street Art & Ice Cream Walk Tuesday 4:30pm to 6:30pm Over the last few years, the street art in New Haven has truly come to life! Join us for a 2 mile walk around downtown New Haven and see 7+ stunning murals along the way. At the end of our tour, we will make a stop at Arethusa for the best ice cream in town. We will meet outside of OISS at 421 Temple Street and... LEARN MORE > REGISTER HERE > 16 Jun OISS Connect Training for Department Liaisons Thursday 9:00am to 11:00am OISS Connect Training for OISS Departmental Liaisons that host international scholars. LEARN MORE > REGISTER HERE > 16 Jun OISS Summer Lunch Meet-Up Thursday 12:30pm to 1:30pm This summer, join us for lunch most Thursdays in June and July to get out of your labs and away from your reading to meet some new people! We ask that you bring your own lunch with you, but OISS will provide something sweet for dessert (which may be fruit or chocolate!). We will meet at the picnic tables at Science... LEARN MORE > REGISTER HERE > 16 Jun Summer ISPY Gatherings Thursday 2:30pm to 4:30pm This summer, we are excited to invite our International Spouses & Partners at Yale (ISPY) community back into our building. We have reserved our downstairs conference room as a gathering space for spouses and partners every week on Thursdays from 2:30-4:30pm. This will start on Thursday, June 9th and run through... LEARN MORE > REGISTER HERE > 23 Jun OISS Summer Lunch Meet-Up Thursday 12:30pm to 1:30pm This summer, join us for lunch most Thursdays in June and July to get out of your labs and away from your reading to meet some new people! We ask that you bring your own lunch with you, but OISS will provide something sweet for dessert (which may be fruit or chocolate!). We will meet at the picnic tables at Science... LEARN MORE > REGISTER HERE > 23 Jun Summer ISPY Gatherings Thursday 2:30pm to 4:30pm This summer, we are excited to invite our International Spouses & Partners at Yale (ISPY) community back into our building. We have reserved our downstairs conference room as a gathering space for spouses and partners every week on Thursdays from 2:30-4:30pm. This will start on Thursday, June 9th and run through... LEARN MORE > REGISTER HERE > 30 Jun OISS Summer Lunch Meet-Up Thursday 12:30pm to 1:30pm This summer, join us for lunch most Thursdays in June and July to get out of your labs and away from your reading to meet some new people! We ask that you bring your own lunch with you, but OISS will provide something sweet for dessert (which may be fruit or chocolate!). We will meet at the picnic tables at Science... LEARN MORE > REGISTER HERE > 30 Jun Summer ISPY Gatherings Thursday 2:30pm to 4:30pm This summer, we are excited to invite our International Spouses & Partners at Yale (ISPY) community back into our building. We have reserved our downstairs conference room as a gathering space for spouses and partners every week on Thursdays from 2:30-4:30pm. This will start on Thursday, June 9th and run through... LEARN MORE > REGISTER HERE > 7 Jul Summer ISPY Gatherings Thursday 2:30pm to 4:30pm This summer, we are excited to invite our International Spouses & Partners at Yale (ISPY) community back into our building. We have reserved our downstairs conference room as a gathering space for spouses and partners every week on Thursdays from 2:30-4:30pm. This will start on Thursday, June 9th and run through... LEARN MORE > REGISTER HERE > 14 Jul Summer ISPY Gatherings Thursday 2:30pm to 4:30pm This summer, we are excited to invite our International Spouses & Partners at Yale (ISPY) community back into our building. We have reserved our downstairs conference room as a gathering space for spouses and partners every week on Thursdays from 2:30-4:30pm. This will start on Thursday, June 9th and run through... LEARN MORE > REGISTER HERE > 21 Jul Summer ISPY Gatherings Thursday 2:30pm to 4:30pm This summer, we are excited to invite our International Spouses & Partners at Yale (ISPY) community back into our building. We have reserved our downstairs conference room as a gathering space for spouses and partners every week on Thursdays from 2:30-4:30pm. This will start on Thursday, June 9th and run through... LEARN MORE > REGISTER HERE > 28 Jul Summer ISPY Gatherings Thursday 2:30pm to 4:30pm This summer, we are excited to invite our International Spouses & Partners at Yale (ISPY) community back into our building. We have reserved our downstairs conference room as a gathering space for spouses and partners every week on Thursdays from 2:30-4:30pm. This will start on Thursday, June 9th and run through... LEARN MORE > REGISTER HERE > Additional NavigationClose Programs & Events Events Calendar On-Demand Activities & Resources Newsletter & Social Media Yale Connect ISPY ISPY Programs ISPY Orientation English Conversation Groups Language Conversation Groups International Programming Fund Commencement 2022 & Alumni Ceremony OISS Newsletter Sign up to Receive the Latest News and Events from Our Office Connect With OISS Have an Event or Announcement? Submit Your Event Info - You May See it in Our Next Newsletter! Events Around Town Event Listings Yale Events Belonging at Yale Calendar EventBrite New Haven New Haven Parks & Recreation INFONewHaven Visit New Haven Tockify Calendar Patch Calendar Newspapers and Newsletters Yale Email Subscription Service Yale Daily News New Haven Independent Daily Nutmeg The Arts Paper La Voz Hispana Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Office of International Students & Scholars 421 Temple Street, New Haven, CT 06511 USA. Contact Us Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2019 Yale University · All rights reserved Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy