Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site Office of International Students & Scholars Getting Started Campus & Community Life Programs & Events Immigration Travel & Visas Employment & Taxes For Departments About Home > About About OISS Over 6000 international students and scholars from more than 120 countries call Yale University their home away from home. You come from Albania and Zimbabwe and many places in between and you are making untold contributions to this university. The OISS is here to help and support you throughout your Yale experience and beyond, be it a question about your immigration status or your transition to this new culture and community. We look forward to getting to know you! Ann Kuhlman Executive Director, Office of International Students and Scholars Welcome Home! Hub Page View: Connect with OISS Need more help? Check out this page to find out how to get in touch with your adviser. OISS Staff List of all staff members at OISS Statement of Community Values Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Belonging (DEIB) at OISS. Hours, Directions & Parking How to find us. Presentations We invite you to listen to or view recent immigration attorney and OISS presentations on specific immigration topics. Courier Shipping Need OISS to send an immigration document? Yale is a member of a discounted courier shipping program called UEMS. Statistics & Reports The statistical reports of Yale’s international student and scholar communities are posted on our website each year. Women at Yale 50 150 As part of the year-long 50WomenAtYale150 commemoration, OISS highlighted international alumnae—women of all generations and backgrounds from around the world who have gone on to make fascinating and noble contributions. Additional NavigationClose About Connect with OISS OISS Staff Statement of Community Values Hours, Directions & Parking Immigration Presentations Courier Shipping Statistics & Reports Women at Yale 50 150 Virtual Drop-in Hours Other Yale International Offices Office of International Affairs Center for International & Professional Experience International Tax Office Young Global Scholars Office Of International Students & Scholars Phone: (203) 432-2305 Fax: (203) 432-7166 Email or Virtual Appointments: Connect with OISS Need Help? Visit our Connect with OISS page to email your OISS adviser, set-up a virtual appointment, or join our virtual drop-in hours. Picking up & Dropping off Documents Our office is open Mondays-Fridays from 9am-5pm for pick-ups, drop-offs, and travel signatures. 421 Temple Street New Haven, CT 06511 Hours, Directions, and Parking Information Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Office of International Students & Scholars 421 Temple Street, New Haven, CT 06511 USA. Contact Us Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2019 Yale University · All rights reserved Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy