Skip to content Office of Information Technology Toggle navigation My IT Campus IT IT Security Help & Support Governance & Strategy About OIT Give OIT Search Search Search Search Peer-to-Peer (P2P) File Sharing Introduction Illegal file-sharing of copyrighted material via Peer-to-Peer (P2P) applications or other means is a serious offense and can lead to university disciplinary actions as well as criminal and civil penalties. In most cases, it is illegal to upload or download copyrighted material without the owner’s express permission. The Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), the Motion Pictures Association of America (MPAA) and others are actively tracking and seeking damages against these copyright infringements. Using P2P software to violate copyright law carries a number of possible university sanctions, including a conduct violation being placed on an employee’s or a student’s university record, which may be disclosed through future employment or educational application processes. NC State seeks to deter the use of P2P file transfers for illegal purposes up to and including the implementation of technology-deterrent applications that could monitor traffic content. HEOA The Higher Education Opportunity Act (HEOA) was signed into law on August 14, 2008 and regulations for implementing the Act have been issued by the Department of Education. NC State has been following an in-house process for dealing with Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) notices in a timely manner, as well as producing and distributing a number of educational and informational articles to students, faculty and staff on the subject. Several sections of the HEOA deal with unauthorized file sharing on campus networks, imposing three general requirements on all US colleges and universities: A plan to “effectively combat the unauthorized distribution of copyrighted materials” by users of its network, including “the use of one or more technology-based deterrents,” and periodic reviews of the plan and its success (metrics) on the limiting of illegal copyrighted distribution. A plan to “offer alternatives to illegal downloading.” An annual disclosure to students describing copyright law and campus policies related to violating copyright law. For further information on exactly what P2P transactions are, how they work and why they can cause illegal content to be transferred, please download and read this brief article: 7 Things You Should Know About P2P. Legal Alternatives The requirement to “offer alternatives to illegal downloading” specifies that each campus must review the legal alternatives and announce the results of that review to its students and faculty via the Web or other means. The Department of Education recognizes that individual institutions, associations and commercial entities will develop and maintain up-to-date lists of legal alternatives to illegal downloading. The Department of Education has stated that these external lists may be used as reference for compliance with this provision. NC State University will reference the information contained within the EDUCAUSE HEOA Homepage as the Legal Sources of Online Content. Related Information and Resources NC State HEOA Annual Report and Plan NC State Annual Report for the HEOA Compliance Program (2020-2021) NC State HEOA Compliance Plan (2021-2022) More Information Illegal Peer-to-Peer File Sharing Annual Notice (memo from Chancellor W. Randolph Woodson, Provost Warwick A. Arden, and Vice Chancellor for IT Marc I. Hoit, 09/13/2021) FAQS on peer-to-peer file sharing 7 Things You Should Know About P2P Acronyms Copyright Infringement Industry-specific internet anti-piracy information Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA) Business Software Alliance (BSA) – Compliance & Enforcement NC State policies, procedures, and regulations Contact list for HEOA and P2P team Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) Process — TBD Safe Computing at NC State Computer Use Policy Computer Use Regulation Copyright Infringement Code of Student Conduct Division of Academic and Student Affairs EDUCAUSE resources EDUCAUSE Higher Education Opportunity Act EDUCAUSE 7 Things You Should Know About P2P Other external resources Sony BMG v. Tenenbaum The decision affirms the lower court’s award of $675,000 in damages to recording companies under the Copyright Act and holds that the large amount of the award did not violate defendant’s right to due process. The court ruled that the defendant’s behaviors of knowingly and illegally downloading copyrighted music over a period of years, despite repeated warnings to cease, lying about his actions during discovery, and distributing over 5,000 illegally downloaded songs were precisely the behaviors Congress sought to deter with statutory damages under the Copyright Act. Therefore, the court held that the jury’s award did not violate due process. The Chronicle of Higher Education, downloading fine upheld by court Peer-to-Peer (P2P) File Sharing Acronyms Annual Report for the HEOA Compliance Program (2020-2021) Contact List for HEOA Peer-to-Peer Illegal File Sharing and Copyright Infringement Frequently Asked Questions HEOA Compliance Plan 2018-2019 HEOA Compliance Plan 2021-2022 HEOA Compliance Program Annual Report 2017-2018 IT Security Current EPS Implementation Plans Data Management Framework Decode Cybersecurity: Triangle Tech Panel Endpoint Protection Standard (EPS) — Implementation Exception Form Home Page Incident Communications Procedures Information Security Framework Information Security Program at NC State Mobile Security at NC State NC State Antivirus Resources NC State celebrates Data Privacy Month 2018 NC State celebrates Data Privacy Month 2019 NC State SonarQube Workshop NC State to celebrate Cyber Security Awareness Month 2017 Password Standard Peer-to-Peer (P2P) File Sharing Protect the Pack: SecureU Reporting an IT Security Incident Safe Computing at NC State Secure Disposal of University-owned Electronic Media at NC State Security Assessments Security Resources SSL Certificates System Access Removal Procedure System Access Request (SAR) Overview Tenable.io at NC State Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) at NC State Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) at NC State Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) at NC State-2020 Web Application Security Testing Service Office of Information Technology Campus Box 7109 Raleigh, NC 27695-7109 Getting Started Students Faculty & Staff Campus IT Staff Search Search Search Search Browse… My IT Campus IT IT Security Help & Support Governance & Strategy About OIT Give OIT Need Help? NC State IT Service Portal Call 919.515.HELP (4357) Visit the Walk-In Center Office of Information Technology Copyright © 2022 · NC State University · Accessibility · Privacy · University Policies · Log in NC STATE UNIVERSITY NORTH CAROLINA STATE UNIVERSITY RALEIGH, NC 27695 919.515.2011