Download Phone Chat Checkbox Accounts and Identities Reporting and Analytics Collaboration and File Storage Customer Relationship Management Email and Calendaring Enterprise Content Management Forms and Surveys Information Security Learning Management Network Printing Telephones Television and Digital Signs Conferencing Audio and Visual Technologies Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search University of Notre Dame Office of the Executive Vice President Office of Information Technologies Menu Home Services Latest Help Desk About Us Hybrid Work Knowledge Base Search Search Home > Services > Training Training The OIT offers technical training opportunities for faculty, staff, and students through a variety of training options. You can find the current schedule of classes in the calendar just below or use the links to see the full class schedule or the class descriptions. Classes are held in 114 IT Center or 114E IT Center. Register at http://endeavor.nd.edu. Contact OIT Training at 1-7227 or training@nd.edu if you have questions. Current Semester IT Training Schedule IT Training Class Descriptions A New Look for OIT Training Classes These days, business as usual is far from usual, and OIT training offerings have been revamped to fit today’s new work life. Some classes have been shortened and the delivery method has changed for others. The same great content is there, but the presentation will be a better match to today’s busy work schedule. OIT classes are now offered in one of these formats: In-person: Class held in the IT Center (ITC) training labs with limited attendance and social distancing. Hybrid: You can attend this class either in-person or via Zoom. Choose your preference when you register for the class. Zoom: Hands-on training led by an instructor and hosted via Zoom. Instructor-led demonstration: A shorter session that is not hands-on, hosted via Zoom and includes time for questions. On demand: Classes that have been recorded, and offer 24/7 access. Time-Out for Tech Time-Out for Tech is a series of short, narrowly focused sessions presented via Zoom. The current schedule is available in this knowledge article. Instructor-Led Classes OIT offers a wide range of instructor-led training classes. Most of these classes are free to faculty, staff, and students; those classes with an outside cost (on-call instructor or special materials) will continue to have a charge attached to them. Because our classes are often in demand, we are also instituting a Late Cancellation/No-Show policy. Registrants who do not attend a scheduled class or who cancel the enrollment fewer than three business days in advance will incur a $100 charge. Quick Reference Guides for Commonly Used Applications Special Request Training In addition to our scheduled instructor-led classes, OIT also provides special request training options. There may be a charge associated with special request training. This training includes: One-on-one and small group technology instruction Guest instruction in faculty classrooms when students need technology training Other alternatives designed to meet your teaching and learning or administrative needs Contact the OIT Training team by phone at (574) 631-7227 or email training@nd.edu. Campus Use of OIT Training Labs Two labs are available on a limited basis to Notre Dame groups for training activities in which the OIT is not directly involved. More information > Late Cancellation/No-Show Policy Once you register for a class through the Endeavor learning management system, a seat is reserved for you unless you cancel. Due to high demand, many classes fill up quickly and accrue waiting lists. If you are unable to attend your scheduled class, it is important that your seat be made available to another participant. A registrant who cannot attend a scheduled class must cancel at least three business days in advance. A registrant who does not attend a scheduled class or who cancels the enrollment fewer than three business days in advance will incur a $100.00 charge to the registrant's department FOAPAL. When a cancellation fee is incurred, a notice of the charge will be sent to the registrant, the registrant's supervisor, and the department business manager. To cancel an enrollment, log in to http://endeavor.nd.edu and click on Learner Dashboard. In your Timeline, find the class and click View Details > Cancel Registration. Enrollees who do not have access to a computer should contact the OIT Training and Transitions team at 631-7227 or email training@nd.edu. An exception to this policy may be made for a last-minute illness or family emergency requiring absence from work. No exception will be made for an absence or late cancellation resulting from an unanticipated change in workload or schedule. Service Status Okta Network Google Phones Banner Canvas Zoom insideND PrintND Other Newsletter Software Downloads Contact OIT Report a Security Event Hours 115 DeBartolo Hall oithelp@nd.edu Contact Form Chat (574) 631-8111 Facebook Twitter Home Services Accounts & Identity Audio & Video Conferencing Audio Video Technologies Classroom Technology Collaboration & File Storage Consulting & Advisory Services Constituent Relationship Management (CRM) Desktop & Mobile Computing Digital Media Email & Calendaring Emergency Notifications Enterprise Content Management Event & Space Management Forms & Surveys Learning Management Systems Lecture Capture Network Printing Reporting & Analytics Security Software Telephones Digital Signage Training Taste of Technology Quick Reference Guides for Commonly Used Applications Websites, Campus Portal & Mobile App Enhanced Support Services (ESS) Latest Help Desk About Us Hybrid Work Accounts & Identity Audio & Video Conferencing Audio Video Technologies Classroom Technology Collaboration & File Storage Consulting & Advisory Services Constituent Relationship Management (CRM) Desktop & Mobile Computing Digital Media Email & Calendaring Emergency Notifications Enterprise Content Management Event & Space Management Forms & Surveys Learning Management Systems Lecture Capture Network Printing Reporting & Analytics Security Software Telephones Digital Signage Training Taste of Technology Quick Reference Guides for Commonly Used Applications Websites, Campus Portal & Mobile App Enhanced Support Services (ESS) Copyright © 2022 University of Notre Dame Office of Information Technologies 370 Information Technology Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA Phone (574) 631-5600 oit@nd.edu Accessibility Information