Download Phone Chat Checkbox Accounts and Identities Reporting and Analytics Collaboration and File Storage Customer Relationship Management Email and Calendaring Enterprise Content Management Forms and Surveys Information Security Learning Management Network Printing Telephones Television and Digital Signs Conferencing Audio and Visual Technologies Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search University of Notre Dame Office of the Executive Vice President Office of Information Technologies Menu Home Services Latest Help Desk About Us Hybrid Work Knowledge Base Search Search Home > Latest Latest Minimum Version of Zoom Required for All ND Accounts Published: May 26, 2022 Author: Lenette Votava Office of Information Technologies (OIT) Zoom administrators will require anyone accessing the Zoom service with their Notre Dame NetID to update the version of Zoom to at least version 5.10.3 on all devices before Saturday, June 4. If you use a University-owned or personal device to access Zoom with your NetID, you can find instructions on how to update to the latest version in this… Read More about Minimum Version of Zoom Required for All ND Accounts Posted In: Announcements Take a Road Trip with Taste of Technology in June Published: May 20, 2022 Author: Anne Kolaczyk The Taste of Technology mini-conference returns this June to take you on a virtual road trip. Visit GoogleVille, Chrome-opolis and other virtual locations to brush up on the latest technology, as well as find out what’s changed and what can help make your life easier. The 12 sessions cover a wide range of technology topics. There is something for every interest and every level of expertise, including:… Read More about Take a Road Trip with Taste of Technology in June Posted In: Announcements IT Maintenance Begins on 6-4-22 Published: May 19, 2022 Author: Lenette Votava Beginning Saturday, June 4 at 8 a.m. through 8 p.m. (ET) Sunday, June 5, 2022, Office of Information Technologies (OIT) systems engineers will perform a variety of planned maintenance activities and upgrades. Major IT services that may be UNAVAILABLE for some or all of the maintenance period include: Banner and administrative applications that use Banner data: … Read More about IT Maintenance Begins on 6-4-22 Posted In: Announcements Don’t Lose Access to Your ND Files After You Graduate Published: April 04, 2022 Author: Lenette Votava Congratulations graduates! As you prepare for your graduation, be sure to review these important guidelines to maintain access to important documents, files and resources. Your Notre Dame NetID will be deactivated 60 days after you graduate. Be sure to transfer any of these resources you want to keep from your Notre Dame student account to a personal account before the deactivation date.… Read More about Don’t Lose Access to Your ND Files After You Graduate Posted In: Announcements IT Maintenance Begins on 4-1-22 Published: March 23, 2022 Author: Lenette Votava Beginning Friday, April 1 from 7 to 8 p.m. (ET) and Saturday, April 2 at 8 a.m. through 8 p.m. (ET) Sunday, April 3, 2022, Office of Information Technologies (OIT) systems engineers will perform a variety of planned maintenance activities and upgrades. Major IT services that may be UNAVAILABLE for some or all of the maintenance period include:… Read More about IT Maintenance Begins on 4-1-22 Let Your IT Skills Blossom with Classes This Spring Published: March 09, 2022 Author: Anne Kolaczyk The Office of Information Technologies (OIT) is offering the classes you need in just the way you need them this spring. Whether you want to take an instructor-led class that’s taught in-person in a training lab or an online class that’s available 24/7, you can find a class to meet your needs. On-Demand Classes When You Need Them… Read More about Let Your IT Skills Blossom with Classes This Spring Posted In: Announcements Stay Cyber Safe During Tax Time Published: February 17, 2022 Author: Cassie McCan With the start of a new year comes a new tax filing season. Tax preparation is underway as the April 18 tax deadline draws near. During this time, personal information is more likely to be exposed over the Internet. It is imperative to take precautions while filing to avoid fraud and protect personal information.… Read More about Stay Cyber Safe During Tax Time Posted In: Announcements IT Maintenance Begins on 2-26-22 Published: February 15, 2022 Author: Lenette Votava Beginning Saturday, February 26 at 8 a.m. through 8 p.m. (ET) Sunday, February 27, 2022, Office of Information Technologies (OIT) systems engineers will perform a variety of planned maintenance activities and upgrades. Major IT services that may be UNAVAILABLE for some or all of the maintenance period include:… Read More about IT Maintenance Begins on 2-26-22 Computer Repair Service During ND Bookstore Transition Published: February 11, 2022 Author: Lenette Votava Computer repair service at the Notre Dame Bookstore Technology (Hammes) Hub will continue to be available to faculty, staff and students, but some service availability changes will begin prior to the management transition period (March 5 through March 13). Normal service will continue to be available through Sunday, Feb. 27.… Read More about Computer Repair Service During ND Bookstore Transition New Security Updates for Apple Devices Published: February 01, 2022 Author: Cassie McCan Apple recently released operating system updates to address security vulnerabilities. The OIT Information Security team recommends that anyone with any Apple device—both personal and University owned—should install the updates immediately. These are major operating system updates, and may take approximately 45-60 minutes to complete. Please follow the instructions below to upgrade each of your device(s):… Read More about New Security Updates for Apple Devices Posted In: Announcements Grow Your IT Skills with OIT Training Classes Published: January 12, 2022 Author: Anne Kolaczyk Do you need to cultivate your IT skills? This spring, the Office of Information Technologies (OIT) has a variety of classes to help your IT skills flourish. Time-Out for Tech Sessions Time-Out for Tech is a series of short (30 minute) sessions on a variety of technical topics, designed to keep you in the know without sacrificing a lot of time in your busy schedule.… Read More about Grow Your IT Skills with OIT Training Classes Posted In: Announcements $1,000 Referral Bonus Available for Open OIT Positions Published: January 08, 2022 Author: Lenette Votava With more than 20 positions to fill in the next few months, the Office of Information Technologies (OIT) is offering a $1,000 bonus to any ND employee who refers a candidate (external to Notre Dame) that is hired to help OIT grow its diverse, talented organization. To refer someone, fill out this form… Read More about $1,000 Referral Bonus Available for Open OIT Positions Posted In: Announcements A Magical Way to Level Up Your Google Skills Published: January 07, 2022 Author: Lenette Votava How can you work smarter, smoother, and safer in our increasingly hybrid environment? The answer: the Google First Wizarding College. Google First is Notre Dame’s effort to promote Google’s productivity tools (e.g. Docs, Sheets, Slides, Chat) and help faculty and staff discover better ways to work.… Read More about A Magical Way to Level Up Your Google Skills Posted In: Announcements Self Help IT Tips Before & During Christmas Break Published: December 14, 2021 Author: Lenette Votava Like most University offices, the Office of Information Technologies (OIT) will be closed for the Christmas and New Year holidays beginning Thursday, December 23, 2021 through Monday, January 3, 2022. Here are some valuable IT tips to help you prepare for the holiday break, and what you can do in case you have an IT question or issue while you’re away.… Read More about Self Help IT Tips Before & During Christmas Break Smart Sharing Options in Google Drive Published: December 14, 2021 Author: Cassie McCan The need to communicate and collaborate with colleagues at Notre Dame has become increasingly important—especially with the introduction of a hybrid work environment. Since departmental staff members are not necessarily in the office at the same time, it has resulted in some changes in the ways people work with each other.… Read More about Smart Sharing Options in Google Drive Posted In: Announcements Need Last Minute Gift Ideas? Check Out the ND Employee Marketplace! Published: December 13, 2021 Author: Lenette Votava If you need some ideas for last minute holiday gifts, the ND Employee Marketplace on the ND Mobile app may have what you’re looking for. It’s a convenient, safe and secure way for employees to post items to sell and view items to buy, share and swap. If you are looking for purchase or post something specific, the items are classified into categories to help you hone your search such as:… Read More about Need Last Minute Gift Ideas? Check Out the ND Employee Marketplace! Posted In: Announcements AWS Issue Affects Some ND Services Published: December 07, 2021 Author: Lenette Votava On Tuesday, Dec. 7, the Office of Information Technologies received reports of issues affecting some Notre Dame services hosted by Amazon Web Services (AWS). AWS engineers are still investigating these issues and are working to resolve them. Several ND services that have been reported as slow or unavailable include:… Read More about AWS Issue Affects Some ND Services IT Maintenance Begins on 12-4-21 Published: November 18, 2021 Author: Lenette Votava Beginning Saturday, Dec. 4 at 8 a.m. through 5 p.m. (ET) Sunday, Dec. 5, 2021, Office of Information Technologies (OIT) systems engineers will perform a variety of planned maintenance activities and upgrades. Major IT services that may be UNAVAILABLE for some or all of the maintenance period include: Banner and all administrative applications including: … Read More about IT Maintenance Begins on 12-4-21 New OIT Technical Training Classes Debut in November Published: October 21, 2021 Author: Anne Kolaczyk New classes will debut in the coming weeks—all designed with your changing training needs in mind. Need to learn a Google app and can’t find a scheduled class? Now, you can choose from a variety of on-demand classes that focus on using these tools at Notre Dame. No time to attend a long Photoshop class? New shortened Photoshop classes are available that will teach you how to touch up and manipulate your photos.… Read More about New OIT Technical Training Classes Debut in November Posted In: Announcements Mandatory 10-Digit Dialing Begins on 10-24-21 Published: October 12, 2021 Author: Lenette Votava On Sunday, Oct. 24, callers in the 219 or 574 area codes should begin using 10 digits (area code plus phone number) when placing local calls. Though local calls dialed without the area code will still go through on Oct. 24, they will no longer go through after this date. When making outside local calls from a Notre Dame phone, you’ll need to dial “8,” “1” and the area code—just like making a long distance call.… Read More about Mandatory 10-Digit Dialing Begins on 10-24-21 Posted In: Announcements Previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Next Subscribe to Latest View Archives Service Status Okta Network Google Phones Banner Canvas Zoom insideND PrintND Other Newsletter Software Downloads Contact OIT Report a Security Event Hours 115 DeBartolo Hall oithelp@nd.edu Contact Form Chat (574) 631-8111 Facebook Twitter Home Services Latest News Archive Newsletter Help Desk About Us Hybrid Work News Archive Newsletter Copyright © 2022 University of Notre Dame Office of Information Technologies 370 Information Technology Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA Phone (574) 631-5600 oit@nd.edu Accessibility Information