Download Phone Chat Checkbox Accounts and Identities Reporting and Analytics Collaboration and File Storage Customer Relationship Management Email and Calendaring Enterprise Content Management Forms and Surveys Information Security Learning Management Network Printing Telephones Television and Digital Signs Conferencing Audio and Visual Technologies Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search University of Notre Dame Office of the Executive Vice President Office of Information Technologies Menu Home Services Latest Help Desk About Us Hybrid Work Knowledge Base Search Search Home > Services > Security Security You are being redirected. One moment… Fall 2020 Information Get information about security and privacy in the Return to Campus Advisor Notify OIT Information Security of a security-related event Keeping your computer and your data secure requires a variety of tools and habits. We provide several services to help keep you and the University protected online. Report a Security Event Report Spam or Phish Antivirus & Antispyware Notre Dame provides Malwarebytes antivirus and FireEye endpoint protection software for University-owned systems. Students, faculty, and staff using personally-owned systems should obtain antivirus software for their systems. More information is available in Personal Device Security Guidelines. Antivirus for University-Owned Windows Systems Antivirus for University-Owned Macintosh Systems Spirion (formerly Identity Finder) Spirion is a software application dedicated to the prevention of data leakage. Spirion automatically locates social security numbers, credit card numbers, bank accounts, passwords, driver's licenses, dates of birth, and other private data that can be used to commit identity fraud. The product searches within files, emails, browsers and other systems areas where people might not even realize their computer stored their details. Beyond identification, the technology helps securely shred or encrypt information. More Information About Spirion Encryption at Notre Dame Encryption protects data from unauthorized disclosure by encoding it with a password. You should always encrypt sensitive data when there is the risk that it will be lost or stolen. The University Data Handling Standards require the use of encryption for the storage or transmission of all highly sensitive information. The OIT strongly recommends the use of encryption for other sensitive information. Notre Dame provides three options for faculty and staff seeking to encrypt data: encrypting with Microsoft Office, encrypting with special software that encrypts individual files, and software that encrypts your entire computer. The first two options are acceptable for transmitting highly sensitive information via email. More Information About Encryption Secure Mail Secure Mail helps ensure encryption of highly sensitive information sent via email. Access to this service is provided to staff and faculty in departments who regularly deal with highly sensitive information. If you have a business need to send highly sensitive information and have not been enrolled in this service, please send email to infosec@nd.edu to request access. More Information About Secure Mail Security Standards The University, through the Office of the CIO, has adopted security configuration standards for network-connected devices. This is a vital step in establishing a secure computing environment, and the Office of Information Technologies recommends applying these standards to all University devices and systems. The OIT developed these standards in cooperation with IT professionals from academic and business units throughout the University, and the University Security Working Group reviewed the standards. They are based on industry standards, such as those developed by the Center for Internet Security. Technology Policies and Standards Request more information about security standards Service Status Okta Network Google Phones Banner Canvas Zoom insideND PrintND Other Newsletter Software Downloads Contact OIT Report a Security Event Hours 115 DeBartolo Hall oithelp@nd.edu Contact Form Chat (574) 631-8111 Facebook Twitter Home Services Accounts & Identity Audio & Video Conferencing Audio Video Technologies Classroom Technology Collaboration & File Storage Consulting & Advisory Services Constituent Relationship Management (CRM) Desktop & Mobile Computing Digital Media Email & Calendaring Emergency Notifications Enterprise Content Management Event & Space Management Forms & Surveys Learning Management Systems Lecture Capture Network Printing Reporting & Analytics Security Software Telephones Digital Signage Training Websites, Campus Portal & Mobile App Enhanced Support Services (ESS) Latest Help Desk About Us Hybrid Work Accounts & Identity Audio & Video Conferencing Audio Video Technologies Classroom Technology Collaboration & File Storage Consulting & Advisory Services Constituent Relationship Management (CRM) Desktop & Mobile Computing Digital Media Email & Calendaring Emergency Notifications Enterprise Content Management Event & Space Management Forms & Surveys Learning Management Systems Lecture Capture Network Printing Reporting & Analytics Security Software Telephones Digital Signage Training Websites, Campus Portal & Mobile App Enhanced Support Services (ESS) Copyright © 2022 University of Notre Dame Office of Information Technologies 370 Information Technology Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA Phone (574) 631-5600 oit@nd.edu Accessibility Information