Skip to content Office of Information Technology Toggle navigation My IT Campus IT IT Security Help & Support Governance & Strategy About OIT Give OIT Search Search Search Search NC State Rules and Regulations for Student Use of IT The following NC State rules, regulations and procedures apply to students when using the computing and data network resources provided by NC State. Colleges and departments may have additional rules and procedures for the acceptable use of their IT facilities and services. The NC State Computer Use Regulation: This official regulation governs the acceptable use of the campus data network and computing resources for administrative, academic and personal use. Some of the regulation applies only to faculty and staff, who are state employees. “Plain English” Summary and Guidance of the Computer Use Regulation Antivirus Software Requirements: NC State Regulations require the use of approved antivirus software on all Windows and Macintosh computers connected to the NC State network. See http://www.ncsu.edu/antivirus. Copyright Infringement Policy: See also the Illegal peer-to-peer file-sharing alert memo to students from Provost Arden, the NC State Copyright Infringement site and the Peer-to-Peer File Sharing site. Rules and procedures for Unity accounts and other computing systems and services supported by OIT: Unity Computing Account Maintenance – Procedures for Student Accounts: Procedures for account creation and deactivation Computing Lab General Rules: For student computing facilities on campus Unity Locker Rental: procedures for obtaining additional Unity (AFS) file space ResNet Terms and Conditions: These apply to student-owned computers on ResNet See also tips for Safe Computing at NC State. Official Policies, Regulations and Rules (PRR) Disclaimer: This site contains information regarding policies, regulations and rules (PRRs) of North Carolina State University. To the extent of any conflict between the information on this site and the actual policy, regulation or rule, the actual policy, regulation or rule governs. NC State policies, regulations and rules can be found at the PRR website. NC State Rules and Regulations for Student Use of IT Computer Use Regulation – A Plain English Summary for Students Unity Computing Account Maintenance – Procedures for Student Accounts IT Rules, Regulations and Procedures Email Retention Guidelines for Non-Employees with System Administration Duties NC State Rules and Regulations for Student Use of IT One Phish / 2-Step Standard Rules and Regulations for Employee Use of IT Computer Use Regulation Summary and Guidance Computing Lab Use Rules Rules for Implementing Wireless Networks at NC State Unity Locker Rental Service Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS) Information Office of Information Technology Campus Box 7109 Raleigh, NC 27695-7109 Getting Started Students Faculty & Staff Campus IT Staff Search Search Search Search Browse… My IT Campus IT IT Security Help & Support Governance & Strategy About OIT Give OIT Need Help? NC State IT Service Portal Call 919.515.HELP (4357) Visit the Walk-In Center Office of Information Technology Copyright © 2022 · NC State University · Accessibility · Privacy · University Policies · Log in NC STATE UNIVERSITY NORTH CAROLINA STATE UNIVERSITY RALEIGH, NC 27695 919.515.2011