Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Division of Institutional Diversity Main Menu In this section About us Departments Make a gift Contact Us Home Departments The Office of Multicultural Affairs The Office of Multicultural Affairs Welcome The Office of Multicultural Affairs takes a holistic approach to empower Oklahoma State University students to think and act in ways that embrace and promote an inclusive world. We assist students in achieving academic excellence, developing their personal and professional character, and engaging in the campus and greater community. CONTACT US Student Programs and Resources The OMA provides opportunities for leadership development, access to community and campus resources, scholarship opportunities and serves as a bridge for various support services. African American Student Programs and Resources The OMA is home to various African American student organizations and programs which provide opportunities to promote unity and celebrate African American culture and history. Asian American Student Programs and Resources The OMA Asian American programs and organizations promote the diversity of Asian cultures and provide a platform for networking and social engagement. Hispanic/Latinx Student Programs and Resources The OMA serves Hispanic/Latinx students by providing opportunities for social and cultural programming centering various Hispanic/Latinx customs and traditions. LGBTQ Student Programs and Resources The OMA LGBTQ programs and student organizations provide support, safe spaces and opportunities to address issues affecting LGBTQ individuals. Women’s Programs and Resources The OMA women's programs and student organizations focus on creating equitable opportunities for women on the OSU campus. Native American Student Programs and Resources OSU is home to a thriving Native American campus community with various student organizations in engineering, science and the arts. About The Office of Multicultural Affairs (OMA) is a place for students of all cultures, backgrounds, and experiences to come together to learn more about themselves and each other. More Info History OMA Team News & Updates Student Organization Funding Request Events and Programs The Office of Multicultural Affairs' events promote inclusion and diversity within the OSU community. We provide opportunities for students, faculty and staff to engage in celebrations, cultural immersions and experiences that affirm, educate and support various identities. More Info Calendar Signature Events Heritage Month Celebrations Community Advancing Conversations Diversity Workshops The Office of Multicultural Affairs offers workshops focused on diversity, inclusion, equity, social justice and the LGBTQ Safe Zone Allyship Program. Request Diversity Workshop Safe Zone Multicultural Education Learn more about Oklahoma State University's undergraduate diversity courses, minors, gender and women’s studies and cultural education centers. Learn More Africana Studies, Minor Asian Studies, Minor Center for Africana Studies Center for Sovereign Nations Diversity Courses Gender and Women’s Studies Hispanic and Latin American Studies (HLAS), Minor Support Services Scholarships Scholarships through the Office of Multicultural Affairs and are open to students attending the OSU-Stillwater campus. Each award is based on academic effort, campus and community activity, and financial need. More Info Departments Office of Multicultural Affairs Oklahoma State University 240 Student Union Stillwater, OK 74078 (map) (405) 744-5481 | Contact Us Follow Us! OSU Calendar Facebook Twitter Instagram Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©