Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Office of Multicultural Affairs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link Our Story Mission, Vision, Pillars Building Info & Room Booking Programming & Events Social Justice Education & Training Find Community Select to follow link Lawrence 101 Campus Partners Student Orgs Resources Select to follow link Campus Resources Undocumented Student Support People Contact Us Give myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Office of Multicultural Affairs Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Office of Multicultural Affairs (OMA) Welcome to the OMA! Our office is open and welcome to all, so come visit us at the Sabatini Multicultural Resource Center (SMRC)! Cultivating an Inclusive Campus Community Join the movement towards a more inclusive campus community! We have opportunities for students to get involved with social justice and equity work on campus. Request a Training Request a Training Discover Upcoming Programs Discover Upcoming Programs Find Community Find Community Additional Information Sabatini Multicultural Resource Center (SMRC) A space for everyone. Hang out, browse the library, reserve a room. SMRC Lawrence 101 Check out our lists of places to eat, shop, and find your people in Lawrence and Kansas City. Lawrence 101 Campus Partners Check out the offices and centers the OMA frequently collaborates with. Campus Partners Resources Check out some OMA and campus-wide resources for students. Resources COVID-19 Safety Guidelines OMA Newsletter Our bi-monthly newsletter is where we share news and upcoming events - subscribe to stay in the know! Subscribe! Sabatini Multicultural Resource Center 1299 Oread Ave Lawrence, KS 66044 Bus Routes: 11, 29, 30, 36, 38, 42, 43, 44 oma@ku.edu 785-864-4350 facebook instagram twitter Request a Training Reserve a Room Newsletter Signup Contact Us Donate to OMA Student Affairs Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.