Skip to Main Content Brown University Military-Affiliated Students Secondary Navigation Navigation Events News Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Contact Staff Mission & History ROTC & Commissioning Programs Air Force ROTC Army ROTC Navy ROTC Student Veterans New Students Academics & Life at Brown Financial Aid Peer Advisors Brown University Student Veterans Society Brown Veterans Network Alumni Veterans Resources for Faculty Search Military-Affiliated Students About Us Sub Navigation In This Section Contact Staff Mission & History About Us Since Brown's founding, Brown University has supported military veterans and helped students achieve their academic and professional goals, including military service. We value our student veterans—Brown has been designated as a Silver Medal Military Friendly School. That tradition continues today. We offer ROTC opportunities in the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, and Air Force. We also offer Yellow Ribbon funding and generous financial aid to our veteran students, giving them the opportunity to combine their military experience with a Brown degree to have the tools needed to lead and succeed. Office of Military-Affiliated Students Lounge The University has launched its 2021 Fall Reopening Plan, and you can find the latest updates on the Health Brown Website. For everyone's health and safety, the Office of Military-Affiliated Students Lounge is currently open to military-affiliated students, faculty, and staff via Brown ID swipe access. For other members of the Brown community and the general public, please contact military@brown.edu prior to visiting. Please consider connecting with us on Instagram, on Facebook, and subscribe to our newsletter to stay connected! https://www.youtube.com/embed/0bxP-oGMfWU Office of Student Veterans Our office's primary mission is advising, supporting, and advocating for students who have served, are serving, or want to serve in the military. Student Veterans For Student Veterans, Brown facilitates a sense of community with people you can relate to and who can ease your transition to student life. Our office, in cooperation with the Student Veterans Society (SVS), is your voice on campus, striving to make Brown University the best university for veterans. We host monthly luncheons and operate an exclusive, veteran-only study space. Brown offers a Resumed Undergraduate Education program that caters to veteran students. We make veteran applicants a priority with Application Fee Waivers, a Guaranteed Phone Interview, Generous Yellow Ribbon® Awards and Financial Aid, and No SAT/ACT Required. Commissioning Programs Brown is proud to support its Commissioning programs. We offer Army, Naval, and Air Force ROTC programs in partnership with several local institutions. Brown supports and facilitates students’ participation in these programs. The Office of Military-Affiliated Students, a service of the Division of Campus Life, is located in room 106 of Vartan Gregorian Quad A. We are here to serve you. We hope you find this site useful, and please don't hesitate to contact us with any questions. Contact Email, phone, mailing address and location. Staff Meet our professional and student staff. Mission & History Brown University has a rich and distinguished history of contributing to the efforts and mission of our nation’s Armed Services. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Contact Staff Mission & History ROTC & Commissioning Programs Air Force ROTC Army ROTC Navy ROTC Student Veterans New Students Academics & Life at Brown Financial Aid Peer Advisors Brown University Student Veterans Society Brown Veterans Network Alumni Veterans Resources for Faculty Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Events News This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search About Us Open details for About Us Bookmark this Page