Skip to Main Content Brown University Military-Affiliated Students Secondary Navigation Navigation Events News Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Contact Staff Mission & History ROTC & Commissioning Programs Air Force ROTC Army ROTC Navy ROTC Student Veterans New Students Academics & Life at Brown Financial Aid Peer Advisors Brown University Student Veterans Society Brown Veterans Network Alumni Veterans Resources for Faculty Search Military-Affiliated Students ROTC & Commissioning Programs Sub Navigation In This Section Air Force ROTC Army ROTC Navy ROTC ROTC & Commissioning Programs Same Flag, Different Paths - There are several paths students can take to earn a military commission while at Brown, some of which also provide scholarships and financial assistance. Which path a student chooses will depend on which branch of the service they want to join, and how much of a commitment they're prepared to make concurrently with their school work. Whichever path or branch you choose, the Office of Military-Affiliated Students is here to support you in your pursuit of a commission with the US military. Reserve Officers’ Training Corps ROTC, or Reserve Officers' Training Corps, is a college leadership program sponsored by the U.S. Military. Offered by the Army, Navy and Air Force (with the Naval ROTC including a Marine Corps commissioning track), ROTC awards qualified students full-tuition scholarships as well as monthly stipends. ROTC students become commissioned officers upon graduation and must fulfill a service obligation in their chosen branch. Brown offers ROTC through partnerships with other local institutions, and Brown cadets/midshipmen conduct their training at the host institution: Air Force ROTC Air Force ROTC develops the leaders of tomorrow by preparing students to become officers in the U.S. Air and Space Forces while earning a college degree. Visit Page Open details for Air Force ROTC Army ROTC Army ROTC is one of the best leadership programs in the country and is part of your college curriculum. Visit Page Open details for Army ROTC Navy ROTC Join the Navy while attending college through the Naval Reserve Officer Training Corps (NROTC) Scholarship program. Visit Page Open details for Navy ROTC Curricular and Field Training ROTC students receive curricular and field training in military science. Programs vary slightly between the services, but typical requirements include one to three hours of classroom instruction and three hours of physical fitness training per week, a one-hour weekly leadership lab, and a one weekend field-training exercise per semester. As of July 1, 2015, ROTC courses will be considered for Brown credit using the same criteria applied to other transfer courses, and all successfully-completed ROTC courses — credit or non — will be notated on a student's transcript. Students who would like more information about ROTC opportunities at Brown should contact military@brown.edu. Students are also welcome to contact the partner units directly Other Commissioning Programs Officer Candidate School Officer Candidate School (OCS), run by each of the five branches (Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, and Coast Guard) are open to civilians who hold at least a four-year college degree and meet age and security-clearance requirements. Marine Corps PLC The Marine Corps Platoon Leadership Class (PLC) is an opportunity to fulfill your commissioning requirements during the summertime, allowing you to fully concentrate on your studies during the school year. Health Professions Scholarship The Health Professions Scholarship Program (HPSP) offers Medical School scholarships (covering all direct educational costs and providing a monthly stipend) that result in commissions with any branch of the military. Scholarships for STEM Students The Navy and Air Force offer specialty scholarships (including monthly stipends of around $3,000) for STEM students who commit to work in a specific field, such as nuclear propulsion or engineering. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Contact Staff Mission & History ROTC & Commissioning Programs Air Force ROTC Army ROTC Navy ROTC Student Veterans New Students Academics & Life at Brown Financial Aid Peer Advisors Brown University Student Veterans Society Brown Veterans Network Alumni Veterans Resources for Faculty Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Events News This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search ROTC & Commissioning Programs Open details for ROTC & Commissioning Programs Bookmark this Page