Skip to Main Content Brown University Military-Affiliated Students Secondary Navigation Navigation Events News Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Contact Staff Mission & History ROTC & Commissioning Programs Air Force ROTC Army ROTC Navy ROTC Student Veterans New Students Academics & Life at Brown Financial Aid Peer Advisors Brown University Student Veterans Society Brown Veterans Network Alumni Veterans Resources for Faculty Search Military-Affiliated Students Staff Breadcrumb Home About Us Sub Navigation In This Section Contact Staff Mission & History Staff Meet our professional and student staff. Professional Staff Christian Manning Program Director mac_manning@brown.edu 401.863.7682 Christian “Mac” Manning is a United States Marine Corps Veteran. Prior to coming to Brown University Mac served as the Program Manager for George Washington University’s Military & Veteran Services. Prior to George Washington Mac was the Veterans Liaison and Transfer Admissions Counselor at Stevenson University where he earned a Bachelor’s Degree in Interdisciplinary Studies. Mac is currently completing a graduate degree in Leadership Development. Student Staff Yasemin Emami Graphic Designer and Publicity Coordinator Yasemin Emami transferred to Brown from the United States Air Force Academy. She is currently a junior studying Cognitive Neuroscience. Her hobbies include hiking, traveling, playing volleyball, and exploring all the coffee shops that Providence has to offer! Gerilyn Maselli Commissioning Programs Coordinator, Army ROTC Liaison, PAVE Peer Advisor Gerilyn is a junior studying International and Public Affairs. She is an Army ROTC cadet. Gerilyn plays on the women's rugby team, and outside of school, she can be found kayaking, hiking, or reading a good book. After graduation, she'd like to branch Military Intelligence and is interested in attending law school or other higher education. Jack Montgomery Commissioning Programs Coordinator, Navy ROTC Liaison Jack is a sophomore in the Navy ROTC program. His hobbies include creative writing and playing rugby. Robert Murray Recruitment and Retention Coordinator Robert Murray is a 3rd year studying History. He served in the Marine Corps for 4 years as an M1A1 Tank Crewman. Prior to Brown, he studied at Bristol Community College. He serves as the current President of the Student Veteran Society. He will be interning at Deloitte this summer. Raquel Ruiter Commissioning Programs Coordinator, Air Force ROTC Liaison, PAVE Peer Advisor Raquel is a junior in the Air Force ROTC program studying International Relations and Economics. After she serves in the Air Force, she plans to attend business school. At Brown, Raquel enjoys studying Russian and visiting every bakery she can find in Providence. Nikhel Sylvain PAVE Team Leader Nikhel is a senior concentrating in Political Science. Prior to transferring to Brown, he served six years in the United States Air Force as an In-Flight Refueler. Nikhel's hobbies include flying, traveling, and running. Upon graduation, he intends to work in business before pursuing graduate education. Ultimately, Nikhel hopes to continue serving his nation as a foreign diplomat. Jason Uilelea Recruitment and Retention Coordinator Jason is a junior studying Medical Anthropology and plans to pursue medical school following his time at Brown. Jason served in the Army for 7 years as a line medic with 3BDE 3ID and then 3 years as a detailed recruiter in Corinth, MS. Jason enjoys exploring New England with his wife and two Aussiedoodles. Kimberly Ventura Community Programming Coordinator Kim is a junior studying Business Economics & Linguistics. Before Brown, she served in the US Marine Corps as a Diesel Engine Technician working on combat vehicles. She continues to enjoy working on cars of all sorts, discovering new cultures, and staying active Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Contact Staff Mission & History ROTC & Commissioning Programs Air Force ROTC Army ROTC Navy ROTC Student Veterans New Students Academics & Life at Brown Financial Aid Peer Advisors Brown University Student Veterans Society Brown Veterans Network Alumni Veterans Resources for Faculty Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Events News This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Staff Open details for Staff Bookmark this Page