Skip to Main Content Brown University Military-Affiliated Students Secondary Navigation Navigation Events News Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Contact Staff Mission & History ROTC & Commissioning Programs Air Force ROTC Army ROTC Navy ROTC Student Veterans New Students Academics & Life at Brown Financial Aid Peer Advisors Brown University Student Veterans Society Brown Veterans Network Alumni Veterans Resources for Faculty Search Military-Affiliated Students Academics & Life at Brown Breadcrumb Home Services for Student Veterans Sub Navigation In This Section New Students Academics & Life at Brown Financial Aid Peer Advisors Brown University Student Veterans Society Brown Veterans Network Academics & Life at Brown The Open Curriculum will give you the right to choose and the freedom to be the architect of your own education. After their years of service in the military, many veterans feel they have the maturity and desire to tailor their education to their specific academic curiosities. Some of our current student veterans wishes to gain the broadest perspective possible by taking a wide breadth of differing courses, others refine their focus to a few dedicated interests. No matter the path you choose to take during your time at Brown, the undergraduate college's Open Curriculum will give you the right to choose and the freedom to be the architect of your own education. For those entering Brown as a graduate or medical student, the respect Brown affords you as the learner and the excellence it challenges you to achieve capitalize on the experience you bring as a veteran. Explore Personal Interests Life at Brown offers veterans a place not only to explore their academic curiosities, but their varied personal interests as well. Boasting more than 500 student organizations, Brown students are involved in a variety of activities including the arts, sports, media, international and community service, and many more. Undergraduate Academic Advising Located in the 2nd floor of University Hall, the Office of the Dean of the College oversees all aspects of the undergraduate academic experience at Brown. Deans hold open office hours every day. The Office of the Dean of the College includes multiple resource centers available to help you make the most of your educational experience at Brown. Resourses Academic Services Academic Support Services (University Hall, 1 Prospect Street): Academic Support Services offer a myriad of resources designed to assist Brown students to achieve their academic and personal aspirations. Visit Page Open details for Academic Support Services The Curricular Resource Center for Peer Advising (CDC) (Stephen Robert '62 Campus Center, Room 228): Visit the CRC to learn how to best engage with Brown's curriculum and utilize its academic resources. Visit Page Open details for The Curricular Resource Center for Peer Advising The Sciences Library The Sciences Library holds materials that support study and research in the fields of medicine, psychology, neural science, environmental science, biology, chemistry, geology, physics, engineering, computer science, and pure and applied mathematics, and provides a wide range of services to staff, students, and faculty at Brown University. Visit Page Open details for The Sciences Library Office of International Programs (Page-Robinson Hall, Room 420): Opportunities and programs to study away from the United States. Visit Page Open details for Office of International Programs The Harriet W. Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning (Science Library, 7th Floor): Staffed by graduate students from a variety of academic disciplines. Staff members are experienced writers and teachers who participate in ongoing training in composition and Writing Center theory and practice. Visit Page Open details for The Harriet W. Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning Veterans Day ceremony. Diversity Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity (Horace Mann, 3rd Floor): Provides leadership for the formulation and oversight of policies related to pluralism and equity and initiates programs and practices that promote diversity, inclusion, and fair treatment for all members of the Brown community, including status as a United States Veteran. Office of the Chaplains and Religious Life OCRL (Page-Robinson Hall, 4th Floor): Works to ensure that a diversity of beliefs has voice and vitality throughout the University community. OCRL sponsors programs, coordinates a broad set of chaplains and affiliates that advise a breadth of spiritual traditions, and is a gateway to resources related to religious, faith, and spiritual life on campus. Brown Center for Students of Color BCSC (68 Brown Street): The BCSC is a student-focused center designed to provide students of color with a base for social, academic, administrative, cultural, and organizational support. Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender SDWC (26 Benevolent Street): Seeks to provide a comfortable, yet challenging place for students, faculty, and staff to examine the multitude of issues around gender. Student Accessibility Services SAS (20 Benevolent Street): Works with any member of the Brown community who may need accommodations or services due to a disability or medical condition. They are also available to meet with individuals who are wondering if they may have a disability or would benefit from an evaluation or more information. LGBTQ Center (321 Stephen Robert '62 Campus Center, 3rd Floor): Provides a comprehensive range of education, information and advocacy services and works to create and maintain an open, safe, and inclusive environment for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer and questioning students, faculty, and staff, their families and friends, and the campus community at large. Health and Wellness Brown Health Services (13 Brown Street, Andrews House) offers a variety of medical services to students. An annual health services fee is charged to all students to cover the cost of providing care at Health Services. However, this fee does not include health insurance. Counseling and Psychological Services (69 Brown Street, Page-Robinson Hall 512) is a safe and confidential place for students to talk about any concern. Students can also make an appointment with a Student Life dean to discuss any non-academic issue that may be impacting his/her academic experience. Department of Athletics and Physical Education 235 Hope St) offers a broad array of physical fitness opportunities, including organized sports at various levels (varsity, club, and recreational) and fitness classes and centers. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Contact Staff Mission & History ROTC & Commissioning Programs Air Force ROTC Army ROTC Navy ROTC Student Veterans New Students Academics & Life at Brown Financial Aid Peer Advisors Brown University Student Veterans Society Brown Veterans Network Alumni Veterans Resources for Faculty Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Events News This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Academics & Life at Brown Open details for Academics & Life at Brown Bookmark this Page