Skip to Main Content Brown University Military-Affiliated Students Secondary Navigation Navigation Events News Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Contact Staff Mission & History ROTC & Commissioning Programs Air Force ROTC Army ROTC Navy ROTC Student Veterans New Students Academics & Life at Brown Financial Aid Peer Advisors Brown University Student Veterans Society Brown Veterans Network Alumni Veterans Resources for Faculty Search Military-Affiliated Students New Students Breadcrumb Home Services for Student Veterans Sub Navigation In This Section New Students Academics & Life at Brown Financial Aid Peer Advisors Brown University Student Veterans Society Brown Veterans Network New Students While all undergraduate student veterans arrive at Brown with the life experience of having served in the military, the application process by which you enter Brown will impact your arrival and transition process. For those entering as a Resumed Undergraduate Education (RUE) student, there is already more flexibility to accommodate your status as someone who is not coming to Brown right out of high school. If admitted through the regular undergraduate admission process or as transfers, please keep in mind that almost all of the other students admitted through that process are attending Brown directly from high school or transferring to Brown from an institution they began attending right out of high school. Residential and campus experiences are an important and vital part of the complete Brown education; however, if there are components that present issues for you, don't hesitate to ask and to advocate for yourself. Brown students excel not only at tailoring the academic experience to their interests -- they also do this outside the classroom. For graduate and medical students, systems and protocols are necessarily designed to be more tailored to students with more diverse life experiences. Housing The majority of student veterans - Resumed Undergradutes (RUE), graduate, and medical - come to Brown without any requirement to live on campus. Services and information are available to assist you in finding off-campus housing, including the Auxiliary Housing Office. There is a limited amount of on-campus housing available to some students in these categories. Please inquire with Residential Life for more information. With the exception of Resumed Undergraduate Education students, married students, and local students living with their families, all transfer students are required to live in university residences unless excused by the Office of Residential Life. Students entering Brown through the regular admission process, are expected to live on campus for two years and are guaranteed housing for all four years. For more information, visit the Office of Residential Life. Orientation As an undergraduate, right before the start of your first semester at Brown, you will be welcomed to campus by a host of peer counselors and academic advisors. During these first few days, you will learn about the different resources available to you as a Brown student, and what to expect from your first year at Brown. Many of our current student veterans found this was a useful time to get to know other members of the non-traditional population, plan the first semester’s courses load, and learn about their new home in Providence. RUE and transfer students participate in RUE, Transfer, and Visiting Student Orientation, offered at the start of the academic year and mid-year for those arriving at that time. There are also student counselors for these programs who themselves are RUE or transfer students. Orientations are also planned for graduate and medical students. Making More of Your Orientation Many of our current undergraduate veteran students knew coming in that they desired opportunities to engage with fellow undergraduates through a more structured and/or intensive experience. Many have found the Brown Outdoor Leadership Training (BOLT) Program, open to all incoming RUE and transfer students, to be a pivotal experience. As an incoming student, BOLT offers you the opportunity to get to know a small group of 10 Brown students as you venture into the White Mountains of New Hampshire for several days. While your outdoor experience may only last a few days, the BOLT program and the friendships you make will last much longer. In your first year, you will have the opportunity to frequently reunite with your group and attend a BOLT reunion later in the year. This program is a great way to get a first glimpse of the diverse groups of people you will meet at Brown. Others have found that participation in varsity athletics to be a good option. Not all teams take walk-ons, but all students are encouraged to inquire with the Department of Athletics and Physical Education for more information. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Contact Staff Mission & History ROTC & Commissioning Programs Air Force ROTC Army ROTC Navy ROTC Student Veterans New Students Academics & Life at Brown Financial Aid Peer Advisors Brown University Student Veterans Society Brown Veterans Network Alumni Veterans Resources for Faculty Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Events News This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search New Students Open details for New Students Bookmark this Page