Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Ombuds Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About the Ombuds Our Team Services Resources Frequently Asked Questions Schedule An Appointment Our Charter Our History Our Role Our Principles Our Authority Presentations & Workshops Conflict Coaching Facilitation Mediation Self-Help Articles Columbia Resources Suggested Readings Outside Resources Ombuds You are here: Home Frequently Asked Questions Frequently Asked Questions Expand all Collapse all Ask Us More What is an Ombuds? The term 'ombudsman' has origins in Sweden and varying types of Ombudsman with different roles, functional responsiblities, and standards of practice. At Columbia, we are organizational ombuds who are independent, informal, impartial and confidential. We provide a confidential resource for our students, faculty, staff and alumni to discuss their workplace or academic issues and/or concerns. What does an Ombuds Officer do? Listen Clarify policies and procedures Offer an impartial perspective Identify resources Provide options to issues Provide coaching for difficult conversations Recommend constructive change in University policy Facilitate team discussions Conduct mediations Conduct conflict resolution workshops and presentations Provide customized workshops and presentations How do I make an appointment? There are a few methods to make an appointment. On this website, select Schedule an Appointment and fill out the webform. Send us an email at ombuds.columbia.edu. Call us at 212.854.1234. As soon as we receive your request, we will contact you immediately. How is the Ombuds Office different from other offices on campus? We are confidential. Our process is informal and initiated by the visitors to the office. We emphasize developing strategies you can use before you decide it's necessary to use one of Columbia's formal administrative processes. If you aren't sure where to take your concern, the ombuds is a safe place to start. Working with us is off the record, which sometimes makes talking about problems a little less intimidating. How does the confidentiality work? Conversations with our office are confidential; a cornerstone of our principles of the International Ombudsman Association. However, confidentiality cannot be promised if there is imminent risk of serious harm. What concerns are brought by faculty visitors? Faculty members have sought assistance with issues relating to appointments and hiring Housing Research and ownership of data Academic dishonesty Conflict-resolution with a student or post-doctoral student Course assignments Inter- or intradepartmental conflicts Disability issues Faculty Code of Conduct Harassment Discrimination Promotion, compensation and other concerns What concerns are brought by staff/administrative visitors? Staff members are welcome to discuss issues relating to Performance issues/evaluations Performance Improvement Plan Termination and resignation Promotion and salary Conflict with colleagues and supervisors Perceived discrimination and harassment Work-life balance Ethical dilemmas Other concerns What concerns are brought by student visitors? Students are welcome to discuss Grade disputes Student-instructor misunderstandings Thesis and dissertation concerns Housing Disciplinary matters Disability issues Harassment Discrimination Interpersonal issues Roommate conflicts Other concerns When should I contact the Ombuds Office? Sooner is better than later. While no concern or conflict is too little or too big for us to help with, the sooner you reach out for assistance with your concern, the more options you'll have to resolve it effectively. You can talk with us in confidence about any concerns related to Columbia University. Contact us if: You would like to talk confidentially about an issue or situation You need help communicating with someone within the University You are unsure of the policies or procedures that apply to your problem or issue You would like to know what resources or options are available You need an objective perspective on a problem You want information about how to file a formal complaint, appeal, or grievance You feel a policy or procedure is not being followed properly You feel that you have been unfairly or inequitably treated You are not sure where else to turn for help What kind of records do you keep? The Ombuds Office does not retain any information that would identify the individual who visit our office. We keep statistical data about the categories of concerns visitors discuss, as well as, general demographic data, which is aggregated. What should I expect when I visit the Ombuds Office? All visits are scheduled for an hour in a comforable, confidential setting. The Ombuds Officer will briefly explain their role then you are free to discuss your problems, concerns or complaints. The Ombuds Officer will listen to you and then explore options and/or resources towards pursuing a resolution. You do not need to bring anything, but if you have documents (email exhanges, course documents, letters of discipline, performance evaluations, etc.) that you think are pertinent to your concerns, you are welcome to bring them. Since the Ombuds Office does not maintain records, we will return those documents back to you at the end of the visit. Schedule an Appointment Office Locations Morningside 660 Schermerhorn Ext. 1200 Amsterdam Ave., MC 5558 New York, NY 10027 (212) 854-1234 Columbia University Irving Medical Center 154 Haven Ave., Room 412 New York, NY 10032 (212) 304-7026 Morningside Office - 212.854.1234660 Schermerhorn Ext., MC 5558, 1200 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 CUIMC Office - 212.304.7026154 Haven Avenue, Room 412 · New York, NY 10032 Internal Ring Central41234 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close