Skip to Main Content Brown University University Ombuds Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Us Guiding Principles Mission Ways in Which the Ombuds Office Can Help Meet the Ombuds Annual and Semi-Annual Reports Our Services Confidential Consultation Informal Mediation Facilitation Shuttle Diplomacy Training and Presentations Contact Us FAQ Resources Search University Ombuds Confidential Consultation Breadcrumb Home Our Services Sub Navigation In This Section Confidential Consultation Informal Mediation Facilitation Shuttle Diplomacy Training and Presentations Confidential Consultation The Ombuds Office routinely provides confidential consultations to both individuals and groups. Individuals The Ombuds Office regularly offers one-on-one consultations to Brown University staff, faculty, graduate students, medical students, and postdoctoral scholars. During these meetings, individuals have a safe and confidential space in which to voice, clarify, and discuss sensitive concerns or conflicts. Individuals also have a non-judgmental, informal partner with expertise in conflict management who actively listens and collaboratively talks through strategies, options, and resources to address concerns. For more information, see FAQ. Groups In addition to meeting with individuals, the Ombuds Office also consults with groups. When working with groups, the four principles of confidentiality, informality, neutrality, and independence all still apply. Informal Mediation The Ombuds Office offers informal mediation between two or more parties in a conflict. Informal mediation through the Ombuds Office is confidential and informal, making it a safe space to try to work out disputes before or instead of moving to formal and less confidential processes. Visit Page Open details for Informal Mediation Facilitation The Ombuds Office provides facilitation services to assist groups in managing conversations. Visit Page Open details for Facilitation Shuttle Diplomacy Sometimes parties to a conflict are unwilling or unable to meet in person or speak directly to one another. Visit Page Open details for Shuttle Diplomacy Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Us Guiding Principles Mission Ways in Which the Ombuds Office Can Help Meet the Ombuds Annual and Semi-Annual Reports Our Services Confidential Consultation Informal Mediation Facilitation Shuttle Diplomacy Training and Presentations Contact Us FAQ Resources This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Confidential Consultation Open details for Confidential Consultation Bookmark this Page