retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Skip to main content MENU Search Search Student Ombuds About Us Common Concerns FAQ Request A Presentation Resources Student Tips & Guides Staff Ombuds Contact Us About Us FAQ Request A Presentation Staff Resources Tips and Strategies Events Our Principles Faculty Ombuds Contact Info About Us FAQs Practical Self-Help Tools Faculty Resources Helpful Campus Resources Faculty Organizations & Governance Human Resources & Work/Life Balance Annual Reports Faculty Ombuds Photo of the the University of Texas FACULTY OMBUDS OFFICE A Bridge Between Problems and Options The Office of the Faculty Ombuds at The University of Texas at Austin was established to provide faculty with a prompt and professional way to resolve conflicts, disputes, or complaints beyond turning to their supervisors. The office assists faculty with any work-related difficulty, including interpersonal conflict or misunderstandings, as well as academic or administrative concerns. The faculty ombuds helps individuals identify options for fair and equitable outcomes and fosters civility and mutual respect as outlined in the University Honor Code. The office maintains strict confidentiality and provides a safe place for faculty to have off-the-record conversations on issues related to work. Meet the Faculty Ombuds Dr. Lynn Katz Lynn E. Katz is the Hussein M. Alharthy Centennial Chair in Civil Engineering and Director of the Center for Water and the Environment. She has over thirty years of experience examining the application of aquatic surface chemistry to understanding the fate and transport of contaminants in the environment and toward the development of treatment technologies for contaminated water and soil. Her current research has a strong focus on improving water treatment for underserved communities. As a faculty member at the University of Texas, she has served as Chair of the Engineering Faculty Women’s Organization, Chair of the Faculty Womens’ Organization, co-chair of the University Faculty Gender Equity Council, Associate Chair of the Department of Civil, Architectural and Environmental Engineering and Chair of the Cockrell School of Engineering Faculty Promotion and Review Committee. Dr. Chris McCarthy Dr. Chris McCarthy is a professor in the Department of Educational Psychology. Dr. McCarthy’s specialization is in Counselor Education and Counseling Psychology and he teaches courses in career development, counseling skills, and group counseling. His research interests include stress and coping in educational contexts, career development, and group counseling. Dr. McCarthy’s current scholarly focus is on researching factors that cause stress for K – 12 teachers and developing interventions to help teachers thrive. Dr. McCarthy is a member of the American Counseling Association, the Association for Specialists in Group Work, and the American Educational Research Association. Useful Resources Title IX Office Handbook of Operating Procedures Behavioral Concerns Department of Investigation and Adjudication Ombuds Services If you’d like to schedule a consultation with one of the ombuds, please email facombud@austin.utexas.edu. Office of the Faculty Ombuds Location: West Mall Building 2.102 Mail Code: F9500 Address: The University of Texas at Austin General Faculty PO Box 7816 Austin, Texas 78713-7816 Email: facombud@austin.utexas.edu Website: https://ombuds.utexas.edu/faculty Staff & Student Ombuds: 512-471-3825 UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022