Skip to Main Content Brown University University Ombuds Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Us Guiding Principles Mission Ways in Which the Ombuds Office Can Help Meet the Ombuds Annual and Semi-Annual Reports Our Services Confidential Consultation Informal Mediation Facilitation Shuttle Diplomacy Training and Presentations Contact Us FAQ Resources Search University Ombuds About Us Sub Navigation In This Section Guiding Principles Mission Ways in Which the Ombuds Office Can Help Meet the Ombuds Annual and Semi-Annual Reports About Us The Ombuds Office is here to support faculty, staff, graduate students, medical students, and postdoctoral scholars who face issues or conflicts arising from or affecting their work, life, or study at Brown. The Ombuds Office follows its Guiding Principles, is laser-focused on its Mission, and provides a host of conflict management related services. Additionally, the Ombuds Office is a voluntary program. No one is required to use the Ombuds Office, but if they do, they will be understood to have agreed to abide by the Guiding Principles, including not calling the University Ombuds to testify with respect to confidential communications. Moreover, as a matter of policy, Brown does not call on the University Ombuds to disclose confidential communications or to serve as a witness. Guiding Principles Confidential, Informal, Neutral, and Independent Visit Page Open details for Guiding Principles Mission The mission of the Ombuds Office is to help foster and support a respectful, ethical, and equitable working, learning, and living environment for the diverse members of the Brown community. Visit Page Open details for Mission Ways in Which the Ombuds Office Can Help The University Ombuds has skill and experience in conflict resolution, conflict coaching, facilitation, informal mediation, negotiation, and training. The Ombuds Office offers a confidential, informal, neutral, and independent place to have a quiet conversation, work out how to navigate a situation or the organization, or manage and solve conflicts/concerns. Visit Page Open details for Ways in Which the Ombuds Office Can Help Meet the Ombuds Ms. Julie Weber is excited to join the Brown University community. She is an experienced ombuds who is trained in mediation and has focused on helping employees navigate their way through conflict throughout her career. Learn More Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Us Guiding Principles Mission Ways in Which the Ombuds Office Can Help Meet the Ombuds Annual and Semi-Annual Reports Our Services Confidential Consultation Informal Mediation Facilitation Shuttle Diplomacy Training and Presentations Contact Us FAQ Resources This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search About Us Open details for About Us Bookmark this Page