Skip to main content Division of Academic and Student Affairs Student Ombuds Services Menu Close About Student Ombuds Services Meet the Student Ombuds How an Ombuds Helps Reports and Publications Fast Facts News Contact Student Ombuds Services Resources Give Now About Student Ombuds Services About Student Ombuds Services Meet the Student Ombuds How an Ombuds Helps Reports and Publications Fast Facts News Contact Student Ombuds Services Contact Student Ombuds Services Resources Resources Give Now We’re Here to Help The Student Ombuds is here for you to discuss your concerns related to any aspect of your NC State experience. An independent, neutral, confidential, and informal office at NC State, Student Ombuds Services is here to be a personal guide for conflict management, prevention and resolution while advocating for fair processes and empowering students to successfully navigate NC State. How an Ombuds Can Help What Your Ombuds Can and Cannot Do LEARN MORE Contact the Student Ombuds Zoom, phone, voicemail, online form VIEW YOUR OPTIONS Meet the Student Ombuds Mike Giancola MORE ABOUT MIKE Pack Essentials Student Emergency Fund Latest news READ MORE Governor Cooper Declares Oct. 14. 2021, as Ombuds Day Every second Thursday of October people from around the world take time to celebrate Ombuds. This annual celebration serves to educate and raise awareness among the public about the history and practices of the ombuds profession including the various ombuds models, the roles they play, the services they offer, and the value provided. As Part of the Pack, You’re Never Alone For Suicide Prevention Awareness Month, NC State Counseling and Prevention Services is identifying some of the risk factors for suicide and pointing community members to resources that can help. More Students Struggle With Basic Needs Due to Pandemic The economic fallout from the COVID-19 pandemic has hit students hard, resulting in a marked increase in food insecurity and homelessness. The toll on their mental health has been striking. Student Ombuds Services Home 232 Park Shops Campus Box 7301 Raleigh, NC 27695-7301 student-ombuds@ncsu.edu 919.513.0235 Google Directions to Park Shops Accessibility Compliments & Complaints Website Feedback © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.