Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Ombuds Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About the Ombuds Our Team Services Resources Frequently Asked Questions Schedule An Appointment Our Charter Our History Our Role Our Principles Our Authority Presentations & Workshops Conflict Coaching Facilitation Mediation Self-Help Articles Columbia Resources Suggested Readings Outside Resources Ombuds Home Image Carousel with 6 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1 Slide 2 Slide 3 Slide 4 Slide 5 Slide 6 Together we can support a University culture that values ethical behavior and civil engagement. The Ombuds Team Learn from yesterday, Live for today, Hope for tomorrow. The important thing is not to stop questioning. Albert Einstein We did not come to fear the future. We came here to shape it. Barack Obama, CC `83 Every moment is a fresh beginning. T.S. Elliot Be the change that you wish to see in the world. Mahatma Ghandi Previous Next Welcome Columbia Community Bienvenido - Benvenuto - Shalom - Aloha - Selamat Datang 欢迎 - üdvözöljük - Üdvözlet - ยินดีต้อนรับ - 환영 - Fàilte - Tervetuloa Tuloy ka - Welkom - Akwaaba - Karibu - Velkommen - स्वागत हे - καλως ΗΡΘΑΤΕ Willkommen - Bem Vindo - Hwan-yeong - 'ahlaan bik - Huānyíng - ようこそ ᎤᎵᎮᎵᏍᏗ - Tere tulemast - Byen venu - Mauri - T'aves baxtalo Croeso - Talitali fiefia - Maeva - Wylcome - Mu amuhezwi - Salve Purpose To help promote civility, mutual respect and ethical conduct, and to identify ways to prevent disruptive conflict by alerting the administration to policy issues and to recommend changes in University practices. Together we can support a University culture that values ethical behavior and civil engagement. Lead with kindness. Joan C. Waters, JD, CO-OP University Ombuds Officer Marilyn Molina, MS, CO-OP Associate Ombuds Officer What We Do The Ombuds Office provides a safe space for faculty, students, staff and affiliates to confidentially discuss work-related issues, academic concerns, clarification of policies and many other concerns and issues. The Ombuds Officers are not authorized to accept notice on behalf of the University. The Columbia University Ombuds Office The Ombuds Office a video depicting one component of what we do as Ombuds every day. Ombuds Office Charter The Charter of the Columbia University Ombuds Office is based on the Code of Ethics and Standards of Practice developed by the International Ombudsman Association. We Are Here To Help group icon Conflict Coaching balance-scale icon Facilitation handshake icon Mediation edit icon Presentations and Workshops wrench icon Self-Help Tools Campus Locations Morningside Campus CUIMC Campus Morningside Office - 212.854.1234660 Schermerhorn Ext., MC 5558, 1200 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 CUIMC Office - 212.304.7026154 Haven Avenue, Room 412 · New York, NY 10032 Internal Ring Central41234 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close