Skip to Main Content Brown University University Ombuds Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Us Guiding Principles Mission Ways in Which the Ombuds Office Can Help Meet the Ombuds Annual and Semi-Annual Reports Our Services Confidential Consultation Informal Mediation Facilitation Shuttle Diplomacy Training and Presentations Contact Us FAQ Resources Search University Ombuds Meet the Ombuds Breadcrumb Home About Us Sub Navigation In This Section Guiding Principles Mission Ways in Which the Ombuds Office Can Help Meet the Ombuds Annual and Semi-Annual Reports Meet the Ombuds Ms. Julie Weber is the University Ombuds. Ms. Weber joined the Brown University community in March 2020, having spent her career focused on helping people navigate their way through conflict in a variety of settings. She is an experienced ombuds, who is a Certified Organizational Ombuds Practitioner, CO-OP®, by the International Ombudsman Association (IOA). She is also an active member of the IOA, where she serves on its Strategic Alliances and Partnerships Committee. Additionally, Ms. Weber is a trained mediator. Prior to coming to Brown, Ms. Weber served as the College Ombuds at Montgomery College in Maryland. There, she regularly worked with staff, faculty, and administrators in conflict, coaching, facilitating conversations, mediating disputes, giving referrals, training, providing upward feedback, and making recommendations for positive change. At Montgomery College, she also was invited to sit on multiple committees as a non-voting member on matters related to conflict management, equity and inclusion, ethics, civility, employee engagement, performance management, and professional development. Before becoming an ombuds, Ms. Weber worked in a variety of roles, including serving as: an HR manager, overseeing compliance and employee relations matters; as a lawyer, representing both plaintiffs and defendants in employment, education, and health care matters; and as a policy specialist, focusing on legislative and corporate policies that impact working families. Ms. Weber holds a bachelor's degree from Columbia University, where she graduated cum laude. She also holds a Juris Doctor from Boston College, where she was selected to receive several awards upon graduation, including the Susan Grant Desmarais Award for Public Service and Leadership. Ways in Which the Ombuds Office Can Help The University Ombuds has skill and experience in conflict resolution, conflict coaching, facilitation, informal mediation, negotiation, and training. The Ombuds Office offers a confidential, informal, neutral, and independent place to have a quiet conversation, work out how to navigate a situation or the organization, or manage and solve conflicts/concerns. Visit Page Open details for Ways in Which the Ombuds Office Can Help Mission The mission of the Ombuds Office is to help foster and support a respectful, ethical, and equitable working, learning, and living environment for the diverse members of the Brown community. Visit Page Open details for Mission Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Us Guiding Principles Mission Ways in Which the Ombuds Office Can Help Meet the Ombuds Annual and Semi-Annual Reports Our Services Confidential Consultation Informal Mediation Facilitation Shuttle Diplomacy Training and Presentations Contact Us FAQ Resources This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Meet the Ombuds Open details for Meet the Ombuds Bookmark this Page