Skip to Main Content Brown University University Ombuds Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Us Guiding Principles Mission Ways in Which the Ombuds Office Can Help Meet the Ombuds Annual and Semi-Annual Reports Our Services Confidential Consultation Informal Mediation Facilitation Shuttle Diplomacy Training and Presentations Contact Us FAQ Resources Search University Ombuds Contact Us Contact Us Telephone and Email To reach the Ombuds Office, please call 401-863-6145 or email ombuds@brown.edu. Meetings occur by telephone and Zoom at this time. The University Ombuds checks her email and phone messages regularly and responds ordinarily within one to two business days of receiving messages. When contacting the Ombuds Office, please provide information as to how the University Ombuds can reach you; you may choose to remain anonymous. Please read before making an appointment The Ombuds Office follows the Standards of Practice and Code of Ethics of the International Ombudsman Association, which serve as the foundation for the office’s Guiding Principles. The Brown University Ombuds Office is a voluntary program established on these Guiding Principles. No one is required to use the office, but if they do, they will be understood to have agreed to abide by these principles and the University Ombuds Office Charter, and not call the University Ombuds or anyone from the Office to testify or produce documents relating to confidential communications in any legal, administrative, or other proceeding. The University has also agreed not to call the University Ombuds or anyone from the Office to testify or produce documents relating to confidential communications in any such proceedings. Additionally, the Ombuds Office is not authorized to accept notice or formal complaints on behalf of the University. Location While meetings with the Ombuds Office are not occurring in person at this time, the Ombuds Office is on the third floor of the Hillel Building at the corner of Angell and Brown Streets at 80 Brown Street. (Take the elevator to 3F or follow the signs up the stairs.) Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Us Guiding Principles Mission Ways in Which the Ombuds Office Can Help Meet the Ombuds Annual and Semi-Annual Reports Our Services Confidential Consultation Informal Mediation Facilitation Shuttle Diplomacy Training and Presentations Contact Us FAQ Resources This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Contact Us Open details for Contact Us Bookmark this Page