Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box University Ombuds Office Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search About Office Charter Meet the Staff Report: Eight Years of Service Frequently Asked Questions Self Help Resources Education & Training Request a Training Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift About Office Charter Meet the Staff Report: Eight Years of Service Frequently Asked Questions Self Help Resources Education & Training Request a Training The University Ombuds Office promotes a civil and inclusive campus community by providing informal, impartial, and confidential* conflict management services to all members of the university community. The Ombuds assist with individual concerns through service and education, and serve as change agents to address group conflict and systemic concerns. It is the goal of the Ombuds to foster a culture of healthy, safe and open dialogue, and facilitate cooperative problem resolution. If you contact this office to address a specific conflict, the Ombuds will listen to your concerns, value diverse perspectives, help you explore options for resolution, provide facilitation or mediation services when appropriate, and remain impartial to all parties involved. The University Ombuds Office provides a safe place to share your concerns. What is an Ombuds? If I Contact the Ombuds, What Will Happen? Standards of Practice and Code of Ethics University Ombuds Office Brochure How the Ombuds Add Value to OSU Comparison to Office of Student Advocacy, HR, EOA, OID Mission, Vision, Values Contact Us PH: 541-737-4537 Email: [email protected] Office Hours M-F 9:00-4:00 Currently, most appointments are by Zoom or phone. 116 Waldo Hall 2250 SW Jefferson Way Corvallis, OR 97331 Contact Info University Ombuds Waldo 116 Oregon State University Corvallis, OR 97331 Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer *Confidentiality cannot be promised in matters relating to threats to public safety, child abuse, if there is imminent risk of serious harm, or if compelled by a court of law. Speaking with an Ombuds does not constitute legal notice to the University of any problem, concern or complaint. You must pursue alternative complaint avenues if you wish to obligate the University to respond in any way. The Ombuds has no duty or responsibility to report incidents to any person or authority, other than as described above.