Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Who Can Help Meet the Ombudspersons Academic Troubleshooters Administrative Troubleshooters Be Your Problem Solver! How We Help What is an Ombudsperson? When do I go to an Ombudsperson? What is the Process? Key Resources Contact Us Submit a Case Who Can Help How We Help Key Resources Contact Us Submit a Case Search Who Can Help Meet the Ombudspersons Academic Troubleshooters Administrative Troubleshooters Be Your Problem Solver! How We Help What is an Ombudsperson? When do I go to an Ombudsperson? What is the Process? Key Resources Contact Us Submit a Case Home AAA Welcome If you need help with a difficult situation, clarification on policy, or some advice navigating the university, you have come to the right place. Between the Ombudsperson and troubleshooters across campus, you will be connected with the appropriate resource to help you reach a resolution, along with a better understanding of UM. Resources and Common Concerns Connect with a Troubleshooter Be Heard and Get Guidance University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Ombudsperson Ashe Building, Room 244 1252 Memorial Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-4922 305-284-4922 ombudsperson@miami.edu Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices