Skip to main content < University of Pennsylvania Toggle Navigation Toggle Search Accessibility Menu Jump to… Main Content Search Main Navigation Utility Navigation Main menu What To Expect More What To Expect Ombuds Overview How We Can Help Common Issues How We Work With Visitors Terms of Reference Resources More Resources Resources at Penn Penn Policies Of Further Interest About the Ombuds More About the Ombuds Services Mediation Annual Report Archives Staff Restorative Practice Utility Navigation A-Z Calendar Directory Maps Offices & Services Penn Home Webmail Back to Accessibility Menu Search Search Office of the Ombuds University of Pennsylvania Arrange a Consultation The Ombuds Office welcomes any member of the Penn community who is experiencing difficulty, conflict, or confusion at work, within their studies, or throughout their life at the University more broadly. We offer an accessible and safe place to resolve differences, explore matters of concern, improve communication, and generate and evaluate options. Our mission is to ameliorate those conditions that may impede community members finding satisfaction with their lives at Penn. Our door is open to students, staff, and faculty. We encourage people to contact us at the earliest stages of a problem so that we can assist before it escalates. Please explore our website to learn more about the Ombuds Office and how we can help. What is an Ombuds? An “ombuds” (pronounced om’ budz) is a confidential, off the record resource appointed to facilitate the resolution of disputes, management of conflicts, and problem solving in relation to obstacles to one’s full and successful participation as a member of the Penn community. What to Expect We’re here to help. Tell us what you need. Go to What to Expect Terms of Reference The terms under which the Office of the Ombuds serves the Penn community. Go to Terms of Reference Resources Here, there, and everywhere else. Go to Resources About the Ombuds Managing conflicts, resolving disputes, mediating, and problem solving. Go to About the Ombuds Penn Policies Visit the Penn Policies page to review helpful information for all members of the university community. Visit Penn Policies ARRANGE A CONSULTATION Request an appointment online DIRECTIONS Map SERVICES Visit the Services page to learn more Address 113 Duhring Wing, 236 S. 34th St. Philadelphia, PA 19104-6273 Phone (215) 898-8261 Fax (215) 573-7814 Email Ombuds@upenn.edu University of Pennsylvania ©2022 University of Pennsylvania Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement