retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Skip to main content MENU Search Search Student Ombuds About Us Common Concerns FAQ Request A Presentation Resources Student Tips & Guides Staff Ombuds Contact Us About Us FAQ Request A Presentation Staff Resources Tips and Strategies Events Our Principles Faculty Ombuds Contact Info About Us FAQs Practical Self-Help Tools Faculty Resources Helpful Campus Resources Faculty Organizations & Governance Human Resources & Work/Life Balance Annual Reports University Ombuds Offices Photo of the the University of Texas University Ombuds Offices The Ombuds offices can help, whether it’s listening, directing you to the appropriate university office, identifying your options, or coaching you to prepare for a difficult conversation. UT has separate Ombuds offices dedicated to students, staff, and faculty. Student Ombuds 512-471-3825 Visit our Student page Staff Ombuds 512-471-3825 Visit our Staff page Faculty Ombuds Visit our Faculty page HOW WE OPERATE The Swedish word ombuds, pronounced (ahm-budz), is a 19th century term that is now defined more broadly as "ear to the people". The purpose of the University Ombuds Offices at UT-Austin is to assure that every voice in complex institutional systems can be heard and that every problem can receive an impartial review. We are members of the International Ombudsman Association (IOA). All offices operate consistent with the Code of Ethics and Standards of Practice of the IOA. The ombuds offices help the University uphold the institutional core values and the University Code of Conduct. Our principles are: Confidential We will not identify you or discuss your particular concerns with anyone without your permission. Exception is taken when we believe that disclosure is necessary to address imminent risk of serious harm. Neutral We advocate for fair processes, consider the rights and interest of all parties, and do not take sides. Informal We are an off-the-record, voluntary resource. Contacting our office does not provide notice to the University. Independent The Ombuds exercises autonomy regarding responsibilities. The office is independent and is situated outside of the University’s normal administrative structure to better ensure impartiality. Staff & Student Ombuds: 512-471-3825 UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022