Skip to main content Omnia Menu Current Issue Faculty Student Alumni Insomnia Multimedia Search form Search this site Search Main menu Current Issue Faculty Student Alumni Insomnia Multimedia Search form Search this site Search Student “Stark, Haunting Elegance” (Audio) James Diaz, a Ph.D. student studying composition in the Department of Music, discusses his award-winning work. Tuesday, May 3, 2022 By Blake Cole Share Tweet James Diaz, Ph.D. student in the Department of Music James Diaz, a Ph.D. student studying composition in the Department of Music, was recently profiled in the Washington Post article, “22 for ’22: Composers and Performers to Watch This Year.” The publication cites Diaz's creations as “works of stark, haunting elegance,” and says he “can construct a skeletal string quartet or conjure lush symphonic textures, but no matter the scale, his pieces bring the tone and texture of sound into sharp, intimate focus.” Below, Diaz, who has won multiple international and national awards and whose music has been performed by more than a dozen orchestras and ensembles, reflects on a performance of his composition, “Azul.” “I'd like to share my work, 'Azul' for orchestra and electronics. It is part of a long piece called RETRO, in which I also performed the synths and electronics,” says Diaz. “The work is a personal reflection on the 200th anniversary of Colombia’s independence. Throughout this 25-minute work, I reflect on the meaning of self-independency and Colombian identity by means of historical retrospection. The piece was commissioned by Medellin Philharmonic as part of my residency in 2019.” View the performance of “Azul” by the Orquesta Filarmónica de Medellín below. Below, you can also view a performance of Diaz's composition, “Enero, Not Snow,” being performed by Sö Percussion, a percussion-based music organization that creates and presents new collaborative works to adventurous and curious audiences. Read More from Omnia Celebrating the Life and Music of James Primosch On February 27 at the Annenberg Center, the longtime professor of music and acclaimed composer will be memorialized with the performance, Celebration and Remembrance: The Music of James Primosch. 2021 Year in Review We look back on our favorite arts and sciences stories of 2021. Making a Difference in Global Communities and Klein Family Social Justice Grants Penn Arts & Sciences has awarded grants to 15 projects through the Making a Difference in Global Communities and Klein Family Social Justice initiatives. Follow Us facebook Twitter Instagram Vimeo About OMNIA Editorial Offices School of Arts & Sciences University of Pennsylvania 3600 Market Street, Suite 300 Philadelphia, PA 19104-3284 Phone: 215-746-1232 Fax: 215-573-2096 Email: omnia-penn@sas.upenn.edu Subscribe to the Podcast Penn WebLogin © 2022 Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania School of Arts & Sciences