Top of Page FSU Quicklinks ▾ Search Log In/Out Florida State University Alumni Association FSU Foundation Real Estate Foundation Seminole Boosters oneFSU Toggle navigationMenu Site Menu Toggle navigationMenu SECTION MENU EU Privacy Policy Overview What information do you collect about me and how? How do you use my information? How can I access my information and change my preferences? Marketing Tracking Other Websites Personal Information Security Changes to our Privacy Policy Contact Us European Union Privacy Policy For our European Union residents, oneFSU’s privacy policy has been updated to meet the new regulations set forth by the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). The below policy explains what information is collected and discloses your options for how it is used and processed in compliance with the GDPR. What information do you collect about me and how? Following are the ways in which your information is collected: Online registration of a new oneFSU account; Communication with University Advancement staff; Registration of programs and events; Participation in surveys or provided feedback; Information provided and purchased through University data, third-party partners and vendors; Information provided by direct support organizations of FSU, which includes the FSU Alumni Association, the FSU Foundation, the FSU Real Estate Foundation and Seminole Boosters; Transactional information provided for donation processing; and Inquiries, information or assistance requests. We do not collect your personal information when visiting our website except in the instance when you willingly provide it. Our website automatically recognizes the internet domain and IP address from which you accessed our website. In addition, we gather information regarding the volume and timing of access by collecting information on the date, time and web pages accessed by visitors in an effort to improve content. This information is viewed in total and is not shared with other organizations. We reserve the right to use log detail either internally or with appropriate law enforcement authorities to investigate resource management or security concerns. Please note that this privacy policy does not pertain to the information that may be collected by the work of our research and prospect management staff members. How do you use my information? Following are the methods in which your collected information is used: Direct post and email communications, which provide you information about programs, events, initiatives, updates and more; Prospective audience reports, which are based on demographic, geographic and areas of interests for post and email communications; Research and analysis, which ensures outreach to all potential donors, friends and alumni of the university; Solicitations for potential donor opportunities; Improved and personalized content, including programs and operations; and Demographic and marketing analysis. We may share your personal information with trusted third-party vendors and partners to conduct analytics and marketing functions when deemed appropriate to further the operational goals and mission of Florida State University. We do not sell, trade or rent your personal information to any external party. If you choose to share personal information with us, we will use the information only for the purpose you authorize and in support of University Advancement-sponsored programs. We observe oneFSU has a legitimate business interest in collecting and processing your personal information to advance FSU’s dedication to excellence in teaching, research, creative endeavors and service. This provides us lawful basis to use and maintain your personal data without conflict of your rights (including name, gift processing information, alumni records and contact reports). Some information you provide may be saved for a designated period of time to comply with the state of Florida’s records retention policies. We do not disclose this information unless required by state or United States federal law. Under Florida law, email addresses are public records. If you do not want your email address released in response to a public-records request, do not send electronic mail to Florida State University. Instead, make contact by phone or in writing to the contact information provided below. How can I access my information and change my preferences? If at any time you object to our further use of your personal data and all processing activity, you may withdraw consent and make inactive your electronic file within our database by visiting one.fsu.edu/GDPR. You may also contact us using the information provided below. Please note you reserve the right to access or withdraw your information at any time without detriment. Through oneFSU, you can decide how your provided contact information is used. Your communications preferences are customizable at any time under the “My Profile” tab. You may also opt-in to receive emails from FSU direct support organizations, including the FSU Alumni Association, the FSU Foundation, the FSU Real Estate Foundation or Seminole Boosters. You can also opt-out of receiving communications from our carefully screened business partners who provide special benefits available only to our donors and friends. An unsubscribe link is available on all of our email communications. Marketing We would like to send you information from our carefully screened business partners and external vendors who provide special benefits that may be of interest to you. If you consent, these partners may have access to the personal information needed to offer you potential products and opportunities. Tracking Through the use of JavaScript and tracking pixels, we gather information that allows us to better enhance your experience of our websites. Through third-party providers such as Google Analytics, we collect data about the usage of our website. JavaScript also allows us to offer you a secure method of online giving. These methods differentiate from the use of cookies as they only collect information while you are actively using our website. Other Websites This website may contain links to other outside websites. When visiting other sites, please refer directly to their privacy policies. Personal Information Security Protection of your personal data is of our utmost importance, and we employ reasonable security measures to assist in protecting against the misuse of your information. Our goal is to safeguard information under our control by utilizing an on-site server to host the information we collect and regularly reviewing the security measures in place. Please note that no method of security and electronic storage is guaranteed to be secure. Changes to our Privacy Policy Our privacy policy may be modified from time to time and we will publish any updates on this website. This privacy policy was last updated on May 10, 2018. Contact Us If you have any questions about our privacy policy or the information we collect about you, please email oneFSU@foundation.fsu.edu, contact us by phone at +1-850-644-6000 or by mail at 211 Westcott Building, P.O. Box 3061470, Tallahassee, Fla. 32306-1470. Events Around FSU View More Events at FSU Follow Us on Social Media FSU Alumni Association Florida State University Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media Seminole Boosters Florida State University 600 W. College Avenue Tallahassee, FL 32306 (850) 644-2525 FSU Alumni Association 1030 W Tennessee Street Tallahassee, FL 32304 (850) 644-2761 Seminole Boosters University Center C5100 Tallahassee, FL 32306 (850) 644-3484 FSU Foundation 325 W College Avenue Tallahassee, FL 32301 (850) 644-6000 US Privacy Policy | EU Privacy Policy Scroll to Top Close