Top of Page FSU Quicklinks ▾ Search Log In/Out Florida State University Alumni Association FSU Foundation Real Estate Foundation Seminole Boosters oneFSU Toggle navigationMenu Site Menu oneFSU LOGIN FSU Alumni Association Seminole Boosters FSU Foundation oneFSU Privacy Policy oneFSU is operated by the FSU Alumni Association, Seminole Boosters, the FSU Foundation and the John and Mable Ringling Museum of Art. Each of these organizations respects your right to privacy. Through oneFSU you can decide how the contact information you provide to us is used. When you first register with oneFSU, you can customize your communications preferences on the registration form. After that, you can update your communication preferences at any time under the “My Profile” tab. There, you can decide if you would like to receive e-mail from the FSU Alumni Association, Seminole Boosters, the FSU Foundation, the Ringling Museum of Art or other FSU organizations. You can also choose to opt-out of communications from our carefully screened business partners who provide special benefits available only to our donors and friends. Our Web server automatically recognizes the Internet domain and IP address from which you accessed our Web site. In addition, we gather information regarding the volume and timing of access by collecting information on the date, time and Web pages accessed by visitors in an effort to improve content. This information is viewed in the aggregate and is not shared with other organizations. We reserve the right to use log detail either internally or with appropriate law enforcement authorities to investigate resource management or security concerns. Some information you provide may be saved for a designated period of time to comply with Florida’s records retention policies. We do not disclose this information unless required by state or federal law. Under Florida law, e-mail addresses are public records. If you do not want your e-mail address released in response to a public-records request, do not send electronic mail to Florida State University. Instead, make contact by phone or in writing. Our goal is to safeguard your information, use it in a responsible and respectful manner, and allow you to choose how this information is used. If you have questions about our privacy policy, please e-mail oneFSU@foundation.fsu.edu or contact us by telephone at (850) 644-6000. Events Around FSU View More Events at FSU Follow Us on Social Media FSU Alumni Association Florida State University Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media Seminole Boosters Florida State University 600 W. College Avenue Tallahassee, FL 32306 (850) 644-2525 FSU Alumni Association 1030 W Tennessee Street Tallahassee, FL 32304 (850) 644-2761 Seminole Boosters University Center C5100 Tallahassee, FL 32306 (850) 644-3484 FSU Foundation 325 W College Avenue Tallahassee, FL 32301 (850) 644-6000 US Privacy Policy | EU Privacy Policy Scroll to Top Close