Top of Page FSU Quicklinks ▾ Search Log In/Out Florida State University Alumni Association FSU Foundation Real Estate Foundation Seminole Boosters FSU Alumni Association Toggle navigationMenu Site Menu Membership Join Today Renew Your Membership Membership Overview Why Become a Member? Member Loyalty Member Perks Reward Zone VIRES Magazine Westcott Plaza Bricks Alumni Directory My oneFSU Dashboard Support FSU Students Student Alumni Association Join SAA SAA Membership Perks Legacy Scholarship Westcott Plaza Bricks My oneFSU Dashboard Support FSU Honors Alumni Ambassadors Award Young Alumni Awards The Bernard F. Sliger Award Circle of Gold Grads Made Good Legacy Scholarship The Inspire Award Vires, Artes, Mores Community Alumni Directory Alumni Networks Career Resources Events Seminole Clubs and Chapters Social Media Submit Class Notes Travel Programs VIRES Magazine Support Join, Renew or Upgrade Your Membership Give to the Legacy Scholarship Give to the FSU Alumni Association Give to the FSU Alumni Association Endowment Give to FSU Academic Programs Purchase a Westcott Plaza Brick Support Student Veteran Scholarships Support the Alumni Ambassadors Fund About About the FSU Alumni Association Board of Directors Advertise with Us Contact Us Frequently Asked Questions Map and Directions Alumni Association COVID-19 Update Alumni Center Toggle navigationMenu SECTION MENU Active membership in the Florida State University Alumni Association strengthens your alma mater, allowing us to provide special events in your communities and improve the value of your degree while enabling you to stay connected. The FSU Alumni Association also provides exclusive perks to our members, thanks to our corporate partners and benefit partners. Membership gives you the pride and satisfaction that you are making a difference in the present and future of Florida State University! Jump to category: Staying Connected Scholarships Career & Education Gifts & Merchandise Travel & Entertainment Exclusive Business Partner Offers New Perks and Discounts Apple Members are eligible to receive the education discount on select iMac, MacBook and iPad products at the FSU Bookstore. Members: log in to oneFSU and return to this page to learn how to take advantage of this benefit in-store and online. Marriott Members receive access to discounted rates at Tallahassee Marriott hotels located just minutes from FSU’s campus. Discounted rates vary by date and hotel. Members: Log in to oneFSU and return to this page to start saving today. Booking.com Browse hotel reviews and find the guaranteed best price on hotels for all budgets in more than 96,000 destinations worldwide. Plus, when you make accommodations through booking.com, a portion of the proceeds will go toward supporting programming, events and initiatives for FSU alumni. Members: log in to oneFSU and return to this page to take advantage of this benefit. Beneplace: Alumni Seminole Savings Access exclusive savings on shopping, travel and more. New products and discounts are constantly being added. Members: log in to oneFSU and return to this page to learn how to take advantage of this benefit. Exclusive Corporate Partners FSU Bookstore and Seminole Sportshop Receive a 10% discount on every in-store and online purchase at the FSU Bookstore and Seminole Sportshop. FSU License Plate Display your Seminole pride and help support student scholarships with an FSU license plate. Sales from FSU license plates generated more than $1.8 million in scholarships in 2013 and the tag can be purchased at any time of the year, regardless of your renewal month. With rebates for first-time buyers and gift certificates available, an FSU license plate is the perfect way to invest in the future of FSU students. For information on how to purchase your FSU license plate, visit www.fsu.edu/mytag. Liberty Mutual Nothing is more important to us than our alumni. When we picked an insurance company to partner with, we made sure to choose Liberty Mutual, an established leader in safety innovation whose commitment to superior customer service sets them apart. Discount rates and savings are available where state laws and regulations allow, and may vary by state. To the extent permitted by law, applicants are individually underwritten; not all applicants may qualify. Mercer Consumer Enjoy exclusive member benefits through Mercer Consumer on home and auto insurance products. Mercer Consumer is a service of Mercer Health & Benefits Administration LLC. Meyer & Associates The FSU Alumni Association sponsors an Alumni Benefits Program that offers a variety of attractively-priced products such as Life, Long Term Care, Long Term Disability, Travel, Real Estate Benefits, and other services. For more information visit http://FSU.meyerandassoc.com/ or contact our program administrator (Meyer and Associates) at 800-635-7801. Back to top Staying Connected Alumni Directory Looking for former classmates, or Seminoles in your area? We can help you find them. Our online Alumni Directory offers a simple and easy way to help you locate fellow Florida State alumni. Alumni Networks The FSU Alumni Association hosts several constituent groups, each serving specialized interests of FSU alumni. These Alumni Networks are an avenue for alumni to remain connected to an extra-curricular activity or organization they were involved with during their years at FSU. Seminole Clubs and Chapters More than 80 Seminole Clubs and Chapters exist throughout the world and represent the FSU community within their own communities. These organizations plan hundreds of events throughout the year, inspiring alumni to gather for community service, continuing education, networking and FSU support - and they have a lot of fun in the process. Social Networks Network with your fellow alumni and keep up-to-date on the latest FSU Alumni Association news and events through popular social networks including Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, Instagram, YouTube and Flickr. VIRES Magazine The official magazine of the association, all current members in the FSU Alumni Association receive the print edition of VIRES two times per year plus access to the online edition with additional multimedia links and content. Stay up-to-date on campus happenings and accomplishments of fellow alumni through VIRES. Back to top Scholarships Legacy Scholarship Program Students with a parent, grandparent, sibling, or step-parent who is a graduate of Florida State University and an active member of the FSU Alumni Association or FSU Student Alumni Association are eligible to apply for the Legacy Scholarship once they have applied to Florida State University. Learn more about the Legacy Scholarship Program. Seminole Club Scholarships Many Seminole Clubs and Chapters award annual scholarships to FSU students from their local areas or home states. Each club or chapter determines the number of scholarships available, the amount of each award, and eligibility criteria. Learn more about Seminole Club and Chapter Scholarships. Career & Education Certificate of Financial Planning We are pleased to offer our members the best available discount of 15% off their Certificate in Financial Planning courses. This 100% online certificate program satisfies the CFP Board education requirements to sit for the CFP Certification Examination. Learn More The FSU Career Center The following services are offered at no cost to FSU alumni: Counseling/Advising for Career Planning and Job Search Assistance Career/Employer Information On-line Job Postings/Job Files Job Search Agents On-Campus Interviewing with Recruiters from Many Professional Organizations (up to one year after graduation) Career Expositions Resume Referral Service Professional Network: A Database for Professional Networking For more information, visit career.fsu.edu or call 850.644.6431. The FSU Center for Academic & Professional Development Become a lifelong learner with a 15 percent discount on professional development courses. The Center for Academic & Professional Development (CAPD) extends FSU’s resources to the community and is an integral component of the university’s strategy to ensure career success through online certificate programs and courses. CAPD also offers access to academic courses for non-degree seeking students. Current offerings include the Certificate in Financial Planning Program and Introduction to Web Design; learn more at learningforlife.fsu.edu. Back to top Gifts and Merchandise FSU Alumni Reward Zone Purchase the exclusive FSU Alumni Association spirit flag featuring our Osceola and Renegade graphic, exclusive FSU Alumni Association apparel, tailgating accessories and more from the FSU Alumni Reward Zone. A promotional code for a gift of your choice is provided when you join or renew an FSU Alumni Association membership. SKICKS Show your Seminole spirit from head to toe in officially-licensed FSU SKICKS sneakers, available in low top, high top and kids styles. Florida State alumni receive 15% off each order. Westcott Plaza Bricks The Westcott Plaza Commemorative Brick program allows you to leave your legacy at Florida State University. The plaza surrounding the iconic Westcott Fountain is paved with bricks inscribed with the names of FSU alumni, friends and family. Members of the FSU Alumni Association receive a significant discount on the purchase of a Westcott Brick. Learn more and place your order online. FSU Bookstore and Seminole Sportshop 10% discount on every in-store and online purchase at the FSU Bookstore and Seminole Sportshop. Members: log in to oneFSU to learn how to take advantage of this benefit. FTD.com 15% discount on every order placed through FTD's FSU Alumni Association partnership website. Members: log in to oneFSU to learn how to take advantage of this benefit Ringling Museum of Art 10% discount on the purchase of items in the museum gift shop at The Ringling Museum of Art in Sarasota, Fla. Just present your valid FSU Alumni Association Member card at the time of purchase. Back to top Travel and Entertainment Annual Kickoff Luncheon Discounted ticket to the annual Kickoff Luncheon, hosted by the FSU Alumni Association at the beginning of each football season, plus exclusive access to ticket pre-sale. Atlantic Relocation Systems Save up to 55% on interstate and intrastate moves. Contact Tom Larkins at 1.800.899.2527 and mention that you are an FSU Alumni Association member. Andrews Capital Grill & Bar Owned by an FSU alumnus and serving hundreds of FSU students and families for almost 40 years, Andrews Bar & Grill offers FSU Alumni Association members a free appetizer with the purchase of two entrees. Just present your valid FSU Alumni Association membership card when you place your order. Avis/Budget In addition to special discounts for FSU Alumni Association members, a donation is made to the FSU Alumni Association each time a member uses this discount. University Center Club Discounted initiation fee, food credit, and one month of complimentary dues. Learn more about UCC membership and contact Cherrie Barbree at 850.644.9089 to join. Back to top Business Partner Offers FSU Credit Union The Alumni Advantage Checking package, available exclusively to FSU Alumni Association members, offers the following perks with no monthly fee: special rates and discounts, no minimum balance requirement, unlimited check writing, online account access including bill pay, the opportunity for an FSU Theme Credit Card, and other great perks Call 1.800.GoFSUCU or visit www.fsucu.org to enroll; you will need to provide your FSU Alumni Association member number. FSU Athletics Priority Points Two (2) priority points toward season ticket purchases for FSU athletic events. If your FSU Alumni Association member priority points are not reflected in your Seminole Ticket Office account, please contact the FSU Alumni Association at 850.644.2761. Liberty Mutual Nothing is more important to us than our alumni. When we picked an insurance company to partner with, we made sure to choose Liberty Mutual, an established leader in safety innovation whose commitment to superior customer service sets them apart. Discount rates and savings are available where state laws and regulations allow, and may vary by state. To the extent permitted by law, applicants are individually underwritten; not all applicants may qualify. Mercer Consumer Enjoy exclusive member benefits through Mercer Consumer on home and auto insurance products, Mercer Consumer is a service of Mercer Health & Benefits Administration LLC. Meyer & Associates The FSU Alumni Association sponsors an Alumni Benefits Program that offers a variety of attractively-priced products such as Life, Long Term Care, Long Term Disability, Travel, Real Estate Benefits, and other services. For more information visit http://FSU.meyerandassoc.com/ or contact our program administrator (Meyer and Associates) at 800-635-7801. Back to top Florida State Alumni Benefits Program The FSU Alumni Association sponsors an Alumni Benefits Program as a service to alumni. The program offers a variety of attractively-priced insurance products, most of which are available to alumni, students, faculty, and staff, as well as their spouses, domestic partners, children, parents, and siblings: · Life Insurance Coverage from $10,000 to $50 million · Accidental Death Insurance Covers you 24 hours a day, every day of the year, worldwide · Travel Insurance Travel Medical and Trip Protection for individuals or groups, for personal or business travel · Long Term Care Insurance Protects your assets while allowing access to quality care in the most appropriate and desirable setting · Long Term Disability Insurance Protect your income if you become too sick or injured to work · Pet Insurance Simple, customizable dog and cat insurance plans · Identity Theft Protection A comprehensive solution to give you peace of mind · Small Business Insurance An all-in-one simple solution that includes a selection of plans, employee enrollment, and ongoing administration · Advisory Services Access to licensed insurance professionals who answer questions and provide customized guidance · Real Estate Referral Program Connects you with a network of hand-selected agents from brand name brokers in your area – and earns you a cash rebate! · Medicare Health Exchange A combination of sophisticated technology and helpful assistance to help you choose the right Medicare plan for you. · Student Loan Refinancing Save thousands with a range of refinancing options and a special rate discount. For more information visit https://fsu.meyerandassoc.com/ or contact our program administrator (Meyer and Associates) at 800-635-7801.he OFFICIAL PARTNERS OF THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION Their generous support allows the FSU Alumni Association to provide programs, services and events to you. MEMBERS My Membership Renew or Upgrade Your Membership Member Perks Reward Zone Where Do You Wave Your Spirit Flag? Upcoming Events VIRES Magazine Westcott Plaza Bricks ALUMNI Join Today Why Become a Member? Perks of Membership Upcoming Events VIRES Magazine Westcott Plaza Bricks NEWS Class Notes Florida State University News Noles in the News VIRES Magazine STUDENTS Student Alumni Association Join SAA Benefits of SAA Membership Grad Central Legacy Scholarship Westcott Plaza Bricks HONORS Askew Young Alumni Award The Bernard F. Sliger Award Circle of Gold Grads Made Good Legacy Scholarship Notable Noles The Inspire Award Thirty Under 30 Vires, Artes, Mores COMMUNITY Alumni Directory Alumni Networks Events Football HQ Nole Connect Seminole Clubs and Chapters Social Media Travel Programs ABOUT US About the FSU Alumni Association Board of Directors Contact Us Frequently Asked Questions Heritage Protocol & University Archives ALUMNI CENTER Catering Event Space Frequently Asked Questions Map and Directions FSU Alumni Association 1030 W. Tennessee St. Tallahassee, FL 32304 Email Us (850) 644-2761 US Privacy Policy EU Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media Scroll to Top Close