Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. One Stop Student Service Center One Stop right arrow down arrow Information for... right arrow down arrow Parents right arrow down arrow Parent Checklist Transfer Students right arrow down arrow Transfer Student Checklist Alumni New Students right arrow down arrow New Student Checklist Information for Admitted Students Graduate Students right arrow down arrow Graduate Student Checklist Continuing Students UC Blue Ash Students right arrow down arrow Request Permission to Add UC Blue Ash Courses UC Blue Ash Student Requesting Permission to Withdraw Past Deadline UC Clermont Students Winter Season Day FAQ Transition Students Financial Aid right arrow down arrow Financial Aid Verification Requirements Scholarships Apply for Aid Student and Parent Loans right arrow down arrow Parent PLUS Loans Accept Financial Aid Awards Financial Aid Eligibility Requirements Billing & Payment right arrow down arrow Refunds Payment Plans Tuition & Fees Paying Your Bill Parent Information Registration & Records right arrow down arrow Personal Information University Calendars Delegated Access Verify Enrollment or Degree Class Registration right arrow down arrow Find Your Enrollment Times Overload Registration & Charges Search Class Offerings Order Transcripts Student Money Management right arrow down arrow 15 to Finish Avoid Overborrowing Student Loans Budgeting Understanding Credit Reports and Scores Identity Theft Loan Repayment Covering Remaining Costs Resources Savings and Banking Student Jobs Understanding Credit Cards Money Management Workshop Request Other Helpful Resources right arrow down arrow Catalyst Self-Help Guide Meet the Team One Stop » Financial Aid » Student and Parent Loans » Parent PLUS Loans Set Navigation title in component Student and Parent Loans Parent PLUS Loans Financial Aid Verification Requirements Scholarships Apply for Aid Accept Financial Aid Awards Financial Aid Eligibility Requirements Parent PLUS Loans Tips for Parent PLUS Loans Calculate the total cost and consider options that may be needed to cover any remaining cost. Options can include the Tuition Payment Plan, a Parent PLUS loan and Alternative loans. Review your options to determine what is best for your family. The Parent PLUS Loan is borrowed only by a parent for their student's educational expenses. A Parent PLUS Loan is not listed on the award offer for the student to accept. Parents wishing to borrow the Parent PLUS Loan must be U.S. citizens, and may be the biological, adoptive, or stepparent of the dependent student. The Parent PLUS loan borrower does not have to be the same parent used on the FAFSA. How to Apply for a Parent PLUS Loan A parent will log in using their own Federal Student (FSA) ID to begin the Federal Parent PLUS Loan process. Once logged in, ensure that the parent's name is displayed at the top right of the screen. Select "Apply for a Direct PLUS Loan" and choose "Direct PLUS Loan Application for Parents." Fill out and submit the application. This will initiate a credit check, which is valid for 90 days. Calculate and input the specific amount you will need to borrow. To determine the amount needed to cover total billed costs, families can use the Estimated Remaining Cost Tool. If the credit check is approved, the parent borrower must sign a PLUS Master Promissory Note (MPN) if an active PLUS MPN is not on file for the student. If the credit check is denied, review other options. One Stop Student Service Center PO Box 210101 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-1000 onestop@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati One Stop Student Service Center PO Box 210101 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-1000 onestop@uc.edu © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top