Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give One Stop Student Resources Welcome Duckweb | Webmail | UOmail | Find People | A-Z Index | Calendar | Canvas | Navigate Top Clicks Join a Club This is a great month to explore clubs and organizations. The university has over 300 clubs, groups, and organizations for students to find community and participate in things they are passionate about. Find a Club Academic Support The Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center provides resources to help you in your classes. From tutoring to study habits to peer coaching, they are available to help you in a variety of courses and subjects to help you be successful in your studies. Find a Tutor COVID-19 Testing Free COVID-19 testing is available for all asymptomatic UO employees, students, and community members. Weekly testing is required for all unvaccinated or partially vaccinated students, and those who chose an exemption. Schedule Test Find a Campus Job This is a great time to find campus employment. There are jobs in UO Dining, Student Rec, EMU programs and many more. Working on campus helps you develop skills in an environment where you are supported as a student. Explore Jobs Search by Topic Cost, Billing and Financial Support Building Community Housing and Dining Activities and Involvement Wellness and Recreation Academics and Career Preparation Research Classes and Registration Safety and Concerns Transportation Technology Academics and Career Preparation There are many resources available to help you be successful in your studies and career preparation. From academic advisors to tutors to career coaches, staff in offices across the university are available to help you identify your goals and create a plan for achieving them. Academics Find an advisor Exploring student advising Center for Multicultural Academic Excellence Prepare for an advising appointment Explore majors and minors Declare or change my major Career and Experience Find a job or internship Common Reading Plan your study abroad Prepare for the GRE or MCAT Helpful Resources Academic accommodations Notetaking and accessibility resources Get my textbooks (Duck Store) Find a tutor or study resources Library resources Classes and Registration Classes are how you will earn your degree, but registering and building your class schedule can be challenging sometimes. The university has a number of resources to help you build your schedule and stay on top of important academic deadlines so you can be successful in your studies. Find classes Withdraw from a term My class map Register for classes Final exams schedule Academic dates and deadlines Add/drop classes Transcripts Registrar’s office Cost, Billing, and Financial Support The university would like to support you as you navigate financial actions. The Financial Wellness Center offers a number of resources for money management and decision making. Below are some common actions students use as they navigate paying for supplies, applying for funds, making payments, etc. Students in Crisis Fund form CARES Act grants Financial Wellness Center Tuition Payment due dates Authorize someone to pay a bill Basic needs support General billing information Make a payment Housing and Dining The university offers a variety of great housing options to help you find your home and community. In addition, there are numerous locations for you to find great food on campus, in some cases free food. Find housing Explore meal plans Find places to eat Get free and reduced food Find off-campus support Building Community By definition, a university brings together people from different backgrounds and experiences to create new ideas and share them with others. In order to be successful in this, the university has a number of programs and resources to help you build community, find people with similar experiences and backgrounds to yours, and meet people who have completely different perspectives. Black Cultural Center Many Nations Longhouse Women's Center Mills International Center Men's Resource Center ASUO Multicultural Center Multicultural Education, Engagement, and Student Success Nontraditional students Veterans Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender Education and Support Services Multicultural advisors Events and programs Student Unions Resources and support Culturally based fraternities and sororities Dreamer resources Office of the Dean of Students Division of Equity and Inclusion Activities and Involvement There are lots of ways to stay connected and involved with your friends and classmates. Our staff has developed a number of opportunities for you, including a few listed below. Check your weekly Quick Quack emails for more involvement opportunities each week. We will provide academic reminders, highlight unique events, and provide useful information to help you navigate campus life. Find something to do Get UO athletic tickets Get tickets to events Explore leadership and service opportunities Join an intramural team Join a fraternity or sorority Join a faith community Discover a club or activity Find a job or internship Study abroad Register to vote Get involved Wellness and Recreation Students need wellness support for a host of reasons. Taking care of yourself is important to your success as a student. If you need help with alcohol and drug recovery support, want nutrition information, or need to request a dietary accommodation, our staff on campus are here to support you with any need. Mental Health Support Counseling Services offers great support options for UO students. Check out their blog for self-care ideas or make a virtual appointment to talk to someone. Call and they will discuss options and resources. Counseling Support University Health Services University Health Services is open and offering support and medical care for students on campus. Call them first and they will discuss options, visiting instructions, and resources for you. Health Services Manage Your Stress This may be a stressful time for some, and there are many ways to cope. The Duck Nest provides resources to help manage any stress you may be feeling. Explore their website for options and resources. Visit the Duck Nest Be Active The Student Recreations Center is a great place to find your fit. You can unwind in a Group X class, swim a few laps in the pool, get some cardio and weights in, or boulder and climb in the Rock District. Whatever your interest, get connected and be active. Student Rec Center Research One thing that we do best at the University of Oregon is making discoveries. Our faculty are constantly developing new ideas and creating the innovations of tomorrow. As a UO student, you have any number of opportunities to be part of research and even make discoveries of your own. Find research opportunities Undergraduate Research Symposium Course and research guides Programs Center for Undergraduate Research and Engagement (CURE) Students of Color Opportunities for Research Enrichment (SCORE) Summer Program for Undergraduate Research (SPUR) Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program (UROP) McNair Scholars Program Research and Innovation Technology Resources From Wi-Fi to programs like OneDrive and Dropbox to setting up your email and so much more, Information Services can help you with many—if not all—of your technology needs and questions during your time as a student. Visit their Getting Started webpage to find resources and information about technology at the University of Oregon. Canvas Canvas.uoregon.edu will be the primary avenue for your classes. Connect with your instructors, get course assignments and materials, and more. Canvas student support Office 365 As a UO student, you have free access to Office 365. From Teams to Word to OneDrive, many programs are available for you to use on your desktop and online. Start using Office 365 Zoom All UO students now have access to basic Zoom videoconferencing accounts. Learn how to start using Zoom and join your instructors and peers on video calls. Get started Get started with technology Technology help Safety and Concerns The university is committed to providing an environment where every member of our community can be successful. Each one of us has a shared responsibility to care for and protect our community. If you see something, say or do something. Reach out to the dedicated staff in Counseling Services, Care and Advocacy Program, Office of Investigations and Civil Rights Compliance, UO Police Department, or Safety and Risk Services who are available to support students and address concerns in our community. * In case of emergency, call 9-1-1. Counseling Services has an After-Hours Support and Crisis Line to help you when Counseling Services is closed. Call 541-346-3227. When calling after hours, please listen to the recording and press "1" when instructed. You will be connected with a crisis line professional. Safety and Support Help prevent crime Sign up for UO Alerts Arrange a safety escort Find a free, safe ride home How to help a friend Get crisis support Take a self-defense class Learn about lab safety and resources Find personal safety resources Learn about suicide prevention Know the facts about alcohol Know the facts about cannabis Find gender-inclusive bathrooms Reporting Submit a concern about a student Report discrimination or harassment* *Including sex- and gender-based discrimination, harassment, violence, and stalking Report a crime Report other concern Transportation There are lots of ways to get around campus and the surrounding community. The university has resources to help you find the best way to get from point A to wherever you want to go. Duck Rides Access Shuttle PeaceHealth Bike Share LTD Buses See LTD website for stops and routes. Campus Parking UO Bike Program CAMPUS News Events Maps Directions A–Z Index Find People Report a Concern TOOLS Webmail UOmail Canvas Duckweb RESOURCES Class Schedule Academic Calendar UO Libraries For Journalists University of Oregon 1585 E 13th Ave. OR 97403 P: 541-346-1000 onestop@uoregon.edu Visit us on Facebook Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Youtube Visit us on Vimeo Visit us on Instagram Visit us on LinkedIn Accessibility Report a Concern Careers Privacy Policy About Find People © University of Oregon. All Rights Reserved. UO prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, national or ethnic origin, age, religion, marital status, disability, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression in all programs, activities and employment practices as required by Title IX, other applicable laws, and policies. Retaliation is prohibited by UO policy. Questions may be referred to the Title IX Coordinator, Office of Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity, or to the Office for Civil Rights. Contact information, related policies, and complaint procedures are listed on the statement of non-discrimination.