Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. One Stop Student Service Center One Stop right arrow down arrow Information for... right arrow down arrow Parents right arrow down arrow Parent Checklist Transfer Students right arrow down arrow Transfer Student Checklist Alumni New Students right arrow down arrow New Student Checklist Information for Admitted Students Graduate Students right arrow down arrow Graduate Student Checklist Continuing Students UC Blue Ash Students right arrow down arrow Request Permission to Add UC Blue Ash Courses UC Blue Ash Student Requesting Permission to Withdraw Past Deadline UC Clermont Students Transition Students Financial Aid right arrow down arrow Financial Aid Verification Requirements Scholarships Apply for Aid Student and Parent Loans right arrow down arrow Parent PLUS Loans Accept Financial Aid Awards Financial Aid Eligibility Requirements Billing & Payment right arrow down arrow Refunds Payment Plans Tuition & Fees Paying Your Bill Parent Information Registration & Records right arrow down arrow Personal Information University Calendars Delegated Access right arrow down arrow Create Parent or Guest Identity Verify Enrollment or Degree Class Registration right arrow down arrow Find Your Enrollment Times Overload Registration & Charges Search Class Offerings Order Transcripts Student Money Management right arrow down arrow 15 to Finish Avoid Overborrowing Student Loans Budgeting Understanding Credit Reports and Scores Identity Theft Loan Repayment Covering Remaining Costs Resources Savings and Banking Student Jobs Understanding Credit Cards Money Management Workshop Request Other Helpful Resources right arrow down arrow Catalyst Self-Help Guide Meet the Team One Stop » Student Money Management » Understanding Credit Cards Set Navigation title in component Understanding Credit Cards 15 to Finish Avoid Overborrowing Student Loans Budgeting Understanding Credit Reports and Scores Identity Theft Loan Repayment Covering Remaining Costs Resources Savings and Banking Student Jobs Money Management Workshop Request Understanding Credit Cards A credit card allows you to borrow money to make your purchases like groceries, gas or even emergency, like major repairs on your vehicle. Credit cards can help you establish a positive credit score, if used correctly. Before choosing a credit card, start with your own credit union or bank and ask for the cards they offer. Be sure to compare at least three cards by reading the fine print. Be aware of each card's Annual Percentage Rate, annual fees, and any benefits that you may earn through spending (cash back, airline points, etc.) Credit Card Tips Only use your credit card for items already in your budget or emergencies. Before you use your credit card, make sure that you are able to pay off the balance on the items you are purchasing. Before getting a credit card, make sure you fully understand the fees and penalties associated with the card. The national average for a late payment fee is $29. If you exceed your credit limit even by one cent, you’ll be hit with over limit fees of up to $39. Be aware of "bait and switch" credit card offers that you may receive. Generally, companies advertise one credit card at a low-interest rate. Meanwhile, the fine print says the company can issue a different, more costly card with higher rates, if you do not qualify for the other. Be aware of balance transfer fees. It’s the big tease. A rock-bottom introductory rate to transfer your balance, but that tantalizing low rate may come with a steep transaction fee, 3% to 5% for transferring your balance to their card. That means transferring a balance of $1,000 at 4% will cost you $40. One Stop Student Service Center PO Box 210101 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-1000 onestop@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati One Stop Student Service Center PO Box 210101 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-1000 onestop@uc.edu © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top