Skip to main navigation Skip to content Protect Texas. Stay Informed. Covid-19 Updates University of Texas at Austin University of Texas at Austin logo Forms About Us Contact Student FAQs MyUT Academic Calendar CASH FAFSA Registration and Degree Planning Everything you need to plan and register for classes. Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Everything you need to know about costs, bills and financial aid. Cost & Tuition Rates Paying Your Tuition Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits Student Records Your grades, degree, transcripts and all your personal information. Transcripts & Other Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning MENUMENU Texas OneStop Registration and Degree Planning Undergraduate Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes Add/Drop a Course Late Registration Clearing Bars Registration Times Taking a Course Pass/Fail University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Student Records Transcripts & Other Records Official Transcripts Enrollment Certifications Unofficial Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning Contact CASH MyUT Academic Calendar FAFSA Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Managing Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Teaching Assistantships and Fellowships are a source of aid that can affect the amount of financial aid that you receive from the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid. In some cases, the effect will be a dollar for dollar adjustment. The Financial Aid Notification (FAN) is the appropriate place to report teaching assistantships and fellowships, although you may notify our office at any time. Keep in mind that reporting your teaching assistantship or fellowship as soon as you know about it will help prevent delays in the release of your financial aid. Teaching Assistantships Teaching assistants are graduate students who help faculty members with the conduct and delivery of courses. Nonresident graduate students appointed at least half time as teaching assistants are eligible to receive a waiver of the nonresident portion of their tuition and will be charged in-state tuition. Fellowships Fellowships are awarded to both new and continuing graduate students. Students are nominated by their graduate advisors for fellowships administered by the Graduate School. Generally, fellowships require no service for the recipient. Some fellowships provide for payment of tuition and required fees in addition to the stipend. For additional information on employment opportunities, contact the Graduate School. Graduate Student Employment Effect on Financial Aid Depending on how your teaching assistantship is paid to you, it may affect your total eligibility for aid. Typically, if you are paid through the University Payroll office, there will be no reduction to your financial aid. However, you will have to report your earnings when you renew your FAFSA. Adjustments to financial aid are usually necessary for students who are not paid through University Payroll. A fellowship, much like a scholarship, affects your total eligibility for aid. At the start of the financial aid awarding process, your total cost of attendance is determined. Next, the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid subtracts any fellowships/scholarships/teaching assistantships/additional resources from the total cost of attendance. The remaining balance represents your total eligibility for financial aid. You cannot receive financial aid funding over this remaining balance. It is possible for graduate students to receive a teaching assistantship or fellowship after financial aid funds have been accepted and/or released. If this happens, financial aid will be re-evaluated and possibly adjusted, even if you have already accepted/received your funding for the semester. Notification of Aid Revision Whenever aid is revised, an email or a revised Financial Aid Notification (FAN) will be sent. The teaching assistantship or fellowship will be listed under “Additional Resources” on the FAN. If you do receive a revised FAN, be sure to reconfirm your award choices and submit the notification. Back To Top Still Need Help? We’re here for you. Visit Hours of Operation Monday–Friday 8:30 a.m.– 4:30 p.m. Visit Texas One Stop › MAI 1 (Ground Floor of UT Tower) 110 Inner Campus Dr. Austin, TX 78712 – To submit paper documents (such as appeals or applications), please scan a PDF of your document and email directly to Texas One Stop at onestop@utexas.edu. Call (512) 232-6988 (myUT) Hours of operation for phone calls are 8:30 a.m.- 5:00 p.m. Call volumes may be higher during peak times. Call Us Email onestop@utexas.edu 2 business day response time email FEEDBACK feedback survey Contact My UT CASH Code of Conduct Policies Emergency Information FAFSA #003658 SMS Terms and Conditions Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Consumer Information Disclosures Further Information and Disclosures utexas.edu