Skip to main navigation Skip to content Protect Texas. Stay Informed. Covid-19 Updates University of Texas at Austin University of Texas at Austin logo Forms About Us Contact Student FAQs MyUT Academic Calendar CASH FAFSA Registration and Degree Planning Everything you need to plan and register for classes. Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Everything you need to know about costs, bills and financial aid. Cost & Tuition Rates Paying Your Tuition Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits Student Records Your grades, degree, transcripts and all your personal information. Transcripts & Other Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning MENUMENU Texas OneStop Registration and Degree Planning Undergraduate Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes Add/Drop a Course Late Registration Clearing Bars Registration Times Taking a Course Pass/Fail University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Student Records Transcripts & Other Records Official Transcripts Enrollment Certifications Unofficial Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning Contact CASH MyUT Academic Calendar FAFSA Transcripts & Other Records Official Transcripts Enrollment Certifications Unofficial Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Student Records Transcripts & Other Records Official Transcripts Prospective and current students should contact Admissions for instructions on submitting transcripts and admission application materials to UT Austin. An official transcript is a comprehensive record of your academic progress, including transfer courses, credit earned by exam and earned degrees. Your name appears on your official transcript as it appears on your university record. Official transcripts include the university seal and signature of the registrar. Each official transcript costs $20. Transcripts are sent when payment is processed. Student academic records are classified as confidential and may be released only with the student’s written authorization and signature, in accordance with the Public Information Act and the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974. You may request your official transcript to be issued to you in a sealed envelope; the transcript will be issued in an envelope with the registrar’s signature stamped across the back flap. Or you may request for an open (unsealed) official transcript to be issued to you. Transcripts mailed directly to third parties are considered sealed. The Office of the Registrar does not fax or scan transcripts into a digital format under any circumstances. Official transcripts are not issued for students with financial bars. You can check your bar status through What I Owe. For more information on clearing financial bars, see Paying Your Tuition or call Texas One Stop at 512-232-6988. Distance, Extension and Correspondence Courses (e.g. OnRamps, Engineer Your World, or ChemBridge) Distance/extension/correspondence courses (e.g. OnRamps, Engineer Your World, or ChemBridge) and grades appear on transcripts once the course is completed and once University Extension reports the grades to the Student Academic Records division in the Office of the Registrar. If you completed a distance, extension or correspondence course, your transcript may be ordered online within three (3) years after the course completion date. Check your grade report on the Texas One Stop website and make sure grades are there before ordering a transcript. If you are unable to order online, complete transcript order form 891 or order in person. Note: The Office of the Registrar does not issue letters of non-attendance. If you need a letter from OnRamps to verify enrollment or non-attendance at UT Austin, please complete the OnRamps Letter Request Form. For more information, contact OnRamps at enrollment@onramps.zendesk.com or 512-265-2515. Third Party Forms / Transcript Matching Forms If you have a form that needs to be mailed with your transcript, we will only attach forms that (1) were created by the third party and (2) specify that it needs to be sent with the transcript. Order the transcript online or complete our transcript order form. If ordering a transcript online: Place a transcript order online for a transcript to be mailed and pay through What I Owe. Afterwards, email the third party form to transcriptforms@austin.utexas.edu as an attachment. Your form must be received before 7:30 a.m. CST the following business day after paying online. Include your full name, EID, and online order number or destination address in the email. If completing transcript order form 891: Submit the third party form AND our transcript order form together via email, fax or mail. PDF Transcripts PDF transcripts can only be ordered online. If you are not eligible to order online, a PDF transcript cannot be ordered. Select the “Order Online” tab below for information about eligibility and ordering a PDF transcript. How to Order an Official Transcript Order Online (EID required) If last enrolled BEFORE Fall 1979, you may not be able to order online. Complete transcript order form 891. If last enrolled AFTER Fall 1979, you are eligible to order online. A UT EID and password is required to log into the secure online transcript order system. Even if you did not have a UT EID during the time you attended, one has been assigned to you. Use the University’s UT EID Self-Service Tools to find your UT EID, update your email address, and reset your password. If the UT EID Self-Service Tools cannot locate your UT EID, do not create a UT EID. Contact the UT Service Desk for further assistance. Log onto the secure online transcript order system using your EID to place and confirm your order. If you only completed distance, extension or correspondence courses, refer to the “Distance, Extension and Correspondence Courses” section for information. Order a Transcript Log in with your EID to order an official transcript online or to check order status. Delivery Options Official transcripts have the following delivery options: Mailed: Transcripts ordered and paid online to be mailed leave our office within two (2) business days. It may take longer to mail out transcripts during peak periods; particularly at the beginning and end of semesters. Transcripts are sent by U.S. First Class Standard mail or Foreign Air mail and cannot be tracked. For domestic mail, allow at least two (2) weeks for delivery. For international mail, allow at least four (4) weeks for delivery. If you need to expedite/track a transcript in the mail, see the Expedited Delivery section near the bottom of this page for more information. SPEEDE (if presented with this option): An electronic transcript can be sent to certain community colleges, universities, and licensing boards via SPEEDE, a secure electronic server managed by the National Student Clearinghouse. They are sent the next business day after payment is received. To place this order, select “send to another educational institution” on STEP 1. Then select “send to a third party” on STEP 3 and choose from the drop-down menu. If the recipient you are looking for is not listed in the drop-down menu, you will be unable to send an electronic transcript via SPEEDE to that recipient at this time.Note: If the transcript is for the purpose of gaining admission to a graduate program (as opposed to an undergraduate program or a health science center) OR if the transcript is for human resources for the purpose of gaining employment, then this is probably not the ordering option you want to select. You may enter a mailing address below the drop-down menu to have the transcript mailed.This ordering option is not available for students who only completed dual credit/extension/correspondence courses. PDF: PDF transcripts are emailed via DocuSign the same day after payment is received. The DocuSign email should not be forwarded. The PDF transcript links expire 30 calendar days from the sent date. To place this order, select “send directly to me or to a third party” on STEP 1 and select “Yes” to sending the transcript as a PDF on STEP 2. Complete and continue through remaining prompts. Please note, the PDF transcript option is not available for some third party destinations. In this case, the system may prevent you from placing the order. You may contact the Transcript Services Team to discuss alternatives. If you order a PDF transcript, the recipient will receive one email from DocuSign containing two transcripts. The two transcripts include one official transcript that cannot be downloaded or printed, and one facsimile—a rendering of the official transcript that can be downloaded and printed. The facsimile will be on a white background with a “facsimile transcript” watermark. The facsimile will not bear the university seal or the signature of the registrar. Verify that these transcripts are acceptable to the recipient before placing an order. If you also want a transcript to be mailed, you will need to place a separate order, provide a complete mailing address and pay an additional $20. During the ordering process, you will create a case-sensitive access code that the recipient must use to access the PDF transcript. The access code will be sent to the recipient on your behalf in a separate email. PDF transcript orders are not billed to What I Owe. Instead, you will be led to a separate payment system during the ordering process that accepts VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express or eChecks. To resume a PDF transcript order, select “send directly to me or to a third party” on STEP 1 of the ordering system. Select yes on STEP 2. Then scroll down to the bottom of the page and select the order you previously started. There is no option for you to cancel your own PDF transcript order. Orders left unpaid will eventually be systematically canceled. Paying Online If you are eligible to order online, you will be able to pay using your University account, What I Owe. What I Owe accepts the following forms of payment: eCheck, Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT), MasterCard, Visa, Discover, and American Express. Contact the Student Accounts Receivable office if you need assistance using What I Owe. If needing your most recent or final transcript sent immediately, confirm grades on transcript by checking your grade report and verify degree is posted before paying. Review your order carefully before paying online. Once an order is paid, the order cannot be revised or canceled; refund requests may not be accepted. Confirmed online orders left unpaid will eventually be systematically cancelled. To prevent online ordering errors, do not click the browser’s “back” button at any time during order placement. Transcripts sent to incomplete addresses provided online may cause delivery delays or returns by U.S. Postal Service. Address errors may require a new order with payment if the transcript is not received. Cancelling an online order Unpaid transcripts orders to be mailed or sent electronically via SPEEDE can be canceled. To cancel an order, click on “Cancel Unpaid Orders” under the menu on the left side of the screen. You must be in the transcript order system to see this option. You will not see the “Cancel Unpaid Orders” option if you are in What I Owe. Order by Mail, Fax or Email Submit a signed transcript order form 891 by email at transcripts@austin.utexas.edu; by fax (512-475-7681); or by mail to The University of Texas at Austin; Office of the Registrar; Transcript Services; P.O. Box 7216; Austin, TX 78713-7216. If requesting sealed student-issued transcripts on the transcript request form, clearly mark total number of official transcripts needed and how many official transcripts from the total number should be sealed separately in official envelopes. Transcripts sent to incomplete addresses provided on the order form may cause delivery delays or returns by U.S. Postal Service. Address errors may require a new order with payment if the transcript is not received. Review addresses carefully before submitting transcript request. Transcripts are sent by U.S. First Class Standard mail or Foreign Air mail and cannot be tracked. For domestic mail, allow at least two (2) weeks for delivery. For international mail, allow at least four (4) weeks for delivery. If you need to expedite/track a transcript in the mail, see the Expedited Delivery section for more information. Order In Person Texas One Stop is located on the ground floor of the Main Building (the Tower) on 110 Inner Campus Drive. See Visit Texas One Stop for office hours and visiting procedures. Do not order online if you will be coming to the office to pick up a transcript. For students last enrolled before Fall 1979, your order may need to be placed in advance. Please complete transcript order form 891, request pickup, and wait until we let you know your order is ready. You must present a current UT ID card, state-issued photo ID or driver’s license, current passport, or military ID for transcript release. Transcripts are $20 per copy and payment is required upfront. Texas One Stop only accepts Visa, MasterCard and Discover cards as payment. You cannot pay online from What I Owe if you are ordering in person. Incorrect information given to us when placing your order may result in another purchase. A refund will not be issued. Changing your mind about a transcript order after leaving our office will not be refunded or may result in another purchase. When in doubt, follow up with our office before placing a new order. Order By Proxy For students last enrolled after Fall 1979, you may authorize a third party to order or pick up your official transcript by completing our proxy authorization form. The proxy can email the form to onestop@utexas.edu. A clear copy of the student’s valid photo ID that bears a signature must accompany the proxy form. Ordering by proxy cannot be done online. All written requests must have student’s handwritten signature. The proxy must present their own current student photo ID, state-issued photo ID or driver’s license, passport, or military ID for document release. The first and last name of the proxy written on the proxy form must match the proxy’s identification. If the payment section on the proxy form is left blank, we will expect the proxy to pay for the transcript in our office. Notarized Transcripts If you require notarized transcripts, you may order them in person, by proxy, email, fax, or mail. Do not order online. Please note that notarized transcripts may not be sealed in an envelope. If additional documents such as a diploma or enrollment certification need to be notarized and sent together with the transcript, please mention this in advance. Ordering notarized transcripts in person or by proxy Please follow the guidelines for ordering transcripts in person or by proxy as listed on this page. An order may need to be placed in advance due to the availability of notaries. Before making arrangements to pick up a notarized transcript, please submit a signed notarized transcript order form to transcriptforms@austin.utexas.edu and state that you would like to pick up the transcript when it’s ready. If you are sending a proxy, submit the proxy authorization form with payment information and wait to hear back that the proxy can pick up the notarized transcript. If an apostille is needed, contact the Texas Secretary of State office. Ordering a notarized transcript via email, fax, or mail Submit signed notarized transcript order form by email to transcripts@austin.utexas.edu; by fax (512) 475-7681; or by mail to The University of Texas at Austin; Office of the Registrar; Transcript Services; P.O. Box 7216; Austin, TX 78713-7216. Transcripts sent to incomplete addresses provided on the order form may cause delivery delays or returns by U.S. Postal Service. Address errors may require a new order with payment if the transcript is not received. Review addresses carefully before submitting transcript request. Payment instructions are provided on the transcript order form. Transcripts are sent by U.S. First Class Standard mail or Foreign Air mail and cannot be tracked. For domestic mail, allow at least two (2) weeks for delivery. For international mail, allow at least four (4) weeks for delivery. If you need to expedite/track a transcript in the mail, see the Expedited Delivery section for more information. If your notarized transcript requires an apostille, mark where indicated on the transcript order form. Include final destination address and what country the document will be filed in. Complete the Texas Secretary of State Request for Official Certificate or Apostille form and submit it to our office with the transcript order form. Once the transcript order form is processed, the notarized transcript and your request for apostille form will be mailed to the Texas Secretary of State Authentications Unit. The Texas Secretary of State office does not pay for postage. If you want your transcript to be delivered to the destination address from the Texas Secretary of State office, a USPS Priority, UPS, FedEx, or DHL shipping label must be submitted to our office along with the transcript order form. See the Expedited Delivery section for information on shipping labels. If a shipping label is not provided, we will instruct the Texas Secretary of State office to return your apostilled transcript to our office via interagency mail (postage not required). When we receive the apostilled transcript you will be notified, and we will mail it to the address you provided via U.S. First Class Standard mail or Foreign Air mail with no tracking. Dell Medical School Transcripts To order Dell Medical School transcripts please contact your Dell Medical School Student Affairs office. They cannot be ordered online. Dell Medical School transcripts include the following: 1. Medical school coursework. 2. Dual degree coursework taken as a medical student. 3. Degrees awarded. If you would like a transcript of other undergraduate or graduate courses completed at UT Austin, please order them through this page. All official transcripts (including Dell Medical School) are $20 each. Hold for Grades and Degrees If currently enrolled at UT Austin, you may request your official transcript to be held until the current semester posting date for grades and degrees. Please note the following: Grades can appear on the transcript early but they will not be calculated in the GPA until the current semester grade posting date. Check your grade report to confirm grades are on the transcript. Future course enrollment for the following semester will not show on a Hold for Grade or Hold for Degree transcript. Summer sessions are combined as a whole semester. Although grades posted during the sessions will appear on your transcript, they will not be calculated in the GPA until August. Spring and summer degrees typically post two weeks after grades post at the end of semesters; fall degrees post one week after the University reopens from the winter break in January. If ordering online, Hold for Grades and Hold for Degree orders that are started before the current semester posting date must be paid before that posting date to prevent the order from being held until the end of the following semester. If you place a Hold for Grades and Hold for Degree order and incur a financial bar prior to the posting date, the transcript will not be processed and you will be contacted. Hold for Grades orders cannot be placed for dual credit/extension/correspondence courses because grade posting dates vary. Check your grade report on the Texas One Stop website and make sure grades are there before ordering a transcript. Law students should not place a Hold for Grades and Hold for Degree transcript order due to the School of Law’s timeline for releasing final grades. Before requesting a transcript or confirmation of degree, law students should check the online grade report and/or verify degree on the Texas One Stop website to ensure final grades and/or the degree has been posted. Spring 2022 – Hold for Grades orders will be processed after 5:00 p.m. CST on May 20, 2022. Paper transcripts will be mailed within 3 business days of the processed date. Spring 2022 – Hold for Degree orders will be processed after 5:00 p.m. CST on June 1, 2022. Paper transcripts will be mailed within 3 business days of the processed date. If you will be ordering a transcript and will not select the “Hold for Grades” or “Hold for Degree” options, please review your course information and grades carefully for accuracy before placing a transcript order. Expedited Delivery Transcripts can be tracked/expedited at your expense. You may use FedEx, UPS, or USPS Priority. Requesting expedited delivery does not guarantee priority processing of your order. Transcripts for expedited delivery will not be sent without a shipping label for each destination address. Order the transcript online or complete our transcript order form. If ordering a transcript online: email shipping label to transcriptforms@austin.utexas.edu before 7:30 a.m. CST the following business day or notify us before that time to expect a shipping label from you so that we can hold your transcript. If ordering a transcript by submitting our transcript order form: submit our transcript order form and the shipping label together to transcriptforms@austin.utexas.edu. To Request FedEx delivery Visit FedEx and select Create a Shipment. You may use the address below as the “from” address, making sure to include your full name and list UT Austin as in care of (C/O). LSAC (Law School Admissions Council): For any transcripts being sent to the LSAC (Law School Admissions Council) do not [insert your full name on record], but instead, just list UT Austin Transcript Services as the name (without indicating the C/O), and use the rest of the address as noted below:[insert your full name on record] C/O UT Austin Transcript Services Texas One Stop 110 Inner Campus Dr., Main bldg. Austin, TX 78712 Enter the address of the location the transcript should be shipped to. FedEx does not deliver to P.O. Boxes. Provide a physical address. Enter your phone number in the “from” address section to avoid a potential delay in our office, should there be a problem. Select FedEx envelope for the package type. Continue through remaining prompts, selecting the delivery date and providing payment. On the Confirmation page: you can check the box, Email a copy of my shipping label, enter transcriptforms@austin.utexas.edu, and then select Ship. Or you may enter your email address and then forward the shipping label to transcriptforms@austin.utexas.edu. Since there is a FedEx drop box nearby, there is no need to schedule a pickup. To Request UPS Delivery Visit UPS and select Ship or Create a Shipment. You may use the address below as the “from” address, making sure to include your full name and list UT Austin as in care of (C/O). LSAC (Law School Admissions Council): For any transcripts being sent to the LSAC (Law School Admissions Council) do not [insert your full name on record], but instead, just list UT Austin Transcript Services as the name (without indicating the C/O), and use the rest of the address as noted below:[insert your full name on record] C/O UT Austin Transcript Services Texas One Stop 110 Inner Campus Dr., Main bldg. Austin, TX 78712 Enter the address of the location the transcript should be shipped to. UPS does not deliver to P.O. boxes. Provide a physical address. Enter your phone number in the “from” address section to avoid a potential delay in our office, should there be a problem. Select UPS letter for the packaging type. Continue through remaining prompts, selecting the delivery date and providing payment. Since there is a UPS drop box nearby, there is no need to schedule a pickup. To Request USPS Priority Mail Delivery Visit USPS and select Create a Label or Click-N-Ship. Sign in or create an account. You may use the address below as the “from” address, making sure to include your full name and list UT Austin as in care of (C/O). LSAC (Law School Admissions Council): For any transcripts being sent to the LSAC (Law School Admissions Council) do not [insert your full name on record], but instead, just list UT Austin Transcript Services as the name (without indicating the C/O), and use the rest of the address as noted below:[insert your full name on record] C/O UT Austin Transcript Services P.O. Box 7216 Austin, TX 78713 Select Flat Rate shipping. Select Priority Mail or Priority Express and choose an option with Flat Rate Envelope as the package type. Continue through remaining prompts and provide payment. Prospective and current students should contact Admissions for instructions on submitting transcripts and admission application materials to UT Austin. CONTACT US Transcript Services transcripts@austin.utexas.edu Include EID with email inquiries. Campus Address: Main Building Room 1, Texas One Stop | Transcripts M5500 Mailing Address: University of Texas at Austin Office of the Registrar Transcript Services P.O. Box 7216 Austin, TX 78713-7216 Fax: 512-475-7681 Back To Top Still Need Help? We’re here for you. Visit Hours of Operation Monday–Friday 8:30 a.m.– 4:30 p.m. Visit Texas One Stop › MAI 1 (Ground Floor of UT Tower) 110 Inner Campus Dr. Austin, TX 78712 – To submit paper documents (such as appeals or applications), please scan a PDF of your document and email directly to Texas One Stop at onestop@utexas.edu. Call (512) 232-6988 (myUT) Hours of operation for phone calls are 8:30 a.m.- 5:00 p.m. Call volumes may be higher during peak times. Call Us Email onestop@utexas.edu 2 business day response time email FEEDBACK feedback survey Contact My UT CASH Code of Conduct Policies Emergency Information FAFSA #003658 SMS Terms and Conditions Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Consumer Information Disclosures Further Information and Disclosures utexas.edu