Skip to main navigation Skip to content Protect Texas. Stay Informed. Covid-19 Updates University of Texas at Austin University of Texas at Austin logo Forms About Us Contact Student FAQs MyUT Academic Calendar CASH FAFSA Registration and Degree Planning Everything you need to plan and register for classes. Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Everything you need to know about costs, bills and financial aid. Cost & Tuition Rates Paying Your Tuition Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits Student Records Your grades, degree, transcripts and all your personal information. Transcripts & Other Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning MENUMENU Texas OneStop Registration and Degree Planning Undergraduate Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes Add/Drop a Course Late Registration Clearing Bars Registration Times Taking a Course Pass/Fail University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Student Records Transcripts & Other Records Official Transcripts Enrollment Certifications Unofficial Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning Contact CASH MyUT Academic Calendar FAFSA Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Managing Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Apply We’re here to help guide you through the financial aid application process. Submit your FAFSA To be considered for financial aid every year, you’ll need to submit the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA®). You can submit the application online at fafsa.gov or through the myStudentAid mobile app. UT’s school code: 003658 List UT’s school code so we can review your FAFSA information and determine your financial aid eligibility. FAFSA Am I eligible to receive financial aid? An applicant for most financial aid must be a U.S. citizen, permanent resident or eligible non-U.S. citizen.) Must be registered with Selective Service if you are male and between the ages of 18 and 25. Must be enrolled or accepted for enrollment as a degree-seeking student. Must be enrolled at least half time (for most financial aid funds). Must maintain satisfactory academic progress. Is there a deadline to submit my FAFSA? We encourage students to submit their FAFSA by January 15 so that they can be considered for all forms of financial aid. You can still submit the FAFSA after January 15, but some financial aid might not be available. I submitted my FAFSA. Now what? Once your FAFSA is submitted, you’ll receive a Student Aid Report (SAR) from the Department of Education. Carefully review this to make sure that all the information is accurate; UT will receive the same information. After your SAR is processed, the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid will determine your aid eligibility and send you a Financial Aid Notification (FAN) that lists the funding you can receive (scroll down to Step 5). Can a non-U.S. citizen qualify for state financial aid? UT follows all current state and federal laws with respect to its students, including State of Texas law that has provided equal access to higher education for all graduates of state public high schools, regardless of their immigration status. This includes access to financial aid. Under state law, a person who is not a U.S. citizen or permanent resident of the U.S. may be classified as a Texas resident for higher education purposes, including qualifying for state financial aid programs. The Texas Application for State Financial Aid (TASFA) is used to collect information to help determine eligibility for state financial aid programs that are administered by institutions of higher education in Texas. Students who are classified as Texas residents who cannot apply for federal financial aid using the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) are encouraged to submit a paper FAFSA, complete the TASFA, or complete the eTASFA, which is available on CASH. If submitting a paper application, you should: Add your UT EID to top of the application Mail it immediately to: The University of Texas at Austin Attn: OSFA 1616 Guadalupe, Mail Stop E3700 Austin, TX 78701 Or drop it off in person at Texas One Stop in the Main Building (MAI). FAFSA Help Apply for Scholarships Incoming students: Apply for admission to UT using either the ApplyTexas or Coalition for College application by December 1. There is no separate scholarship application; scholarship-specific questions will be available through MyStatus. Incoming students who do not submit a FAFSA will still be considered for scholarships that do not require financial need. You are encouraged to submit a FAFSA to be considered for the widest range of scholarships. Continuing students: Apply for scholarships using the Continuing & Transfer Student Scholarship Application by March 15. The application opens in November every year and will be available on CASH. Scholarships Check Aid Status Here (CASH) CASH is the online system used to access your financial aid and scholarship information. Throughout your time at UT, use CASH to see your financial aid award, check the status of your financial aid and scholarship applications and check on any outstanding requirements that may prevent you from receiving your aid. CASH Verification After you have submitted your FAFSA, the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid may request more information to complete your financial aid application. Starting November 2021, you will receive an email from ProVerifier+ powered by ProEducation Solutions to complete any additional documents needed as part of the verification process. About Verification by Proverifier+ Receive Award Notification Through CASH, you will receive your Financial Aid Notification (FAN). Your FAN will include your financial aid offer and provide you with the opportunity to accept, decline and reduce award amounts. FANs are sent on an ongoing basis, beginning in the spring for the next school year. Watch your email and check CASH to review your status. Any incomplete requirement can delay your notification. Special Situations We understand that situations can change after the FAFSA has been submitted. If a special situation arises, follow the link to learn more about your options. Special Situations Form Back To Top Still Need Help? We’re here for you. Visit Hours of Operation Monday–Friday 8:30 a.m.– 4:30 p.m. Visit Texas One Stop › MAI 1 (Ground Floor of UT Tower) 110 Inner Campus Dr. Austin, TX 78712 – To submit paper documents (such as appeals or applications), please scan a PDF of your document and email directly to Texas One Stop at onestop@utexas.edu. Call (512) 232-6988 (myUT) Hours of operation for phone calls are 8:30 a.m.- 5:00 p.m. Call volumes may be higher during peak times. Call Us Email onestop@utexas.edu 2 business day response time email FEEDBACK feedback survey Contact My UT CASH Code of Conduct Policies Emergency Information FAFSA #003658 SMS Terms and Conditions Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Consumer Information Disclosures Further Information and Disclosures utexas.edu