Skip to main navigation Skip to content Protect Texas. Stay Informed. Covid-19 Updates University of Texas at Austin University of Texas at Austin logo Forms About Us Contact Student FAQs MyUT Academic Calendar CASH FAFSA Registration and Degree Planning Everything you need to plan and register for classes. Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Everything you need to know about costs, bills and financial aid. Cost & Tuition Rates Paying Your Tuition Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits Student Records Your grades, degree, transcripts and all your personal information. Transcripts & Other Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning MENUMENU Texas OneStop Registration and Degree Planning Undergraduate Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes Add/Drop a Course Late Registration Clearing Bars Registration Times Taking a Course Pass/Fail University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Student Records Transcripts & Other Records Official Transcripts Enrollment Certifications Unofficial Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning Contact CASH MyUT Academic Calendar FAFSA Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Managing Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Apply FAFSA Verification UT Austin is pleased to announce our new partnership with ProVerifier+ powered by ProEducation Solutions for the 2022-2023 FAFSA. ProVerifier+ is a software that makes the financial aid process easier and faster to complete by allowing students to securely send and receive documents, such as financial aid verification forms, for review and signature from any electronic device using Adobe Sign. Verification Verification is a review process in which the accuracy of various data elements reported by you/your parent(s) on the FAFSA is determined. The U.S. Department of Education selects approximately 30% of all aid applicants for verification. The verification process ensures that students receive all the financial aid they are entitled to receive, and prevents ineligible students from receiving aid they are not entitled to receive. Those selected are required to complete the verification process before financial aid eligibility can be determined. If your FAFSA application is chosen for verification, you will receive an introductory email from ProVerifier+ to your UT email address. Use your UT email address and password to log on to the external ProVerifier+ Student Portal where you will electronically complete and sign the required forms using Adobe Sign. You can complete verification from your smart phone, tablet or computer. After logging in you will be able to review and complete the following items: Financial Aid Financial Aid Status Aid Year = 2022-2023 Submit Review Requirements Upon receipt of all required documents, the automated verification process will begin. Students will be notified via email or text if there are any questions or if any additional documentation is required. Have more questions? Visit the student FAQ below or ask BevoBot chat. FAQs What is ProVerifier+? ProVerifier+ is a software powered by ProEducation Solutions, which enables you to complete verification 100% online from a smart phone, tablet, or computer. What will I have to provide in the ProVerfier+ student portal? The automated ProVerifier+ system communicates directly with the IRS on behalf of you and/or your parent(s) to obtain official IRS tax transcripts. You and/or your parent(s) will only be required to electronically complete and eSign an IRS Form 4506-T/C Form and a Verification worksheet- ProVerifier+ will do the rest! Will I receive phone calls or texts from ProVerifier+? You may receive voice calls or text messages regarding verification. They will prompt you to log on to ProVerifier+. What kind of emails will I receive from ProVerifier+? You should expect to receive an email from ProVerifier+ in the following situations: Initial Email: generated when student is identified for verification processing Welcome Email: generated after student initially logs into the ProVerifier+ Student Portal Missing or Incomplete Email: generated every 5 days when documents are missing or incomplete Additional Documents Requested Email: generated when subsequent items are added to the student checklist Confirmation Email: generated when a form is successfully completed All Documents Submitted Email: generated when all verifications documents have been submitted by student Verification Corrections Email: generated when student’s file moves to the awaiting corrections queue Verification Completed Email: generated when ProVerifier+ completes verification Other custom messages as needed What is Verification? Verification is a process used to confirm that the data reported on your FAFSA is accurate. You will be asked to provide documentation to support the information you reported on the FAFSA. If you are selected for verification, you will be required to submit documentation such as Federal Tax Transcripts, W2s, and a verification worksheet by the deadline presented. Financial aid will NOT disburse to your account until your documentation is submitted and reviewed. How do I know if I was selected for verification? Look for an asterisk* on your Student Aid Report (SAR) next to your Expected Family Contribution (EFC) on the top right of the first page that is sent to the e-mail address you provided on your FAFSA. Starting early October 2021, you may also receive an introductory email from ProVerifier+ at your UT Austin email address. The email will contain instructions on creating a ProVerfier+ account to complete verification. All students selected for verification on a 2022-23 FAFSA will receive this email. Why was I selected? Your FAFSA may be selected for verification at random, or because you supplied incomplete or inconsistent data on your application. Verification is a federal regulation and ensures that eligible students receive all the aid for which they qualify. If you were selected, you will receive an email at your student email. What if I was not selected? If you are not selected for verification, you could still be asked to provide other information to complete your financial aid file. Your CASH page displays any required documents or additional information needed. What do I need to do? The required documents will be listed on your ProVerifier+ Student Portal Dashboard. You can find the link to the UT Austin ProVerifier+ Student Portal in the email you receive from the Financial Aid Office. What if I am undocumented and cannot request a Verification of Non-Filing (VONF) from the IRS? IF REQUESTED, individuals without a Social Security Number (SSN), Individual Taxpayer Identification Number (ITIN), or Employer Identification Number (EIN) must provide a signed and dated statement certifying they do not have any of these. In addition, they will need to list the sources and amounts of earnings, other income, and resources used to support the household for the tax year. If applicable, a copy of the W-2, 1099, or other equivalent document for each source of employment must be provided. Still Need Help? We’re here for you. Visit Hours of Operation Monday–Friday 8:30 a.m.– 4:30 p.m. Visit Texas One Stop › MAI 1 (Ground Floor of UT Tower) 110 Inner Campus Dr. Austin, TX 78712 – To submit paper documents (such as appeals or applications), please scan a PDF of your document and email directly to Texas One Stop at onestop@utexas.edu. Call (512) 232-6988 (myUT) Hours of operation for phone calls are 8:30 a.m.- 5:00 p.m. Call volumes may be higher during peak times. Call Us Email onestop@utexas.edu 2 business day response time email FEEDBACK feedback survey Contact My UT CASH Code of Conduct Policies Emergency Information FAFSA #003658 SMS Terms and Conditions Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Consumer Information Disclosures Further Information and Disclosures utexas.edu