Skip to main navigation Skip to content Protect Texas. Stay Informed. Covid-19 Updates University of Texas at Austin University of Texas at Austin logo Forms About Us Contact Student FAQs MyUT Academic Calendar CASH FAFSA Registration and Degree Planning Everything you need to plan and register for classes. Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Everything you need to know about costs, bills and financial aid. Cost & Tuition Rates Paying Your Tuition Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits Student Records Your grades, degree, transcripts and all your personal information. Transcripts & Other Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning MENUMENU Texas OneStop Registration and Degree Planning Undergraduate Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes Add/Drop a Course Late Registration Clearing Bars Registration Times Taking a Course Pass/Fail University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Student Records Transcripts & Other Records Official Transcripts Enrollment Certifications Unofficial Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning Contact CASH MyUT Academic Calendar FAFSA Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Managing Costs Cost & Tuition Rates Learn More About Tuition Sources of Revenue The University of Texas at Austin relies on a number of sources of revenue. Tuition, state funding, and distributions from the Available University Fund comprise the vast majority of academic core funding in the university’s budget. Gifts and endowments provide additional resources greatly enhancing academic programs. Research contracts and grants support UT Austin’s research enterprise, and revenues generated by the institution’s self-supporting auxiliary enterprises fund the provision of services and activities that complete the first-class UT Austin experience. State General Revenue The State of Texas provides UT Austin annual funding from the State Treasury (called General Revenue) through a variety of funding formulas (primarily based on enrollment), as well as certain non-formula items. State support for UT Austin, and other public institutions of higher education in general, has declined over the last few decades, putting more pressure on other sources of revenue throughout higher education. For example, in the 1990-91 fiscal year, the State of Texas provided 34 percent of The University’s total budget. Since that time, state funding has stagnated while the University has grown, placing pressure on other funding sources. In the 2020-21 fiscal year, state General Revenue funding accounts for just over 10 percent of the total budget. Available University Fund (AUF) In 1876, the Texas Constitution set aside 2.1 million acres in West Texas to support The University of Texas and Texas A&M systems; these assets comprise the Permanent University Fund (PUF). Oil/gas and other mineral income are invested and a percentage of the return, along with surface income (largely grazing leases and power generation), are deposited into the Available University Fund (AUF) and distributed to both university systems. UT Austin receives a portion of these funds to support its academic programs and campus operations. Gifts and Endowments The University is fortunate to receive numerous gifts and endowments, thanks to the generosity of donors. Most of these endowments are dedicated to specific purposes such as scholarships and the support of faculty studying particular disciplines. Other gifts are made for specific purposes, such as the construction of new buildings. Research Grants and Contracts As one of the world’s leading research universities, UT Austin receives substantial funding in the form of grants and contracts from external entities, including federal, state and local governments as well as private entities. The use of these funds by the research and sponsored projects they support often are strictly spelled out in the terms of the contract or grant. Due to the qualifications placed on these revenues they are often referred to as Restricted Funds. Auxiliary Enterprises and other Self-supporting Auxiliary enterprises provide goods or services to students, faculty, staff, and/or the general public and charge fees directly related to the cost of the good or service. With few exceptions, UT Austin auxiliary enterprises must support their costs with their own revenue generation, and are therefore regarded as self-supporting. Primary examples include Intercollegiate Athletics, University Housing & Dining, Parking and Transportation, and the AT&T Hotel & Conference Center. In addition, there are other self-supporting programs within The University that may be operated from the academic or administrative side of campus. Other Sources of Revenue A number of other sources of revenue help support UT Austin, including budgeted balances, interest income, intellectual property income, administrative fees, among many others. Still Need Help? We’re here for you. Visit Hours of Operation Monday–Friday 8:30 a.m.– 4:30 p.m. Visit Texas One Stop › MAI 1 (Ground Floor of UT Tower) 110 Inner Campus Dr. Austin, TX 78712 – To submit paper documents (such as appeals or applications), please scan a PDF of your document and email directly to Texas One Stop at onestop@utexas.edu. Call (512) 232-6988 (myUT) Hours of operation for phone calls are 8:30 a.m.- 5:00 p.m. Call volumes may be higher during peak times. Call Us Email onestop@utexas.edu 2 business day response time email FEEDBACK feedback survey Contact My UT CASH Code of Conduct Policies Emergency Information FAFSA #003658 SMS Terms and Conditions Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Consumer Information Disclosures Further Information and Disclosures utexas.edu