Skip to main navigation Skip to content Protect Texas. Stay Informed. Covid-19 Updates University of Texas at Austin University of Texas at Austin logo Forms About Us Contact Student FAQs MyUT Academic Calendar CASH FAFSA Registration and Degree Planning Everything you need to plan and register for classes. Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Everything you need to know about costs, bills and financial aid. Cost & Tuition Rates Paying Your Tuition Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits Student Records Your grades, degree, transcripts and all your personal information. Transcripts & Other Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning MENUMENU Texas OneStop Registration and Degree Planning Undergraduate Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes Add/Drop a Course Late Registration Clearing Bars Registration Times Taking a Course Pass/Fail University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Student Records Transcripts & Other Records Official Transcripts Enrollment Certifications Unofficial Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning Contact CASH MyUT Academic Calendar FAFSA Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Managing Costs Paying Your Tuition There are several ways to pay for your UT education. Find information here on how to pay online, in person or by mail, using financial aid or outside loans. Payment Methods Select one of the tuition payment options below to learn more. Making online payments is encouraged. If you have questions on how to submit your payment, please contact Texas One Stop. Pay in Person Pay at the Cashier’s Office in Main Building (MAI) Room 8 Monday through Friday, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Methods Accepted Personal check Cashier’s check Money order Cash Credit and debit cards are not accepted at the Cashier’s Office. Pay Online Complete your registration online at My Tuition Bill using one of the following methods: Card: MasterCard, Visa, Discover and American Express cards (all cards subject to a nonrefundable 2.3% convenience fee) eCheck: Online payment by check Electronic Funds Transfer: Submit a bank authorization online Pay with Financial Aid at the View Bill option of My Tuition Bill Confirm Attendance at the View Bill option of My Tuition Bill if you do not owe tuition Click Tuition Loan on My Tuition Bill Are you a parent or guardian wanting to pay your student’s tuition bill online? Please visit the eproxy website (https://eproxy.utexas.edu/) for instruction on how to gain access to pay your student’s tuition and/or housing and dining bills. Installment Plan The minimum amount to confirm your attendance is $1,500 for Texas residents and $5,000 for non-residents. The remaining balance of your tuition bill is due on the 12th class day. If you choose to not pay the remaining amount on the 12th class day, you will automatically put on an installment plan and incur a $15 fee. View payment deadlines. Pay by Mail Checks may be mailed, but payment must be received in our office and posted to the student’s account by 5 p.m. on the payment deadline, or registration may be canceled. Make checks payable to “The University of Texas at Austin.” Be sure the student’s full name and UT EID are on the check. Multiple checks should be mailed together to ensure proper and timely posting of the payment. Note: Payment for University Extension classes must be sent to the University Extension office. Our Mailing Addresses If sending by U.S. mail: University of Texas at Austin Student Accounts Receivable P.O. Box 7398 Austin, TX 78713-7398 If sending by courier or overnight (FedEx, UPS, DHL, etc.): University of Texas at Austin Student Accounts Receivable, Main 4 110 Inner Campus Drive, Stop K5308 Austin, TX 78712-1669 Pay with Scholarship Zero Bill If you have a zero ($0.00) tuition bill, you still need to confirm your attendance by clicking the “Confirm Attendance” button on My Tuition Bill before the 5 p.m. deadline on your payment due date, or your classes will be canceled. Check to see whether you are eligible for a tuition exemption, rebate or waiver Pay with a Tuition Loan If you need assistance paying your tuition bill on time, short term tuition loans are available for the remaining balance of your tuition bill. To apply, go online to Tuition Loans on UT Direct. A high assurance UT EID is required to view this page. Repayment is due 30-90 days from the date the promissory note is signed, depending on how far into the semester the loan is awarded. Pay with Financial Aid On My Tuition Bill, click View Bill, then if your financial aid fully covers your tuition and fees, click Pay with Financial Aid. Because financial aid funds are not released immediately, your tuition bill will state a balance due until the funds are released. If the financial aid does not fully cover your bill, the amount due will be reduced accordingly, and you will need to pay the balance due by the deadline. The university wants to help students complete the financial aid process so they can pay their tuition on time. Please click here for further assistance on timing and paying your bill with financial aid. Outside Scholarships The majority of private donor scholarships are disbursed through the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid (OSFA). In most cases, scholarship donors will send checks directly to the university for processing, but not always. Tuition will be adjusted after OSFA processes the scholarship. Mail outside scholarships to the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid at: The University of Texas at Austin Attn: EMBS 1616 Guadalupe, Mail Stop E3700 Austin, TX 78701 What I Owe What you owe is listed at the top of your MyUT page. Other Ways to Pay There might be other ways you can pay for your tuition. Please see below for more information about these types of payments and helpful tips. Paying from a 529 College Fund Account owners must submit a request for payment from the 529 plan administrator. Allow up to three weeks for the payment to be credited to the student’s account. The payment must be received and posted to the student’s account no later than 5 p.m. on the payment due date. Failure to meet this deadline will result in your student’s registration being canceled. All checks should be made payable to “The University of Texas at Austin” and must include the student’s name, EID and what semester the check is for. Mailing address, including overnight delivery instructions, is available on the Student Accounts Receivable website. Texas Prepaid Tuition Plans The plans pay for tuition only; the student is responsible for all other fees. Texas Guaranteed Tuition Plan (TGTP) students must provide a copy of the membership ID card to Student Accounts Receivable the first semester they enroll at The University of Texas at Austin. Students in their senior year will need to provide proof of remaining hours in their plan. TGTP ID cards can be emailed to: tuition@austin.utexas.edu (please include your UT EID and semester in the email). Texas Tuition Promise Fund (TTPF) plan purchasers must authorize use of the benefits at least three weeks prior to the payment due date each semester at texastuitionpromisefund.com. Purchasers should enter the student’s EID as the “Student’s ID” and The University of Texas at Austin as the “Name of the University/College.” If the amount due is zero, the student must complete registration by clicking the “Confirm Attendance” button on My Tuition Bill no later than 5 p.m. on the due date, or their registration will be canceled. How to Pay Your Tuition Back To Top Still Need Help? We’re here for you. Visit Hours of Operation Monday–Friday 8:30 a.m.– 4:30 p.m. Visit Texas One Stop › MAI 1 (Ground Floor of UT Tower) 110 Inner Campus Dr. Austin, TX 78712 – To submit paper documents (such as appeals or applications), please scan a PDF of your document and email directly to Texas One Stop at onestop@utexas.edu. Call (512) 232-6988 (myUT) Hours of operation for phone calls are 8:30 a.m.- 5:00 p.m. Call volumes may be higher during peak times. Call Us Email onestop@utexas.edu 2 business day response time email FEEDBACK feedback survey Contact My UT CASH Code of Conduct Policies Emergency Information FAFSA #003658 SMS Terms and Conditions Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Consumer Information Disclosures Further Information and Disclosures utexas.edu