Skip to main navigation Skip to content Protect Texas. Stay Informed. Covid-19 Updates University of Texas at Austin University of Texas at Austin logo Forms About Us Contact Student FAQs MyUT Academic Calendar CASH FAFSA Registration and Degree Planning Everything you need to plan and register for classes. Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Everything you need to know about costs, bills and financial aid. Cost & Tuition Rates Paying Your Tuition Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits Student Records Your grades, degree, transcripts and all your personal information. Transcripts & Other Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning MENUMENU Texas OneStop Registration and Degree Planning Undergraduate Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes Add/Drop a Course Late Registration Clearing Bars Registration Times Taking a Course Pass/Fail University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Student Records Transcripts & Other Records Official Transcripts Enrollment Certifications Unofficial Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning Contact CASH MyUT Academic Calendar FAFSA Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Managing Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Loans Loans are a form of financial aid that must be repaid, usually with interest, after you graduate from UT. The amount of money you can borrow depends on several factors, including your year in school. Loans are offered by the federal and state governments, as well as through private lenders. Federal Loans Direct Loans Subsidized/Unsubsidized Loans taken out by eligible student borrowers pursuing an undergraduate, graduate or professional degree. Learn more Direct Parent PLUS Loan Loans taken out by eligible parents of dependent undergraduate students. Learn more How to Apply for a Parent PLUS Loan Steps to Take if Your PLUS Loan is Declined Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Loans taken out by eligible students pursuing a graduate or professional degree. Learn more State Loans College Access Loan This program provides alternative educational loans to Texas students who are unable to meet the cost of attendance. Learn more You will need to complete a College Access Loan Request Form. Private Loans Private student loans are meant to provide additional funds after you have applied for and exhausted your federal and state financial aid options. All private loans require credit checks, and most loans will require a co-signer if the borrower has little or no credit history. The Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid cannot recommend a lender. If you have any questions about the loan, please contact the lender. Most alternative loan lenders require a loan certification to verify enrollment and Cost of Attendance amounts. Private Loan Certification: Generally, the certification process will take 10 to 14 business days but may be longer during peak times (August through October). This processing time is for UT only and does not include additional processing time your lender may have before sending funds. You can borrow an amount up to cost of attendance. Your certified loan will disburse only after your lender has all documentation needed from you (e.g., income verification, co-signer addendums, or signed original promissory notes). What to consider before deciding on an alternative loan: What is the interest rate? Is it fixed or variable? How is the interest rate calculated and capitalized? What fees are applied? Can principal and interest be deferred? When does repayment begin? We encourage students to consider all financial options before applying for a private loan. Whenever possible, borrow only what is needed to pay for educational expenses and remember — you can always refuse awarded loan amounts or request lower awards. Note: When completing the loan application, please use the following dates to indicate the academic period for which you would like to borrow the loan. Using dates other than those listed below may result in processing delays. Spring Semester 2021: January 19–May 18, 2021 Summer Semester 2021: May 19–August 16, 2021 Academic Year 2021-2022: August 25–May 17, 2022 Fall Semester 2021: August 25–December 15, 2021 Spring Semester 2022: January 18–May 17, 2022 Responsible borrowing Short-Term Loans Two types of short-term loans — emergency cash loans and tuition loans — are available to help students in immediate financial need. The interest rate for both loans is 4% APR. You may access the applications for tuition and emergency cash loans through UT Direct. Emergency Cash Loans Borrow a maximum of $500 for emergencies. Must be repaid within 30 days. Requirements: High-assurance UT EID and password. Minimum half-time enrollment. Borrowing is limited to $500. All university debts are current and not past due. No emergency cash loan currently unpaid or borrowed within the past 30 days. All loans are due in 30 days; refer to Students Accounts Receivable for other terms and conditions regarding repayment, interest rate and late penalties. Misuse of university accounting services such as bouncing checks or excessive borrowing of emergency cash loans can result in an administrative block on your future access to the system. You may apply for an emergency cash loan through UT Direct. Payments for cash loans may be made on the What I owe website, at the Cashier’s Office or by mailing the payment to Student Accounts Receivable, P.O. Box 7398, Austin, TX 78713-7398. Tuition Loans If you need assistance paying your tuition bill on time, tuition loans are available based on the amount of your tuition bill. Requirements: High-assurance UT EID and password. Minimum half-time enrollment. Borrowing is limited to the current tuition bill. Nonresidents may only borrow the first installment (or 50%) of their tuition bill. All university debts are current and not past due. No unpaid tuition loan. All loans are due in 30-90 days; refer to Student Accounts Receivable for other terms and conditions regarding repayment, interest rate and late penalties. You may apply for a tuition loan through UT Direct. Payments for tuition loans may be made on the Tuition Loan website, at the Cashier’s Office or by mailing payment to Student Accounts Receivable, P.O. Box 7398, Austin, TX 78713-7398. Loan Disclosures UT cohort default rate (fiscal year 2018): 2.3% National average cohort default rate (fiscal year 2018): 7.3% Percentage of undergraduate students that borrow loans at UT (Fall 2020): 30.6% Back To Top Still Need Help? We’re here for you. Visit Hours of Operation Monday–Friday 8:30 a.m.– 4:30 p.m. Visit Texas One Stop › MAI 1 (Ground Floor of UT Tower) 110 Inner Campus Dr. Austin, TX 78712 – To submit paper documents (such as appeals or applications), please scan a PDF of your document and email directly to Texas One Stop at onestop@utexas.edu. Call (512) 232-6988 (myUT) Hours of operation for phone calls are 8:30 a.m.- 5:00 p.m. Call volumes may be higher during peak times. Call Us Email onestop@utexas.edu 2 business day response time email FEEDBACK feedback survey Contact My UT CASH Code of Conduct Policies Emergency Information FAFSA #003658 SMS Terms and Conditions Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Consumer Information Disclosures Further Information and Disclosures utexas.edu