Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. One Stop Student Service Center One Stop right arrow down arrow Information for... right arrow down arrow Parents right arrow down arrow Parent Checklist Transfer Students right arrow down arrow Transfer Student Checklist Alumni New Students right arrow down arrow New Student Checklist Information for Admitted Students Graduate Students right arrow down arrow Graduate Student Checklist Continuing Students UC Blue Ash Students right arrow down arrow Request Permission to Add UC Blue Ash Courses UC Blue Ash Student Requesting Permission to Withdraw Past Deadline UC Clermont Students Winter Season Day FAQ Transition Students Financial Aid right arrow down arrow Financial Aid Verification Requirements Scholarships Apply for Aid Student and Parent Loans right arrow down arrow Parent PLUS Loans Accept Financial Aid Awards Financial Aid Eligibility Requirements Billing & Payment right arrow down arrow Refunds Payment Plans Tuition & Fees Paying Your Bill Parent Information Registration & Records right arrow down arrow Personal Information University Calendars Delegated Access Verify Enrollment or Degree Class Registration right arrow down arrow Find Your Enrollment Times Overload Registration & Charges Search Class Offerings Order Transcripts Student Money Management right arrow down arrow 15 to Finish Avoid Overborrowing Student Loans Budgeting Understanding Credit Reports and Scores Identity Theft Loan Repayment Covering Remaining Costs Resources Savings and Banking Student Jobs Understanding Credit Cards Money Management Workshop Request Other Helpful Resources right arrow down arrow Catalyst Self-Help Guide Meet the Team One Stop » Financial Aid » Scholarships Set Navigation title in component Scholarships Financial Aid Verification Requirements Apply for Aid Student and Parent Loans Parent PLUS Loans Accept Financial Aid Awards Financial Aid Eligibility Requirements Scholarships Scholarships are funds that do not have to be paid back and are typically awarded based on academic achievement or other criteria. There are two different types of scholarships: internal University of Cincinnati scholarships and external scholarships. New Scholarship Search Tile in Catalyst Upon signing into Catalyst, you will see a “Scholarship Search” tile. Accessing this tile allows students to get matched to and apply for scholarships external to UC. So, get started today! The scholarship search provides opportunities for students to connect with vetted scholarships applications from outside the university. Search scholarships routinely for new opportunities as they become known and posted. In the months ahead, UC scholarship opportunities will also be added to the search process. Scholarship Tips and Reminders Apply for local scholarships Get personal in your essay Avoid scams and do not pay for scholarship searches Take your time and put in the work Stick to the word limit Proofread, proofread, proofread your scholarship applications Utilize UC resources UC Scholarship Resources Do you need help updating your resume? Utilize the Bearcats Promise Career Studio Make an appointment via Handshake with a Coach or walk-in with a Peer Career Coach. Do you need help writing your essay? Utilize the Academic Writing Center Make an appointment or walk-in. University of Cincinnati Scholarships UC scholarships are awarded to incoming freshmen students, transfer students, and graduate students. Scholarships Offered by UC Colleges College of Arts and Sciences College of Arts and Sciences (by major) College of Education, Criminal Justice, Human Services and Information Technology College of Engineering and Applied Sciences College of Engineering and Applied Sciences (by major) Carl H. Lindner College of Business Carl H. Lindner College of Business (Real Estate) College of Design, Architecture, Art and Planning College Conservatory of Music College of Nursing College of Allied Health Sciences UC Blue Ash UC Blue Ash (Study Abroad) UC Clermont Study Abroad External Scholarships There are billions of dollars of external scholarship money available to students of all qualifications, abilities, and interests. Search for Scholarships University of Cincinnati Scholarship Search Tool CollegeBoard Cincinnati Scholarship Foundation Columbus Scholarship Foundation Scholarship America The U.S. Department of Labor's Scholarship Search Tool Fast Web College Greenlight Point Foundation How to Submit an External Scholarship Check Student's name and UCID must be included on the check. The Scholarship Check Processing Form can be submitted with the check, but is not required. Scholarship checks can be mailed directly to the address below: University of Cincinnati Office of the Bursar, Sponsored Student Accounts P.O. Box 210140 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0140 Scholarship checks made payable to UC (or to the student and UC), must be applied to the student's bill. The university cannot sign the scholarship check over to the student. One Stop Student Service Center PO Box 210101 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-1000 onestop@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati One Stop Student Service Center PO Box 210101 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-1000 onestop@uc.edu © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top