Skip to main navigation Skip to content Protect Texas. Stay Informed. Covid-19 Updates University of Texas at Austin University of Texas at Austin logo Forms About Us Contact Student FAQs MyUT Academic Calendar CASH FAFSA Registration and Degree Planning Everything you need to plan and register for classes. Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Everything you need to know about costs, bills and financial aid. Cost & Tuition Rates Paying Your Tuition Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits Student Records Your grades, degree, transcripts and all your personal information. Transcripts & Other Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning MENUMENU Texas OneStop Registration and Degree Planning Undergraduate Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes Add/Drop a Course Late Registration Clearing Bars Registration Times Taking a Course Pass/Fail University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Student Records Transcripts & Other Records Official Transcripts Enrollment Certifications Unofficial Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning Contact CASH MyUT Academic Calendar FAFSA Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Managing Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid We offer a variety of financial aid opportunities to help students in their pursuit of a UT education. Eligibility for aid is based on financial and household information that is reported on your Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). In addition, you must meet certain eligibility requirements. Review the different types of aid listed below and click to learn more about each. Grants Need-based aid that does not need to be repaid. Scholarships Need-based, and sometimes merit-based, aid that does not need to be repaid. Loans Borrowed aid that needs to be repaid, with interest, after graduation. Emergency Loans Borrowed aid that is available during emergency situations. Teaching Assistantships and Fellowships A source of aid for graduate students that can affect the amount of financial aid you receive from our office. Work-Study Work-Study provides part-time jobs for students with financial need, allowing you to earn money to help pay for educational expenses Exemptions and Waivers Some students, such as ROTC participants and high school valedictorians, are eligible for exemptions and waivers. Student Accounts Receivable offers additional information about eligibility, as does College for All Texans. Benefit Programs The FCC Emergency Broadband Benefit is an FCC program that helps families struggling to pay for internet service during the pandemic. Eligibility for SNAP (Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program) benefits have been temporarily expanded to new categories of students. Back To Top Still Need Help? We’re here for you. Visit Hours of Operation Monday–Friday 8:30 a.m.– 4:30 p.m. Visit Texas One Stop › MAI 1 (Ground Floor of UT Tower) 110 Inner Campus Dr. Austin, TX 78712 – To submit paper documents (such as appeals or applications), please scan a PDF of your document and email directly to Texas One Stop at onestop@utexas.edu. Call (512) 232-6988 (myUT) Hours of operation for phone calls are 8:30 a.m.- 5:00 p.m. Call volumes may be higher during peak times. Call Us Email onestop@utexas.edu 2 business day response time email FEEDBACK feedback survey Contact My UT CASH Code of Conduct Policies Emergency Information FAFSA #003658 SMS Terms and Conditions Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Consumer Information Disclosures Further Information and Disclosures utexas.edu