Skip to main navigation Skip to content Protect Texas. Stay Informed. Covid-19 Updates University of Texas at Austin University of Texas at Austin logo Forms About Us Contact Student FAQs MyUT Academic Calendar CASH FAFSA Registration and Degree Planning Everything you need to plan and register for classes. Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Everything you need to know about costs, bills and financial aid. Cost & Tuition Rates Paying Your Tuition Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits Student Records Your grades, degree, transcripts and all your personal information. Transcripts & Other Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning MENUMENU Texas OneStop Registration and Degree Planning Undergraduate Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes Add/Drop a Course Late Registration Clearing Bars Registration Times Taking a Course Pass/Fail University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Student Records Transcripts & Other Records Official Transcripts Enrollment Certifications Unofficial Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning Contact CASH MyUT Academic Calendar FAFSA Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Managing Costs Paying Your Tuition Tuition Bills You will receive an electronic bill (eBill) notifying you of your costs for tuition and any other university charges. This may include installment bills and billing for tuition or emergency cash loans. EBills are delivered more quickly than bills sent via postal mail, and electronic payments are posted immediately to your account. The bill can easily be forwarded to the paying party if it is someone other than you. Secure payments can be made from any computer with internet access, anytime, anywhere. No paper bills will be mailed, so be sure to keep your email addresses on file with the university current as required by the University Electronic Mail Student Notification Policy. According to university policy, email messages are considered delivered to you even if they are returned to the university because of either a full inbox or use of a spam filter. You are responsible for timely payment of your tuition bill whether or not your eBill is successfully received. To verify your payment was received, go to your My Tuition Bill page. When your payment is posted, there will be a message on My Tuition Bill stating that “Your registration is complete and your courses are secure.” If your tuition is paid with financial aid, you may still see a balance owed until financial aid is disbursed. Log in with your EID to see your balance. What I Owe Payment Deadline The payment deadline is shown on your My Tuition Bill page. Once there, log in to the system using your EID. Payment is due before 5 p.m. of the day of the listed deadline, or your registration will be canceled. How to Pay in Installments The minimum amount to confirm your attendance is $1,500 for Texas residents and $5,000 for non-residents. The remaining balance of your tuition bill is due on the 12th class day. If you choose to not pay the remaining amount on the 12th class day, you will automatically put on an installment plan and incur a $15 fee. Tuition installments are not available for summer sessions. View payment deadlines. How Financial Aid Affects Your Tuition Bill Financial aid funds will be released on a rolling basis about a week before the first day of class each semester. Make sure you keep your enrollment information up to date and take care of outstanding requirements on CASH (Check Aid Status Here) so that you confirm your tuition will be paid on time with your financial aid. On My Tuition Bill, click View Bill, then if your financial aid fully covers your tuition, click Pay with Financial Aid. Your classes are secured once you indicate you are paying with financial aid. Your tuition bill will show a balance due until your financial aid funds are released after the tuition deadline. Zero Bill If you have a zero ($0.00) tuition bill, you still need to confirm your attendance by clicking the “Confirm Attendance” button on My Tuition Bill before the 5 p.m. deadline on your payment due date, or your classes will be canceled. More Than Required Aid After your debts, such as tuition or on-campus housing, are paid, any excess financial aid will be refunded to you to help pay for books, transportation, off-campus housing and other miscellaneous costs. If you signed up for direct deposit, your refund will appear in your bank account in two to three business days. If you did not sign up for direct deposit, a paper check will be sent to the address you have on file in five business days. If excess financial aid funds are sent to an account that has been closed or is no longer valid, contact Payment Information. Less Than Anticipated Aid If financial aid does not fully cover your bill, you will need to pay the balance due by the deadline. Making Changes to Your Aid Offer You can either accept your offer or make changes to your offer on your CASH (Check Aid Status Here) page. You can reduce individual awards, except grants and scholarships or previously accepted loans and work-study, for individual semesters down to the minimum award amount by changing the figure in the “Accepted Amount” column. You can decline individual awards, except grants and scholarships, for individual semesters by entering $0 (no decimals) in the “Accepted Amount” column. If you choose to cancel your offer, you are canceling and refusing your entire financial aid offer for either or both semesters. You can cancel individual semesters by checking the “Cancel” box. Check this box if you will not be enrolling in one or more semesters. How to Accept Your FAN How to Pay Your Tuition Back To Top Still Need Help? We’re here for you. Visit Hours of Operation Monday–Friday 8:30 a.m.– 4:30 p.m. Visit Texas One Stop › MAI 1 (Ground Floor of UT Tower) 110 Inner Campus Dr. Austin, TX 78712 – To submit paper documents (such as appeals or applications), please scan a PDF of your document and email directly to Texas One Stop at onestop@utexas.edu. Call (512) 232-6988 (myUT) Hours of operation for phone calls are 8:30 a.m.- 5:00 p.m. Call volumes may be higher during peak times. Call Us Email onestop@utexas.edu 2 business day response time email FEEDBACK feedback survey Contact My UT CASH Code of Conduct Policies Emergency Information FAFSA #003658 SMS Terms and Conditions Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Consumer Information Disclosures Further Information and Disclosures utexas.edu