Skip to main navigation Skip to content Protect Texas. Stay Informed. Covid-19 Updates University of Texas at Austin University of Texas at Austin logo Forms About Us Contact Student FAQs MyUT Academic Calendar CASH FAFSA Registration and Degree Planning Everything you need to plan and register for classes. Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Everything you need to know about costs, bills and financial aid. Cost & Tuition Rates Paying Your Tuition Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits Student Records Your grades, degree, transcripts and all your personal information. Transcripts & Other Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning MENUMENU Texas OneStop Registration and Degree Planning Undergraduate Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes Add/Drop a Course Late Registration Clearing Bars Registration Times Taking a Course Pass/Fail University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Student Records Transcripts & Other Records Official Transcripts Enrollment Certifications Unofficial Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning Contact CASH MyUT Academic Calendar FAFSA Transcripts & Other Records Official Transcripts Enrollment Certifications Unofficial Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Student Records Transcripts & Other Records Unofficial Records Student academic records are classified as confidential and may be released only to the student with student’s written authorization and signature, in accordance with the Public Information Act and the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974. Unofficial records cannot be sealed in an envelope or sent directly to third parties. Transcripts are sent when payment is processed. Academic Summary An academic summary is a course list that includes your name on record, UT EID, major, classification, UT and transferred coursework by semester, grades, GPA, total hours and date degree expected, if applicable. It also includes the university name and may have a repeating “unofficial copy” watermark on each page. The content of an academic summary printed in our office may be different. An academic summary is different from a transcript. It does not include the university seal or signature of the registrar. It will not confirm degrees. If you were last enrolled prior to Fall 1979 or if you only completed dual credit/extension/correspondence courses, an academic summary may not be available. If you are a current or former Law School student, please send an email to transcripts@austin.utexas.edu for instructions on how to obtain an academic summary. Click the link below to log in using your UT EID and password and access your academic summary online. We recommend that you use a browser besides Internet Explorer and download the academic summary first before printing it. If you did not have a UT EID during the time you attended, one has been assigned to you. Use the University’s UT EID Self-Service Tools to find your UT EID. If the UT EID Self-Service Tools cannot locate your UT EID, contact the UT Service Desk for UT EID or password assistance. View your Academic Summary Log in with your EID to view, download or print an academic summary. Unofficial UT Transcript An unofficial UT transcript is a comprehensive record of your academic progress, including transfer courses, credit earned by exam and earned degrees. It does not include the university seal or signature of the registrar. Your name appears on your unofficial UT transcript as it appears on your university record. The cost is $20 per copy, payable at the time of request, and available for pickup or can be mailed out to you. Unofficial UT transcripts are released only to the student requesting them or their proxy; they cannot be released to a third party. They are only issued to current or former students with a financial bar. If you do not have a financial bar, an official transcript is available to you. You may request an official transcript, instead, for the same price. Copying or scanning an official transcript will render it unofficial. You can check your bar status through What I Owe. If you have a financial bar and are unable to order in person or by proxy, an unofficial UT transcript can be mailed to you. Please send an email to transcripts@austin.utexas.edu for instructions on how to place this order. Include your UT EID, if known, and your full name on record. Unofficial Previous School Transcript Previous school transcripts are transcripts that were submitted to this university for admission purposes or to claim credit for coursework taken elsewhere. You may order unofficial copies of your transcripts from other schools if they were submitted to the university and remain on file in a PDF format. The transcripts may have staff notations and markings on it. The cost is $20 per copy, payable at time of request, and available for pickup or can be mailed out to you. Previous school transcripts are released only to the student requesting them or their proxy; they cannot be released to a third party. If unable to order in person or by proxy, please send an email to transcripts@austin.utexas.edu for instructions on how to place an order for a transcript to be mailed to you. Include your UT EID, if known, and your full name on record. Please also specify which transcripts you are requesting. How to Order Unofficial Transcripts If unable to order in person or by proxy, an unofficial UT transcript or previous school transcript can be mailed to you. Please send an email to transcripts@austin.utexas.edu for instructions on how to place this order. Include your UT EID, if known, and your full name on record. Order in Person Texas One Stop is located on the ground floor of the Main Building (the Tower) on 110 Inner Campus Drive. See Visit Texas One Stop for office hours and visiting procedures. For document release you must present a UT ID card, valid state-issued ID or driver’s license, current passport, or military ID. Transcripts are $20 per copy and payment is required upfront. Texas One Stop only accepts Visa, MasterCard and Discover cards as payment. You cannot pay online from What I Owe if you are ordering in person. Order by Proxy You may authorize a third party to order or pick up your unofficial record by using our proxy authorization form. Proxy may come to Texas One Stop on the ground floor of the Main Building (the Tower) at 110 Inner Campus Drive. See Visit Texas One Stop for office hours and visiting procedures. The proxy can bring the proxy form to Texas One Stop or email it to onestop@utexas.edu. A clear copy of the student’s valid photo ID that bears a signature must accompany the proxy form for verification purposes. All written requests must have the student’s handwritten signature. The proxy must present their own valid student photo ID, state-issued photo ID or driver’s license, passport, or military ID for document release. The first and last name of the proxy written on the proxy form must match the proxy’s identification. If the payment section on the proxy form is left blank, we will expect the proxy to pay for the transcript in our office. Unofficial records are not sealed or sent to a third party. Prospective and current students should contact Admissions for instructions on submitting transcripts and admission application materials to UT Austin. Contact Us Transcript Services transcripts@austin.utexas.edu Include EID with email inquiries. Campus Address: Main Building Room 1, Texas One Stop | Transcripts M5500 Mailing Address: University of Texas at Austin Office of the Registrar Transcript Services PO Box 7216 Austin, TX 78713-7216 Fax: 512-475-7681 Back To Top Still Need Help? We’re here for you. Visit Hours of Operation Monday–Friday 8:30 a.m.– 4:30 p.m. Visit Texas One Stop › MAI 1 (Ground Floor of UT Tower) 110 Inner Campus Dr. Austin, TX 78712 – To submit paper documents (such as appeals or applications), please scan a PDF of your document and email directly to Texas One Stop at onestop@utexas.edu. Call (512) 232-6988 (myUT) Hours of operation for phone calls are 8:30 a.m.- 5:00 p.m. Call volumes may be higher during peak times. Call Us Email onestop@utexas.edu 2 business day response time email FEEDBACK feedback survey Contact My UT CASH Code of Conduct Policies Emergency Information FAFSA #003658 SMS Terms and Conditions Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Consumer Information Disclosures Further Information and Disclosures utexas.edu