Skip to main navigation Skip to content Protect Texas. Stay Informed. Covid-19 Updates University of Texas at Austin University of Texas at Austin logo Forms About Us Contact Student FAQs MyUT Academic Calendar CASH FAFSA Registration and Degree Planning Everything you need to plan and register for classes. Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Everything you need to know about costs, bills and financial aid. Cost & Tuition Rates Paying Your Tuition Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits Student Records Your grades, degree, transcripts and all your personal information. Transcripts & Other Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning MENUMENU Texas OneStop Registration and Degree Planning Undergraduate Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes Add/Drop a Course Late Registration Clearing Bars Registration Times Taking a Course Pass/Fail University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Student Records Transcripts & Other Records Official Transcripts Enrollment Certifications Unofficial Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning Contact CASH MyUT Academic Calendar FAFSA Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Managing Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Apply Scholarship Finder UT offers over 3,000 scholarships to incoming and current students. The list of scholarships below is only a partial list of scholarships that are administered by the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid. Many UT colleges, schools and academic departments award their own scholarships to incoming and continuing students. Contact your college, school or department to learn more. Year In School Year In School (all) Continuing Students Entering Transfer Externally Selected Graduate Students Incoming Freshman Incoming Transfer Keyword Search Residency Residency (all) Not a Texas Resident Texas Resident Viewing 47 Scholarships 2021 Bonfire Unity Endowed Presidential Scholarship Texas Residents Only? No $2,500 Have at least 45 hours of courses completed at UT Austin; Hold a GPA of 3.00; The... More Info 2021 Bonfire Unity Endowed Presidential Scholarship $2,500 Have at least 45 hours of courses completed at UT Austin; Hold a GPA of 3.00; The Bonfire Unity Endowed Presidential Scholarship seeks to honor those at UT Austin who supported Texas A&M during the 1999 Bonfire tragedy. Applicants must be involved in student life through verifiable campus activities and participate in service activities, such as volunteer work, tutoring and civic activities. Please submit an application, essay, and letter of recommendation to be considered for selection. Applications without an essay and letter of recommendation will not be reviewed. Application Please submit all materials by 5 p.m., Wednesday, September 29. Materials submitted after this time will not be considered. Bill and Theresa Kahlke Endowed Scholarship Texas Residents Only? No For U.S. citizen or permanent resident. The Bill and Theresa Kahlke Endowed Scholarship is a merit-based scholarship awarded to U.S.... More Info Bill and Theresa Kahlke Endowed Scholarship For U.S. citizen or permanent resident. The Bill and Theresa Kahlke Endowed Scholarship is a merit-based scholarship awarded to U.S. citizens or permanent residents pursuing undergraduate degrees in the College of Liberal Arts and the Moody College of Communication. Awards are provided with preference for UT Austin staff or dependents of current, retired, or deceased UT Austin staff. Complete the Continuing and Transfer Student Scholarship Application to apply. Certification Form Daughters of the American Revolution Scholarship Texas Residents Only? No Each year the National Society Daughters of the American Revolution (DAR) awards multiple scholarships to students showing dedication to the... More Info Daughters of the American Revolution Scholarship Each year the National Society Daughters of the American Revolution (DAR) awards multiple scholarships to students showing dedication to the pursuit of higher education. UT will award this scholarship to eligible junior and senior undergraduates. Complete the Continuing and Transfer Student Scholarship Application to apply. Certification Form 2021 Sharon H. Justice Leadership Scholarship Texas Residents Only? No One-time award of $5000 No GPA requirement Minimum 60 credit hours The Sharon H. Justice Leadership Scholarship seeks... More Info 2021 Sharon H. Justice Leadership Scholarship One-time award of $5000 No GPA requirement Minimum 60 credit hours The Sharon H. Justice Leadership Scholarship seeks to honor the level of work and dedication former Associate Vice-President of Student Affairs and Dean of Students, Dr. Sharon Justice, put into bettering student life. Applicants must be involved in student life through registered student organizations and participate in community service activities, such as volunteer work, tutoring, and civic activities. Leadership positions within campus organizations or service activities will be given weight in the selection. Submit an application, essay, and letter of recommendation to be considered for selection. Applications without an essay and letter of recommendation will not be reviewed. Application Please submit all materials by 5 p.m. on Wednesday, September 29. Materials submitted after this time will not be considered. Children of Fallen Heroes Scholarship Texas Residents Only? No In March 2018, the Children of Fallen Heroes Scholarship was authorized under the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018. Under the scholarship,... More Info Children of Fallen Heroes Scholarship In March 2018, the Children of Fallen Heroes Scholarship was authorized under the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018. Under the scholarship, a Pell-eligible student whose parent or guardian died in the line of duty while performing as a public safety officer is eligible to receive a maximum Federal Pell Grant for the award year for which the determination is made. To qualify, a student must be: Pell-eligible Have a parent or guardian that was a public safety officer killed in the line of duty Have been less than 24 years of age or enrolled at an institution of higher education at the time of his or her parent or guardian’s death In subsequent award years, the student continues to be eligible for the scholarship (increased Pell award), as long as the student has a Pell-eligible expected family contribution (EFC) and continues to be an eligible student. If you meet the eligibility requirements, please contact our office. The Gates Scholarship Texas Residents Only? No Up to unmet need Selected by TGS - operated by Hispanic Scholarship Fund The Gates Scholarship will fund... More Info The Gates Scholarship Up to unmet need Selected by TGS – operated by Hispanic Scholarship Fund The Gates Scholarship will fund 300 students per year, starting with 2018, totaling 3,000 students over the life of the program. With the launch of this program in 2017, The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation continues its long-standing commitment to helping outstanding minority students who come from low-income backgrounds realize their maximum potential. Full Details Educational Aide Tuition Exemption Texas Residents Only? Yes FAFSA required Renewable 2.0 GPA required to renew Registered for selective service (if applicable) Be an educational aide or... More Info Educational Aide Tuition Exemption FAFSA required Renewable 2.0 GPA required to renew Registered for selective service (if applicable) Be an educational aide or substitute teacher for a Texas public school district Be enrolled in teacher certification courses If you are student seeking teacher certification and are also an educational aide or substitute teacher in a Texas public school district, you may be exempt from paying tuition and fees at UT. A completed application should be submitted to the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid by the following dates: For Fall consideration: October 1 For Spring consideration: March 1 For Summer consideration: June 15 Additional eligibility information can be found on the College for All Texans website. York Rite Masonic Scholarship Texas Residents Only? Yes $5000-$7500 FAFSA required The York Rite Masonic Scholarship is open to students who have graduated or transferred from... More Info York Rite Masonic Scholarship $5000-$7500 FAFSA required The York Rite Masonic Scholarship is open to students who have graduated or transferred from the Masonic Home and School of Fort Worth, Texas. Consideration may also be given to a son/daughter of a Master Mason. Certification Form Will Rogers Memorial Scholarship Texas Residents Only? No $250-$1500 FAFSA required The Will Rogers Memorial scholarship is intended for students who are disabled or non-disabled students... More Info Will Rogers Memorial Scholarship $250-$1500 FAFSA required The Will Rogers Memorial scholarship is intended for students who are disabled or non-disabled students studying to work with individuals who are disabled, especially children who are disabled. “Disabled” in this context shall refer to students who have a physical or non-physical disability, including mental and spiritual hardships or obstacles caused by the environment and lack of opportunity. Financial need may be used to distinguish among applicants. Certification Form Wagner Scholarship Texas Residents Only? Yes $1000-$2500 FAFSA required The Wagner Scholarship was created to benefit the children of active officers of the Fort... More Info Wagner Scholarship $1000-$2500 FAFSA required The Wagner Scholarship was created to benefit the children of active officers of the Fort Worth, Texas Police Department and the children of retired, deceased, or disabled officers of the Department who are or were in good standing at the time of their departure. Applicants must be undergraduate students enrolled for full-time hours at UT Austin. Applicants must also be in good academic standing and have proven success toward the timely pursuit of their degree requirements. In cases where more than one applicant applies, financial need is considered, with preference given to qualifying students with the greatest need. Certification Form W. A. James Scholarship Texas Residents Only? No $500-$1500 FAFSA required The W. A. James Scholarship Fund was created to provide scholarship awards to deserving students... More Info W. A. James Scholarship $500-$1500 FAFSA required The W. A. James Scholarship Fund was created to provide scholarship awards to deserving students attending UT Austin with preference to descendants of Mr. W. A. James. Certification form UT Scouting Award Scholarship Texas Residents Only? No $500-$1500 FAFSA required The UT Scouting Award Scholarship was created to provide scholarship awards to deserving students attending... More Info UT Scouting Award Scholarship $500-$1500 FAFSA required The UT Scouting Award Scholarship was created to provide scholarship awards to deserving students attending The University of Texas at Austin who hold a Boy Scouts of America Eagle Award or Venturing Silver Award. Certification Form Unrestricted Endowed Presidential Scholarship (UEPS) Texas Residents Only? No $2500 minimum 3.75 GPA required to renew Junior and Seniors Only The Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid... More Info Unrestricted Endowed Presidential Scholarship (UEPS) $2500 minimum 3.75 GPA required to renew Junior and Seniors Only The Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid manages a portfolio of fifty Endowed Presidential scholarship Endowments for our Unrestricted Endowed presidential scholarship (UEPS) program. Each year, over 2000 qualifying juniors and senior candidates are forwarded to their respective college/department Dean’s office. Only about 15% of all eligible candidates are nominated for UEPS. Faculty Recommendation Form Thomas Frederic Bush Scholarship Texas Residents Only? Yes $7500/year (renewable) Son or daughter of an ordained clergyman within the Protestant Episcopal Church in the state of Texas. Priority... More Info Thomas Frederic Bush Scholarship $7500/year (renewable) Son or daughter of an ordained clergyman within the Protestant Episcopal Church in the state of Texas. Priority is given first to the son or daughter of the Rector of St. Paul’s Episcopal Church in Waco, Texas. Applicant(s) must be recommended by the Bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of Texas. Scholarship does not require financial need. Certification Form The Ruth Martin Endowed Presidential Scholarship Texas Residents Only? Yes $2500/year FAFSA required Renewable 3.0 GPA required to renew High school graduates from Corpus Christi/Austin. Based on academic... More Info The Ruth Martin Endowed Presidential Scholarship $2500/year FAFSA required Renewable 3.0 GPA required to renew High school graduates from Corpus Christi/Austin. Based on academic potential and financial need. Preference is given to freshmen. Freshmen are nominated by their high school counselors. Minimum SAT score of 1200 and top 10% of their senior high graduating class. Texas Was Good to Us Scholarship Texas Residents Only? Yes $1000-$5000 FAFSA required The Texas Was Good to Us Scholarship was created to provide scholarship awards to students... More Info Texas Was Good to Us Scholarship $1000-$5000 FAFSA required The Texas Was Good to Us Scholarship was created to provide scholarship awards to students who were wards of the state of Texas. Preference will be given to students that are sophomores and above. Certification Form Texas High School Scholarships Texas Residents Only? Yes $250-$2500 FAFSA required Graduates from a select number of Texas high schools and counties may be eligible to... More Info Texas High School Scholarships $250-$2500 FAFSA required Graduates from a select number of Texas high schools and counties may be eligible to receive certain scholarships from UT Austin. While the University considers and awards students from all areas of the state and country, it also maintains endowed partnerships with the following Texas high schools or Texas counties: High School Brazosport High School; Gainesville High School; Smithville High School; Fox Technical High School in San Antonio; El Paso High School; Overton area high schools; and Corpus Christi and Austin area high schools. Counties Angelina County; Aransas County; Tarrant County; Fort Bend County; Cottle County; Motley County; Foard County; King County; Dickens County; Hall County; Navarro County. Terry Foundation Scholarship Texas Residents Only? Yes $1000-$25000, renewable FAFSA required 2.5 GPA required to renew University Nominated Externally selected The Terry Foundation provides four-year... More Info Terry Foundation Scholarship $1000-$25000, renewable FAFSA required 2.5 GPA required to renew University Nominated Externally selected The Terry Foundation provides four-year scholarships for Texas resident students attending UT Austin and several other universities in the state of Texas. Terry Scholars are selected from a highly competitive applicant pool of incoming freshmen who demonstrate exceptional leadership, character, and scholastic ability. Family income and financial need are also considered. Continuing UT Austin Students are not eligible to apply for the Terry Foundation Scholarship. Full Details Sidney and Pearl Hotchkiss Endowed Scholarship Texas Residents Only? No $500-$1500 FAFSA required Scholarship in support of deserving undergraduate students of any major whose parents are deceased. Preference... More Info Sidney and Pearl Hotchkiss Endowed Scholarship $500-$1500 FAFSA required Scholarship in support of deserving undergraduate students of any major whose parents are deceased. Preference given to qualifying students with the greatest need. Certification Form Scholarships for First Generation Students Texas Residents Only? Yes $500-$5000 Students whose parents either didn't attend college at all or attended some college but did not earn a degree.... More Info Scholarships for First Generation Students $500-$5000 Students whose parents either didn’t attend college at all or attended some college but did not earn a degree. Most require FAFSA. The Office of Financial Aid takes great pride in our stewardship of endowments made specifically for First Generation students: Elizabeth & Gantt Walton Endowed scholarship, Denson Endowed Scholarship for 1st Generation, Anna and Ryan Moss Endowed Scholarship, Mark & Leanne Wilkenfild Reiter Scholarship and Mary and Hugh Raley Scholarship. Sarah Vandong Memorial Scholarship Texas Residents Only? No $500-$1500 FAFSA required The Sarah Vandong Memorial Scholarship funds are to provide support for undergraduate students who are... More Info Sarah Vandong Memorial Scholarship $500-$1500 FAFSA required The Sarah Vandong Memorial Scholarship funds are to provide support for undergraduate students who are bilingual speaking Bisayan, Cantonese Chinese, Korean, Laotian, Mandarin Chinese, Spanish, Tagalog, Taiwanese, Thai and/or Vietnamese. Once qualified students have been identified, final selection shall be based on the following preferences in list order: Students who are studying for a Bachelor of Science in Kinesiology and Health, students who graduated from Klein High School in Houston, Texas, and students with financial need. Certification Form Ronald M. and Marilou D. Brown Endowed Scholarship Texas Residents Only? No $500-$2000 variable FAFSA required One-Year Award Children of current, retired, or deceased full-time faculty or staff members of... More Info Ronald M. and Marilou D. Brown Endowed Scholarship $500-$2000 variable FAFSA required One-Year Award Children of current, retired, or deceased full-time faculty or staff members of The University of Texas at Austin. Five to six one-year scholarships are awarded to full-time undergraduate students who have demonstrated academic success and have clear financial need. Previous recipients may re-apply. Certification Form Presidential Scholars Texas Residents Only? Yes $5000/year renewable FAFSA required Incoming freshmen with excellent academic credentials and high financial need are selected for our... More Info Presidential Scholars $5000/year renewable FAFSA required Incoming freshmen with excellent academic credentials and high financial need are selected for our most prestigious Presidential Scholars program. Students are awarded an annual scholarship as well as additional funding to participate in an enrichment program during their four years at UT Austin. They are also part of a community of scholars, which provides additional networking opportunities for the students. Presidential Scholars are enrolled in all the colleges and schools within UT Austin and may also be members of honors programs and other university organizations and communities. Full Details Opportunity Scholars Endowment Texas Residents Only? No $3000/year Renewable 2.0 GPA required to renew FAFSA required Funds distributed from the endowment shall provide an alternative... More Info Opportunity Scholars Endowment $3000/year Renewable 2.0 GPA required to renew FAFSA required Funds distributed from the endowment shall provide an alternative to loans to finance student expenses. Recipients should not be employed off campus and their free time, if any, should be used to volunteer or work on campus in ways that compliment their studies, or at least not interfere with them. Must maintain satisfactory academic progress and meet requirements for receiving financial aid. Recipients are required to sign a “pay it forward” pledge annually. Oak Grove Cooperative Undergradaute Scholarship Texas Residents Only? Yes $250-$1000 FAFSA required The Oak Grove Cooperative Undergraduate Scholarship was created to provide scholarships to freshman, sophomore or junior level... More Info Oak Grove Cooperative Undergradaute Scholarship $250-$1000 FAFSA required The Oak Grove Cooperative Undergraduate Scholarship was created to provide scholarships to freshman, sophomore or junior level students who are Texas residents and who meet the University’s criteria for demonstrated financial need. Incoming freshmen must have been in the top 25% of their high school class and have lettered in at least one varsity sport in both junior and senior years in high school. Certification Form Need-based Open Criteria Scholarship Portfolio Texas Residents Only? Yes $250-$5000 FAFSA required The Office of Financial aid manages a portfolio of open criteria need based endowments we... More Info Need-based Open Criteria Scholarship Portfolio $250-$5000 FAFSA required The Office of Financial aid manages a portfolio of open criteria need based endowments we use to award students on a first come, first served basis. Awarded amounts vary between $500 and $5000 per school year, are one time non-renewable. Students must continue to demonstrate financial need to remain eligible. Funding is generally limited to Texas residents. The fifteen most common “packaged open criteria” scholarships are: James Hogg Memorial, A.D. Hutchison Endowment Fund, Taylor and Edith Gilbert, Dwight D Book, Student Proporty Deposit, Ralph Read, David Bruton, Albert & Anice Vanderlee, Cullen Trust for Higher Education, Hinds-Webb, Maggie Dee Stell, Ralph Nelson, Walter B Smith, Jr., JP Morgan Chase, Allien and Paul C. Davidson. Mattie B. Randall Scholarship Texas Residents Only? Yes $1,000 FAFSA required Juniors and seniors in good standing who are residents of the Alamo District in South... More Info Mattie B. Randall Scholarship $1,000 FAFSA required Juniors and seniors in good standing who are residents of the Alamo District in South Texas* and receive a favorable recommendation from a woman’s club affiliated with the Texas Federation of Women’s Clubs.*Counties including: Atascosa, Bee, Bandera, Bexar, Calhoun, Caldwell, Comal, Dewitt, Dimmit, Edwards, Goliad, Gonzales, Guadalupe, Karnes, Kinney, La Salle, Live Oak, Mason, Maverick, McAllen, Medina, Real, Refugio, Victoria, Val Verde, Wilson, Uvalde, Zavala. Certification Form M.S. and Meek Lane Doss Scholarship Texas Residents Only? Yes $2000-$4000 FAFSA required Students graduating from high schools in western Texas; anywhere west of a straight line drawn... More Info M.S. and Meek Lane Doss Scholarship $2000-$4000 FAFSA required Students graduating from high schools in western Texas; anywhere west of a straight line drawn between Wichita Falls, Texas and Laredo, Texas or a high school located in Southeastern New Mexico. Applicants must have demonstrated academic success and have clear financial need. Laverne Noyes Foundation Scholarships Texas Residents Only? No $500-$1500 FAFSA required LaVerne Noyes Foundation Scholarships are awarded to a limited number of qualified students registered at... More Info Laverne Noyes Foundation Scholarships $500-$1500 FAFSA required LaVerne Noyes Foundation Scholarships are awarded to a limited number of qualified students registered at The University of Texas at Austin, who are blood descendants of individuals who rendered service in World War I between April 6, 1917, and November 11, 1918 and whose service was terminated by death or honorable discharge. Blood descent does not result in an automatic award. Certification Form Junior Achievement Corp – Eva Stevenson Woods Endowed Presidential Scholarship Texas Residents Only? Yes $2500/year FAFSA required Renewable 3.25 GPA required to renew 24 credit hours per school year Selected by Junior... More Info Junior Achievement Corp – Eva Stevenson Woods Endowed Presidential Scholarship $2500/year FAFSA required Renewable 3.25 GPA required to renew 24 credit hours per school year Selected by Junior Achievement, $10000 over 4 years ($2500/yr x4 year renewable). John L. and Marilyn A. Hern Endowed Scholarship Texas Residents Only? Yes $500-$1,000 FAFSA required The John L. and Marilyn A. Hern Endowed Scholarship is awarded to undergraduates who attended... More Info John L. and Marilyn A. Hern Endowed Scholarship $500-$1,000 FAFSA required The John L. and Marilyn A. Hern Endowed Scholarship is awarded to undergraduates who attended Mendez Middle School in Austin, Texas. Applicants must demonstrate financial need for consideration. Certification Form John B Holmes Scholarship Texas Residents Only? Yes $5000/year FAFSA required Renewable 3.0 GPA required to renew Scholarship for a worthy undergraduate student, to be awarded... More Info John B Holmes Scholarship $5000/year FAFSA required Renewable 3.0 GPA required to renew Scholarship for a worthy undergraduate student, to be awarded to a student upon entering as a freshman. Recipient must have a strong academic record and a clear conduct record, and must also demonstrate a real need for financial assistance. Student must also be a citizen or permanent resident of the US and a resident of the State of Texas. Currently not available. Next class to be selected for the 2020-21 school year. John and Catherine Early Endowed Scholarship Texas Residents Only? No $1000-$2500 FAFSA required Renewable 2.8 GPA required to renew Students who are the spouse, child, grandchild, or great-grandchild... More Info John and Catherine Early Endowed Scholarship $1000-$2500 FAFSA required Renewable 2.8 GPA required to renew Students who are the spouse, child, grandchild, or great-grandchild of a disabled veteran of the United States Armed Services, with a service-connected disability. Consideration is also given to the spouse, child, grandchild, or great-grandchild of an honorably discharged veteran of the United States Armed Services. Applicants must be undergraduate students and maintain a GPA of 2.8. Certification Form John and Katherine Ehrle Endowed Scholarship Texas Residents Only? No $500-$2500 FAFSA required Students exhibiting exceptional achievement in any college or school. Preference is given to students who... More Info John and Katherine Ehrle Endowed Scholarship $500-$2500 FAFSA required Students exhibiting exceptional achievement in any college or school. Preference is given to students who have served in the United States Armed Services, defined as the Navy, Army, Air Force, Marines or Coast Guard. Veterans must have received an honorable discharge. Certification Form Jean Perkins Foundation Veteran Scholarship Texas Residents Only? No Please visit Veteran and Military Affiliated Services for more information about the Jean Perkins Foundation Veteran Scholarship. More Info Jean Perkins Foundation Veteran Scholarship Please visit Veteran and Military Affiliated Services for more information about the Jean Perkins Foundation Veteran Scholarship. Hilmar G. Moore Endowed Scholarship Texas Residents Only? Yes $10000 - up to tuition FAFSA required The Hilmar G. Moore Endowed Scholarship is available to incoming and... More Info Hilmar G. Moore Endowed Scholarship $10000 – up to tuition FAFSA required The Hilmar G. Moore Endowed Scholarship is available to incoming and current UT Austin students who live in Fort Bend County, Texas. The George Foundation and The Henderson-Wessendorff Foundation created the scholarship program in honor of UT Austin graduate and former Richmond, Texas Mayor, Hilmar Moore. To qualify for the scholarship, students must have lived or attended school in Fort Bend County, Texas and be U.S. citizens or permanent residents. Recipients must have a GPA of at least 3.0. Financial need, leadership qualities and community service will also be considered. George L. Clark Scholarship Fund Texas Residents Only? Yes Varies - Maximum $8,000/year (6 available beginning Fall 2020) FAFSA required Renewable 3.25 GPA required to renew Texas... More Info George L. Clark Scholarship Fund Varies – Maximum $8,000/year (6 available beginning Fall 2020) FAFSA required Renewable 3.25 GPA required to renew Texas residents with strong academic record, leadership qualities, and community service who are usually from the top 10% of their high school graduating class. Awards may also be made to students already enrolled in The University and may be continued for graduate and professional studies. Special consideration is given to the following persons and their dependents: employees, retired employees, and directors of MCorp and its affiliates, or any successor corporations. Certification Form Gates Millennium Scholars Texas Residents Only? No Up to unmet need Selected by GMS - operated by United Negro College Fund (UNCF) FAFSA required The... More Info Gates Millennium Scholars Up to unmet need Selected by GMS – operated by United Negro College Fund (UNCF) FAFSA required The Gates Millennium Scholars (GMS) Program, funded by a grant from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, was established in 1999 to provide outstanding African American, American Indian/Alaska Native, Asian Pacific Islander American, and Hispanic American students with an opportunity to complete an undergraduate college education in any discipline area of interest. Continuing Gates Millennium Scholars may request funding for a graduate degree program in one of the following discipline areas: computer science, education, engineering, library science, mathematics, public health or science. Full Details DeWitt T. Ray, Sr. Endowed Scholarship Texas Residents Only? Yes $3000 per year, up to tuition 2.5 GPA required to renew Current UT students with at least 24 UT... More Info DeWitt T. Ray, Sr. Endowed Scholarship $3000 per year, up to tuition 2.5 GPA required to renew Current UT students with at least 24 UT credit hours at the time of selection Transfer student with 15-90 transfer hours at the time of selection FAFSA required Merit based for Texas residents, minimum award $3,000 per year or up to tuition. Current UT students minimum 3.0 cum GPA on at least 24 UT hours at the time of selection. Transfer students 15 – 90 transfer hours 3.0 GPA at the time of selection. Renewable up to four years (or first baccalaureate degree) on a 2.5 UT cumulative GPA. Christopher Benton Chadwick Memorial Scholarship in Liberal Arts Texas Residents Only? No $6000/year (renewable) FAFSA required Renewable 2.5 GPA required to renew Renewable scholarship for students in the College of... More Info Christopher Benton Chadwick Memorial Scholarship in Liberal Arts $6000/year (renewable) FAFSA required Renewable 2.5 GPA required to renew Renewable scholarship for students in the College of Liberal Arts who demonstrate financial need and who maintain a 2.5 GPA, with preference given to students majoring in Government. The scholarship will continue to be awarded even if the recipient changes majors and transfers to another College within UT Austin. Carole L. Patterson Endowed Scholarship Texas Residents Only? No $250-$2500 FAFSA required 2.5 GPA required to renew The Carole L. Patterson Endowed Scholarship is awarded to a... More Info Carole L. Patterson Endowed Scholarship $250-$2500 FAFSA required 2.5 GPA required to renew The Carole L. Patterson Endowed Scholarship is awarded to a limited number of qualified students registered at The University of Texas at Austin. This scholarship is intended for physically disabled students enrolled in at least six hours at UT Austin, with preference given to mobility impaired students. Applicants must have at least a minimum 2.5 UT GPA. Financial need may be used to distinguish among applicants. Certification Form C.R. Smith Endowed Scholarship Texas Residents Only? No $10000-$12000/year up to tuition 2.5 GPA required to renew FAFSA required Scholarships for undergraduate students of exceptionally high... More Info C.R. Smith Endowed Scholarship $10000-$12000/year up to tuition 2.5 GPA required to renew FAFSA required Scholarships for undergraduate students of exceptionally high academic merit. Scholarship is awarded up to a full tuition and fee scholarship and renewable for up to five years of undergraduate enrollment. Ben H. Stough, Jr. Endowed Scholarship Texas Residents Only? No up to $2500 FAFSA required The Ben H. Stough, Jr. Endowed Scholarship is awarded to academically superior students... More Info Ben H. Stough, Jr. Endowed Scholarship up to $2500 FAFSA required The Ben H. Stough, Jr. Endowed Scholarship is awarded to academically superior students with financial need. Special consideration will be given to Navy R.O.T.C. students. Albert and Jessie Cudlipp Scholarship Texas Residents Only? Yes $5000 - cost of attendance FAFSA required Renewable 2.0 GPA required to renew Need and Merit based scholarship... More Info Albert and Jessie Cudlipp Scholarship $5000 – cost of attendance FAFSA required Renewable 2.0 GPA required to renew Need and Merit based scholarship up to full Cost of Attendance. Preference for residents of Angelina County, Texas. Most offers are made up to Cost of Attendance less entitlements (Federal Pell Grant), renews on basic 2.0 SAP/Full time enrolled and FAFSA. E.R. and Patti C. Breaker Scholarship Texas Residents Only? No $5000 - up to tuition/year FAFSA required Renewable 2.0 GPA required to renew Merit-based scholarship which can be... More Info E.R. and Patti C. Breaker Scholarship $5000 – up to tuition/year FAFSA required Renewable 2.0 GPA required to renew Merit-based scholarship which can be awarded on a non-need basis. Amounts vary, but not to exceed the tuition and required fees charged by the University. Alec Beck Endowed Scholarship Texas Residents Only? No $6000/year (renewable) FAFSA required Renewable Deserving students attending UT Austin with first preference for students whose parent or... More Info Alec Beck Endowed Scholarship $6000/year (renewable) FAFSA required Renewable Deserving students attending UT Austin with first preference for students whose parent or stepparent is, or has been, incarcerated in or on parole from The Texas Department of Criminal Justice. Consideration is also given to students who have a parent or stepparent incarcerated in or on parole from any incarceration facility or system. Certification Form Floy Agnew Scholarship Texas Residents Only? No $2500-$3000/year (renewable) FAFSA required Renewable 2.0 GPA required to renew Deserving freshmen or college transfer students. Scholarship renewable... More Info Floy Agnew Scholarship $2500-$3000/year (renewable) FAFSA required Renewable 2.0 GPA required to renew Deserving freshmen or college transfer students. Scholarship renewable for all years of undergraduate study, if the student maintains a satisfactory behavior, remains of good moral character and maintains a satisfactory passing grade average so long as the student needs financial assistance. Back To Top Still Need Help? We’re here for you. Visit Hours of Operation Monday–Friday 8:30 a.m.– 4:30 p.m. Visit Texas One Stop › MAI 1 (Ground Floor of UT Tower) 110 Inner Campus Dr. Austin, TX 78712 – To submit paper documents (such as appeals or applications), please scan a PDF of your document and email directly to Texas One Stop at onestop@utexas.edu. Call (512) 232-6988 (myUT) Hours of operation for phone calls are 8:30 a.m.- 5:00 p.m. Call volumes may be higher during peak times. Call Us Email onestop@utexas.edu 2 business day response time email FEEDBACK feedback survey Contact My UT CASH Code of Conduct Policies Emergency Information FAFSA #003658 SMS Terms and Conditions Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Consumer Information Disclosures Further Information and Disclosures utexas.edu