Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. One Stop Student Service Center One Stop right arrow down arrow Information for... right arrow down arrow Parents right arrow down arrow Parent Checklist Transfer Students right arrow down arrow Transfer Student Checklist Alumni New Students right arrow down arrow New Student Checklist Information for Admitted Students Graduate Students right arrow down arrow Graduate Student Checklist Continuing Students UC Blue Ash Students right arrow down arrow Request Permission to Add UC Blue Ash Courses UC Blue Ash Student Requesting Permission to Withdraw Past Deadline UC Clermont Students Transition Students Financial Aid right arrow down arrow Financial Aid Verification Requirements Scholarships Apply for Aid Student and Parent Loans right arrow down arrow Parent PLUS Loans Accept Financial Aid Awards Financial Aid Eligibility Requirements Billing & Payment right arrow down arrow Refunds Payment Plans Tuition & Fees Paying Your Bill Parent Information Registration & Records right arrow down arrow Personal Information University Calendars Delegated Access right arrow down arrow Create Parent or Guest Identity Verify Enrollment or Degree Class Registration right arrow down arrow Find Your Enrollment Times Overload Registration & Charges Search Class Offerings Order Transcripts Student Money Management right arrow down arrow 15 to Finish Avoid Overborrowing Student Loans Budgeting Understanding Credit Reports and Scores Identity Theft Loan Repayment Covering Remaining Costs Resources Savings and Banking Student Jobs Understanding Credit Cards Money Management Workshop Request Other Helpful Resources right arrow down arrow Catalyst Self-Help Guide Meet the Team One Stop » Registration & Records » Delegated Access Set Navigation title in component Delegated Access Create Parent or Guest Identity Personal Information University Calendars Verify Enrollment or Degree Class Registration Find Your Enrollment Times Overload Registration & Charges Search Class Offerings Order Transcripts Delegated Access Sharing access to your student account information is easy with Catalyst. Students can give a parent or other guest access to the services below. Your parent/guest will receive their own Catalyst username and password to view your information. Please note: Incoming students are able to delegate access to their account a few weeks prior to attending new student orientation. Delegated Access Options View Financial Aid Awards View 1098T View Account Activity View Account Summary View Bill View Charges Due/Make a Payment View Grades View Holds View Payment History View Pending Financial Aid View Schedule View To Dos Billing Email Communications Student Steps Initiate the process by logging into Catalyst. Select the Quick Links & Helpful Contacts tile and choose Give Parent/Guest Access. Select Delegate Access to a New Contact. Review and accept the Terms & Conditions, then enter your parent or guest's information and select what services they will have access to. You can choose some or all of the options listed above, and these services can be edited, deleted, or revoked at any time. Parent/Guest Steps Once the student steps have been completed, you are granted FERPA rights to speak with One Stop staff regarding your student's account. You must complete the parent steps if you wish to have your own Catalyst account for access to your student's information. Please complete the steps using the Catalyst preferred browsers (Google Chrome or Apple Safari). Please allow up to 1-2 business days for processing. Once your portion has been processed, you will receive an email confirmation with your UC credentials (username and password). Please note: For security purposes, it is recommended to completely close out of your browser. Check your email for a communication from donotreply@uc.edu. If you are new to UC, choose the first link (1A) under "Sign-in Instructions" to create an identity in Catalyst. Once you have submitted your information, you will receive your login credentials in 1-2 business days. If you already have UC login credentials, select the second link (1B) and log into Catalyst. There is no need to create an identity. Once you receive your credentials, return to your original delegated access email and select the second link (1B) to log in. Complete the Terms and Conditions page using the security key from your original email and the email address associated with your account. Enter the email address exactly as it appears in the original delegated access communication. One Stop Student Service Center PO Box 210101 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-1000 onestop@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati One Stop Student Service Center PO Box 210101 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-1000 onestop@uc.edu © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top