Skip to main navigation Skip to content Protect Texas. Stay Informed. Covid-19 Updates University of Texas at Austin University of Texas at Austin logo Forms About Us Contact Student FAQs MyUT Academic Calendar CASH FAFSA Registration and Degree Planning Everything you need to plan and register for classes. Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Everything you need to know about costs, bills and financial aid. Cost & Tuition Rates Paying Your Tuition Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits Student Records Your grades, degree, transcripts and all your personal information. Transcripts & Other Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning MENUMENU Texas OneStop Registration and Degree Planning Undergraduate Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes Add/Drop a Course Late Registration Clearing Bars Registration Times Taking a Course Pass/Fail University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Student Records Transcripts & Other Records Official Transcripts Enrollment Certifications Unofficial Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning Contact CASH MyUT Academic Calendar FAFSA Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Managing Costs Cost & Tuition Rates Learn More About Tuition Tuition Set-Aside Information Senate Bill 1304, passed by the 81st Texas Legislature, directs institutions of higher education to provide notices to students (Texas Education Code, Section 56.014) who pay designated tuition of the amount of the tuition that is set aside for financial assistance. Therefore, the University of Texas at Austin is required by law (Texas Education Code, Sections 56.011, and 56.012) to set aside a percentage of designated tuition for financial assistance programs. Notifications are sent to students each semester they are enrolled via e-mail after the 20th class day for Fall and Spring terms and after the 15th class day of the final summer term. The set aside does not affect financial aid awards nor does it guarantee that you will personally receive financial assistance. Financial assistance eligibility is determined by the information provided on the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) form. Examples of the Financial Assistance Programs funded from tuition set asides are: 1. Grants 2. Scholarships 3. Work-Study Programs Frequently Asked Questions What is tuition set-aside? Tuition set aside is a portion of the designated tuition paid by resident students (those classified as citizens of the State of Texas), “set aside” and dedicated to provide need-based financial aid to students. Why are these funds being set aside? The university is required by law to set aside a portion of designated tuition charged to a resident student. See Texas Education Code Sections 56.011 and 56.012. How much of my tuition is set aside? Fifteen percent (15%) of resident designated tuition defined as tuition in excess of $46 per credit hour, statutory tuition, and fees. Due to this and the University’s flat rate tuition structure, a student’s designated tuition amount, to which the 15% applies, can vary by school and number of semester credit hours taken. See Texas Education Code Sections 54.0513. Am I being charged extra? No, by state law, the University is required to put a portion of the designated tuition that state residents pay into a fund to support financial aid to students. No additional amount is assessed to compensate for this set aside. How is this money used? Will I benefit from it? Financial assistance provided by funds set aside includes grants, scholarships, and work-study programs. To be eligible for assistance, a student must establish financial need in accordance with rules and procedures established by the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board. In order to be considered for need based aid, the student must complete a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). See the steps on how to apply/receive Financial Aid. Will this impact my financial aid? No, tuition set aside does not affect your aid nor does it guarantee that you will receive financial aid. Aid will be determined on a case-by-case basis and is based on your FAFSA and aid eligibility as determined by the Financial Aid Office. What if I don’t want my money to be used this way? Unfortunately, The University of Texas at Austin does not have the ability to change the requirements of the state law. You may direct further questions and concerns to the Texas Legislature. Still Need Help? We’re here for you. Visit Hours of Operation Monday–Friday 8:30 a.m.– 4:30 p.m. Visit Texas One Stop › MAI 1 (Ground Floor of UT Tower) 110 Inner Campus Dr. Austin, TX 78712 – To submit paper documents (such as appeals or applications), please scan a PDF of your document and email directly to Texas One Stop at onestop@utexas.edu. Call (512) 232-6988 (myUT) Hours of operation for phone calls are 8:30 a.m.- 5:00 p.m. Call volumes may be higher during peak times. Call Us Email onestop@utexas.edu 2 business day response time email FEEDBACK feedback survey Contact My UT CASH Code of Conduct Policies Emergency Information FAFSA #003658 SMS Terms and Conditions Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Consumer Information Disclosures Further Information and Disclosures utexas.edu