Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. One Stop Student Service Center One Stop right arrow down arrow Information for... right arrow down arrow Parents right arrow down arrow Parent Checklist Transfer Students right arrow down arrow Transfer Student Checklist Alumni New Students right arrow down arrow New Student Checklist Information for Admitted Students Graduate Students right arrow down arrow Graduate Student Checklist Continuing Students UC Blue Ash Students right arrow down arrow Request Permission to Add UC Blue Ash Courses UC Blue Ash Student Requesting Permission to Withdraw Past Deadline UC Clermont Students Transition Students Financial Aid right arrow down arrow Financial Aid Verification Requirements Scholarships Apply for Aid Student and Parent Loans right arrow down arrow Parent PLUS Loans Accept Financial Aid Awards Financial Aid Eligibility Requirements Billing & Payment right arrow down arrow Refunds Payment Plans Tuition & Fees Paying Your Bill Parent Information Registration & Records right arrow down arrow Personal Information University Calendars Delegated Access right arrow down arrow Create Parent or Guest Identity Verify Enrollment or Degree Class Registration right arrow down arrow Find Your Enrollment Times Overload Registration & Charges Search Class Offerings Order Transcripts Student Money Management right arrow down arrow 15 to Finish Avoid Overborrowing Student Loans Budgeting Understanding Credit Reports and Scores Identity Theft Loan Repayment Covering Remaining Costs Resources Savings and Banking Student Jobs Understanding Credit Cards Money Management Workshop Request Other Helpful Resources right arrow down arrow Catalyst Self-Help Guide Meet the Team One Stop » Registration & Records » Class Registration » Find Your Enrollment Times Set Navigation title in component Class Registration Find Your Enrollment Times Overload Registration & Charges Personal Information University Calendars Delegated Access Create Parent or Guest Identity Verify Enrollment or Degree Search Class Offerings Order Transcripts Find Your Enrollment Times Early enrollment (registration) information can be found in Catalyst. Students who have registered for University of Cincinnati classes within the last three (3) semesters will be granted an Early Registration Appointment. Your enrollment appointment is the date and time you have been assigned to start registering for the upcoming term(s). To view your assigned enrollment times, follow the steps below: Log in to Catalyst Click the My Academics tile Select the Classes and Schedule option Click View Assigned Enrollment Time to learn your specific date and time to register Enrollment Tips: You will see your shopping cart appointment for each term session. This reflects the date and time you can begin adding classes to your shopping cart. Your shopping cart will help you register quickly when it is time to enroll in classes. For tips on using your shopping cart, watch this Enrollment Shopping Cart video. You will see your assigned enrollment appointment date and time for each term session, along with the maximum number of credit hours you can enroll in. This is the date and time you can begin registering for classes. The end date indicated is not the final date you can register, but indicates the end of the early registration period when enrollment is open to all students. If you wish to enroll in more than the indicated number of credit hours, contact your academic advisor. Keep in mind that credit hours over 18 will be assessed a per credit hour tuition rate on top of the full-time rate for your semester, other than some exceptions. If one or both of these appointments are not displayed, it means you have not yet been assigned an appointment time for the term. Contact One Stop for more information. One Stop Student Service Center PO Box 210101 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-1000 onestop@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati One Stop Student Service Center PO Box 210101 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-1000 onestop@uc.edu © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top