Skip to main navigation Skip to content Protect Texas. Stay Informed. Covid-19 Updates University of Texas at Austin University of Texas at Austin logo Forms About Us Contact Student FAQs MyUT Academic Calendar CASH FAFSA Registration and Degree Planning Everything you need to plan and register for classes. Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Everything you need to know about costs, bills and financial aid. Cost & Tuition Rates Paying Your Tuition Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits Student Records Your grades, degree, transcripts and all your personal information. Transcripts & Other Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning MENUMENU Texas OneStop Registration and Degree Planning Undergraduate Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes Add/Drop a Course Late Registration Clearing Bars Registration Times Taking a Course Pass/Fail University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Student Records Transcripts & Other Records Official Transcripts Enrollment Certifications Unofficial Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning Contact CASH MyUT Academic Calendar FAFSA Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Managing Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Managing Aid Maintaining Eligibility To remain eligible for federal, state and some institutional financial aid, students must comply with UT’s standards for Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP). All undergraduate students will be evaluated for SAP at the end of each semester. Please note that graduate students will be evaluated annually at the end of the spring semester. Graduate students must follow the same requirements as undergraduate students, unless listed below. Minimum GPA2.0 Undergraduate students must maintain a cumulative GPA of at least 2.0. Note: Graduate or professional students must have a cumulative GPA of at least 3.0 or the minimum GPA standard as defined by your degree program. Minimum Pace75% All students, undergraduate and graduate, must successfully complete at least 75% of the credit hours they attempt. Maximum Timeframe134% Students may attempt no more than 134% of the credit hours required by their degree program. Note: Law students must meet the minimum standards as set forth by the UT School of Law’s Financial Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy. Failure to Meet SAP Requirements Financial Aid Warning An undergraduate student who does not meet SAP requirements will be placed on Financial Aid Warning, which allows the student to receive financial aid for one additional semester. The student will be monitored for SAP again at the end of the warning period. Financial Aid Suspension An undergraduate student who fails to meet SAP requirements after receiving a Financial Aid Warning, or a graduate student who does not meet SAP requirements during the annual review, is placed on Financial Aid Suspension and is not eligible to receive financial aid without regaining eligibility by meeting all SAP evaluated measures or a successful appeal. Choosing to take a semester off without enrollment or paying for coursework without financial aid will not be enough to regain financial aid eligibility. Should the student not wish to appeal, the student must meet SAP requirements before aid eligibility can be re-established. An appeal process is available for students who have experienced a personal injury or illness, death of a relative or other circumstances that affect the ability to meet SAP. Appealing Suspension A student who wishes to appeal must submit the Appeal of Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) form, which also requires attaching a personal statement and supporting documents. SAP Appeal Criteria: Personal injury or illness Death of a relative Other extenuating circumstances out of the student’s control. Personal statement should address: What happened? What has changed? What are the student’s success strategies and how will this ensure success? If the student’s appeal is approved, financial aid will be released for a probationary semester. The student may also have to sign a financial aid academic plan. At the end of the probationary semester, SAP will be monitored again to ensure that the student is meeting SAP or the conditions of the financial aid academic plan. If the student’s appeal is denied, the student will be ineligible for financial aid until the student meets the SAP requirements. The deadlines for students to submit an appeal are as follows: Summer 2022: June 10, 2022 Fall 2022: September 6, 2022 Spring 2023: January 23, 2023 Back To Top Still Need Help? We’re here for you. Visit Hours of Operation Monday–Friday 8:30 a.m.– 4:30 p.m. Visit Texas One Stop › MAI 1 (Ground Floor of UT Tower) 110 Inner Campus Dr. Austin, TX 78712 – To submit paper documents (such as appeals or applications), please scan a PDF of your document and email directly to Texas One Stop at onestop@utexas.edu. Call (512) 232-6988 (myUT) Hours of operation for phone calls are 8:30 a.m.- 5:00 p.m. Call volumes may be higher during peak times. Call Us Email onestop@utexas.edu 2 business day response time email FEEDBACK feedback survey Contact My UT CASH Code of Conduct Policies Emergency Information FAFSA #003658 SMS Terms and Conditions Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Consumer Information Disclosures Further Information and Disclosures utexas.edu