Skip to main navigation Skip to content Protect Texas. Stay Informed. Covid-19 Updates University of Texas at Austin University of Texas at Austin logo Forms About Us Contact Student FAQs MyUT Academic Calendar CASH FAFSA Registration and Degree Planning Everything you need to plan and register for classes. Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Everything you need to know about costs, bills and financial aid. Cost & Tuition Rates Paying Your Tuition Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits Student Records Your grades, degree, transcripts and all your personal information. Transcripts & Other Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning MENUMENU Texas OneStop Registration and Degree Planning Undergraduate Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes Add/Drop a Course Late Registration Clearing Bars Registration Times Taking a Course Pass/Fail University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Student Records Transcripts & Other Records Official Transcripts Enrollment Certifications Unofficial Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning Contact CASH MyUT Academic Calendar FAFSA Undergraduate Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes Add/Drop a Course Late Registration Clearing Bars Registration Times Taking a Course Pass/Fail University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Registration and Degree Planning Withdraw from the University If you need to withdraw from the university and cancel your classes for a semester or more, consult the General Information Catalog for policies and procedures on how to withdraw. Withdrawal Refunds Withdraw, Cancel Registration, or Take a Break (Undergraduate Students) Before Registration If you do not plan to return the next semester, you do not need to register for courses. It’s always recommended to share your plans with your academic advisor. Before/After Tuition Bills are Distributed Drop all your courses during a registration period or cancel your registration online by following the directions on Cancel My Registration. If you have made a payment on your tuition bill, then a refund will be sent to you. Please contact Texas One Stop for more information. Before the First Day of Classes Visit your college’s advising office to start the cancellation process to withdraw from classes. If you receive financial aid, please consult with Texas One Stop before submitting your cancellation request. Before the Mid-Semester Deadline You must meet with your academic advisor if you want to withdraw from the university for any reason after classes begin but before the mid-semester deadline (or before the last class day of your summer session). If you do this before the 20th class day (7th class day in the summer), you will be refunded a portion of your tuition. If you receive financial aid, talk with a counselor at the Texas One Stop. If you are an international student, you must take your withdrawal form to Texas Global for approval. If you are on scholastic probation and withdraw from the university after the first four weeks of classes, you may be subject to academic dismissal. After the Mid-Semester Deadline You must meet with your academic advisor to discuss the two options for a withdrawal at this point in the semester. The first option is to use your One Time Exception to withdraw if you have not already done so. Otherwise, you must have an urgent and substantiated nonacademic reason for wanting to withdraw. To begin the withdrawal process, you will need to meet with your academic advisor. International Students You will need to take the cancellation form to the Texas Global for approval. Please contact Texas Global directly for more information. Returning After Withdrawal If you withdraw after a semester has begun, you can return to the university the next semester and do not need to apply for readmission. If you withdraw before a semester begins or plan to return to the university after the next semester, you will need to follow the directions for returning students. For more details about withdrawal policies and procedures, see the General Information Catalog. Withdrawal for Graduate Students A graduate student in good standing may withdraw with the approval of the graduate dean through the last class day of the semester. A graduate student who is in warning status may not withdraw without the recommendation of the graduate advisor and the approval of the graduate dean. Learn more about withdrawing for graduate students. Returning After an Absence If you have been away for at least one fall or spring semester, contact the Office of Admissions to apply for readmission. After you have been readmitted, you may register during specific registration access periods. If you are an undergraduate student, see Readmission for Former Students in the General Information Catalog for more information regarding readmission of former students. If you are a graduate student, see Graduate Readmission for more information. Back To Top Still Need Help? We’re here for you. Visit Hours of Operation Monday–Friday 8:30 a.m.– 4:30 p.m. Visit Texas One Stop › MAI 1 (Ground Floor of UT Tower) 110 Inner Campus Dr. Austin, TX 78712 – To submit paper documents (such as appeals or applications), please scan a PDF of your document and email directly to Texas One Stop at onestop@utexas.edu. Call (512) 232-6988 (myUT) Hours of operation for phone calls are 8:30 a.m.- 5:00 p.m. Call volumes may be higher during peak times. Call Us Email onestop@utexas.edu 2 business day response time email FEEDBACK feedback survey Contact My UT CASH Code of Conduct Policies Emergency Information FAFSA #003658 SMS Terms and Conditions Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Consumer Information Disclosures Further Information and Disclosures utexas.edu