Skip to main navigation Skip to content Protect Texas. Stay Informed. Covid-19 Updates University of Texas at Austin University of Texas at Austin logo Forms About Us Contact Student FAQs MyUT Academic Calendar CASH FAFSA Registration and Degree Planning Everything you need to plan and register for classes. Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Everything you need to know about costs, bills and financial aid. Cost & Tuition Rates Paying Your Tuition Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits Student Records Your grades, degree, transcripts and all your personal information. Transcripts & Other Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning MENUMENU Texas OneStop Registration and Degree Planning Undergraduate Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes Add/Drop a Course Late Registration Clearing Bars Registration Times Taking a Course Pass/Fail University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Student Records Transcripts & Other Records Official Transcripts Enrollment Certifications Unofficial Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning Contact CASH MyUT Academic Calendar FAFSA Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Managing Costs Veteran Education Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Eligibility for the Hazlewood Exemption, a state benefit, is determined by the institution granting the exemption. Students who qualify are exempt from paying tuition and required fees on state-funded courses. The Hazlewood Exemption does not cover late registration fees, affiliated studies, University Extension, executive education (option III) graduate programs, or like programs/courses. Applying for Hazlewood Benefits Applicants must have previously used Hazlewood at UT Austin, or have been admitted for the summer 2022, fall 2022, or spring 2023 semester and paid your enrollment deposit. To apply for the Hazlewood Exemption visit the Hazlewood Application and Status webpage. Applicants must: be in a degree-seeking program, be enrolled in state-funded courses, meet Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) as determined by the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid (even if you did not apply for financial aid), and comply with Texas Education Code §54.2001 as determined by the Student Accounts Receivable (SAR) office. The application deadline, this includes all supporting documents, is 5:00 p.m. of the last class day, as published in the academic calendar, for the semester being requested. Semester deadlines are provided below. We recommend you complete and submit your application by the census date. Allow at least 15 business days, from the date your application is submitted, for Veteran Certification to process your exemption. Current Hazlewood Application Deadlines Semester Deadline Summer 2022 August 12, 2022 Fall 2022 December 5, 2022 Spring 2023 April 24, 2023 Deadline Summer 2022 August 12, 2022 Fall 2022 December 5, 2022 Spring 2023 April 24, 2023 Veteran Certification performs the initial review, but Student Accounts Receivable (SAR) has the final approval. If SAR notifies you that you do not qualify, direct your questions to SAR. Applying Hazlewood to My Tuition Bill After your application is processed Student Accounts Receivable (SAR) will post it to My Tuition Bill. We recommend you apply at least four weeks before the tuition deadline to give us the opportunity to process the exemption before your tuition is due. You must pay your tuition by the tuition deadline shown on My Tuition Bill. This is not the same as the Hazlewood deadline. Even if your bill shows a zero balance ($0) you have to follow the prompts on My Tuition Bill to complete your registration. Your tuition bill must say “Your registration is complete and your courses are secured.” If you do not take this step, your courses will be cancelled and you will have to register again. If the exemption is not posted by the tuition deadline, be prepared to make other arrangements for payment. Using Hazlewood and GI Bill® Benefits If you are using the Hazlewood Exemption and VA Education Benefits concurrently (“stacking” benefits), you must complete the GI Bill® Questionnaire and Hazlewood Application by the Hazlewood deadline. When using both the Post-9/11 GI Bill® and Hazlewood, you are required to use your VA benefits first. Any remaining tuition balance eligible for the Hazlewood Exemption will be applied toward your tuition bill, after your Post-9/11 GI Bill® benefit is applied. Contact us Veteran Certification, Main Building (MAI) Room 1 hazlewood@austin.utexas.edu 512-475-7540 The University of Texas at Austin Office of the Registrar, Veteran Certification PO Box 7216, Austin TX 78713-7216 Still Need Help? We’re here for you. Visit Hours of Operation Monday–Friday 8:30 a.m.– 4:30 p.m. Visit Texas One Stop › MAI 1 (Ground Floor of UT Tower) 110 Inner Campus Dr. Austin, TX 78712 – To submit paper documents (such as appeals or applications), please scan a PDF of your document and email directly to Texas One Stop at onestop@utexas.edu. Call (512) 232-6988 (myUT) Hours of operation for phone calls are 8:30 a.m.- 5:00 p.m. Call volumes may be higher during peak times. Call Us Email onestop@utexas.edu 2 business day response time email FEEDBACK feedback survey Contact My UT CASH Code of Conduct Policies Emergency Information FAFSA #003658 SMS Terms and Conditions Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Consumer Information Disclosures Further Information and Disclosures utexas.edu