Skip to main navigation Skip to content Protect Texas. Stay Informed. Covid-19 Updates University of Texas at Austin University of Texas at Austin logo Forms About Us Contact Student FAQs MyUT Academic Calendar CASH FAFSA Registration and Degree Planning Everything you need to plan and register for classes. Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Everything you need to know about costs, bills and financial aid. Cost & Tuition Rates Paying Your Tuition Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits Student Records Your grades, degree, transcripts and all your personal information. Transcripts & Other Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning MENUMENU Texas OneStop Registration and Degree Planning Undergraduate Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes Add/Drop a Course Late Registration Clearing Bars Registration Times Taking a Course Pass/Fail University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Student Records Transcripts & Other Records Official Transcripts Enrollment Certifications Unofficial Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning Contact CASH MyUT Academic Calendar FAFSA Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Managing Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals If changes in your or your family’s lives have impacted you financially, you may be eligible to submit a special circumstance appeal. On exception, The Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid will review and consider changes to a student’s available aid based on the information provided. How to File an Appeal File Your FAFSA If you have not done so already, file your FAFSA. Complete Appeal Form Determine if you qualify for one of the below types of financial aid appeals. Then, select and complete the appropriate appeal form from the Texas One Stop Forms page. Submit Documents Make sure that you submit any requested documents on the form. Failure to submit will result in the form being rejected, or in a delay in processing. Get Assistance Contact Texas One Stop if you have questions, or need assistance determining if you qualify for an appeal. Types of Appeals Reduction in income appeal If your family has experienced one or more of the following situations, you may qualify for an adjustment to the information on your FAFSA. Making these types of adjustments may result in increased financial aid eligibility. Loss or reduction of income which may include, but not limited to furlough, unemployment, disability, or retirement Termination of benefits received or income such as child support, alimony, social security benefits Divorce or separation that occurred after the FAFSA was filed Death of a parent or spouse that occurred after the FAFSA was filed Reduction in Income Appeal Form Please note, if your Expected Family Contribution (EFC) on your FAFSA currently shows $0, you have already been offered the maximum amount of financial aid available at The University of Texas. You should contact Texas Financial Wellness for a one-on-one appointment to see if any additional resources may be available. Additional expenses appeal If your family has experienced one or more of the following situations, you may qualify for an adjustment to the information on your FAFSA. Making these types of adjustments may result in increased financial aid eligibility. Exceptional medical and/or dental expenses incurred, not paid by insurance Expenses related to the student’s disability (e.g., specialized equipment, materials or services necessary to be successful in school) Childcare expenses paid Additional Expenses Appeal Form Please note, if your Expected Family Contribution (EFC) on your FAFSA currently shows $0, you have already been offered the maximum amount of financial aid available at The University of Texas. You should contact Texas Financial Wellness for a one-on-one appointment to see if any additional resources may be available. Cost of attendance appeals The University of Texas establishes a Cost of Attendance (COA) each academic year, which includes the average amounts for standard educational expenses incurred by UT students during the academic year. Students may experience unforeseen expenses during an academic year that are not accounted for in the typical estimated cost of attendance. Families can request an increase in their COA for one of the following reasons: Additional course-related expenses One-time purchase of computer Technology needed for coursework Childcare expenses Medical/dental expenses not covered by insurance Automobile expenses (repair, insurance, maintenance) Housing costs above the estimated average in the COA Cost of Attendance Appeal Form Dependency override appeal Federal student aid programs are based on the concept that it is primarily your and your family’s responsibility to pay for your education. Dependent students are required to report parental information on the FAFSA; however, some student situations will require extra discretion in determining their ability to provide this information. Our office provides the opportunity for students to appeal their FAFSA Dependency Status by submitting documentation of their situation. Students can request a Dependency Override for unusual circumstances that includes, but is not limited to the following: The student is unable to locate their parents Abandonment by parents An abusive family environment that threatens the student’s health or safety (physical abuse, emotional abuse, sexual abuse, sexual orientation) Dependency Override Appeal Form Please contact Texas One Stop if you have questions about revising your financial aid or which appeal form best fits your personal situation. Still Need Help? We’re here for you. Visit Hours of Operation Monday–Friday 8:30 a.m.– 4:30 p.m. Visit Texas One Stop › MAI 1 (Ground Floor of UT Tower) 110 Inner Campus Dr. Austin, TX 78712 – To submit paper documents (such as appeals or applications), please scan a PDF of your document and email directly to Texas One Stop at onestop@utexas.edu. Call (512) 232-6988 (myUT) Hours of operation for phone calls are 8:30 a.m.- 5:00 p.m. Call volumes may be higher during peak times. Call Us Email onestop@utexas.edu 2 business day response time email FEEDBACK feedback survey Contact My UT CASH Code of Conduct Policies Emergency Information FAFSA #003658 SMS Terms and Conditions Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Consumer Information Disclosures Further Information and Disclosures utexas.edu