Skip to main navigation Skip to content Protect Texas. Stay Informed. Covid-19 Updates University of Texas at Austin University of Texas at Austin logo Forms About Us Contact Student FAQs MyUT Academic Calendar CASH FAFSA Registration and Degree Planning Everything you need to plan and register for classes. Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Everything you need to know about costs, bills and financial aid. Cost & Tuition Rates Paying Your Tuition Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits Student Records Your grades, degree, transcripts and all your personal information. Transcripts & Other Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning MENUMENU Texas OneStop Registration and Degree Planning Undergraduate Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes Add/Drop a Course Late Registration Clearing Bars Registration Times Taking a Course Pass/Fail University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Student Records Transcripts & Other Records Official Transcripts Enrollment Certifications Unofficial Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning Contact CASH MyUT Academic Calendar FAFSA Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Managing Costs Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines To complete the registration process, you must make a tuition payment, pay with financial aid or confirm your attendance if your tuition amount is zero. You must clear all bars to register. For your exact registration access times, view your Registration Information Sheet. Your final step before each payment deadline is to visit My Tuition Bill and verify that your registration is complete and that your classes are secure. If you do not pay your tuition bill or confirm your attendance by your deadline, you will be dropped from your classes. Summer 2022 Undergraduate If you registered on or before May 25, 2022 You must confirm attendance by Wednesday, May 25 by 5:00 p.m. CST Your options for confirming your attendance at My Tuition Bill are: Pay the minimum amount due: $1,500 for in-state residents $5,000 for out-of-state residents Pay your bill in full, or make a partial payment that is over the minimum due Pay with available aid If you registered on or after June 2, 2022 You must confirm attendance by Tuesday, June 7 by 5:00 p.m. CST Your options for confirming your attendance at My Tuition Bill are: Pay the minimum amount due: $1,500 for in-state residents $5,000 for out-of-state residents Pay your bill in full, or make a partial payment that is over the minimum due Pay with available aid 2nd Tuition Payment Deadline Tuesday, June 7 by 5:00 p.m. CST (4th class day) Your options at My Tuition Bill are: Pay your remaining tuition bill in full If you choose to not pay your remaining tuition bill in full now then you will automatically be put on installment plan and incur a $15 fee. Final payment is due July 14. Tuition Bill Changes Tuesday, June 7 is also the payment due date for any additional courses or changes to your record that created an additional bill for Summer 2022. Your options at My Tuition Bill are: Pay your remaining tuition bill in full If you choose to not pay your remaining tuition bill in full now then you will automatically be put on installment plan and incur a $15 fee. Final payment is due July 14. 3rd and Final Tuition Payment Deadline Thursday, July 14 by 11:59 p.m. CST Deadline to pay your remaining tuition bill balance. If final payment is not received by this date, you will receive a bar on your registration and will not be able to register for future classes until payment is received in full. This is also the payment due date for any additional second-term courses or changes to your record that created an additional bill for Summer 2022. Graduate 1st Tuition Payment Deadline to Confirm Attendance Tuesday, June 7 by 5:00 p.m. CST A tuition payment is due if you registered for any summer 2022 classes on or before June 7, 2022. Your options for confirming your attendance at My Tuition Bill are: Pay the minimum amount due: $1,500 for in-state residents $5,000 for out-of-state residents Pay your bill in full, or make a partial payment that is over the minimum due Pay with available aid If you choose to not pay your remaining tuition bill in full now then you will automatically be put on installment plan and incur a $15 fee. Final payment is due July 14. Final Tuition Payment Deadline Thursday, July 14 by 11:59 p.m. CST Deadline to pay your remaining tuition bill balance. If final payment is not received by this date, you will receive a bar on your registration and will not be able to register for future classes until payment is received in full. This is also the payment due date for any additional second-term courses or changes to your record that created an additional bill for Summer 2022. Fall 2022 Undergraduate If you registered on or before July 22, 2022 You must confirm attendance by Friday, August 12 by 5:00 p.m. CST Your options for confirming your attendance at My Tuition Bill are: Pay the minimum amount due: $1,500 for in-state residents $5,000 for out-of-state residents Pay your bill in full, or make a partial payment that is over the minimum due Pay with available aid If you registered on or after August 17, 2022 You must confirm attendance by Wednesday, September 7 by 5:00 p.m. CST Your options for confirming your attendance at My Tuition Bill are: Pay the minimum amount due: $1,500 for in-state residents $5,000 for out-of-state residents Pay your bill in full, or make a partial payment that is over the minimum due Pay with available aid 2nd Tuition Payment Deadline Wednesday, September 7 by 5:00 p.m. CST (12th class day) Your options at My Tuition Bill are: Pay your remaining tuition bill in full If you choose to not pay your remaining tuition bill in full now then you will automatically be put on installment plan and incur a $15 fee. Final payment is due October 14. Tuition Bill Changes September 7 is also the payment due date for any additional courses or changes to your record that created an additional bill for fall 2022. Your options at My Tuition Bill are: Pay your remaining tuition bill in full If you choose to not pay your remaining tuition bill in full now then you will automatically be put on installment plan and incur a $15 fee. Final payment is due October 14. 3rd and Final Tuition Payment Deadline Friday, October 14 by 11:59 p.m. CST Deadline to pay your remaining tuition bill balance. If final payment is not received by this date, you will receive a bar on your registration and will not be able to register for future classes until payment is received in full. Graduate 1st Tuition Payment Deadline to Confirm Attendance Thursday, August 25 by 5:00 p.m. CST A tuition payment is due if you registered for any fall 2022 classes on or before August 25, 2022. Your options for confirming your attendance at My Tuition Bill are: Pay the minimum amount due: $1,500 for in-state residents $5,000 for out-of-state residents Pay your bill in full, or make a partial payment that is over the minimum due Pay with available aid 2nd Tuition Payment Deadline Wednesday, September 7 by 5:00 p.m. CST (12th class day) Your options at My Tuition Bill are: Pay your remaining tuition bill in full If you choose to not pay your remaining tuition bill in full now then you will automatically be put on installment plan and incur a $15 fee. Final payment is due October 14. Tuition Bill Changes September 7 is also the payment due date for any additional courses or changes to your record that created an additional bill for fall 2022. Your options at My Tuition Bill are: Pay your remaining tuition bill in full If you choose to not pay your remaining tuition bill in full now then you will automatically be put on installment plan and incur a $15 fee. Final payment is due October 14. 3rd and Final Tuition Payment Deadline Friday, October 14 by 11:59 p.m. CST Deadline to pay your remaining tuition bill balance. If final payment is not received by this date, you will receive a bar on your registration and will not be able to register for future classes until payment is received in full. More information about registration and payment deadlines by access periods. Registration Schedule Back To Top Still Need Help? We’re here for you. Visit Hours of Operation Monday–Friday 8:30 a.m.– 4:30 p.m. Visit Texas One Stop › MAI 1 (Ground Floor of UT Tower) 110 Inner Campus Dr. Austin, TX 78712 – To submit paper documents (such as appeals or applications), please scan a PDF of your document and email directly to Texas One Stop at onestop@utexas.edu. Call (512) 232-6988 (myUT) Hours of operation for phone calls are 8:30 a.m.- 5:00 p.m. Call volumes may be higher during peak times. Call Us Email onestop@utexas.edu 2 business day response time email FEEDBACK feedback survey Contact My UT CASH Code of Conduct Policies Emergency Information FAFSA #003658 SMS Terms and Conditions Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Consumer Information Disclosures Further Information and Disclosures utexas.edu