Skip to main navigation Skip to content Protect Texas. Stay Informed. Covid-19 Updates University of Texas at Austin University of Texas at Austin logo Forms About Us Contact Student FAQs MyUT Academic Calendar CASH FAFSA Registration and Degree Planning Everything you need to plan and register for classes. Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Everything you need to know about costs, bills and financial aid. Cost & Tuition Rates Paying Your Tuition Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits Student Records Your grades, degree, transcripts and all your personal information. Transcripts & Other Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning MENUMENU Texas OneStop Registration and Degree Planning Undergraduate Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes Add/Drop a Course Late Registration Clearing Bars Registration Times Taking a Course Pass/Fail University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Student Records Transcripts & Other Records Official Transcripts Enrollment Certifications Unofficial Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning Contact CASH MyUT Academic Calendar FAFSA Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Managing Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships are a form of financial aid that does not need to be repaid. Some scholarships are awarded based on financial need, while others are considered merit-based scholarships, which means they are awarded based on academic achievement or participation in extracurricular activities. Learn more about applying for scholarships. The Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid administers a range of scholarships to incoming and current students. Browse through the Scholarship Finder to learn more about our scholarships. Scholarship Finder Browse through the Scholarship Finder to learn more about our scholarships. Types of Scholarships Incoming Student Scholarships Apply for admission to UT using either the ApplyTexas or Coalition for College application by December 1. There is no separate scholarship application; scholarship-specific questions will be available through MyStatus. Incoming students who do not submit a FAFSA will still be considered for scholarships that do not require financial need. You are encouraged to submit a FAFSA to be considered for the widest range of scholarships. Continuing & Transfer Students Scholarship Application The UT Scholarship Application for Continuing &Transfer Students is available in November of each year and is used to award students for the following academic year. This online application is strictly for continuing students who are eligible to enroll, transfer students who have been officially admitted or have completed an application for transfer admission AND returning UT students who are applying for readmission to UT. Students participating in the Coordinated Admissions Program (CAP), seeking admission to UT and waiting to complete the requirements by June 1 to enroll in the fall, can also use this online application. The deadline to submit the Continuing & Transfer Scholarship Application is March 15, Midnight (CDT). Submit the Continuing & Transfer Students Scholarship Application College, School and Department Scholarships Many UT colleges, schools and academic departments award their own scholarships to incoming and continuing students. Some have additional application requirements that you must complete to be considered. Contact your college, school or department to learn more about the steps you need to take to be considered for their scholarships. Outside and Private Scholarships Many scholarships are awarded by entities outside of and distinct from UT. Each of these scholarships has its own requirements, deadlines and application procedures. For more information about a particular scholarship, please contact that program directly. Please report any outside scholarships through CASH. Receiving an outside or private scholarship Back To Top Still Need Help? We’re here for you. Visit Hours of Operation Monday–Friday 8:30 a.m.– 4:30 p.m. Visit Texas One Stop › MAI 1 (Ground Floor of UT Tower) 110 Inner Campus Dr. Austin, TX 78712 – To submit paper documents (such as appeals or applications), please scan a PDF of your document and email directly to Texas One Stop at onestop@utexas.edu. Call (512) 232-6988 (myUT) Hours of operation for phone calls are 8:30 a.m.- 5:00 p.m. Call volumes may be higher during peak times. Call Us Email onestop@utexas.edu 2 business day response time email FEEDBACK feedback survey Contact My UT CASH Code of Conduct Policies Emergency Information FAFSA #003658 SMS Terms and Conditions Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Consumer Information Disclosures Further Information and Disclosures utexas.edu