Skip to main navigation Skip to content Protect Texas. Stay Informed. Covid-19 Updates University of Texas at Austin University of Texas at Austin logo Forms About Us Contact Student FAQs MyUT Academic Calendar CASH FAFSA Registration and Degree Planning Everything you need to plan and register for classes. Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Everything you need to know about costs, bills and financial aid. Cost & Tuition Rates Paying Your Tuition Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits Student Records Your grades, degree, transcripts and all your personal information. Transcripts & Other Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning MENUMENU Texas OneStop Registration and Degree Planning Undergraduate Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes Add/Drop a Course Late Registration Clearing Bars Registration Times Taking a Course Pass/Fail University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Student Records Transcripts & Other Records Official Transcripts Enrollment Certifications Unofficial Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning Contact CASH MyUT Academic Calendar FAFSA Transcripts & Other Records Official Transcripts Enrollment Certifications Unofficial Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Student Records Grades Offices and departments on campus use a standard set of grades (A through F) and grading symbols to mark a student’s progress at the university. To receive credit for a course, an undergraduate must earn a grade of at least D-. To include a course in the Program of Work for a graduate degree, a graduate student must earn a grade of at least C. Complete information about grades and symbols that may be used in place of grades can be found in the General Information Catalog. View My Grades Valid Grades Grade Grade Points A 4 A- 3.67 B+ 3.33 B 3 B- 2.67 C+ 2.33 C 2 C- 1.67 D+ 1.33 D 1 D- 0.67 F 0 Grade Points A 4 A- 3.67 B+ 3.33 B 3 B- 2.67 C+ 2.33 C 2 C- 1.67 D+ 1.33 D 1 D- 0.67 F 0 To receive credit for a course, an undergraduate must earn a grade of at least D-. Academic departments may require a higher grade for the course to be counted toward the student’s degree. To include a course in the Program of Work for a graduate degree, a graduate student must earn a grade of at least C. More information about the Program of Work is given in the graduate catalog. One of the following symbols may be assigned instead of a grade. Courses in which these symbols are recorded are not included in the grade point average. Valid symbols used in grading Symbol Meaning CR Credit NC No Credit Q Course was dropped W Student withdrew from the University X Temporary delay of course grade I Permanent incomplete * asterisk Course is continuing S Satisfactory U Unsatisfactory # pound sign Grade was not submitted in time for this report Z Student is registered on the credit / no credit or pass / fail basis Grade Points A 4 A- 3.67 B+ 3.33 B 3 B- 2.67 C+ 2.33 C 2 C- 1.67 D+ 1.33 D 1 D- 0.67 F 0 Meaning CR Credit NC No Credit Q Course was dropped W Student withdrew from the University X Temporary delay of course grade I Permanent incomplete * asterisk Course is continuing S Satisfactory U Unsatisfactory # pound sign Grade was not submitted in time for this report Z Student is registered on the credit / no credit or pass / fail basis Grade Point Average (GPA) Student GPAs appear on official transcripts and grade reports. A transcript shows both undergraduate and graduate GPAs. No official GPA is calculated by the registrar for students enrolled in the School of Law. GPA Calculator The cumulative GPA for an undergraduate includes all work undertaken at the university for which a letter grade is recorded. The cumulative GPA for a graduate student includes all graduate courses taken in residence, certain upper-division undergraduate courses taken in residence and all graduate extension courses taken while enrolled in the Graduate School for which a letter grade has been recorded. See the General Information Catalog for details about course numbering, credit value and rank. General Information Catalog Grade Reports Grade reports are available to all students, except students in the School of Law and Dell Medical School, at the end of each semester and summer session. If you believe there is an error in the report of a grade, contact your course instructor, who will submit a grade change request if appropriate. If the grade change is approved, the Office of the Registrar will correct the record and notify you of the new grade and your new GPA. University Honors Undergraduates with a full course load and excellent grades can earn a place on the university’s honors list and will be notified via their grade report. See the General Information Catalog to learn more about university honors. Probation and Dismissal A student must maintain a minimum cumulative GPA to remain academically eligible to register for the next semester or summer session. The GPA required of undergraduates varies according to the amount of college-level credit they have earned. Students should direct questions about scholastic status to their deans’ offices. Complete rules about undergraduate probation and dismissal are given in the General Information Catalog. See the Graduate Catalog for rules about graduate warning and dismissal. General Information Catalog Back To Top Still Need Help? We’re here for you. Visit Hours of Operation Monday–Friday 8:30 a.m.– 4:30 p.m. Visit Texas One Stop › MAI 1 (Ground Floor of UT Tower) 110 Inner Campus Dr. Austin, TX 78712 – To submit paper documents (such as appeals or applications), please scan a PDF of your document and email directly to Texas One Stop at onestop@utexas.edu. Call (512) 232-6988 (myUT) Hours of operation for phone calls are 8:30 a.m.- 5:00 p.m. Call volumes may be higher during peak times. Call Us Email onestop@utexas.edu 2 business day response time email FEEDBACK feedback survey Contact My UT CASH Code of Conduct Policies Emergency Information FAFSA #003658 SMS Terms and Conditions Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Consumer Information Disclosures Further Information and Disclosures utexas.edu