Skip to main navigation Skip to content Protect Texas. Stay Informed. Covid-19 Updates University of Texas at Austin University of Texas at Austin logo Forms About Us Contact Student FAQs MyUT Academic Calendar CASH FAFSA Registration and Degree Planning Everything you need to plan and register for classes. Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Everything you need to know about costs, bills and financial aid. Cost & Tuition Rates Paying Your Tuition Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits Student Records Your grades, degree, transcripts and all your personal information. Transcripts & Other Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning MENUMENU Texas OneStop Registration and Degree Planning Undergraduate Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes Add/Drop a Course Late Registration Clearing Bars Registration Times Taking a Course Pass/Fail University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Student Records Transcripts & Other Records Official Transcripts Enrollment Certifications Unofficial Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning Contact CASH MyUT Academic Calendar FAFSA FAQ (Spanish) ITS Service Desk 512-475-9400 help@utexas.edu Website Quick Links Technology support questions One Stop FAQ Work Study FAQ Study Abroad FAQ International Student FAQ UT Orientation FAQs Keep Learning Housing FAQ Protect Texas Together Frequently Asked Questions For all COVID-19 related information and resources, please refer to the Protect Texas Together website. If you can’t find the search results you are looking for, please ask Bevo. Please feel free to contact us by email if you have additional questions. FAQ (Spanish) To narrow your search, choose a category from the menu to the left. Search FAQ Clear Search All Categories Academics Final Exams Grading, Course Credits Pass/Fail, Q-drop Remote Learning Admissions All Categories Career Disabilities Fall Courses Financial Employment Changes Financial Aid Loans Refunds Tuition General Graduate and International Admissions Center (GIAC) Contacting GIAC Submitting Requirements Graduate School Access to Facilities Contact Course Credits Degrees, Graduation Materials Exams, Theses, Dissertations Help and Resources Impacts to Plans Travel Orientation Registration and Transcripts Technology Veterans Benefits All Categories How to Schedule With an Advisor Architecture School of Architecture students may visit the Undergraduate Office Canvas “course” for registration advising announcements, sample curricula under Files, and advisor-specific scheduling links. Group Advising Sessions will be on the Canvas calendar. Non-majors: please email soa-ug@austin.utexas.edu and include your UT EID, the reason you need assistance, and the course name and unique (if applicable). Information about the minors offered by School of Architecture is available at this link. Business Students can schedule an in-person or virtual appointment online by going to the “Advising” section on their “McCombs BBA Advising” Canvas page. Students can also email their assigned advisor directly. If you are not sure who that is, please contact either: 512-471-0690 or BBAacademicadvisor@mccombs.utexas.edu. More info here. Communications Students should visit this website to schedule an advising appointment. Virtual and in-person appointments maybe offered, depending on the availability of the student’s assigned academic advisor. Education To schedule an appointment, please call the front desk: 512-471-3223. If you run into any issues with being added to your advisor’s schedule, please email your advisor directly. Engineering To schedule a remote Zoom appointment with Engineering Student Services (ESS) or Engineering Departmental Advisors, please use EAB Navigate. For general questions: studentservices@engr.utexas.edu. Fine Arts Please email your department’s advisor for individualized degree support. One-on-one appointment scheduling is available via Zoom during working hours. General information and advisor contact emails can be found at this link. Geosciences Scheduling remote appointments, students can stop by or call the JSG Student Center Front Desk at 512.232.4545 between 8 am and 5 pm or email geo_advising@jsg.utexas.edu with their name, EID and date/time of appointment preference. More info here. Liberal Arts Students with declared majors, those exploring a particular major, or those who have questions about courses taught in particular Department, please check the Department’s webpage for major-specific advising guidance/instructions. View a full list of all Liberal Arts departmental advising offices. Dean’s Office advisors see students who are undeclared, those needing to withdraw, q-drop courses, make pass/fail changes, a degree check, VA certification, seeking an exception to degree requirements, in an emergency situation, or applying to graduate. To connect with the Dean’s Office, use the Liberal Arts chat feature or the online Liberal Arts appointment system. Natural Sciences CNS Advising and Student Services Staff are providing hybrid services. Students will have the option to make an in-person or Zoom appointment. Advisors can also be reached by email. You can find your assigned advisor here. If you’re having any difficulties or are not sure who to contact, please visit this page, email cnsinfo@austin.utexas.edu, or drop in to our Student Services Zoom office hours. Nursing All Nursing students must visit the UT Appointments page to make an appointment to see an advisor. Appointments must be made eight (8) hours prior to desired appointment time. Please arrive to your appointment with a general idea of your course selections for the upcoming semester. Social Work Please visit your BSW Advising Canvas page to view most updated information about advising services. Students can view virtual BSW walk-in advising hours and schedule a BSW advising appointment. More info here. Undergraduate Studies For the fall 2021 semester, UGS advisors and coaches will offer both in-person and online (Zoom) appointments. Students can view appointment options and schedule UGS advising appointments online. Students should direct any questions to their advisor or coach via email. See contact information here: Vick Center or Discovery Scholars Program (DSP). More info here. Am I still accruing interest on my institutional/cash loan? What if I am in repayment and cannot pay? If your loan is a cash or short term institutional loan, your interest is currently being waived through April 30, 2022. Where do I find Housing information regarding fall 2021 move-in and testing requirements? Resources for students moving into University Housing can be found on the Housing FAQ website. What is a hybrid course? A hybrid course is a class that utilizes both online and in-person experiences. It does not mean the student can choose between online or in-person mode of instruction. The faculty member determines which elements of the course are online and when students need to attend in-person. When activities are planned for in-person instruction, all students will be required to attend in-person. When activities are planned to be held online, all students will attend online. What was the process for increasing tuition? The UT System Board of Regents instituted a new process this year to set tuition for all UT institutions. Institutions were asked by the UT System to provide information that was then used to determine a systemwide approach. The 2.6 percent increase reflects the Higher Education Price Index (HEPI), an inflation index designed specifically to track the main cost drivers in higher education. You can read a statement on tuition from UT System here. Will I see a “P” on my transcript when graded a passing grade for a COVID-19 P/F Exception course? Students will see a grade of “CR” (credit) for a course that receives a passing grade. What technology resources are available to me as a student? Students who are currently receiving financial aid with a verified FAFSA/TASFA may be eligible for additional loans or a student technology grant to assist with technology expenses, such as a computer, laptop, wifi, or other tech needs. To be considered for technology assistance, please complete the Cost of Attendance Appeal form. For additional assistance with equipment and technology, contact the ITS Service Desk. What are the confidentiality protocols associated with recordings made for online courses? Course recordings are reserved only for students in the class for educational purposes. The recordings should not be shared outside the class in any form. Violation of this restriction could lead to Student Misconduct proceedings. What if my family’s circumstances have changed? If you or your family have experienced a recent reduction in income or financial resources and you have already completed the FAFSA, please complete the Reduction in Income Appeal form for the appropriate academic year via DocuSign. The Reduction in Income Appeal (formerly known as the special circumstances appeal) allows the school to assess your financial aid and make any adjustments to your financial aid package given your current situation. You may request a PDF via email to onestop@utexas.edu, but please note that PDF processing times may be delayed. How do I upgrade my EID? To upgrade your UT EID or find current information on the ID Center’s location and business hours, please visit the ID Center’s service page: it.utexas.edu/idcenter If I did not accept the loans that were offered to me as part of my initial financial aid package, can I still apply for assistance? Yes, students who have not borrowed their full loan eligibility can still apply for funding. We encourage students to be aware of all funding opportunities available to them, including loans. I have a Federal Perkins Loan. What are my options right now given the COVID-19 response? The Federal student loan interest freeze implemented by the President of the United States only applies to loans that are directly held by the Department of Education. If you make your Federal Perkins Loan payments to UT-Austin, your loan is NOT directly held by the Department of Education. Therefore, an interest freeze and an automatic forbearance will not be applied to your Federal Perkins student loan(s). You are required to continue making your Federal Perkins Loan payments as scheduled. If you are experiencing financial hardship, you may be eligible for an Economic Hardship Deferment, Unemployment Deferment or Forbearance for your Federal Perkins Loan(s) depending on your circumstance. Please contact The Federal Perkins Loan team for further details at: perkins@austin.utexas.edu. If you would like to take advantage of the Federal loan interest freeze benefit and currently have a Federal Perkins Loan serviced by the University of Texas at Austin, you may consolidate your Federal Perkins Loan into a Direct Consolidation Loan held by the Department of Education. Please note that you may lose certain loan benefits if you consolidate a Federal Perkins Loan. For more information about Direct Loan Consolidation go to: https://studentaid.ed.gov/sa/repay-loans/consolidation. I need to request flexibility regarding a class assignment or when I am unable to attend a class? Please communicate directly with your faculty to find a solution. During this unprecedented change to remote learning, The University of Texas at Austin has requested that faculty work directly with students to meet their needs. If there are additional concerns or an emergency is impacting your academics, please connect with Student Emergency Services in the Office of the Dean of Students. Page 1 of 212» Still Need Help? We’re here for you. Visit Hours of Operation Monday–Friday 8:30 a.m.– 4:30 p.m. Visit Texas One Stop › MAI 1 (Ground Floor of UT Tower) 110 Inner Campus Dr. Austin, TX 78712 – To submit paper documents (such as appeals or applications), please scan a PDF of your document and email directly to Texas One Stop at onestop@utexas.edu. Call (512) 232-6988 (myUT) Hours of operation for phone calls are 8:30 a.m.- 5:00 p.m. Call volumes may be higher during peak times. Call Us Email onestop@utexas.edu 2 business day response time email FEEDBACK feedback survey Contact My UT CASH Code of Conduct Policies Emergency Information FAFSA #003658 SMS Terms and Conditions Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Consumer Information Disclosures Further Information and Disclosures utexas.edu