Skip to main navigation Skip to content Protect Texas. Stay Informed. Covid-19 Updates University of Texas at Austin University of Texas at Austin logo Forms About Us Contact Student FAQs MyUT Academic Calendar CASH FAFSA Registration and Degree Planning Everything you need to plan and register for classes. Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Everything you need to know about costs, bills and financial aid. Cost & Tuition Rates Paying Your Tuition Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits Student Records Your grades, degree, transcripts and all your personal information. Transcripts & Other Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning MENUMENU Texas OneStop Registration and Degree Planning Undergraduate Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes Add/Drop a Course Late Registration Clearing Bars Registration Times Taking a Course Pass/Fail University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Student Records Transcripts & Other Records Official Transcripts Enrollment Certifications Unofficial Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning Contact CASH MyUT Academic Calendar FAFSA Know your tools Online Tools and Resources Zoom Online Student Success Checklist Before You Begin Your Class(es) During Your Class(es) Completing Your Class(es) Maintaining Your Academic Integrity in Online Learning Help When You Need It Access University Resources Academic Advising Course Tutoring Help Stay Safe and Healthy Quick Links Technology support questions General Student questions One Stop FAQ Work Study FAQ Study Abroad FAQ International Student FAQ UT Orientation FAQs Forms About Us Contact Student FAQs MyUT Academic Calendar CASH FAFSA Keep Learning Keep Learning provides students with the helpful tools and resources they need to be successful in an online learning environment. Students can find support with technology, success checklists, and academic and health resources so they can Keep Learning and keep their degree plan on track. Know your tools Learn how to protect your classes in Zoom. Students need to take two fairly simple steps to ensure seamless access to classes. To make sure you’re ready to participate in online classes at UT, visit this Canvas course to check equipment, tools, and related applications. For additional assistance with equipment and technology, contact the ITS Service Desk. Online Tools and Resources Canvas: Learn more about using Canvas here. Zoom: Find Zoom tutorials, read about UT Austin support for Zoom, or learn how to get started with Zoom. Proctorio: Testing with Proctorio? Find test-taker information in the Proctorio Student Guide, and additional information here. Troubleshooting: How can I check my equipment? Reach out to the ITS Service Desk Phone: 512-475-9400 Email: help@utexas.edu Hours are Monday through Friday from 6 a.m. – 10 p.m. and weekends 10 a.m. – 5 p.m. Zoom If you are a student having trouble joining a Zoom class or meeting, please ensure you are signed in to Zoom with your UT EID. Learn how to protect your classes in Zoom. Students need to take two fairly simple steps to ensure seamless access to classes. Learn more > Online Student Success Checklist Compared to traditional classrooms, online learning has unique challenges and you will need to practice different strategies to be successful. Research and experience have shown several of these strategies to be effective. Before You Begin Your Class(es) 1. Have the tools for success internet connection web camera and microphone working computer to do what is required Work with your instructor to be sure you have the tools you need to be successful in the course. If you do not have the tools that you need, make sure you have enough time to purchase, prepare, or repair, as needed. If you need assistance in financing your technology needs, please contact Texas One Stop to review your financial aid package for the semester and discuss increasing your current financial aid to cover any necessary technology purchases. You may complete the Cost of Attendance appeal form to request a review of your financial aid to allow for computer and other technology needs, such as wifi, webcams, hotspots, etc. You may be offered additional loans or grants to cover those expenses depending on your financial aid eligibility. 2. Do a test run Go to Online Canvas Pre-Check to help you get ready to join your UT online course(s). UT has implemented multi-factor authentication (MFA) using Duo for many university web applications, including Canvas. Learn more here, including how to get started. Be sure you have upgraded Zoom: Signing In and Out of Zoom. Need help? Troubleshooting resources are available at the ITS Service Desk. Phone: 512-475-9400 Email: help@utexas.edu Hours are Monday through Friday from 6 a.m.–10 p.m. and weekends 10 a.m.–5 p.m. 3. Find space to do your coursework To create an atmosphere that will motivate you to do your best work, identify a space where you can focus on your class free from noise and distractions. Set up a dedicated learning environment for studying. 4. Schedule time to complete your coursework Schedule consistent, multi-hour blocks of time during the week that you can devote to coursework and try to adhere to this schedule. Prioritize your work. What due dates are coming up first? What information is the most important for you to learn? What assignments are worth the most points? Make a smart decision about how to best spend your time. 5. Ask questions Whether you are looking to get started on the course, are having trouble finding or accessing materials, or just want to say hi, it’s never a bad idea to contact your instructor before the course begins. Just be sure to tell them your name, identify the course in which you are enrolled, and clearly ask any questions you have. During Your Class(es) 1. Engage with your courses Download and review all course syllabi: Familiarize yourself with your instructor’s policies before the first day of class. Be sure to pay attention to important due dates and grading procedures. You should also find your instructors’ contact information, how they’d like to be contacted, and office hours. Engage with your class: Preview and review before every lesson, attend in-person/online class sessions and actively take notes. Analyze all returned quizzes and tests as well as any instructor feedback and develop a plan for improvement. Communicate regularly with your instructor: Your instructors want to help and have provided you with at least one reliable way to contact them. Email them. Check the syllabus or Canvas and engage in virtual office hours. Students with answered questions and heard concerns are far more likely to be successful than their peers who did not communicate with their professors. Watch this video from the Sanger Learning Center where two UT professors discuss real-life emails from students and offer tips for professional communication. 2. Download the Canvas Student smartphone app for course management The Canvas Student app, which is available on IOS and Android devices, allows you to access grades and course content, submit assignments, send and receive messages, and more! Even if you complete most of your coursework from a laptop or desktop computer, this app is handy for managing your time and work from anywhere. 3. Use your resources Visit “Access University Resources” at the bottom of this page. 4. Engage with your peers Whether it’s through Canvas, a smartphone app, or text messages, it’s a good idea to communicate regularly with your classmates. You won’t see them in class (maybe in Zoom though!), so you may need to make an extra effort to compare notes or form study groups. You’ll benefit if you do so. 5. Be social While remote learning, students may feel disconnected from the physical campus, but digital communities on the web make it easy and possible to get and stay connected with the university and your peers. UT Austin Facebook UT Austin Instagram UT Austin Twitter UT Austin YouTube Completing Your Class(es) 1. Prepare for your final exam When is your final exam? Where? How? Are you prepared? Do you have a strong internet connection for your exam? Is there a practice test to take? Schedule a Learning Specialist appointment at the Sanger Learning Center to make a strategy for finals. For online tests: Before a quiz or exam, write down formulas or other information you may need. Survey the exam before starting and budget your time and space. Test necessary online testing software and ensure technology and internet bandwidth is adequate. 2. Know your deadlines Whether you need to Add or Drop a course or just find out more about grading options, make sure to connect with your Academic Advisor for help and support. After, be sure to discuss any questions about adding, dropping or withdrawing with a Texas One Stop staff member to be sure you understand the impacts on your educational finances. 3. Fill out your surveys The Course Instructor Survey (CIS) is the student’s opportunity to anonymously share thoughts about classes and instructors. UT depends on students to provide honest and fair feedback about their classroom experience because that feedback is an important factor in making many decisions. Online students will receive an email notification when the CIS is available for their courses. 4. Get access to your grades Grade reports are available to all students, except students in the School of Law and Dell Medical School, at the end of each semester and summer session. If you need to access your official transcript or other ways to document your success, you may view the options on the Transcripts & Other Records page of the Texas One Stop website. 5. You did it! Celebrate your completion of your online course! Thank those around you who helped you succeed this semester or session. Maintaining Your Academic Integrity in Online Learning Many aspects of our semester have changed significantly, but our responsibility for academic integrity has not. Visit the Maintaining Your Academic Integrity in Online Learning page for more information on how to maintain the highest standards of academic integrity, such as continuing to observe the Institutional Rules and treating all exams and assignments as if you were in-person to complete them, during this period online learning. Help When You Need It There are many resources available to you as part of our virtual campus, so make sure you utilize everything available in support of your remote learning! Access University Resources University of Texas Libraries are closed on campus, but many library services remain available, including consultations with library staff. Visit The University Libraries page for additional updates and information. Sanger Learning Center offers a range of remote support services, including tutoring, academic counseling, and test reviews. Sign up online or call 512-471-3614. University Writing Center is offering online appointments through Google Hangouts Meet for the rest of the Summer 2020 semester. Go to the UWC appointments page for more information or to schedule an appointment. Students can also email the UWC at uwcdesk@utexas.edu or call 512-471-6222 and leave a message. Visit UWC to live chat with a consultant. McCombs School of Business has an Instructional Wiki for students. Has your public speaking assignment been transformed into an online presentation? Schedule a one-hour Zoom consultation with the Public Speaking Center to prepare or rehearse for any public speaking assignment. Free Peer Academic Coaching is available and can help you regroup to finish the semester strong. Interested undergraduates can ask to meet regularly with a coach to work on how to plan, self-motivate, and study effectively for the courses in which you are currently enrolled. Coaches are trained and supervised by professional educators, and the cost is covered by the Sanger Learning Center. Academic Advising Most academic advisors are now set up to work remotely, and are making virtual appointments through tools like Microsoft Teams, Zoom, Skype, or over the phone. The best way to make contact to find out how your academic advisor is connecting with students is via email. Advisors continue to check and respond to email regularly, and are prepared to continue supporting students during this transition to remote learning, and through registration later this spring. Course Tutoring Help Currently, course tutoring assistance is offered online through The College of Natural Sciences via Zoom. Visit the CNS website to select a session and provide your UT EID for access to Zoom. Sanger Learning Center Tutoring Appointment Tutoring Sanger Learning Center offers tutoring for more than 70 courses in everything from Math to Management Information Science. Schedule a one-hour Zoom session with one of our trained peer tutors. Drop-In Tutoring For brief, on-demand help with many lower-division math, chemistry, and physics courses, email Sanger Learning Center between the hours of 11 a.m.–10 p.m. Monday–Thursday, 11 a.m.-3 p.m. on Fridays, and 5 p.m.–10 p.m. on Sunday. Tutors will be standing by via Zoom. Stay Safe and Healthy Your health, safety, and well-being are the university’s top priorities. Stay healthy by getting: Adequate rest Nutrition and Exercise Look after your emotional well-being by monitoring your self-talk and staying positive. Contact University Health Services if you feel physically unwell. Contact the Counseling and Mental Health Center if you need counseling or psychiatric services. Visit the Staying Well While Staying Home page for tips and things to consider as you take care of yourself and others during this time. PEARL A new resource from the Sanger Learning Center! Log in to PEARL—your Personalized Academic Resource Locator—using your EID and find all the academic resources across campus available for each of your classes. Still Need Help? We’re here for you. Visit Hours of Operation Monday–Friday 8:30 a.m.– 4:30 p.m. Visit Texas One Stop › MAI 1 (Ground Floor of UT Tower) 110 Inner Campus Dr. Austin, TX 78712 – To submit paper documents (such as appeals or applications), please scan a PDF of your document and email directly to Texas One Stop at onestop@utexas.edu. Call (512) 232-6988 (myUT) Hours of operation for phone calls are 8:30 a.m.- 5:00 p.m. Call volumes may be higher during peak times. Call Us Email onestop@utexas.edu 2 business day response time email FEEDBACK feedback survey Contact My UT CASH Code of Conduct Policies Emergency Information FAFSA #003658 SMS Terms and Conditions Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Consumer Information Disclosures Further Information and Disclosures utexas.edu