Skip to main navigation Skip to content Protect Texas. Stay Informed. Covid-19 Updates University of Texas at Austin University of Texas at Austin logo Forms About Us Contact Student FAQs MyUT Academic Calendar CASH FAFSA Registration and Degree Planning Everything you need to plan and register for classes. Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Everything you need to know about costs, bills and financial aid. Cost & Tuition Rates Paying Your Tuition Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits Student Records Your grades, degree, transcripts and all your personal information. Transcripts & Other Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning MENUMENU Texas OneStop Registration and Degree Planning Undergraduate Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes Add/Drop a Course Late Registration Clearing Bars Registration Times Taking a Course Pass/Fail University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Student Records Transcripts & Other Records Official Transcripts Enrollment Certifications Unofficial Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning Contact CASH MyUT Academic Calendar FAFSA Transcripts & Other Records Official Transcripts Enrollment Certifications Unofficial Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Student Records Transcripts & Other Records Enrollment Certifications An enrollment certification is an official document that confirms attendance, awarded degrees, current and past enrollment, expected graduation date, Texas Success Initiative status, available test scores, cumulative GPA and other parts of a student academic record. Official certifications are printed on security paper with the university seal and the registrar’s signature. Certification Request Form You may need certification of enrollment to defer student loans, provide proof of enrollment for health insurance, verify degrees for prospective employers or show proof of academic standing to enroll in another institution. Download a PDF request form. How to Request Enrollment Certification Order by Mail, Fax or Email 1. Fill out the certification request form. 2. Submit it by: email to certification@austin.utexas.edu, fax to (512) 475-7520 or mail to The University of Texas at Austin Office of the Registrar, Student Academic Records PO Box 7216, Austin TX 78713-7216. The PDF form requesting an enrollment certification must include all the following information: The date of the request Student’s full name as it appears on university records Student’s UT EID and date of birth The information you request to be printed on the certification The name and address to whom it should be mailed The number of certifications requested for each address Student’s hand-written signature if restricted or confidential information is requested; electronic signatures are not accepted Any special instructions Any forms to be attached In compliance with security guidelines, payment information will not be provided to third-parties, i.e. Fedex. Order In Person Certificates of Enrollment are available for same-day processing and pick-up, notarization, or delivery by express shipping at Texas One Stop in MAI 1 (Ground Floor of UT Tower).See Visit Texas One Stop for office hours and visiting procedures. If you plan to mail the certification, bring the complete mailing address with you. If you are requesting expedited delivery of an enrollment certification(s), bring the express shipping label(s) with you to the office before 4:30 p.m. (Additional charges for express shipping or overnight delivery apply). Expedited Delivery Certifications can be sent via express shipping at your expense. Other delivery services may be used if you make arrangements in advance. In compliance with security guidelines, payment information will not be provided to third parties or delivery services. Requesting express shipping delivery does not guarantee priority processing of your order. To Request FedEx Delivery 1) Visit FedEx and select Create a Shipment. Continue through prompts to confirmation page. 2) On Confirmation Page, confirm address and shipping information, check the box for Email a copy of my shipping label on bottom of page and enter certification@austin.utexas.edu to submit shipping label. Then select Ship. 3) To avoid potential delay in case we need to contact you, be sure to provide your phone number when entering information in the From Address 4) Print a copy of the shipping label and, for online orders, email a copy of the shipping label to Certifications at certification@austin.utexas.edu. 5) For written requests, submit a printed label along with a signed FedEx order form. If ordering in person, bring the shipping label with you to the office before 4:30 p.m. 6) Certifications for expedited delivery will not be sent without a shipping label for each destination address. Requesting expedited delivery does not guarantee same-day processing; however, all written requests for expedited delivery received in-office after 4 p.m. will be processed in the order received beginning the next business day. Releasing Directory Information Certification of directory information may be released without a student’s written authorization. The University of Texas at Austin defines directory information as local and permanent addresses, dates of attendance, enrollment status, school and major field of study, classification, earned degrees, expected degree date and similar information. A student may grant release of their restricted record by submitting a written request for release. Certain confidential information may be released only with the student’s written authorization and signature, in accordance with the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974. Third Party Requests for Information Student loan servicers can find your enrollment status at the National Student Clearinghouse. If your servicer needs a deferment form processed, bring the form to the Office of the Registrar and we will send them an enrollment certification with your form. Employers and background screening firms should contact the National Student Clearinghouse to request printed verification of attendance and degrees. You may verify your degrees and attendance online if you are a current or former student of the university. Letters of Non-Attendance The Office of the Registrar does not issue letters of non-attendance. OnRamps students: If you need a letter from OnRamps to verify enrollment or non-attendance at UT Austin, please complete the OnRamps Letter Request Form. For more information, contact OnRamps at enrollment@onramps.zendesk.com or 512-265-2515. If you did not participate in the OnRamps program, please contact the National Student Clearinghouse as you may be able to obtain a “no record can be confirmed” letter by requesting verification for the “University of Texas at Austin”. Contact us Student Academic Records Fax: 512-475-7520 certification@austin.utexas.edu Still Need Help? We’re here for you. Visit Hours of Operation Monday–Friday 8:30 a.m.– 4:30 p.m. Visit Texas One Stop › MAI 1 (Ground Floor of UT Tower) 110 Inner Campus Dr. Austin, TX 78712 – To submit paper documents (such as appeals or applications), please scan a PDF of your document and email directly to Texas One Stop at onestop@utexas.edu. Call (512) 232-6988 (myUT) Hours of operation for phone calls are 8:30 a.m.- 5:00 p.m. Call volumes may be higher during peak times. Call Us Email onestop@utexas.edu 2 business day response time email FEEDBACK feedback survey Contact My UT CASH Code of Conduct Policies Emergency Information FAFSA #003658 SMS Terms and Conditions Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Consumer Information Disclosures Further Information and Disclosures utexas.edu