Skip to main navigation Skip to content Protect Texas. Stay Informed. Covid-19 Updates University of Texas at Austin University of Texas at Austin logo Forms About Us Contact Student FAQs MyUT Academic Calendar CASH FAFSA Registration and Degree Planning Everything you need to plan and register for classes. Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Everything you need to know about costs, bills and financial aid. Cost & Tuition Rates Paying Your Tuition Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits Student Records Your grades, degree, transcripts and all your personal information. Transcripts & Other Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning MENUMENU Texas OneStop Registration and Degree Planning Undergraduate Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes Add/Drop a Course Late Registration Clearing Bars Registration Times Taking a Course Pass/Fail University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Student Records Transcripts & Other Records Official Transcripts Enrollment Certifications Unofficial Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning Contact CASH MyUT Academic Calendar FAFSA Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Managing Costs Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Reductions Tuition Exemptions If you receive a tuition exemption, you do not have to pay tuition that semester. Tuition exemptions are issued only for the period in which a student is currently enrolled. Applications must be submitted no later than the date of commencement at the end of the spring semester or the official graduation date at the end of the summer session or fall semester. Satisfactory academic progress must be met in order to maintain eligibility for most exemptions. Exemptions include: Highest Ranking High School Graduate Blind/Deaf Student Exemption Exemption for Children of Disabled or Deceased Texas Firefighters and Peace Officers Exemption for Children of Prisoners of War or Persons Missing in Action Exemption for Children of Professional Nursing Faculty and Staff Members Exemption for Clinical Nursing Preceptors and their Dependents Exemption for Foster and Adopted Children Hazlewood Act Exemption for Spouses/Children of Texas Ex-Servicemembers Hazlewood Act Exemption for Texas Ex-Servicemembers Legacy Act Exemption for Children of Texas Ex-Servicemembers Peace Officers Disabled in the Line of Duty Exemption Exemption for the Surviving Spouse and Dependent Children of Certain Deceased Public Servants (Employees) Exemption for Participants in a Military Funeral Exemption for Senior Citizens For detailed information about who is eligible for each exemption, what is exempted and where to apply for an exemption, consult the General Information Catalog. College for All Texans – Exemptions Tuition Waivers A tuition waiver allows for a portion of your tuition to not be paid. You are responsible for payment of the remaining tuition not covered by the waiver. Waivers are issued only for the period in which you are currently enrolled. Applications must be submitted no later than the date of commencement at the end of the spring semester or the official graduation date at the end of the summer session or fall semester. Satisfactory academic progress must be met in order to maintain eligibility for most waivers. Waivers include: Competitive Scholarship Waiver Economic Development and Diversification Waiver Waiver for Faculty Members, Teaching Assistants, and Research Assistants, and their Dependents Good Neighbor Scholarship Waiver for International Students Who Hold Visas Allowing for Domicile in the United States Waiver for Mexican Citizens with Financial Need Waiver for Military Personnel Stationed in Texas Nonresidents Enrolled in the Texas Guaranteed Tuition Plan or Texas Tuition Promise Fund Waiver for Military Veterans, Spouses and Children Moving to Texas For detailed information about who is eligible for each waiver, what is waived and where to apply for a waiver, consult the General Information Catalog. To submit a tuition waiver, please email directly to tuition@austin.utexas.edu. Third-Party Billing Agencies outside the university may set up a third-party billing arrangement that pays all or a part of your tuition bill. You are responsible for any amount not covered by the third party. Arrangements must be made in advance with the Special Billing Office, Main Building (MAI) Room 4. Find additional information on other types of third-party billing not listed below in the General Information Catalog. 529 Tuition Plans To pay using a 529 college savings plan: Account owners must submit a request for payment from the 529 Plan Administrator. Allow up to three weeks for the payment to be credited to the student’s account. The payment must be received and posted to the student’s account no later than 5 p.m. on the payment due date. Failure to meet this deadline will result in your student’s registration being canceled. All checks should be made payable to “The University of Texas at Austin” and must include the student’s name and EID. See instructions on mailing payments, included overnight delivery. Texas Prepaid Tuition Plans The Texas Guaranteed Tuition Plan (TGTP), also known as the Texas Tomorrow Fund, was offered as the original Texas prepaid tuition plan. The plan was open from 1995 to 2003 and is currently closed to new enrollment. The New Plan opened in 2008 and is known as the Texas Tuition Promise Fund. The primary difference between the plans: Texas Tomorrow Fund (old plan): The Texas Constitution guarantees payment of tuition and required fees for the plan’s beneficiaries who attend college when their purchaser redeems their contract for that purpose. Texas Tuition Promise Fund (new plan): The plan is not constitutionally guaranteed. However, Texas law requires all Texas two-year and four-year public colleges and universities to accept tuition units as payment for the applicable portion of tuition and required fees. This law does not apply to private or out-of-state colleges and universities or career schools. You may scan and email a copy of your student’s TGTP ID card to tuition@austin.utexas.edu or submit the card in person in Main Building (MAI) Room 4. Be sure to include the student’s full name, UT EID, classification (incoming freshman, sophomore, junior, senior or graduate) and the semester you want to begin using the student’s TGTP coverage. The TGTP does not cover any fees that are not charged each semester to all students. Examples of these fees include the general property deposit, affiliated studies fee or international student fees. The TGTP appears as a credit to your tuition, listed by the line item “Less third party billing.” TGTP is applied directly to the tuition balance first. Scholarships are then applied to any remaining tuition or other university charges. Any remaining amount of scholarship funds are released to the student and can be used for other related expenses such as textbooks. Your TGTP account is expended based upon the number of credit hours you take. The University of Texas at Austin bills TGTP for the actual number of semester credit hours for which you are enrolled even though the flat rate tuition charge is the same dollar amount for 12 or more credit hours. The plans pay for tuition only; the student is responsible for all other fees. Texas Guaranteed Tuition Plan (TGTP) students must provide a copy of their membership ID card to Student Accounts Receivable the first semester they enroll at UT. Students in their senior year will need to provide proof of remaining hours in their plan. TGTP ID cards can be emailed to tuition@austin.utexas.edu (please include your UT EID in the email). Texas Tuition Promise Fund (TTPF) plan purchasers must authorize use of the benefits at least three weeks prior to the payment due date each semester. Purchasers should enter the student’s EID as the “Student’s ID” and The University of Texas at Austin as the “Name of the University/College.” If the amount due is zero, the student must complete registration by clicking the “Confirm Attendance” button on the My Tuition Bill website no later than 5 p.m. on the due date, or their registration will be canceled. Post 9/11 GI Bill® The Post 9/11 GI Bill® education benefit is earned by members of Active Duty, Selected Reserve and National Guard Armed Forces and their families. Eligibility is determined by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). This benefit can cover a percentage of tuition and mandatory fees based on the length of active duty service as determined by the VA. Refer to the GI Bill® Benefits web page for detailed information on how to apply for this benefit. You may also contact Veteran Certification: Main Building (MAI) Room 16 Monday–Friday, 8:00 a.m.–4:30 p.m. gibill@austin.utexas.edu 512-475-7540 Tuition Reduction Benefit If you are employed as a teaching assistant (TA), assistant instructor (AI), or graduate research assistants (GRA), you are eligible for a tax-exempt Tuition Reduction Benefit related to your student academic employment. For more information, visit the Tuition Reduction Benefit website. Back To Top Still Need Help? We’re here for you. Visit Hours of Operation Monday–Friday 8:30 a.m.– 4:30 p.m. Visit Texas One Stop › MAI 1 (Ground Floor of UT Tower) 110 Inner Campus Dr. Austin, TX 78712 – To submit paper documents (such as appeals or applications), please scan a PDF of your document and email directly to Texas One Stop at onestop@utexas.edu. Call (512) 232-6988 (myUT) Hours of operation for phone calls are 8:30 a.m.- 5:00 p.m. Call volumes may be higher during peak times. Call Us Email onestop@utexas.edu 2 business day response time email FEEDBACK feedback survey Contact My UT CASH Code of Conduct Policies Emergency Information FAFSA #003658 SMS Terms and Conditions Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Consumer Information Disclosures Further Information and Disclosures utexas.edu