Skip to main navigation Skip to content Protect Texas. Stay Informed. Covid-19 Updates University of Texas at Austin University of Texas at Austin logo Forms About Us Contact Student FAQs MyUT Academic Calendar CASH FAFSA Registration and Degree Planning Everything you need to plan and register for classes. Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Everything you need to know about costs, bills and financial aid. Cost & Tuition Rates Paying Your Tuition Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits Student Records Your grades, degree, transcripts and all your personal information. Transcripts & Other Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning MENUMENU Texas OneStop Registration and Degree Planning Undergraduate Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes Add/Drop a Course Late Registration Clearing Bars Registration Times Taking a Course Pass/Fail University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Student Records Transcripts & Other Records Official Transcripts Enrollment Certifications Unofficial Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning Contact CASH MyUT Academic Calendar FAFSA Forms: Financial Aid Forms: Student Records Forms Financial Aid Appeals 2022-2023 2022-23 Dependency Status Change Appeal When you complete your FAFSA or TASFA, you receive a dependency status of either dependent or independent. Use this form if you need to change, and can demonstrate why you need to change, your dependency status for the 2022-2023 academic year. Download 2022-23 Reduction in Income Appeal After you have completed either your FAFSA or TASFA, use this appeal form to request consideration of student and/or parent income changes based on extenuating circumstances related to the 2022-2023 academic year only. Download 2022-23 Appeal of Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Use this form if you are appealing the suspension of your financial aid due to failure to meet Satisfactory Academic Progress requirements. Before completing and submitting this appeal, please review the SAP policy. Please submit the 2021-22 appeal for Summer 2022 aid suspension. Download Appeals 2021-2022 2021-22 Reduction in Income Appeal After you have completed either your FAFSA or TASFA, use this appeal form to request consideration of student and/or parent income changes based on extenuating circumstances related to the 2021-2022 academic year only. Download 2021-22 Additional Expenses Appeal After you have completed either your FAFSA or TASFA, use this appeal form to request a review and possible adjustment to your Expected Family Contribution for the 2021-2022 academic year, based on additional expenses incurred. This may include unusual medical expenses, private school tuition expenses, or other various debts. Download 2021-22 Dependency Status Change Appeal Form When you complete your FAFSA or TASFA, you receive a dependency status of either dependent or independent. Use this form if you need to change, and can demonstrate why you need to change, your dependency status for the 2021-2022 academic year. Download 2021-22 State & Institutional Aid Appeal Use this form if you are appealing the suspension of your Texas Advance Commitment, TEXAS Grant, Completion Grant or OSFA awarded scholarships due to an extenuating circumstance. If the suspension of your Texas Advance Commitment is due to an increase in your family AGI, please complete the 2021-2022 Reduction of Income Appeal Form. Download 2021-22, Summer 22 Appeal of Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Use this form if you are appealing the suspension of your financial aid due to failure to meet Satisfactory Academic Progress requirements. Before completing and submitting this appeal, please review the SAP policy. Download 2021-22 Cost of Attendance Appeal After you have completed either your FAFSA or TASFA, use this appeal form to request a reevaluation of your cost of attendance, the estimated cost of all expenses that determines your maximum financial aid eligibility. This may include expenses for computers, additional textbooks and supplies, increased rent/mortgage payment, and child care expenses for the 2021-2022 academic year. Download 2021-22 Financial Aid Appeal for Degree Holders Use this form if you already hold a degree but are seeking a second undergraduate degree or teacher certification or are taking prerequisite coursework to get in to a degree program. Download Loans Summer 2022 College Access Loan Request Form Use this form to request that UT certify your approved College Access loan for Summer 2022 only. Download Fall 2022 - Spring 2023 College Access Loan Request Form Use this form to request that UT certify your approved College Access loan for the 2022-2023 academic year. Download Summer or Fall 2022 Request for Aid Review Due to Graduation Use this form to request reconsideration of financial aid for the summer or fall semesters based on your early graduation. Download Certifications Consortium Agreement Form A consortium agreement is a binding agreement between eligible institutions, which enables you to receive financial aid from your home institution, UT Austin, while visiting another institution (Host Institution). Use this form to request reconsideration of financial aid for hours required for your degree taken while visiting another institution. If you have questions about the Consortium Agreement process, please contact the Graduation Help Desk at graduationhelpdesk@utexas.edu. Download Verification 2022-23 Identify and Statement of Educational Purpose Submit this form if you have been selected for verification and are required to verify your identity and submit a Statement of Educational Purpose. Download Student Records Official Transcript Request Form If you are unable to order an official transcript online, in person or by proxy, complete the Official Transcript Request Form. Download Enrollment Certification Form Request certification from your academic record, including GPA, registration status, dates of attendance, hours completed, degrees awarded and more. Download Diploma Replacement Form Request a replacement diploma. For graduates of the university. Download Proxy Authorization Form Authorize someone to pick up your transcript. Download Notarized Transcript Form Request a notarized official transcript to be delivered via standard U.S. mail or international airmail. Download Class Auditor Permit Request to audit a course. Download Back To Top Still Need Help? We’re here for you. Visit Hours of Operation Monday–Friday 8:30 a.m.– 4:30 p.m. Visit Texas One Stop › MAI 1 (Ground Floor of UT Tower) 110 Inner Campus Dr. Austin, TX 78712 – To submit paper documents (such as appeals or applications), please scan a PDF of your document and email directly to Texas One Stop at onestop@utexas.edu. Call (512) 232-6988 (myUT) Hours of operation for phone calls are 8:30 a.m.- 5:00 p.m. Call volumes may be higher during peak times. Call Us Email onestop@utexas.edu 2 business day response time email FEEDBACK feedback survey Contact My UT CASH Code of Conduct Policies Emergency Information FAFSA #003658 SMS Terms and Conditions Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Consumer Information Disclosures Further Information and Disclosures utexas.edu