Skip to main navigation Skip to content Protect Texas. Stay Informed. Covid-19 Updates University of Texas at Austin University of Texas at Austin logo Forms About Us Contact Student FAQs MyUT Academic Calendar CASH FAFSA Registration and Degree Planning Everything you need to plan and register for classes. Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Everything you need to know about costs, bills and financial aid. Cost & Tuition Rates Paying Your Tuition Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits Student Records Your grades, degree, transcripts and all your personal information. Transcripts & Other Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning MENUMENU Texas OneStop Registration and Degree Planning Undergraduate Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes Add/Drop a Course Late Registration Clearing Bars Registration Times Taking a Course Pass/Fail University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Student Records Transcripts & Other Records Official Transcripts Enrollment Certifications Unofficial Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning Contact CASH MyUT Academic Calendar FAFSA Undergraduate Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes Add/Drop a Course Late Registration Clearing Bars Registration Times Taking a Course Pass/Fail University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Registration and Degree Planning Registering for Classes One Stop is here to help you with questions about planning your course schedule, registering for classes and mapping your degree path. Register Now How to Register for Classes Meet with Your Academic Advisor Meet with your academic advisor in your college or school to discuss your degree requirements. This is recommended for all students and is required for many majors and departments. Find Your Registration Time Find your registration access date and times on your Registration Information Sheet (RIS). Update your contact information if it has changed. Registration Time Clear Bars Check your RIS to see your bars. Clear any bars that prevent you from registering. RIS Register for Classes Register for classes online during your scheduled access times. Register Now Pay Your Tuition Pay your tuition and fee bill or confirm attendance. Ways to Pay If you miss registering during your scheduled access time, learn about late registration. Need Help? Meet with your advisor. Find your advisor’s contact information in the How to Schedule With an Advisor document or via the college or school at the links below. If you still need help after meeting with your advisor, contact the Graduation Help Desk. School of Architecture Red McCombs School of Business Undergrad Business Moody College of Communication College of Education Cockrell School of Engineering College of Fine Arts Jackson School of Geosciences: Academic Advising, Undergraduate: 512-232-4544 School of Law College of Liberal Arts College of Natural Sciences School of Nursing College of Pharmacy Steve Hicks School of Social Work Graduate School Graduation Help Desk Auditing a Course Auditing a course means you are an observer or a “guest” of the instructor. Permission to audit a course is given by the instructor and only when space is available. Auditors do not participate, complete coursework, or contribute to the class. It is the instructor’s discretion and responsibility to add the auditor to Canvas, Zoom or any other teaching platform. Your permission to audit a course can be revoked by the instructor at any time. Auditors will not receive credit for auditing a course, and there will be no registration record or transcript of the audited course. Students currently enrolled at UT Austin If you will be enrolled as a student at the time of course follow these steps: Using the Class Auditor Permit, speak with the instructor of the course to receive permission to audit the course. Digital signatures are accepted. Once approval is received, send the signed audit permit to your Dean’s Office for permission to audit. If approved, your college will send the approved Class Auditor Permit to the Registrar’s Office Student Records for record keeping only. There is no registration record or transcript for someone auditing a course. Once you have received Dean’s approval you are approved to audit the course and further communication regarding the course is between you and the instructor. It is the instructor’s discretion and responsibility to add you as an observer to Canvas or any other web-based platform. This permission will be given only when the class has started. Non- UT Austin students, under the age of 65 If you will not be enrolled as a student at the time of the course and you are under age 65, follow these steps: Using the Class Auditor Permit, speak with the instructor of the course to receive permission to audit the course. Digital signatures are accepted. Once approval is received, take the signed Class Auditor Permit to the Bursar’s Office, located in room 8 of the UT Tower. There you will pay a $20 fee for each course you are planning to audit. If you are unable to physically turn in the form to the Bursar’s office, you can mail the form and payment to: Bursar (Cashier) Services, P.O. Box 7398, Austin, Texas 78713-7398. Once payment has been made, the Bursar’s Office will send the permit to the Office of the Registrar Student Records for filing only. There is no registration record or transcript for someone auditing a course. After payment has been made, you are approved to audit the course and further communication regarding the course is between you and the instructor. It is the instructor’s discretion and responsibility to add you as an observer to Canvas or any other web-based platform. This permission will be given only when the class has started. Current UT Austin Employee If you are employee of the university you are eligible to audit up to (3) semester hours of coursework per semester: Using the Class Auditor Permit, speak with the instructor of the course to receive permission to audit the course. Digital signatures are accepted. Once approval is received, send the signed Class Auditor Permit to the Office of the Registrar Student Records at studentacademicrecords@austin.utexas.edu, for filing only. There is no registration record or transcript for someone auditing a course. Once approved you are ready to audit the course and further communication about the course is between you and the instructor. The $20 fee is waived, for up to 3 semester hours, for current employees. It is the instructor’s discretion and responsibility to add you as an observer to Canvas or any other web-based platform. This permission will be given only when the class has started. Auditors over the age of 65 If you are over the age of 65: Using the Class Auditor Permit, speak with the instructor of the course to receive permission to audit the course. Digital signatures are accepted. Once approval is received, send the signed Class Auditor Permit to the Office of the Registrar Student Records at studentacademicrecords@austin.utexas.edu, for filing only. There is no registration record or transcript for someone auditing a course. Once approved you are ready to audit the course and further communication about the course is between you and the instructor. It is the instructor’s discretion and responsibility to add you as an observer to Canvas or any other web-based platform. This permission will be given only when the class has started. Instructor Help If you need to add the auditor to your Canvas course, additional information on how to do so can be found at the following here. It is recommended that you use the observer role in Canvas, which is better aligned with our auditor policy. More information about the observer role can be found at the following here. If you have additional questions or need further assistance with Canvas, the Canvas support team can be contacted at canvas@utlists.utexas.edu How to Register for Classes Tuition Billing and Payment Updates Back To Top Still Need Help? We’re here for you. Visit Hours of Operation Monday–Friday 8:30 a.m.– 4:30 p.m. Visit Texas One Stop › MAI 1 (Ground Floor of UT Tower) 110 Inner Campus Dr. Austin, TX 78712 – To submit paper documents (such as appeals or applications), please scan a PDF of your document and email directly to Texas One Stop at onestop@utexas.edu. Call (512) 232-6988 (myUT) Hours of operation for phone calls are 8:30 a.m.- 5:00 p.m. Call volumes may be higher during peak times. Call Us Email onestop@utexas.edu 2 business day response time email FEEDBACK feedback survey Contact My UT CASH Code of Conduct Policies Emergency Information FAFSA #003658 SMS Terms and Conditions Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Consumer Information Disclosures Further Information and Disclosures utexas.edu