Skip to main navigation Skip to content Protect Texas. Stay Informed. Covid-19 Updates University of Texas at Austin University of Texas at Austin logo Forms About Us Contact Student FAQs MyUT Academic Calendar CASH FAFSA Registration and Degree Planning Everything you need to plan and register for classes. Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Everything you need to know about costs, bills and financial aid. Cost & Tuition Rates Paying Your Tuition Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits Student Records Your grades, degree, transcripts and all your personal information. Transcripts & Other Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning MENUMENU Texas OneStop Registration and Degree Planning Undergraduate Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes Add/Drop a Course Late Registration Clearing Bars Registration Times Taking a Course Pass/Fail University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Student Records Transcripts & Other Records Official Transcripts Enrollment Certifications Unofficial Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning Contact CASH MyUT Academic Calendar FAFSA Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Managing Costs Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits The GI Bill® is an education benefit earned by members of Active Duty, Selected Reserve and National Guard Armed Forces and their families. Eligibility for veteran and dependent education benefits is determined by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). GI Bill® benefits can cover a percentage of tuition and mandatory fees based on the length of active duty service as determined by the VA. If you are considering UT Austin and have general questions about your veteran education benefits, contact us for assistance. Our Veterans’ and Dependents’ Education Benefits booklet provides more information about VA benefits at the University. Applying for GI Bill® Benefits You must first be admitted to UT and pursuing a degree-seeking program before being certified for GI education benefits. All students: Register for classes. Only courses that apply toward your degree program can be certified for VA benefits. Complete and submit the GI Bill® Questionnaire. Upload all necessary supporting documents using GI Bill® Document Uploads. Graduate Students: *Upload your Degree Plan/Curriculum Checklist. This should be obtained from your graduate advisor or program coordinator. See our Education Benefits Booklet for more information. *Upload your Semester Specific Letter. This should be obtained from your graduate advisor or program coordinator. See our Education Benefits Booklet for more information. *Steps 4 and 5 are not required if you are an MBA, MSTC, or Law School student. Taking courses this summer? Refer to our Summer 2022 Status Comparison document for details on enrollment and MHA/BAH. Students using MGIB: Verify your attendance with the VA. Veteran Certification, in the Office of the Registrar, will start certifying enrollment with the VA after online tuition bills are distributed. After that, it may take up to 15 business days to submit your certification to the VA. If you are not registered for your classes when you submit your questionnaire, the 15-day period will begin after you are registered. It may take the VA several weeks to process the certification once submitted. If you have applied in a timely manner and we have certified your benefits, the VA will typically pay the Post-9/11 tuition benefits a couple of weeks prior to the beginning of the semester. The VA will pay housing benefits or monthly stipends in arrears following the end of the month. GI Bill® Benefits and Your Tuition Bill You are responsible for paying your tuition bill and confirming your registration is complete by the tuition deadline shown on My Tuition Bill. Even if your bill shows a zero balance ($0) you have to follow the prompts on My Tuition Bill to complete your registration. Your tuition bill must say “Your registration is complete and your courses are secured.” If you do not take this step, your courses will be cancelled and you will have to register again. The VA will not pay any late registration fees. If you are using the Post-9/11 GI Bill®, the university can “cover” your tuition at your eligibility rate. Completed the steps in Applying for GI Bill® Benefits. If you are using education benefits for the first time you need to submit a copy of your Certificate of Eligibility. Otherwise, upload a recent copy of your award letter from the VA or a printout from VA.gov or eBenefits website (including entitlement and complete enrollment history). We will notify the Student Accounts Receivable (SAR) office to post coverage to your tuition. Review My Tuition Bill to verify your coverage has been posted, otherwise pay your tuition. If you have a zero balance ($0) click the “Confirm Attendance” button; otherwise follow the prompts. Options for paying any remaining balance will be available on My Tuition Bill. Your tuition bill must say “Your registration is complete and your courses are secured.” If you are receiving GI Bill® under any chapter, you may be eligible to have the nonresident portion of your tuition waived. Contact the residency office to request a waiver for the nonresident tuition amount. If you are using the Post-9/11 GI Bill®, the waiver must be posted to your tuition bill before we can certify you for education benefits. Contact Special Billing if you have questions about your tuition bill. Using GI Bill® and Hazlewood Benefits If you are using VA Education Benefits and the Hazlewood Exemption concurrently (“stacking” benefits), you must complete the GI Bill® Questionnaire and Hazlewood Application by the Hazlewood deadline. When using both the Post-9/11 GI Bill® and Hazlewood, you are required to use your VA benefits first. Any remaining tuition balance eligible for the Hazlewood Exemption will be applied toward your tuition bill, after your Post-9/11 GI Bill® benefit is applied. Concurrent Enrollment – Parent Institution Form A student receiving VA Education Benefits at UT Austin may take courses at another school that apply toward their degree. In order to approve benefits for enrollment at a “secondary” school, the VA must receive confirmation from the “parent/primary” school that a student is entitled to receive full credit in their approved degree program for the course(s) they plan to take. You will earn your degree from UT Austin, your “parent/primary” school. All other schools are “secondary” schools. Students receiving VA Education Benefits UT Austin (the “primary” school) must: Follow the directions on UT’s Parent Institution form to complete STEP 1 – TO BE COMPLETED BY STUDENT Upload the form using GI Bill® Document Uploads. Once your form has been reviewed and approved by a UT Austin School Certifying Official (SCO) we will contact you so you can pick up your Parent Institution Form from Veteran Certification at the Texas One Stop. Students requesting a Parent Institution Form must have every intention of returning to UT Austin after they complete their course(s) at the “secondary” school. Yellow Ribbon Program UT Austin is participating in the Yellow Ribbon program for the 2020-2021 academic year. It is awarded to undergraduate students on a first-come, first-serve basis. Visit the Department of Veterans Affairs Yellow Ribbon website for more information. Additional Information The President signed into law the Harry W. Colmery Veterans Educational Assistance Act also known as the “Forever GI Bill®,” which brings significant changes to Veterans education benefits. Read the summaries on the VA website to find out how those changes may affect you. Contact us Veteran Certification, Main Building (MAI) Room 1 gibill@austin.utexas.edu, Phone 512-475-7540 The University of Texas at Austin Office of the Registrar, Veteran Certification PO Box 7216, Austin TX 78713-7216 Back To Top Still Need Help? We’re here for you. Visit Hours of Operation Monday–Friday 8:30 a.m.– 4:30 p.m. Visit Texas One Stop › MAI 1 (Ground Floor of UT Tower) 110 Inner Campus Dr. Austin, TX 78712 – To submit paper documents (such as appeals or applications), please scan a PDF of your document and email directly to Texas One Stop at onestop@utexas.edu. Call (512) 232-6988 (myUT) Hours of operation for phone calls are 8:30 a.m.- 5:00 p.m. Call volumes may be higher during peak times. Call Us Email onestop@utexas.edu 2 business day response time email FEEDBACK feedback survey Contact My UT CASH Code of Conduct Policies Emergency Information FAFSA #003658 SMS Terms and Conditions Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Consumer Information Disclosures Further Information and Disclosures utexas.edu