Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. One Stop Student Service Center One Stop right arrow down arrow Information for... right arrow down arrow Parents right arrow down arrow Parent Checklist Transfer Students right arrow down arrow Transfer Student Checklist Alumni New Students right arrow down arrow New Student Checklist Information for Admitted Students Graduate Students right arrow down arrow Graduate Student Checklist Continuing Students UC Blue Ash Students UC Clermont Students Transition Students Financial Aid right arrow down arrow Financial Aid Verification Requirements Scholarships Apply for Aid Student and Parent Loans right arrow down arrow Parent PLUS Loans Accept Financial Aid Awards Financial Aid Eligibility Requirements Billing & Payment right arrow down arrow Refunds Payment Plans Tuition & Fees Paying Your Bill Parent Information Registration & Records right arrow down arrow Personal Information University Calendars Delegated Access right arrow down arrow Create Parent or Guest Identity Verify Enrollment or Degree Class Registration right arrow down arrow Find Your Enrollment Times Overload Registration & Charges Search Class Offerings Order Transcripts Student Money Management right arrow down arrow 15 to Finish Avoid Overborrowing Student Loans Budgeting Understanding Credit Reports and Scores Identity Theft Loan Repayment Covering Remaining Costs Resources Savings and Banking Student Jobs Understanding Credit Cards Money Management Workshop Request Other Helpful Resources right arrow down arrow Catalyst Self-Help Guide Meet the Team One Stop » Information for... » New Students Set Navigation title in component New Students New Student Checklist Information for Admitted Students Parents Parent Checklist Transfer Students Transfer Student Checklist Alumni Graduate Students Graduate Student Checklist Continuing Students UC Blue Ash Students UC Clermont Students Transition Students New Students Are you new to the University of Cincinnati? This New Student page contains tips and resources to help ease your transition to the university. Orientation The University of Cincinnati is excited to welcome all our new Bearcats and will still be offering Bearcats Bound Orientation for students starting in Fall 2021. However, in response to the current COVID-19 restrictions on large gatherings, Bearcats Bound Orientation is moving to a remote format. Housing For the Housing timeline, important dates and answers to many frequently asked questions, please visit the University Housing website. New Student Checklist View the New Student Checklist to ensure that you don't miss any steps. One Stop Catalyst Self-Help Guide Need help navigating Catalyst? Use this One Stop Catalyst Self-Help Guide for instructions on how to do your UC related business online. Delegated Access You can use the Give Parent/Guest Access link in Catalyst to set up access for your parent or other party. Please note: Incoming students are able to delegate access to their account a few weeks prior to attending new student orientation. Cincinnati Tuition Guarantee The Cincinnati Tuition Guarantee for new, degree-seeking first-year and transfer students, sets tuition, mandatory fees, and room and board at a consistent rate for up to four or five years depending on the length of the student’s academic program. Financial Aid Award Letter Review personalized financial aid options as itemized in your financial aid award letter via Catalyst. Please note: Changes to your schedule can impact the amount of your financial aid. Covering Remaining or Out-of-Pocket Cost Use the Estimated Remaining Cost Tool to calculate the amount that may be needed to cover any remaining cost. Options can include the Tuition Payment Plan, a Parent PLUS loan and Alternative loans. Review your options to determine what is best for your family. Direct Deposit Sign up for direct deposit to have financial aid or credit balance refunds automatically deposited into your bank account. Health Insurance & Immunization Waive university health insurance if you have other coverage. Submit vaccination information to MedProctor. One Stop Student Service Center PO Box 210101 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-1000 onestop@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati One Stop Student Service Center PO Box 210101 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-1000 onestop@uc.edu © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top