Skip to main navigation Skip to content Protect Texas. Stay Informed. Covid-19 Updates University of Texas at Austin University of Texas at Austin logo Forms About Us Contact Student FAQs MyUT Academic Calendar CASH FAFSA Registration and Degree Planning Everything you need to plan and register for classes. Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Everything you need to know about costs, bills and financial aid. Cost & Tuition Rates Paying Your Tuition Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits Student Records Your grades, degree, transcripts and all your personal information. Transcripts & Other Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning MENUMENU Texas OneStop Registration and Degree Planning Undergraduate Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes Add/Drop a Course Late Registration Clearing Bars Registration Times Taking a Course Pass/Fail University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Student Records Transcripts & Other Records Official Transcripts Enrollment Certifications Unofficial Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning Contact CASH MyUT Academic Calendar FAFSA Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Managing Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Aid Offer Timeline Incoming, first-year undergraduate students Early spring If you are admitted to the university, have a completed FAFSA on file, and have completed the verification process, you will receive a link to your Financial Aid Notification (FAN) by email. Beginning March 22, these notifications are sent to the email account you have on file with the university. Students in the Path to Admission through Co-Enrollment (PACE) program will begin receiving email notices on March 29, 2021. You may update or confirm your email address in UT Direct. You will need to respond to your award offer and complete required loan documentation before you receive any loans that are included with your financial aid offer. For more information on how to accept your offer, visit How To Accept Your FAN. Approximately one week before class starts (fall and spring semesters) Your financial aid will be disbursed to your university student account. If you have excess funds after your tuition, fees, housing, and other authorized charges are paid, that money will be sent to the bank account you designated for direct deposit. If you do not have a direct deposit account, then a check will be mailed to your local address on file. If you have additional tuition, fees, housing or other charges that are not covered by your financial aid, these charges will display on What I Owe. Please note Financial aid continues to be offered and disbursed throughout the semester as students accept and respond to their aid offers. Students selected for verification must have all requested documents submitted and reviewed to receive a FAN. Once the verification process is complete, students can expect to receive a FAN within two weeks. Please note that the time to receive a FAN may increase during peak periods. Current undergraduate students Early May If you have a completed FAFSA on file and have completed the verification process, you will receive a link to your Financial Aid Notification (FAN) by email. Beginning May 5, 2021, these notifications are sent to the email account you have on file with the university. You may update or confirm your email address in UT Direct. You will need to respond to your award offer and complete required loan documentation before you receive any loans that are included with your financial aid offer. For more information on how to accept your offer, visit How To Accept Your FAN. Approximately one week before class starts (fall and spring semesters) Your financial aid will be disbursed to your university student account. If you have excess funds after your tuition, fees, housing, and other authorized charges are paid, that money will be sent to the bank account you designated for direct deposit. If you do not have a direct deposit account, then a check will be mailed to your local address on file. If you have additional tuition, fees, housing or other charges that are not covered by your financial aid, these charges will display on What I Owe. Please note Financial aid continues to be offered and disbursed throughout the semester as students accept and respond to their award offers. Students selected for verification must have all requested documents submitted and reviewed to receive a FAN. Once the verification process is complete, students can expect to receive a FAN within two weeks. Please note that the time to receive a FAN may increase during peak periods. Specific timelines for all students (including incoming transfer, graduate students, and continuing students attending summer school) are available at When to Expect A Financial Aid Offer for the 2021–22 Academic Year. Still Need Help? We’re here for you. Visit Hours of Operation Monday–Friday 8:30 a.m.– 4:30 p.m. Visit Texas One Stop › MAI 1 (Ground Floor of UT Tower) 110 Inner Campus Dr. Austin, TX 78712 – To submit paper documents (such as appeals or applications), please scan a PDF of your document and email directly to Texas One Stop at onestop@utexas.edu. Call (512) 232-6988 (myUT) Hours of operation for phone calls are 8:30 a.m.- 5:00 p.m. Call volumes may be higher during peak times. Call Us Email onestop@utexas.edu 2 business day response time email FEEDBACK feedback survey Contact My UT CASH Code of Conduct Policies Emergency Information FAFSA #003658 SMS Terms and Conditions Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Consumer Information Disclosures Further Information and Disclosures utexas.edu