Skip to main navigation Skip to content Protect Texas. Stay Informed. Covid-19 Updates University of Texas at Austin University of Texas at Austin logo Forms About Us Contact Student FAQs MyUT Academic Calendar CASH FAFSA Registration and Degree Planning Everything you need to plan and register for classes. Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Everything you need to know about costs, bills and financial aid. Cost & Tuition Rates Paying Your Tuition Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits Student Records Your grades, degree, transcripts and all your personal information. Transcripts & Other Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning MENUMENU Texas OneStop Registration and Degree Planning Undergraduate Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes Add/Drop a Course Late Registration Clearing Bars Registration Times Taking a Course Pass/Fail University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Student Records Transcripts & Other Records Official Transcripts Enrollment Certifications Unofficial Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning Contact CASH MyUT Academic Calendar FAFSA Home Home Welcome to your resource for: registering for classes financial aid paying your bill ordering transcripts When To Expect Your Financial Aid Notice (FAN) Understanding your financial aid begins with your FAN. Learn when you can expect a financial aid offer for the 2022-23 Academic Year. Texas Financial Wellness Texas Financial Wellness is a new resource created to provide with the tools needed to improve student financial health. Longhorn Textbook Access (LTA) LTA is an initiative in partnership with the University Co-op that is designed to reduce the cost of digital textbooks and other course materials for students. Sending a Transcript for UT transfer credits Visit the Transcript Submission section in Admissions for details on how to submit your transcript from another school for transfer credits. 2021 HEERF III Emergency Relief Fund The Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF)  allocates funds to support individuals and businesses/organizations, including colleges and universities, affected by the pandemic and economic downturn. Find a Scholarship Use the Scholarship Finder tool to search and apply for a scholarship administered by the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid. Trending Questions Can I get a refund for the enrollment fee? How do I apply for Summer Financial Aid? How do I register for summer classes? When is graduation? When are final exams? When do summer classes start? Important Dates 18May Maymester begins. 23May Registration for continuing and readmitted students for the summer session for those who have not yet registered. Add/drop for the summer session for students who have registered and paid their tuition. 24May Registration for continuing and readmitted students for the summer session for those who have not yet registered. Add/drop for the summer session for students who have registered and paid their tuition. 25May Tuition payment deadline is 5:00 p.m. for undergraduate students. 28May Summer residence halls open at 9:00 a.m. University Health Services benefits become available to registered students. 30May Memorial Day holiday. 31May University required Orientation and testing begin for new undergraduate students (for the most up to date information regarding orientation dates/schedules, please visit New Student Services website). 31May Registration for the summer sessions; students who register on these dates can register for any summer session: first term, whole session, nine-week, and second term. To complete registration, undergraduate, graduate, and law students must pay tuition by 5:00 p.m. on Tuesday, June 7. View More Dates Still Need Help? We’re here for you. Visit Hours of Operation Monday–Friday 8:30 a.m.– 4:30 p.m. Visit Texas One Stop › MAI 1 (Ground Floor of UT Tower) 110 Inner Campus Dr. Austin, TX 78712 – To submit paper documents (such as appeals or applications), please scan a PDF of your document and email directly to Texas One Stop at onestop@utexas.edu. Call (512) 232-6988 (myUT) Hours of operation for phone calls are 8:30 a.m.- 5:00 p.m. Call volumes may be higher during peak times. Call Us Email onestop@utexas.edu 2 business day response time email FEEDBACK feedback survey Twitter More from @onestoptexas The smile you make once you receive all the answers to your last minute summer tuition questions! Stop by MAI 1 from 8:30 a.m.-4:30 p.m. to get one-on-one support for all your summer tuition and billing questions. Registration for summer 2022 ends TOMORROW, April 29. Reply on Twitter 1519762139149393921 Retweet on Twitter 1519762139149393921 Like on Twitter 15197621391493939211 Same great @UTAustin classes. 25% off of the fall and spring semester cost. Learn more about our discounted Summer 2022 courses, which can help you save money and stay on track for graduation: https://onestop.utexas.edu/managing-costs/cost-tuition-rates/summer-2022-tuition/ Reply on Twitter 1519330789623832577 Retweet on Twitter 1519330789623832577 Like on Twitter 15193307896238325771 Contact My UT CASH Code of Conduct Policies Emergency Information FAFSA #003658 SMS Terms and Conditions Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Consumer Information Disclosures Further Information and Disclosures utexas.edu