Skip to main navigation Skip to content Protect Texas. Stay Informed. Covid-19 Updates University of Texas at Austin University of Texas at Austin logo Forms About Us Contact Student FAQs MyUT Academic Calendar CASH FAFSA Registration and Degree Planning Everything you need to plan and register for classes. Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Everything you need to know about costs, bills and financial aid. Cost & Tuition Rates Paying Your Tuition Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits Student Records Your grades, degree, transcripts and all your personal information. Transcripts & Other Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning MENUMENU Texas OneStop Registration and Degree Planning Undergraduate Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes Add/Drop a Course Late Registration Clearing Bars Registration Times Taking a Course Pass/Fail University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Student Records Transcripts & Other Records Official Transcripts Enrollment Certifications Unofficial Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning Contact CASH MyUT Academic Calendar FAFSA Undergraduate Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes Add/Drop a Course Late Registration Clearing Bars Registration Times Taking a Course Pass/Fail University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Registration and Degree Planning Registering for Classes Add/Drop a Course At the beginning of each semester, you can add or drop classes if you have registered and paid in a previous period. Check your Registration Information Sheet online to find out when you can access the registration system for add/drops. Refer to the General Information Catalog for complete add/drop policies and procedures. Add Courses You may add courses using the registration system through the fourth class day (second class day in summer). After that time, you must obtain departmental approval to add a course. Check to see if your class has a prerequisite requirement. Prerequisites are academic requirements that you must meet before or during enrollment for your desired courses. Adding/Dropping Courses and Its Impact on Financial Aid Drop Courses Consult with your academic advisor about how dropping courses might impact your academic progress, financial aid or access to campus resources. If you drop below full-time status (which is 12 hours for undergraduates and 9 hours for graduates in fall and spring), you will be considered a part-time student. If you wish to drop all of your courses after the semester begins, you must withdraw entirely from the university. Q-Drops If you realize you want to drop a class after the 12th class day, you will need to start a Q-drop request before the Q-drop deadline, which typically occurs near the middle of the semester. See the academic calendar for exact dates. Meet with your assigned academic advisor to discuss and fill out the drop form. Graduate students may drop a course after the Q-drop deadline. The instructor determines whether the symbol Q or a grade of F will be recorded. See your graduate program coordinator for details. OTE (One-Time Exception) Drops A One-Time Exception is a Q-drop or withdrawal after the regular deadline. Every undergraduate is allowed one OTE, whether it is used to withdraw from all classes or drop one class. An OTE drop counts as one of your six Q-drops. Once you’ve used it, you cannot use it again. See your advisor for more information. Visit Academic Advisor Waitlists A waitlist is a list that students can join and wait for open seats in a class. If it is turned on by the department, and all the seats in a class have been filled, students can join the waitlist. If a student in the class drops it, a seat opens up and is filled by a student on the list. Waitlists are active from the first day of registration through the 4th class day (fall and spring) or 2nd class day (summer) in a semester. The department offering the class must turn on a list before it becomes available for students to join. Joining a Waitlist When registering for a closed class, you will get the chance to join a waitlist if its department has turned a list on and you are registered for at least one class. The class will appear closed or waitlisted in the Course Schedule. Attempt to add the closed or waitlisted class; you will be notified that the class is closed and if there is a waitlist available, you will be given the option to add yourself to the list. You can join up to two lists per course, and can be on four lists at any one time. Seeing My Waitlists The See My Waitlists page shows the lists you are on, the date you joined the list, your place, the latest notice sent to you, and your swap class if you have selected one. From this page, you can also remove yourself from a waitlist or update your swap class. Show My Waitlists Updating My Swap Class A swap class is a class on your schedule that you choose to drop if you get into a waitlisted class. For example, you might want BIO 340L but it is full so you add BIO 455L instead, and list it as the swap class. If a seat opens in 340L and you are added, the system drops you from 455L. If you drop 455L but don’t update your waitlist, you will not be added to 340L even if a seat opens up. You can update your swap class from your See My Waitlists page as follows: To choose or change your swap class, choose a class from your schedule in the pull-down menu, then click the Change button. To turn a swap class off, choose None in the pull-down menu, then click Change. Back To Top Still Need Help? We’re here for you. Visit Hours of Operation Monday–Friday 8:30 a.m.– 4:30 p.m. Visit Texas One Stop › MAI 1 (Ground Floor of UT Tower) 110 Inner Campus Dr. Austin, TX 78712 – To submit paper documents (such as appeals or applications), please scan a PDF of your document and email directly to Texas One Stop at onestop@utexas.edu. Call (512) 232-6988 (myUT) Hours of operation for phone calls are 8:30 a.m.- 5:00 p.m. Call volumes may be higher during peak times. Call Us Email onestop@utexas.edu 2 business day response time email FEEDBACK feedback survey Contact My UT CASH Code of Conduct Policies Emergency Information FAFSA #003658 SMS Terms and Conditions Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Consumer Information Disclosures Further Information and Disclosures utexas.edu