Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. One Stop Student Service Center One Stop right arrow down arrow Information for... right arrow down arrow Parents right arrow down arrow Parent Checklist Transfer Students right arrow down arrow Transfer Student Checklist Alumni New Students right arrow down arrow New Student Checklist Information for Admitted Students Graduate Students right arrow down arrow Graduate Student Checklist Continuing Students UC Blue Ash Students UC Clermont Students Transition Students Financial Aid right arrow down arrow Financial Aid Verification Requirements Scholarships Apply for Aid Student and Parent Loans right arrow down arrow Parent PLUS Loans Accept Financial Aid Awards Financial Aid Eligibility Requirements Billing & Payment right arrow down arrow Refunds Payment Plans Tuition & Fees Paying Your Bill Parent Information Registration & Records right arrow down arrow Personal Information University Calendars Delegated Access right arrow down arrow Create Parent or Guest Identity Verify Enrollment or Degree Class Registration right arrow down arrow Find Your Enrollment Times Overload Registration & Charges Search Class Offerings Order Transcripts Student Money Management right arrow down arrow 15 to Finish Avoid Overborrowing Student Loans Budgeting Understanding Credit Reports and Scores Identity Theft Loan Repayment Covering Remaining Costs Resources Savings and Banking Student Jobs Understanding Credit Cards Money Management Workshop Request Other Helpful Resources right arrow down arrow Catalyst Self-Help Guide Meet the Team One Stop » Information for... » Parents Set Navigation title in component Parents Parent Checklist Transfer Students Transfer Student Checklist Alumni New Students New Student Checklist Information for Admitted Students Graduate Students Graduate Student Checklist Continuing Students UC Blue Ash Students UC Clermont Students Transition Students Parents At the One Stop Student Service Center, we understand parents play a vital role in helping chart the path of their students here at University of Cincinnati. Your student is our most important priority and parents are welcome to contact us directly. Please note that UC is governed by the Family Education Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (FERPA). Student and Family Panel on Return to Campus Given the fast-changing nature of this pandemic, information from this panel discussion may be updated or altered in the weeks and months ahead. Parent and Family Programs We encourage you to visit the Parent and Family Programs website often for information and resources. One Stop Catalyst Self-Help Guide Need help navigating Catalyst? Use this One Stop Catalyst Self-Help Guide for instructions on how to do your UC related business online. Parent Checklist View the Parent Checklist to ensure that required steps are not missed by your student. Delegated Access Has your student granted you access to view and/or discuss their account? Your student can use the Give Parent/Guest Access link in Catalyst to set up delegated access for a parent (or other party). You will receive an email with instructions once your student has granted you access. Student's To Do List in Catalyst You are able to view your student's To Do List items in Catalyst, with delegated access. It is important to submit requested documentation as soon as possible. Check your Student's Bill in Catalyst Review due dates and payment options, including the Tuition Payment Plan, by visiting the Bursar's website. Cincinnati Tuition Guarantee The Cincinnati Tuition Guarantee for new, degree-seeking first-year and transfer students, sets tuition, mandatory fees, and room and board at a consistent rate for up to four or five years depending on the length of the student’s academic program. Financial Aid Award Offer Review personalized financial aid options as itemized in your student's financial aid award offer via Catalyst. Changes to your student's schedule can impact the amount of their financial aid. Covering Remaining or Out-of-Pocket Cost Use the Estimated Remaining Cost Worksheet to calculate the amount that may be needed to cover any remaining cost. Options can include the Tuition Payment Plan, a Parent PLUS loan and Alternative loans. Review your options to determine what is best for your family. Parent Billing Information The University of Cincinnati wants the payment of your student's bill to be as convenient and easy as possible for you, the parent. Review the Bursar's Parent Information page in order to understand all of your options. You can sign up for direct deposit for the Parent PLUS loan in your parent Catalyst account. Health Insurance & Immunization Waive university health insurance if you have other coverage. Submit vaccination information to MedProctor. Live in Kentucky or Indiana? You may be required to submit Metropolitan or Reciprocity applications if you live in a qualifying county and your student is in an eligible program. Review due dates and required documentation by visiting the Registrar's Office website. Verify Enrollment/Degree Need verification for car insurance or health insurance? Free, official degree enrollment and verification documents may be printed directly from Catalyst. Please note: enrollment certifications for each term are available on the first day of classes for that term. One Stop Student Service Center PO Box 210101 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-1000 onestop@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati One Stop Student Service Center PO Box 210101 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-1000 onestop@uc.edu © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top