Skip to main navigation Skip to content Protect Texas. Stay Informed. Covid-19 Updates University of Texas at Austin University of Texas at Austin logo Forms About Us Contact Student FAQs MyUT Academic Calendar CASH FAFSA Registration and Degree Planning Everything you need to plan and register for classes. Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Everything you need to know about costs, bills and financial aid. Cost & Tuition Rates Paying Your Tuition Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits Student Records Your grades, degree, transcripts and all your personal information. Transcripts & Other Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning MENUMENU Texas OneStop Registration and Degree Planning Undergraduate Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes Add/Drop a Course Late Registration Clearing Bars Registration Times Taking a Course Pass/Fail University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Student Records Transcripts & Other Records Official Transcripts Enrollment Certifications Unofficial Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning Contact CASH MyUT Academic Calendar FAFSA Forms About Us Contact Student FAQs MyUT Academic Calendar CASH FAFSA Visit Texas One Stop Texas One Stop is open Monday through Friday from 8:30 a.m.– 4:30 p.m. Need to speak with a counselor in person? ESTIMATED WAIT TIME: refresh Total students waiting: Hours (until further notice) Monday–Friday: 8:30 a.m.–4:30 p.m. Text "BEVO" to 512-515-3792 Location: MAI 1 (Ground Floor of UT Tower) 110 Inner Campus Dr. Austin, TX 78712 Visit the UFCU lounge Students are welcome to visit the UFCU Lounge, which is part of University Federal Credit Union’s $1 million gift to support Texas One Stop’s operations. “This generous gift will make such a difference in helping our students access the services and support they need through every step of their UT journey,” Jennifer Love, Director of Texas One Stop for Enrollment Services. UFCU CEO and Longhorn alum, Tony Budet, shared “since our founding by UT faculty in 1936, UFCU has consistently aspired to provide opportunities for everyone in the communities we serve to grow and learn. We acknowledge education is a key to financial health and well-being. We are delighted that our investment in the Texas One Stop Center is a tangible way for UT Austin students and families to positively connect their successful education with our commitment to serve as a trusted partner on their journey.” If you’re not able to visit in person, you can still call or email Texas One Stop for assistance. We’re here for you! Call: (512) 232-6988 Email: onestop@utexas.edu Learn more about the university’s plans for Fall 2020 at Protect Texas Together. Still Need Help? We’re here for you. Visit Hours of Operation Monday–Friday 8:30 a.m.– 4:30 p.m. Visit Texas One Stop › MAI 1 (Ground Floor of UT Tower) 110 Inner Campus Dr. Austin, TX 78712 – To submit paper documents (such as appeals or applications), please scan a PDF of your document and email directly to Texas One Stop at onestop@utexas.edu. Call (512) 232-6988 (myUT) Hours of operation for phone calls are 8:30 a.m.- 5:00 p.m. Call volumes may be higher during peak times. Call Us Email onestop@utexas.edu 2 business day response time email FEEDBACK feedback survey Contact My UT CASH Code of Conduct Policies Emergency Information FAFSA #003658 SMS Terms and Conditions Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Consumer Information Disclosures Further Information and Disclosures utexas.edu