Skip to main navigation Skip to content Protect Texas. Stay Informed. Covid-19 Updates University of Texas at Austin University of Texas at Austin logo Forms About Us Contact Student FAQs MyUT Academic Calendar CASH FAFSA Registration and Degree Planning Everything you need to plan and register for classes. Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Everything you need to know about costs, bills and financial aid. Cost & Tuition Rates Paying Your Tuition Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits Student Records Your grades, degree, transcripts and all your personal information. Transcripts & Other Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning MENUMENU Texas OneStop Registration and Degree Planning Undergraduate Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes Add/Drop a Course Late Registration Clearing Bars Registration Times Taking a Course Pass/Fail University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Student Records Transcripts & Other Records Official Transcripts Enrollment Certifications Unofficial Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning Contact CASH MyUT Academic Calendar FAFSA Transcripts & Other Records Official Transcripts Enrollment Certifications Unofficial Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Student Records Degrees and Diplomas There are several steps you can take to ensure the information on your diploma is correct and confirm how you would like to receive your diploma. Diploma Information Your name and degree earned will be displayed on your diploma. The name on your diploma will default to your legal name listed on your student record unless you have requested a diploma name. Majors, minors, and certificates are not included on diplomas. Confirming Name and Degree Prior to graduation, you will receive a “Degree Candidate” email from the Office of the Registrar (sent to the email on file with the university), which will ask you to confirm your diploma name and the degree you will earn. Please remember to update your email if it has changed. Effective spring 2021 and future semesters, degree candidates may select to have a diploma name that is different from the legal name on their student record. A diploma name can be updated the semester of graduation, but unless specified, your legal name will be the default name on the diploma. If you have designated a chosen name on your student record and would like your diploma name to match your chosen name, you will still need to update your diploma name during your graduating semester. Diploma names are presented in the English Latin alphabet and cannot include numbers, symbols, emojis, icons, honorifics, post-nominals, etc., and will follow current stylistic rendering of the UT Austin diploma, including but not limited to font, capitalization, size, etc. Diplomas may display accented characters on the diploma. The following accent marks are allowed as part of a diploma name: grave, acute, circumflex, tilde, and umlaut. If you need to add an accent to your name to appear on the diploma, please update diploma name. If you need to correct or change your legal name, bring your original supporting documentation (such as a valid driver’s license, passport, birth certificate, marriage license or divorce decree that reinstates your name) to the Texas One Stop in Main Building (MAI). Photocopies are not accepted. Certified copies of court-ordered name changes are acceptable. Signed name change requests will be processed and documentation returned to the sender. Name changes will be reflected on your permanent record and on your new or reissued diploma unless a diploma name has been designated. To avoid any delays in processing your diploma order, please remember to check for any financial bars and/or pay any financial obligations. Also, be sure to verify and update your permanent address. Receiving Your Diploma Receiving by Mail You will receive your diploma by mail within two to three months after graduation. It’s imperative that your permanent address is current; you can verify it here. Please note: Diplomas are mailed only to your permanent address on file. Forwarding orders will not work; the post office does not forward parcel mail. If you are staying at an address different from your permanent address, you must include “C/O” in front of the name of the person living at that address. (C/O stands for “Care Of.”) For example: Jane Bevo C/O Jimmy Longhorn 111 Any Street Austin, TX 12345 We mail all diplomas via the U.S. Postal Service (throughout the U.S. and internationally). If you want to track your diploma, you can use FedEx at your own expense. This is the only way to receive a tracking number. If you would like to FedEx your diploma, contact Diploma Services at diplomas@austin.utexas.edu. In-Person Pickup If you would like your diploma held for pickup rather than sent by mail, submit a request here. Ordering a Replacement Diploma You may order a replacement diploma online, by fax, mail or in person. Your replacement diploma will ship in about a week by first-class mail. The charge for a replacement diploma is $50. Payment can be made by check or money order made payable to The University of Texas; if paying by credit card, Mastercard, Visa or Discover, include the card’s number and expiration date. We cannot accept American Express. For diplomas originally issued before 2001, the replacement diploma may bear the signatures of current officials, with the notation “Reissued” appearing below the date awarded. You can now select a diploma name to be printed that is different from the legal name on your student record. The legal name currently listed on your University record may be different from both your chosen and your diploma name, as shown in the Name Management System. To order a replacement diploma with a new diploma name, you must first verify or update your diploma name in the Name Management System: Open the Name Management System page in a separate tab. Verify or update your diploma name. Return to the diploma replacement site and complete your order. Please note that your diploma name will not appear on the diploma replacement site. You must indicate in the comments field at the bottom that you have a different diploma name when completing the form. For more information on diploma name, see section Confirming Name and Degree. Order a Replacement Diploma Online There is a $50 replacement fee. If ordering through the paper process, print and fill out our order form and either Bring it in to our office in Room 16 of the Main Building; Fax it to 512-475-7515; or Mail it to The University of Texas at Austin, Office of the Registrar, attn Diploma Services, P.O. Box 7216, Austin TX 78713-7216. Scan and email to diplomas@austin.utexas.edu. Verifying Graduation and Degree Enrollment Certification If you have restricted your student record information, then it may not be viewable by potential employers. Restricted information may include: name, degree, majors and dates of attendance. To review or change your restrictions, click here. Your diploma name will display via the Degree Verify site when verifying degree earned. Notarizing Diplomas We can notarize your diploma at no additional charge. Graduates requesting diplomas for employment purposes overseas may need to investigate what authentication is required by the country where the diploma will be presented. Diplomas may be sent overnight at your expense via FedEx, and those fees will be billed to your credit card. Some employers require legal name to be presented on required documentation such as official transcript and diploma. Please keep this in mind when updating diploma name. Apostille Diplomas requiring an apostille must be notarized, then forwarded to the Texas Secretary of State’s Authentications Unit. You can contact Diploma Services or Texas One Stop for assistance with this process. Additional forms will be required. Back To Top Still Need Help? We’re here for you. Visit Hours of Operation Monday–Friday 8:30 a.m.– 4:30 p.m. Visit Texas One Stop › MAI 1 (Ground Floor of UT Tower) 110 Inner Campus Dr. Austin, TX 78712 – To submit paper documents (such as appeals or applications), please scan a PDF of your document and email directly to Texas One Stop at onestop@utexas.edu. Call (512) 232-6988 (myUT) Hours of operation for phone calls are 8:30 a.m.- 5:00 p.m. Call volumes may be higher during peak times. Call Us Email onestop@utexas.edu 2 business day response time email FEEDBACK feedback survey Contact My UT CASH Code of Conduct Policies Emergency Information FAFSA #003658 SMS Terms and Conditions Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Consumer Information Disclosures Further Information and Disclosures utexas.edu