Skip to main navigation Skip to content Protect Texas. Stay Informed. Covid-19 Updates University of Texas at Austin University of Texas at Austin logo Forms About Us Contact Student FAQs MyUT Academic Calendar CASH FAFSA Registration and Degree Planning Everything you need to plan and register for classes. Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Everything you need to know about costs, bills and financial aid. Cost & Tuition Rates Paying Your Tuition Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits Student Records Your grades, degree, transcripts and all your personal information. Transcripts & Other Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning MENUMENU Texas OneStop Registration and Degree Planning Undergraduate Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes Add/Drop a Course Late Registration Clearing Bars Registration Times Taking a Course Pass/Fail University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Student Records Transcripts & Other Records Official Transcripts Enrollment Certifications Unofficial Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning Contact CASH MyUT Academic Calendar FAFSA Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Managing Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Managing Aid Managing your Money Now is the time to establish smart money management skills. We’re here to help you get started. Manage Debt Debt is an amount that is owed to a person or an organization for funds borrowed and requires repayment, usually with interest. The first thing to consider about debt is that not all debt is bad. Certain debt, such as student loans, may be considered a good investment, or good debt, if managed properly. It’s important to keep a watchful eye on your debt to make sure that it doesn’t spiral out of control. A few signs of debt distress: Using credit cards to pay for living expenses Using the overdraft protection plan on your checking account to pay monthly bills Taking on more debt to pay off existing debt Paying only the minimum due on credit card accounts If you find yourself in the habit of committing one or more of these, you should consider seeking help with developing a plan to pay off your debts. Budgeting A budget is an itemized summary of likely income and expenses during a certain period. Usually formatted in a spreadsheet, a budget provides an organized and easily understood breakdown of how much money you have coming in and how much you are letting go. It’s an invaluable tool to help you prioritize your spending and manage your money — no matter how much or how little you have. Here are a few apps that’ll help you get started on a budget. Chegg Mobile App: One-stop shop for getting unstuck on homework Mint: Makes managing your personal finances a cinch YNAB: You Need a Budget Save Money Once you’ve created a budget, you’ll be better equipped to start saving money. Whether it’s for unexpected expenses, such as car problems or a trip to the hospital, or for your long-term goals, such as getting your own apartment or taking a spring break vacation, it’s a good idea to start saving now. You may not realize it, but saving even a little bit here and there will add up. Here are a few apps that’ll help you save money. Slice: A shopper’s best friend for keeping track of everything you buy online Hooked: Hungry? Hooked can help you deal with that Clarity Money: Helps cancel unwanted subscriptions Honey: Searches for coupon codes so you don’t have to Responsible Borrowing Loans can be a great resource to help pay your education expenses, but they can also cause you financial stress later in life if you do not practice responsible borrowing. Borrowing responsibly includes borrowing only what you need to pay your education expenses and what you can realistically afford to repay. By being mindful of how much you’re borrowing, you’ll be better prepared to begin making loan payments once you graduate from UT. More Resources CashCourse: Your Real Life Money Guide The NEFE’s guide to financing college. National Endowment for Financial Education (NEFE) The founders of CashCourse offer you tools and resources for after college. iGrad: Your Future … Our Focus Creates a personalized program to help you budget, pay off student loans and start your career. National Student Loan Data System (NSLDS): Your Loan Information The federal government’s summary of your student loan debt and your loan providers. NerdWallet: Better Financial Decisions Start Here Your personalized budgeting program with an app. Practical Money Skills For Life Visa’s basic- to advanced-level financial education program. Income-Based Repayment (IBR) Information A not-for-profit initiative with instructions on paying student loans and qualifying for loan forgiveness. CNBC: College Game Plan An up-to-date resource of news articles on financing college. Community for Accredited Online Schools: College Guide for Low Income Students Opportunities and resources for students facing financial challenges. Please note that UT is not affiliated with any of the links shared above. Back To Top Still Need Help? We’re here for you. Visit Hours of Operation Monday–Friday 8:30 a.m.– 4:30 p.m. Visit Texas One Stop › MAI 1 (Ground Floor of UT Tower) 110 Inner Campus Dr. Austin, TX 78712 – To submit paper documents (such as appeals or applications), please scan a PDF of your document and email directly to Texas One Stop at onestop@utexas.edu. Call (512) 232-6988 (myUT) Hours of operation for phone calls are 8:30 a.m.- 5:00 p.m. Call volumes may be higher during peak times. Call Us Email onestop@utexas.edu 2 business day response time email FEEDBACK feedback survey Contact My UT CASH Code of Conduct Policies Emergency Information FAFSA #003658 SMS Terms and Conditions Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Consumer Information Disclosures Further Information and Disclosures utexas.edu