Skip to main content EXPLORE CATALOG PROGRAMS Physician Assistant Online Program Tropical Forest Landscapes Climate Change and Health Financing and Deploying Clean Energy Hybrid Doctor of Nursing Practice Online Master of Public Health Health Informatics Mastertrack SOM Executive Education ABOUT YALE ONLINE NEWS CONTACT US Search Breadcrumb Home Offerings Catalog Introduction to Breast Cancer Published: April 4, 2016 Medicine Science share icon ?Get Help Coursera share icon ?Get Help Toggle sticky buttons Description Welcome to an Introduction to Breast Cancer! In this course, we’ll learn a bit about the leading cause of cancer in women worldwide – from the basic biology of the disease, to risk factors and prevention, to treatment modalities to survivorship. We’ll talk to leading experts, explore some of the milestone studies that have pushed this field forward, and have interactive discussions on discussion boards and social media. You’ll even have an opportunity to let us know what topics you want to cover on tweetchats, so we can try to make the content fit your interests. There is something in this course for everyone – if you’re a breast cancer survivor or the friend/family member of someone with this disease, this course will help you to better understand this disease, and give you ideas for questions you may want to ask your doctor. Maybe you’re a healthcare provider or studying to be the same, this course is a great refresher on where the state of the science is. If you’re a healthcare administrator wondering about how the interdisciplinary components of breast cancer care fit together, or an entrepreneur thinking about unmet needs in this space, or someone in public health interested in prevention, this course is also for you! Are you ready to learn a lot, and have some fun while we’re at it? If so, I hope you’ll join us! Let’s get started!!! Course Takeaways Leading cause of cancer in women worldwide The basic biology of the disease Various risk factors and prevention, treatment and survivorship Join the course Available Now Delivery Available on Coursera Duration 7 weeks (13 hours) Fees None Language English Subtitles Arabic, French, Portuguese (European), Italian, Vietnamese, German, Russian, English, Spanish Credentials Coursera Certificate Meet the Instructors Anees B. Chagpar Professor of Surgery (Oncology) MD, MBA, MPH, FACS, FRCS(C) Anees is the Director of The Breast Center, Smilow Cancer Hospital at Yale-New Haven, an Associate Professor in the Department of Surgery, Yale School of Medicine, the Program Director of the Interdisciplinary Breast Fellowship at Yale University, and the Assistant Director for Global Oncology at Yale Comprehensive Cancer Center. Born and raised in Canada, she completed her BSc in Honors Biochemistry and MD with Honors in Research at the University of Alberta, and her general surgery residency training and MSc at the University of Saskatchewan. She went on to complete the Susan G. Komen Interdisciplinary Breast Fellowship at the University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center, an MPH at Harvard School of Public Health and an MA in Bioethics and Medical Humanities at the University of Louisville. After fellowship, she joined the University of Louisville as Assistant Professor of Surgery, rising rapidly through the ranks to Associate Professor with tenure and Academic Advisory Dean. She built the first nationally accredited Breast Center in Kentucky at the James Graham Brown Cancer Center prior to being recruited to Yale in September 2010 where she led the effort for Yale to become the first NCI designated Comprehensive Cancer Center in the Northeast to have a nationally accredited breast center. She is a busy breast surgical oncologist who participates in investigator-initiated and cooperative group clinical trials, as well as translational and clinical research. Her most recent ground-breaking work was published in the prestigious New England Journal of Medicine. She enjoys teaching and mentoring medical students, residents, fellows and junior faculty, and is the Breast Surgery Section Editor for UpToDate, a commonly used resource. She is passionate about global health and leadership in academic medicine, having most recently completed an MBA for Executives with a focus on Leadership in Healthcare at Yale’s School of Management. Full biography Twitter LinkedIn Also in this subject course Understanding Medical Research: Your Facebook Friend is Wrong School of Medicine Coursera Course Youtube Series course Evolution and Medicine School of Public Health Youtube Series course Addiction Treatment for Healthcare Providers School of Medicine Coursera Course course Anatomy of the Chest, Neck, Abdomen, and Pelvis School of Medicine Coursera Course Explore Catalog Yale University New Haven, CT 06520 203-432-4771 Yale University New Haven, CT 06520 203-432-4771 CONTACT US ABOUT YALE ONLINE Sign up for our newsletter Sign Up Copyright © 2022 Yale University All Rights Reserved CEB4CF16-9E26-4952-98C9-88E096F1B563 5428CDCE-D9CA-4BD3-949D-8C3B518BF62E B9474A90-7358-4EE5-B5A9-909F2910CE48