Ohio State nav bar Skip to main content The Ohio State University Help BuckeyeLink Map Find People Webmail Search Ohio State Ohio State Online Main menu Programs Certificates Associate Degree Undergraduate Degree Master's Degree Doctoral Degree About Faculty Newsroom Future Students Resources Apply Tuition and Fees Financial Aid State Authorization Online Student Readiness Assessment Military & Veteran Students FAQs Current Students Student Services and Benefits Tech Support Academic Integrity Search form Search Go Breadcrumb navigation Home Future Students Apply Apply We're glad you like what you see at Ohio State. Our online programs have the same rigor as traditional programs on campus, and we are proud to say that standards for acceptance follow the same requirements for online and on-campus applicants. Below is an outline of the process, which will help you prepare and submit your application to the appropriate college. Before You Apply Deadlines Your application deadline will be determined by the program you're studying. You'll apply along the same timeline as on-campus students would. See the university's academic calendar for important university dates, including payment schedule. Select your program below to go to the Graduate and Professional Admissions page for program-specific details. Prerequisites Distance students are held to the same admissions standards as traditional students. Select your program below to go to the Graduate and Professional Admissions page for program-specific details. Displaying 1 - 48 of 48 Program - Choose - Advanced Chemistry Knowledge for Educators Certificate AS to Bachelor of Science in Radiologic Sciences Assistive and Rehabilitative Technology Certificate Associate of Arts in Early Childhood Development and Education Bachelor of Science in Health Sciences Bachelor of Science, Dental Hygiene Biomedical Informatics Certificate Core Practices in World Language Education Criminal Justice Administration Certificate Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Certificate Doctor of Nursing Practice Environmental Assessment Certificate Essential Skills for Travel and Business in Russia Certificate Federal Policy and Management Certificate Health and Wellness Coaching Graduate Certificate Healthcare Environmental and Hospitality Services Certificate Healthcare Leadership and Innovation Certificate Master in Plant Health Management Master of Arts in Art Education Master of Arts in Bioethics Master of Clinical Research Master of Dental Hygiene Master of Engineering Management Master of Global Engineering Leadership Master of Healthcare Innovation Master of Learning Technologies Master of Public Administration and Leadership Master of Public Health - Program for Experienced Professionals Master of Science in Agricultural Communication, Education, and Leadership Master of Science in Nursing Master of Science in Translational Pharmacology Master of Science in Welding Engineering Master of Science, Health-System Pharmacy Administration Master of Social Work Master of Translational Data Analytics Medical Coding and Health Care Data Analytics for Practice Certificate Nurse Coaching Graduate Certificate Nurse Educator Certificate Nursing in School Health Services Certificate Online Graduate Certificate in IT Business Strategy Online MBA for Working Professionals Public Management Certificate Registered Nurses in Primary Care Certificate RN to Bachelor of Science in Nursing School Nurse Professional Pupil Services Licensure Certificate School Nurse Wellness Coordinator Certificate Specialized Master in Business Analytics Usability and User Experience in Health Care Certificate Transfer Credit Be sure your documentation is in order to transfer any eligible credits you've already earned. Find more information about transfer credits for the graduate school. Unique Student Types International Students Applicants whose native language is not English must establish their English proficiency. International Applicants and those who have held the status of U.S. Permanent Resident for less than one year must submit a recent, official Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) score or Michigan English Language Assessment Battery (MELAB) score. Minimum score requirements and other details are provided by the graduate school. Countries may or may not regulate online education provided to students in their jurisdiction. It is an international student’s responsibility to understand a country’s online degree requirements and whether an online degree will be recognized in the country where the student is located, or the country where the student intends to work. Military and Veteran Students The Office of Military and Veterans Services ensures the academic success of Ohio State's military and veteran students. Any student utilizing VA education benefits must work with this office as part of their registration and enrollment in The Ohio State University. Learn more or contact an advisor by visiting the Military and Veteran's Services website. Out-of-State Students Applicants located in a state other than Ohio should check whether a program is authorized in the state where they are located. If you are applying to a program that leads to a professional license, it is highly recommended that you contact the appropriate licensing entity in your state, and/or the state where you intend to work, to determine professional licensure requirements in that state. Apply Now The Process The application process will take place through your college or department. It will follow essentially the same procedure for any application submitted by a traditional (on-campus) student, if applicable. Non-refundable application fees apply and are the same rate for traditional and distance students. The Application Not sure where to find the right application? Select your program below, and we'll take you there. Best of luck! Displaying 1 - 48 of 48 Program - Choose - Advanced Chemistry Knowledge for Educators Certificate AS to Bachelor of Science in Radiologic Sciences Assistive and Rehabilitative Technology Certificate Associate of Arts in Early Childhood Development and Education Bachelor of Science in Health Sciences Bachelor of Science, Dental Hygiene Biomedical Informatics Certificate Core Practices in World Language Education Criminal Justice Administration Certificate Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Certificate Doctor of Nursing Practice Environmental Assessment Certificate Essential Skills for Travel and Business in Russia Certificate Federal Policy and Management Certificate Health and Wellness Coaching Graduate Certificate Healthcare Environmental and Hospitality Services Certificate Healthcare Leadership and Innovation Certificate Master in Plant Health Management Master of Arts in Art Education Master of Arts in Bioethics Master of Clinical Research Master of Dental Hygiene Master of Engineering Management Master of Global Engineering Leadership Master of Healthcare Innovation Master of Learning Technologies Master of Public Administration and Leadership Master of Public Health - Program for Experienced Professionals Master of Science in Agricultural Communication, Education, and Leadership Master of Science in Nursing Master of Science in Translational Pharmacology Master of Science in Welding Engineering Master of Science, Health-System Pharmacy Administration Master of Social Work Master of Translational Data Analytics Medical Coding and Health Care Data Analytics for Practice Certificate Nurse Coaching Graduate Certificate Nurse Educator Certificate Nursing in School Health Services Certificate Online Graduate Certificate in IT Business Strategy Online MBA for Working Professionals Public Management Certificate Registered Nurses in Primary Care Certificate RN to Bachelor of Science in Nursing School Nurse Professional Pupil Services Licensure Certificate School Nurse Wellness Coordinator Certificate Specialized Master in Business Analytics Usability and User Experience in Health Care Certificate After You Apply You can check on your admissions status in your applicant center. After Admitted Congratulations on becoming a Buckeye! Visit your Student Center in BuckeyeLink Check finances Check holds Enroll in courses Meet with Your Program Advisor Upon enrollment, you'll be assigned an advisor. Their name will appear in your Student Center. Contact your advisor for a meeting before you begin your coursework. You can meet remotely via phone call or video conference. Get to Know the Tech Visit our Tech Support page to make sure you have the tools you need and get acquainted with the tech services you'll use for academic success at Ohio State. Need Accessibility Accommodations? Let us know, by registering with SLDS. OSO Learn More Link Still have questions? Inquire for the answers you need. Ohio State Online Office of Distance Education and eLearning Email: osuonline@osu.edu Facebook link for Ohio State Online Twitter link for Ohio State Online YouTube link for Ohio State Online LinkedIn link for Ohio State Online Annual Security Report Privacy Statement Accessibility Statement If you have a disability and experience difficulty accessing this content, please call the Accessibility Helpline at 614-292-5000.