Jump to Header Jump to Main Content Jump to Footer Skip navigation links Michigan State University Michigan State University FAQ MSU Online Online Programs Online Hybrid Certificate Bachelor's Completion Master's Doctorate | Online Students International Student Information Military and Veteran Student Information Frequently Asked Questions | Resources Financial Aid State Authorization Academic Calendar Libraries | How to Apply | Events MSU Online Online Programs Online Students Resources How to Apply Events < Online Programs Online Hybrid Certificate Bachelor's Completion Master's Doctorate < Online Students International Student Information Military and Veteran Student Information Frequently Asked Questions < Resources Financial Aid State Authorization Academic Calendar Libraries FAQ World-Class Education Explore your online and hybrid program opportunities Degree Type Degree Type Bachelor's Completion Certificate Doctorate Master's Degree Field of Study Field of Study Agriculture Business & Leadership Education Engineering & Technology Health & Human Services Interdisciplinary Justice Nursing & Medical Search MSU Online Browse Programs by Area Agriculture Business & Leadership Education Engineering & Technology Health & Human Services Justice Interdisciplinary Nursing & Medical 93% MSU graduates find jobs or go on to advanced degrees right out of college. Diversity & Inclusion Diverse & Inclusive Communities Learn More Explore Your Options Michigan State University offers students three ways to complete their education with on-campus, totally online and hybrid programming options. Online MSU is one of the top-70 universities in the world and offers online degree & certificate programs to help you achieve your learning goals from anywhere on the globe. View Online Programs Hybrid Enjoy the convenience of online learning with several programs that offer a combined online and on-campus learning experience. View Hybrid Programs On-Campus Many of our online programs are also offered on our beautiful 5,200-acre campus located in East Lansing, Michigan, USA. Visit msu.edu to learn more. On-Campus Programs “ I wanted to go to a reputable organization, for one, and Michigan State is definitely that. I love the rich tradition and prestige that MSU offers,” Adeniyi says of the school’s recognition. “And then I also wanted to specialize in exactly what I was passionate about, but also skilled in, so I wanted to have a more specialized online master’s degree as opposed to a general MBA. So, when I was searching for that I realized that management, strategy and leadership were the areas I’m most passionate about, and I was able to find a program at MSU that did just that. ” Andrew Adeniyi, MSU Student – MS in Management, Strategy and Leadership Online Want to Learn More? Explore our FAQ Page Delivery Method Hybrid Online Program Type Certificate Bachelor's Completion Master's Doctorate Online Students Frequently Asked Questions International Student Information Military and Veteran Student Information Resources Academic Calendar Financial Aid Libraries State Authorization Contact us (517) 355-1855 Address Michigan State University 426 Auditorium Road East Lansing, MI 48824 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Youtube If you're having accessibility issues, please let us know. Contact Information | Site Map | Privacy Statement | Site Accessibility Call MSU: (517) 355-1855 | Visit: msu.edu | MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer. | Notice of Nondiscrimination SPARTANS WILL. | © Michigan State University