Skip to Main Content Brown University School of Public Health Brown University Online Master of Public Health Search Menu Site Navigation Home Admissions Financial Aid Curriculum Faculty Integrated Learning Experience Search Online Master of Public Health Online Master of Public Health Become a future public health leader in our flexible, case-based online Master of Public Health program. Online Master of Public Health Become a future public health leader in our flexible, case-based online Master of Public Health program. At the Brown University School of Public Health, our goal in creating the Master of Public Health online degree program is simple and ambitious: To equip the next generation of public health leaders with the data analysis capabilities, public health knowledge and leadership skills to tackle the global health challenges of our time. Curriculum Acquire keen analytical, leadership and communication skills by studying current public health issues such as pandemics, health care system challenges and social inequities through case-based learning in our online Master of Public Health program. Visit Page Open details for Curriculum Faculty Learn from internationally renowned faculty who infuse courses with ground-breaking research and practice in areas such as COVID-19, minority and immigrant health, and intervention development in Brown University’s online Master of Public Health program. Visit Page Open details for Faculty Integrated Learning Experience Complete an analysis and make recommendations to address a real-world public health issue in your Integrated Learning Experience project for the online Master of Public Health program. Visit Page Open details for Integrated Learning Experience Admissions and Financial Aid Review admission and scholarship requirements for Brown’s online Master of Public Health program and begin your application. Visit Page Open details for Admissions and Financial Aid The Brown University School of Public Health Become acquainted with the Brown University School of Public Health, including our legacy of excellence and our commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion in public health education. Visit Page Open details for The Brown University School of Public Health To empower more people who can help meet those challenges, we’ve reimagined our generalist master’s in public health degree as a 100% online master’s in public health program. This allows working professionals worldwide greater access to graduate education from one of the country’s best universities for public health. The online MPH degree program is designed for working professionals throughout the United States and internationally. We aim to create a globally diverse student body. Graduate students will enter the program with at least two years of work experience, so you can meaningfully grow your career and enliven class discussions. 100 % online courses 12 Courses required 24 months Develop your public health practice through case-based pedagogy in Brown University’s online Master of Public Health degree program In keeping with the Brown University School of Public Health motto, to learn public health by doing public health, we have revolutionized our Master of Public Health degree program curriculum through case-based learning. Brown University is one of the few schools of public health to use this compelling pedagogical approach. Case-based learning in our public health online degree program allows you to tackle real-world cases exploring issues such as health care inequities and the COVID-19 pandemic, while also honing your skills in data analysis, leadership and communication. As one of the country’s best schools for public health — ranked among the top five schools for NIH funding — you will study with world-class faculty who are eminent scholars and practitioners. Equipped with an internationally respected MPH degree from Brown, our Master of Public Health graduates go on to pursue further education and distinguished careers in government, politics, the nonprofit sector, healthcare, consulting and other areas. The Brown University School of Public Health is accredited by the Council on Education in Public Health (CEPH). Admissions events Admissions events at the Brown University School of Public Health Find out more Requirements Learn about admission requirements for the online Master of Public Health degree program. Scholarships Apply for a scholarship to Brown University’s online Master of Public Health program. The Brown University School of Public Health See what distinguishes our School of Public Health as an outstanding choice for your online Master of Public Health degree. Request Program Information Apply through SOPHAS Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Public Health Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Admissions Financial Aid Curriculum Faculty Integrated Learning Experience This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Online Master of Public Health Open details for Online Master of Public Health Bookmark this Page