Skip to main content Apply Now Schedule Appointment (844) 823-1198 Search form Search Online Programs Masters Doctorate Graduate Certificates Admissions Admission Requirements Tuition and Financial Aid Admissions FAQs Apply Now International Students Military Students Online Experience About Why Seton Hall University Mission and Values Accreditation and Rankings Request Info Schedule Appointment What Great Minds Can Do Learn to become a strong, ethical leader. Study at a rising university committed to academic rigor. Explore Online Degrees Earn an online graduate degree from Seton Hall University to build practical, in-demand skills and establish connections with top companies and organizations. Interested in learning more about our programs? Attend one of our upcoming virtual information sessions (webinars). Attend a Webinar Master of Science in Accounting Build the foundation for an accounting career and prepare for the CPA exam. Develop the skills and networks to propel your success in the field. –Master of Science in Accounting, Learn More »Master of Science in Accounting M.B.A. Build functional business knowledge, analytical and critical thinking and global management skills you can apply immediately. Learn at a highly regarded institution boasting strong connections at the center of the business world. –M.B.A., Learn More »M.B.A. M.B.A. Concentrations Compliment your professional interests and goals by choosing from concentrations in Accounting, Finance and Marketing. –M.B.A. Concentrations, Learn More »M.B.A. Concentrations M.S.N. in Adult-Gerontology NP Prepare to serve adult to elderly patients in acute or primary care settings as a nurse practitioner. Study at an institution that has been a longtime leader in compassionate and forward-looking care. –M.S.N. in Adult-Gerontology NP, Learn More »M.S.N. in Adult-Gerontology NP M.S.N. in Psychiatric/Mental Health NP Prepare to assess, diagnose and treat individuals and families for psychiatric disorders as their primary provider throughout the lifespan. Graduate ready to pursue ANCC Psychiatric-Mental Health Nursing board certification. –M.S.N. in Psychiatric/Mental Health NP, Learn More »M.S.N. in Psychiatric/Mental Health NP About Seton Hall University One of the country’s leading Catholic universities, Seton Hall has been developing students in mind, heart and spirit since 1856. Seton Hall’s academic excellence has been singled out for distinction by The Princeton Review, U.S. News & World Report and Bloomberg Businessweek. Home to nearly 10,000 undergraduate and graduate students and to more than 90 academic programs, Seton Hall embraces students of all religions and prepares all graduates to be exemplary servant leaders and global citizens. For more information visit the About Us page. About Seton Hall University Seton Hall University 400 South Orange Ave South Orange, NJ 07079 (844) 823-1198 Online Programs Admissions Online Experience About Request Info Schedule Appointment Learn more about how to file a complaint about a distance program or courses. Follow #SetonHall facebook twitter linkedin youtube flickr instagram www.shu.edu/social Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Web Accessibility Sitemap © 2022 Seton Hall University. All rights reserved. Request Info Chat Loading...