Skip to main Menu Begin Your Program Application EdD expand_more About the School expand_more Faculty and Leadership Admissions Course Sequence expand_more EdD Course Descriptions PoP and Immersion Tuition and Financial Aid expand_more FAQs Events MPH expand_more About the School Admissions Course Descriptions Graduate Project and Immersion MPH Without GRE Scores Careers in Public Health Tuition and Financial Aid expand_more FAQs Events MSW expand_more Advanced Standing MSW About the School Admissions Application Requirements Curriculum Field Placement Careers in Social Work Tuition and Financial Aid expand_more FAQs Events Speech expand_more About the School Admissions Course Descriptions Careers in SLP How to Become a Speech Pathologist Tuition and Financial Aid expand_more FAQs Events Begin Your Program Application Earn Your MSW Online From Baylor University Baylor University Diana R. Garland School of Social Work’s Master of Social Work (MSW) online program, MSW@Baylor, prepares dedicated social work professionals to serve and empower vulnerable populations worldwide and address the needs of their communities from a strengths-based perspective. Why Earn an MSW Online From Baylor? Two Program Tracks We offer two online programs that can be completed in 12 to 24 months: the standard MSW and the advanced standing MSW. Accreditation MSW@Baylor is accredited by the Council on Social Work Education and will prepare you to pursue licensure after graduation. Two Specializations You can choose one of two specializations to focus on during your advanced studies: Clinical Practice or Community Practice. You will be challenged to think about the ethical integration of faith and social work practice while learning the skills and theories necessary to make meaningful, informed change. As an MSW@Baylor graduate, you will be prepared to serve as a trusted resource for your clients, no matter their personal background. GRE scores are not required to apply. Get Started Are you ready to pursue a service-oriented career as a social worker? Request more information about earning your MSW online from Baylor. Request Information Next Step REQUEST INFO close Close Modal Request Information Next Step EdD MPH MSW Speech Contact Us Resources 2U, Our Program Partner Legal Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell My Personal Information COVID-19 Update Sitemap © 2022 Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 Anonymous Reporting Mental Health Resources Title IX Report It close Close Modal Request Information Next Step