Skip to main content Louise Herrington School of Nursing Online Menu Louise Herrington School of Nursing Online Menu Contact Us Online Nursing Programs Accelerated Bachelor of Science in Nursing Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) - Executive Nurse Leadership Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) Family Nurse Practitioner Track Neonatal Nurse Practitioner Track Nurse-Midwifery Track Pediatric Nurse Practitioner Track Adult-Gerontology Acute Care Nurse Practitioner Track Online Experience Rankings and Recognition Accreditation & Affiliations Career Resources Clinical Placement Support Faculty Profiles Message from the Dean State Authorization Student Services and Support Student Testimonials Why Baylor University Online? Why Baylor University Online? Frequently Asked Questions Tuition & Financial Aid Blog Baylor in the News Legal Disclosures Legal Disclosures Anonymous Reporting Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Get Started Become a Student Refer a Friend Apply Now Distance Accelerated Bachelor of Science in Nursing Align your knowledge and skills to a more fulfiling career in Nursing. Learn more about our 1 Year online ABSN program. Find out if you qualify 90% of students receive a job offer at time of graduation Ranked #10 Best Nursing College Clinical Placement Support Home Online Nursing Programs Accelerated Bachelor of Science in Nursing Distance Accelerated Bachelor of Science in Nursing #1 Nursing School in Texas Clinical Placement Support Available #25 Most Innovative Schools [em]Distance[/em] Accelerated Bachelor of Science in Nursing Download Your Guide Close Get more information to make the decision that's right for you: Featured courses and degree outcomes Admission requirements Tuition and financial aid information Download Program Guide What would you like to study? What would you like to study? Accelerated BSN DNP Adult-Gero Acute Care Nurse Practitioner DNP Family Nurse Practitioner DNP Neonatal Nurse Practitioner DNP Nurse-Midwifery DNP Pediatric Nurse Practitioner DNP Executive Nurse Leadership Highest Level of Education Highest Level of Education High School / GED Some College Associate Degree Bachelor's Degree Graduate / Master's Degree Curriculum Label Are you a licensed R.N.? Yes No Next Step Step 1 of 2 First Name Last Name Email Phone Country Country United States of America Canada Afghanistan Aland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Austria Australia Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia, Plurinational State of Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and Saba Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cabo Verde Cambodia Cameroon Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Congo, the Democratic Republic of the Cook Islands Costa Rica Croatia Cuba Curaçao Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Faroe Islands Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island and McDonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran, Islamic Republic of Iraq Ireland Isle of Man Israel Italy Ivory Coast Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macao Macedonia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Madagascar Malaysia Malawi Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Micronesia, Federated States of Moldova, Republic of Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island North Korea Northern Mariana Islands Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestine, State of Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Reunion !Réunion Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Saint Barthélemy Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Martin (French part) Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Sint Maarten (Dutch part) Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands South Korea South Sudan Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan, Province of China Tajikistan Tanzania, United Republic of Thailand Timor-Leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States Minor Outlying Islands Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of Vietnam Virgin Islands, British Virgin Islands, U.S. Wallis and Futuna Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Zip Code Baylor University's technology partner works with multiple universities to offer online programs. Yes, I would like to learn more about these additional online programs. Submitting this form constitutes your express written consent to be called and/or texted by Baylor University at the number(s) you provided, regarding furthering your education. You understand that these calls may be generated using an automated technology, including by way of example, auto-dialer and click-to dial technologies. Calls may be recorded for quality assurance and training purposes. Privacy Policy. Download Your Brochure « Back | Step 2 of 2 X Close Form The Baylor Distance ABSN program is currently designed for students residing in Texas, but outside the DFW metro area. Students who reside within Dallas, Tarrant, Collin, & Rockwall counties should apply for the on-campus accelerated FastBacc® program at the Louise Herrington School of Nursing in Dallas. Celebrating Future Nurses Everywhere The pandemic has shined a light on how desperately our country needs nurses. During unprecedented times, many second-career nurses chose to pivot into nursing to answer the call of their communities. This Nurses Month, we honor those who have stepped up to start their journey as educated, skilled healthcare professionals. Baylor would like to offer our heartfelt thanks to the nurse of tomorrow–you will touch countless lives, making the future bright. Align Your Knowledge and Skills to a More Fulfilling Career The post-baccalaureate accelerated BSN program at Baylor University’s Louise Herrington School of Nursing is an intensive full-time program with a combination of teaching methodologies including on-line courses, clinical and lab experiences, and hybrid interactive learning courses. Students with a completed bachelor's degree in a non-nursing discipline will complete 62 hours of nursing course work and stand out as a Baylor nurse: Program completion in 45 weeks Gain clinical experience working with underserved communities Benefit from strong academics and a well-earned reputation Learn nursing through a Christian worldview Change your life and the lives of others Find out if you qualify for Baylor’s online Accelerated BSN program Step 12345 of 5 Go Back Question One Do you currently have a completed bachelor’s degree? Yes (go to Step 3) No (go to Step 2) Next Program Features At-A-Glance Earn your Bachelor of Nursing degree from the Louise Herrington School of Nursing, ranked #25 for Most Innovative Schools Main coursework is online with one 2-week, on-campus visit followed by clinicals in the field Practicum requirement total: 720 hours Courses range from 3 to 10 weeks in length, with 2 admission intakes per year Students learn from nationally recognized faculty Clinical Placement Services for students Total credits: 62 Question Two Will you have a completed bachelor’s degree within the next six months? Yes (go to Step 3) No (go to Step 5) Next Admissions Requirements At-A-Glance Completed bachelor's degree in any non-nursing discipline 52 pre-req credits must be completed before start 3.0 GPA on pre-req courses, 2.75 GPA on science pre-req courses HESI Exam Am I Eligible? Visit our FAQs Page for answers to questions regarding program eligibility. Visit our State Authorization page for a list of Texas counties in which we accept applicants for the Accelerated BSN program. Question Three Are you/Will you be a resident of the state of Texas within the next six months? Yes (go to Step 4) No (go to Step 5) Next Question Four Are you/Will you be a resident of Dallas, Tarrant, Collin, or Rockwall County in the next six months? Yes No Next Clinical Placements Provided At Baylor University’s Louise Herrington School of Nursing, we strongly believe in setting our online ABSN students up for success. That's why we will collaborate with you to identify clinical sites and preceptors for clinical rotations. Additionally, clinical placement sites may be potential locations for future employment opportunities upon graduation. If you already have a placement site or preceptor in mind, we encourage you to refer them to our placement team to secure. How Does This Benefit You? How Does the Clinical Placement Process Work? What is the Placement Experience Like? What Can I Expect from My Preceptor? Securing clinical placement sites and preceptors can be a challenging and tedious undertaking. It is not uncommon for students to contact 400+ sites before a preceptor agrees. That's why at Baylor, we collaborate with online nursing students on the heavy lifting to help identify clinical sites and preceptors for all clinical rotations. We'd much rather you focus on: Coursework Developing core competencies Current personal and professional obligations Shortly after enrollment, you will be provided with a placement intake form you are required to complete that captures your competencies, experience and placement preferences. Baylor University will collaborate with you to identify a quality placement site and preceptor. While the placement team is securing sites and preceptors, you will be responsible for completing clinical clearance requirements in preparation for placement, including: Drug screening Background check Recommended vaccinations You will not be permitted to begin your placement rotations without your clearances complete. Once the sites have been approved by the School of Nursing, Baylor University will share the placement site details with you prior to placement. During the placement experience, you will have access to faculty and other resources to support you: Faculty will be available to mentor and support you throughout the rotation with specific questions about procedures, patient interactions and general proficiencies. At the end of the placement rotation, you and your preceptor will review requirements, complete surveys and officially end the placement rotation. If you have multiple rotations, you will receive the next preceptor/site details. Your preceptor is your on-site role model and will help you develop as a nurse during your clinical rotation. They will: Bridge the gap between theory and actual practice Orient you to the practice setting (key personnel, organization, and institutional policies) Help you plan clinical assignments Provide one-on-one supervision and daily feedback Review and co-sign all documentation in the clinical records How Does This Benefit You? Securing clinical placement sites and preceptors can be a challenging and tedious undertaking. It is not uncommon for students to contact 400+ sites before a preceptor agrees. That's why at Baylor, we collaborate with online nursing students on the heavy lifting to help identify clinical sites and preceptors for all clinical rotations. We'd much rather you focus on: Coursework Developing core competencies Current personal and professional obligations How Does the Clinical Placement Process Work? Shortly after enrollment, you will be provided with a placement intake form you are required to complete that captures your competencies, experience and placement preferences. Baylor University will collaborate with you to identify a quality placement site and preceptor. While the placement team is securing sites and preceptors, you will be responsible for completing clinical clearance requirements in preparation for placement, including: Drug screening Background check Recommended vaccinations You will not be permitted to begin your placement rotations without your clearances complete. Once the sites have been approved by the School of Nursing, Baylor University will share the placement site details with you prior to placement. What is the Placement Experience Like? During the placement experience, you will have access to faculty and other resources to support you: Faculty will be available to mentor and support you throughout the rotation with specific questions about procedures, patient interactions and general proficiencies. At the end of the placement rotation, you and your preceptor will review requirements, complete surveys and officially end the placement rotation. If you have multiple rotations, you will receive the next preceptor/site details. What Can I Expect from My Preceptor? Your preceptor is your on-site role model and will help you develop as a nurse during your clinical rotation. They will: Bridge the gap between theory and actual practice Orient you to the practice setting (key personnel, organization, and institutional policies) Help you plan clinical assignments Provide one-on-one supervision and daily feedback Review and co-sign all documentation in the clinical records Results Unfortunately, it seems like our program is not the right fit for you at this time. A completed bachelor’s degree is required to qualify for Baylor’s online Accelerated BSN program. Please review our ABSN Program Overview for more information. We encourage you to re-inquire with us after completing a bachelor’s degree. Unfortunately, it seems like our program is not the right fit for you at this time. Residency in the state of Texas is required to qualify for Baylor’s online Accelerated BSN program. Please review our ABSN Program Overview for more information. We encourage you to re-inquire with us as a Texas resident. Unfortunately, our online Accelerated BSN program is not currently available in your area. Texas residents in Dallas, Tarrant, Collin, or Rockwall Counties are only eligible for Baylor’s on-campus FastBacc® BSN program at this time. We encourage you to learn more about the FastBacc® program. Learn More Baylor’s online Accelerated ABSN program may be a good fit for you. Fill out this form and get your Baylor ABSN Program Guide today. Online Accelerated BSN Curriculum At-A-Glance NUR 3212 - Professional Development: Foundations for Practice Introduces the role of the professional nurse as a member of the interprofessional healthcare team through concepts such as the nursing process, standards of practice, and philosophy of nursing from a current and historical perspective. Critical thinking, therapeutic communication, and caring are also introduced as tools to enhance the nurse-patient relationship. NUR 3330 - Introduction to Professional Nursing Practice An introduction to the concepts of professional nursing practice, emphasizing the establishment of the nurse-patient relationship, application of the nursing process, and development of psychomotor skills. NUR 4338 - Analysis and Synthesis of Complex Human Needs This course provides a critical analysis of individuals with multiple and complex problems and the effects of those problems on families and groups. A case-study/discussion format will be used to integrate physiological and spiritual needs across levels of care and across the lifespan. Get your program Guide Baylor Nursing By The Numbers % 96% first-time NCLEX pass rate in 2020 % 90% of nursing students receive a job offer at time of graduation. % 90% of clinical sites provided to ABSN students were within 125 miles of their home . % Baylor University is ranked higher than 94% of Best Colleges in the Nation in 2021 - U.S. News & World Report. A Need for Nurses There’s an RN shortage in Texas because of the baby boomer generation needing more care, current RNs moving into retirement, and health care reform. The need for nurses has never been greater. Here are some stats in relation to the RN shortage: 1 million RNs will retire by 2030 Texas has the 2nd largest RN shortage in the nation 17% of Texans lack health insurance Demand for nurses is projected to grow 12% through 2028 Emerge as a Skilled Nurse with Baylor's Distance ABSN program Through the Louise Herrington School of Nursing’s Distance ABSN program – an immersive, accelerated BSN online program designed for bachelor’s degree holders – you can prepare for a rewarding career in nursing in under 1 year. Here’s what you’ll learn: Elements of Professional Nursing—understand concepts of professional nursing and the role of the nurse as a member of an interprofessional healthcare team. The Human Needs Framework—master key elements of nursing practice as it pertains to care of patients and families with a diverse range of needs. Clinical Competencies—plan and deliver nursing care for individuals and families at different stages of life – including babies, children, adolescents, adults, and the elderly – with health issues of varying complexity. Healthcare Issues and Policy—understand the current issues and factors shaping healthcare on a national and global level and how they impact diverse cultures and communities. Get your program guide Hear What Our Students Say Sariah Turner shares her personal experience as a student in Baylor's Distance ABSN program in this short video testimonial, below. Hear from other students here. Accelerated BSN Nursing Program Prerequisites Here are the prerequisites needed before you can start your ABSN program: Microbiology Anatomy & Physiology I Anatomy & Physiology II Chemistry English Composition I English Composition II English Literature Federal Government Bible-based Religion World Religion History Nutrition Statistics Intro to Psychology Developmental Psychology Intro to Sociology We think you will find our school unlike any other in that we truly do consider ourselves as called to prepare nurses through the integration of faith and excellent academics. Be Bold. Be Decisive. Be Exceptional. Become a Baylor Nurse. U.S. News Featured in U.S. News & World Report for the 2022 Best Graduate Schools. CCNE We rigorously adhere to the accreditation standards established by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE)**. #1 NursingProcess.org ranked Baylor as the Best Nursing College in Texas. **The baccalaureate degree program in nursing, master's degree program in nursing, and Doctor of Nursing Practice program at Baylor University are accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, 655 K Street, NW, Suite 750, Washington, DC 20001, 202-887-6791. Connect With Your Baylor Enrollment Advisor Whether you have a simple question or need advice to determine which program is best for you, our friendly advisors are here to help. They can chat with you on your schedule and guide you through the entire admissions process so you can feel confident in moving forward with Baylor University. Download your guide to get started Request More Info Request More Info Apply Now Facebook LinkedIn Twitter YouTube Online Nursing Programs Accelerated Bachelor of Science in Nursing Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) - Executive Nurse Leadership Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) Family Nurse Practitioner Track Neonatal Nurse Practitioner Track Nurse-Midwifery Track Pediatric Nurse Practitioner Track ﻿Adult-Gerontology Acute Care Nurse Practitioner Track Why Baylor University Online? Accreditations and Affiliations Career Resources Clinical Placement Services Faculty Profiles FAQ Message from the Dean Online Experience Student Testimonials Student Services and Support State Authorization Tuition & Financial Aid Blog Contact Us Become a Student Refer a Friend Preceptors Apply Now Disclosures Anonymous Reporting Legal Disclosures Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Student Complaint Process Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 888-227-5901 • Privacy Policy • California Privacy Notice • Sitemap Back to top