Princeton Online Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Main Menu Menu Home Our Story Courses Instructors News FAQ Log in Search Search Princeton Online Welcome to Princeton Online! Princeton Online is the home of massive, open, online courses (MOOCs) offered through Princeton University's initiative in online education. We partner with faculty members who would like to expand the scope and impact of their teaching by offering their course to a world audience. We also work with faculty to create online content to enhance their courses for Princeton University students. Our goal is to provide exceptional educational opportunities to learners on our campus, and around the globe! Princeton Online started out in 2012, when we launched six courses on the online learning platform Coursera. Since then, Princeton faculty have created about 30 courses on a variety of academic topics, and reached some 3 million learners in over 190 counties. In addition to our offerings on Coursera, we also have a number of courses on edX and one course on Kadenze. Princeton Online's courses are free and not for credit. For more information about each course, please visit Our Courses. Princeton’s initiative in online education is located in the McGraw Center for Teaching and Learning as part of the Center's mission of promoting educational excellence. More information about this initiative and resources for faculty interested in online teaching are also located on the McGraw website. Recent News New course: Global Systemic Risk September 28, 2021 Learn world history with students at Princeton and refugees in Uganda and Jordan! August 29, 2019 Constitutional Interpretation April 12, 2019 The wait is almost over! December 13, 2018 HOPE opens on October 22nd October 18, 2018 1 / 5 < > Tweets by OnlinePrinceton Footer Connect With Us You can find answers to common questions in our Frequently Asked Questions. Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube Our Address McGraw Center for Teaching and Learning 328 Frist Campus Center Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 A unit of the Dean of the College Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University