Skip to Main Content Brown University School of Public Health Brown University Online Master of Public Health Search Menu Site Navigation Home Admissions Financial Aid Curriculum Faculty Integrated Learning Experience Search Online Master of Public Health Admissions and Financial Aid Review admission and scholarship requirements for Brown’s online Master of Public Health program and begin your application. Sub Navigation In This Section Financial Aid Take the next step Fall 2022 Application Deadline June 1; Priority Deadline: May 15 Request Program information Apply through SOPHAS Because no two students are the same, neither are two applications the same. This is why the Brown University School of Public Health takes a holistic approach to our online Master of Public Health admissions process. For this program, we actively seek a diverse student population from throughout the United States and the world. We also want to see applicants with at least two years of professional work experience. This allows you to enter the program with ideas about where you want to take your career, along with real-world expertise you can share with others. We do not require applicants to take the GRE. To apply for online master’s in public health admission, you will need the following: Official transcripts from all colleges and universities attended Letters of recommendation (3) Personal statement Resume/CV showing at least two years of work experience Application fee payment ($55) Personal statment answering the following: Why are you applying to the online MPH program? How has your work since obtaining your baccalaureate degree prepared you for this next step? How many years have you worked since attaining your baccalaureate degree? International applicants may also need to submit: Proof of language proficiency (TOEFL or IELTS) Transcript evaluation by WES Your completed application will then be reviewed by a faculty-chaired admissions committee. Fall 2022 Application Deadline June 1; Priority Deadline: May 15. Apply through SOPHAS Online Master of Public Health Scholarships and Financial Aid The Brown University School of Public Health is committed to making our online Master of Public Health admissions process accessible to underrepresented students domestically and globally. Depending on your experience and circumstances, you may qualify for a variety of sources of financial aid, including: Master of Public Health admissions application fee waiver Scholarships from Brown University School of Public Health Private scholarships from public health-related organizations Veterans benefits through the VA, Yellow Ribbon Fund and other sources Grants from local, state and federal government sources Graduate student loans from the federal government Financial aid information Online Master of Public Health Tuition Cost per course is $5,000 (12 courses required). Take the next step Fall 2022 Application Deadline June 1; Priority Deadline: May 15 Request Program information Apply through SOPHAS Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Public Health Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Admissions Financial Aid Curriculum Faculty Integrated Learning Experience This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Admissions and Financial Aid Open details for Admissions and Financial Aid Bookmark this Page