Skip to main content Louise Herrington School of Nursing Online Menu Louise Herrington School of Nursing Online Menu Contact Us Online Nursing Programs Accelerated Bachelor of Science in Nursing Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) - Executive Nurse Leadership Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) Family Nurse Practitioner Track Neonatal Nurse Practitioner Track Nurse-Midwifery Track Pediatric Nurse Practitioner Track Adult-Gerontology Acute Care Nurse Practitioner Track Online Experience Rankings and Recognition Accreditation & Affiliations Career Resources Clinical Placement Support Faculty Profiles Message from the Dean State Authorization Student Services and Support Student Testimonials Why Baylor University Online? Why Baylor University Online? Frequently Asked Questions Tuition & Financial Aid Blog Baylor in the News Legal Disclosures Legal Disclosures Anonymous Reporting Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Get Started Become a Student Refer a Friend Apply Now Online DNP - Nurse-Midwifery Provide Holistic, Women-Centered Care The Doctor of Nursing Practice Nurse-Midwifery Track (DNP NM) is the optimal pathway for those seeking preparation to provide the highest level of nursing practice to women using the midwifery model of care. Get Your Guide Clinical Placement Support 100% National Certification Pass Rate for FNP Graduates Accreditation Commission for Midwifery Education (ACME) Home Online Nursing Programs Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) Nurse-Midwifery Track Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP)Nurse-Midwifery Track Designed for actively practicing RNs Ranked #21 in Nursing-Midwifery, 2022 No GRE or MAT required [em]Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP)[/em]Nurse-Midwifery Track Deliver Women’s Care as a DNP Nurse-Midwife Students pursuing the online Doctor of Nursing Practice Nurse-Midwifery (DNP Nurse-Midwifery) track are prepared to provide holistic and women-centered care throughout the lifespan using the midwifery model of care. Our program is committed to the education of nurse-midwives in a unique Christian environment who are prepared to practice in concert with standards of nurse-midwifery practice. In addition, our program is committed to enrolling diverse and qualified students that pursue cultural competency and focus their service and clinical experiences caring for vulnerable populations. To see the American College of Nurse-Midwives's list of basic nurse-midwifery core competencies, click here. Download Your Guide Close Get more information to make the decision that's right for you: Featured courses and degree outcomes Admission requirements Tuition and financial aid information Download Program Guide What would you like to study? What would you like to study? Accelerated BSN DNP Adult-Gero Acute Care Nurse Practitioner DNP Family Nurse Practitioner DNP Neonatal Nurse Practitioner DNP Nurse-Midwifery DNP Pediatric Nurse Practitioner DNP Executive Nurse Leadership Highest Level of Education Highest Level of Education High School / GED Some College Associate Degree Bachelor's Degree Graduate / Master's Degree Curriculum Label Are you a licensed R.N.? Yes No Next Step Step 1 of 2 First Name Last Name Email Phone Country Country United States of America Canada Afghanistan Aland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Austria Australia Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia, Plurinational State of Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and Saba Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cabo Verde Cambodia Cameroon Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Congo, the Democratic Republic of the Cook Islands Costa Rica Croatia Cuba Curaçao Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Faroe Islands Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island and McDonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran, Islamic Republic of Iraq Ireland Isle of Man Israel Italy Ivory Coast Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macao Macedonia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Madagascar Malaysia Malawi Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Micronesia, Federated States of Moldova, Republic of Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island North Korea Northern Mariana Islands Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestine, State of Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Reunion !Réunion Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Saint Barthélemy Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Martin (French part) Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Sint Maarten (Dutch part) Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands South Korea South Sudan Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan, Province of China Tajikistan Tanzania, United Republic of Thailand Timor-Leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States Minor Outlying Islands Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of Vietnam Virgin Islands, British Virgin Islands, U.S. Wallis and Futuna Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Zip Code Baylor University's technology partner works with multiple universities to offer online programs. Yes, I would like to learn more about these additional online programs. Submitting this form constitutes your express written consent to be called and/or texted by Baylor University at the number(s) you provided, regarding furthering your education. You understand that these calls may be generated using an automated technology, including by way of example, auto-dialer and click-to dial technologies. Calls may be recorded for quality assurance and training purposes. Privacy Policy. Download Your Brochure « Back | Step 2 of 2 X Close Form Schedule an Appointment Now Talk to a dedicated enrollment advisor about our online nursing programs. Schedule Your Appointment Simply choose a time when you are available to chat, and one of our advisors will give you a call. Honoring Our Nurses At the Baylor University Louise Herrington School of Nursing, we are proud to honor nurses for their selfless contributions serving at the heart of healthcare. You've seen the magnitude of the pandemic first-hand and yet continue to tend to your patients' physical, emotional, and spiritual needs. This Nurses Month, we proudly celebrate and appreciate you. For those with a passion for women's health, you're sure to take extra care to show patience and understanding. Thank you, nurses, for serving with grace and with kindness. Clinical Placement Support At Baylor University’s Louise Herrington School of Nursing, we strongly believe in setting our students up for success. That's why we collaborate with you to identify clinical sites and preceptors for all clinical rotations. Additionally, clinical placement sites may be potential locations for future employment opportunities upon graduation. If you already have a placement site or preceptor in mind, we encourage you to refer them to our placement team to secure. Get your DNP Nurse-Midwife guide for more information. How Does This Benefit You? How Does the Clinical Placement Process Work? What is the Placement Experience Like? What Can I Expect from My Preceptor? Securing clinical placement sites and preceptors can be a challenging and tedious undertaking. It is not uncommon for students to contact 400+ sites before a preceptor agrees. That's why at Baylor, we collaborate with online nursing students on the heavy lifting to help identify clinical sites and preceptors for all clinical rotations. We'd much rather you focus on: Coursework Developing core competencies Current personal and professional obligations Shortly after enrollment, you will be provided with a placement intake form you are required to complete that captures your competencies, experience and placement preferences. Baylor University will collaborate with you to identify a quality placement site and preceptor. While the placement team is securing sites and preceptors, you will be responsible for completing clinical clearance requirements in preparation for placement, including: Drug screening Background check Recommended vaccinations You will not be permitted to begin your placement rotations without your clearances complete. Once the sites have been approved by the School of Nursing, Baylor University will share the placement site details with you prior to placement. During the placement experience, you will have access to faculty and other resources to support you: Faculty will be available to mentor and support you throughout the rotation with specific questions about procedures, patient interactions and general proficiencies. At the end of the placement rotation, you and your preceptor will review requirements, complete surveys and officially end the placement rotation. If you have multiple rotations, you will receive the next preceptor/site details. Your preceptor is your on-site role model and will help you develop as a nurse during your clinical rotation. They will: Bridge the gap between theory and actual practice Orient you to the practice setting (key personnel, organization, and institutional policies) Help you plan clinical assignments Provide one-on-one supervision and daily feedback Review and co-sign all documentation in the clinical records How Does This Benefit You? Securing clinical placement sites and preceptors can be a challenging and tedious undertaking. It is not uncommon for students to contact 400+ sites before a preceptor agrees. That's why at Baylor, we collaborate with online nursing students on the heavy lifting to help identify clinical sites and preceptors for all clinical rotations. We'd much rather you focus on: Coursework Developing core competencies Current personal and professional obligations How Does the Clinical Placement Process Work? Shortly after enrollment, you will be provided with a placement intake form you are required to complete that captures your competencies, experience and placement preferences. Baylor University will collaborate with you to identify a quality placement site and preceptor. While the placement team is securing sites and preceptors, you will be responsible for completing clinical clearance requirements in preparation for placement, including: Drug screening Background check Recommended vaccinations You will not be permitted to begin your placement rotations without your clearances complete. Once the sites have been approved by the School of Nursing, Baylor University will share the placement site details with you prior to placement. What is the Placement Experience Like? During the placement experience, you will have access to faculty and other resources to support you: Faculty will be available to mentor and support you throughout the rotation with specific questions about procedures, patient interactions and general proficiencies. At the end of the placement rotation, you and your preceptor will review requirements, complete surveys and officially end the placement rotation. If you have multiple rotations, you will receive the next preceptor/site details. What Can I Expect from My Preceptor? Your preceptor is your on-site role model and will help you develop as a nurse during your clinical rotation. They will: Bridge the gap between theory and actual practice Orient you to the practice setting (key personnel, organization, and institutional policies) Help you plan clinical assignments Provide one-on-one supervision and daily feedback Review and co-sign all documentation in the clinical records Learn More Two entry options are available To learn more about the entry options, download your digital program guide. BSN to DNP 75 Credits Just over 3 years to completion Post-Master's DNP 38-75 Credits 2 to 3 years to completion DNP-Midwifery Admission Requirements At-A-Glance BSN from a regionally accredited school of nursing 3.0 cumulative GPA One (1) year of full-time experience as a practicing professional nurse by the first day of class Current unencumbered RN license Additional documents or experience may be required - download your course guide for more information DNP-Midwifery Program Features ACME-accredited*, CCNE-accredited** and U.S. News & World Report ranked program Main coursework is online with on-campus immersions throughout the program Practicum requirement total: 1,125 hours for BSN pathway and 1,000 hours minimum for MSN pathway Courses are 15 weeks, with three terms per year Students learn from nationally recognized faculty Clinical placement support Total credits: 75 for BSN pathway and 38-75 for MSN pathway See all pass and graduation rates here Accreditation & Rankings Baylor University is distinguished in healthcare and business, preparing students with the skills and knowledge to stand out in the industry. The Louise Herrington School of Nursing is nationally recognized and: Accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE) Approved by the Texas Board of Nursing Member of the American Association of Colleges of Nursing Recognized as one of the top educational institutions in the nation, ranking at #76 in National Universities on U.S. News & World Report 2021 list Ranked by Best-Nursing-Colleges.com as the #10 Best Nursing College in Texas. Download Your DNP-Midwifery Course Guide to Get Started Am I Eligible for Baylor's Online DNP-Midwifery program? Visit our FAQs Page for answers to questions regarding program eligibility. Visit our State Authorization page for a list of states in which we accept applicants for the online BSN to DNP-FNP program. Baylor Nursing By The Numbers % 90% of clinical placement sites provided to DNP students were within 125 miles of their home. % 100% certification pass rate for Family Nurse Practitioners graduates. % Baylor University is ranked higher than 94% of Best Colleges in the Nation in 2021 - U.S. News and World Report . % Baylor’s DNP program is ranked higher than 88% of the Best DNP Programs in Texas in 2021 - dnpprograms.com. DNP Midwifery Curriculum At-A-Glance Emphasizing women-focused healthcare services, the curriculum provides a detailed study of birthing, gynecological, and preventive care. Important Dates Now Accepting Applications. Seating is limited. Next Start Date: August 22nd, 2022 NUR 5140: Professional Issues and History of Nurse-Midwives The role and image of, and misconceptions about, the nurse-midwife in contemporary society are explored. The historic, political, social, and economic bases of nurse-midwifery practice are examined. Students become familiar with the role of the American College of Nurse-Midwives (ACNM) in professional practice and resources available through the ACNM, as well as regulations and legislation which guide, interpret, and provide a legal and ethical base for future nurse-midwifery practice. NUR 5346: Nurse-Midwifery IV: High Risk Family This course focuses on application of the Nurse-Midwifery process to the care of mothers and newborns with complications. The goal of this course is to further develop the roles and responsibilities of the health care provider in caring for women and families who have high risk situations or conditions. NUR 5344: NM III: Care of the Childbearing Family This course focuses on application of the Nurse-Midwifery process for the care of healthy women during childbirth and the newborn. Get My DNP-Midwifery Course Guide Frequently Asked Questions How long will it take to complete the online DNP program? Students typically complete the DNP program in the following timeframe. Please note that actual length to program completion will vary depending on the student's background and selected track. BSN holders typically complete our DNP program in three (3) years and four (4) months, skipping the Master’s degree program entirely MSN holders typically complete our DNP program in 18 to 24 months Is Baylor University’s Online DNP-Nurse-Midwifery program accredited? Yes. Baylor University’s online Doctor of Nursing Practice programs are accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE**). The DNP Nurse Midwifery online program is accredited by the Accreditation Commission for Midwifery Education (ACME*). Do I qualify for the online DNP program as a Post-Graduate Candidate? You must have completed your MSN in Nurse-Midwifery with a cumulative GPA of 3.0 or higher, and Nurse-Midwifery Board Certification. Additional documents or experience may be required - download your course guide to learn more. Does my non-practitioner MSN make me eligible for Baylor’s Post-Graduate DNP program? If your MSN degree is in any of the following disciplines, you may not be qualified to apply as a Post-Graduate DNP candidate and may need to participate in our full program. Our full program consists of most/all of the 75-credit-hr, 10-Semester, 40-month BSN to DNP program. MSN-Nurse Educator MSN-Clinical Leadership MSN-Informatics MSN-Leadership MSN-Administration The Baylor University Online Experience Find out why Baylor University’s Online DNP degree program is the best choice for registered nurses seeking preparation at the highest level of nursing practice: DNP - Nurse-Midwifery Faculty The faculty for the Online DNP - Nurse-Midwifery degree program are committed to delivering state-of-the-art instruction through innovative active learning methodologies. They embody the unique mission of the Louise Herrington School of Nursing of Baylor University by preparing nurses, within a Christian community, for professional practice, health care leadership, and worldwide service. Click below to learn more about the faculty for this program. Dr. Jennifer Hensley, EdD, MSN, RN, CNM, WHNP-BC, LCCE Dr. Barbara Camune, RNC, MSN, WHNP-BC, CNM, DrPH, FACNM Dr. Marie Hastings-Tolsma, PhD, CNM, FACNM Jacquelyn Alvarado, DNP, CNM Dr. Johanna Bodin Shannon DaSilva, DNP, CNM Amy Giles, DNP, CNM Summer Okimoto, DNP, CNM Professor Karen Zelman We think you will find our school unlike any other in that we truly do consider ourselves as called to prepare nurses through the integration of faith and excellent academics. Be Bold. Be Decisive. Be Exceptional. Become a Baylor Nurse. U.S. News Featured in U.S. News & World Report for the 2022 Best Graduate Schools, ranking our DNP Nurse-Midwifery program at #21. CCNE We rigorously adhere to the accreditation standards established by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE)**. ACME We follow the excellence standards established by the Accreditation Commission for Midwifery Education (ACME)*. *The Baylor University Louise Herrington School of Nursing midwifery program is accredited by the Accreditation Commission for Midwifery Education (ACME), c/o American College of Nurse-Midwives, Suite 1230, 8403 Colesville Road, Silver Spring, Maryland 20910-6374. For information please contact ACME directly. Tel: 240-485-1800 | Fax:240.484.1818 | acme@acnm.org | www.midwife.org/acme **The baccalaureate degree program in nursing, master's degree program in nursing, and Doctor of Nursing Practice program at Baylor University are accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, 655 K Street, NW, Suite 750, Washington, DC 20001, 202-887-6791. Connect With Your Baylor Enrollment Advisor Whether you have a simple question or need advice to determine which program is best for you, our friendly advisors are here to help. They can chat with you on your schedule and guide you through the entire admissions process so you can feel confident in moving forward with Baylor University. Download your guide to get started Request More Info Request More Info Apply Now Facebook LinkedIn Twitter YouTube Online Nursing Programs Accelerated Bachelor of Science in Nursing Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) - Executive Nurse Leadership Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) Family Nurse Practitioner Track Neonatal Nurse Practitioner Track Nurse-Midwifery Track Pediatric Nurse Practitioner Track ﻿Adult-Gerontology Acute Care Nurse Practitioner Track Why Baylor University Online? Accreditations and Affiliations Career Resources Clinical Placement Services Faculty Profiles FAQ Message from the Dean Online Experience Student Testimonials Student Services and Support State Authorization Tuition & Financial Aid Blog Contact Us Become a Student Refer a Friend Preceptors Apply Now Disclosures Anonymous Reporting Legal Disclosures Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Student Complaint Process Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 888-227-5901 • Privacy Policy • California Privacy Notice • Sitemap Back to top