Skip to main content Louise Herrington School of Nursing Online Menu Louise Herrington School of Nursing Online Menu Contact Us Online Nursing Programs Accelerated Bachelor of Science in Nursing Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) - Executive Nurse Leadership Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) Family Nurse Practitioner Track Neonatal Nurse Practitioner Track Nurse-Midwifery Track Pediatric Nurse Practitioner Track Adult-Gerontology Acute Care Nurse Practitioner Track Online Experience Rankings and Recognition Accreditation & Affiliations Career Resources Clinical Placement Support Faculty Profiles Message from the Dean State Authorization Student Services and Support Student Testimonials Why Baylor University Online? Why Baylor University Online? Frequently Asked Questions Tuition & Financial Aid Blog Baylor in the News Legal Disclosures Legal Disclosures Anonymous Reporting Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Get Started Become a Student Refer a Friend Apply Now Online DNP - Pediatric NP Track Fulfill the Need for Children's Primary and Acute Care The Doctor of Nursing Practice Pediatric Nurse Practitioner Track (DNP PNP) is the optimal pathway for those seeking to provide primary and acute healthcare needs of pediatric patients in a variety of care environments. Get Your Guide Clinical Placement Support Ranked #10 Best Nursing College CCNE Accredited Home Online Nursing Programs Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) Pediatric Nurse Practitioner Track Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP)Pediatric Nurse Practitioner Track Designed for actively practicing RNs Ranked #10 Best Nursing College No GRE or MAT required [em]Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP)[/em]Pediatric Nurse Practitioner Track Fulfill the Growing Need for Children’s Primary and Acute Care As children’s health needs become more complex, and more communities experience limited to no pediatric care, nurse practitioners have a unique opportunity to fulfill important, high-demand roles. Baylor University’s online Doctor of Nursing Practice – Pediatric Nurse Practitioner program offers both a Primary Care track and a dual Primary/Acute track in order to prepare versatile, specialized nursing professionals for a variety of care environments. Download Your Guide Close Get more information to make the decision that's right for you: Featured courses and degree outcomes Admission requirements Tuition and financial aid information Download Program Guide What would you like to study? What would you like to study? Accelerated BSN DNP Adult-Gero Acute Care Nurse Practitioner DNP Family Nurse Practitioner DNP Neonatal Nurse Practitioner DNP Nurse-Midwifery DNP Pediatric Nurse Practitioner DNP Executive Nurse Leadership Highest Level of Education Highest Level of Education High School / GED Some College Associate Degree Bachelor's Degree Graduate / Master's Degree Curriculum Label Are you a licensed R.N.? Yes No Next Step Step 1 of 2 First Name Last Name Email Phone Country Country United States of America Canada Afghanistan Aland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Austria Australia Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia, Plurinational State of Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and Saba Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cabo Verde Cambodia Cameroon Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Congo, the Democratic Republic of the Cook Islands Costa Rica Croatia Cuba Curaçao Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Faroe Islands Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island and McDonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran, Islamic Republic of Iraq Ireland Isle of Man Israel Italy Ivory Coast Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macao Macedonia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Madagascar Malaysia Malawi Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Micronesia, Federated States of Moldova, Republic of Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island North Korea Northern Mariana Islands Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestine, State of Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Reunion !Réunion Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Saint Barthélemy Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Martin (French part) Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Sint Maarten (Dutch part) Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands South Korea South Sudan Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan, Province of China Tajikistan Tanzania, United Republic of Thailand Timor-Leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States Minor Outlying Islands Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of Vietnam Virgin Islands, British Virgin Islands, U.S. Wallis and Futuna Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Zip Code Baylor University's technology partner works with multiple universities to offer online programs. Yes, I would like to learn more about these additional online programs. Submitting this form constitutes your express written consent to be called and/or texted by Baylor University at the number(s) you provided, regarding furthering your education. You understand that these calls may be generated using an automated technology, including by way of example, auto-dialer and click-to dial technologies. Calls may be recorded for quality assurance and training purposes. Privacy Policy. Download Your Brochure « Back | Step 2 of 2 X Close Form From All of Us: Thank You Children have faced many unknowns throughout the pandemic, but they've been able to count on one thing: kindness and compassion from their pediatric care provider and their courageous nursing staff. This Nurses Month, we want to recognize and celebrate all nurses who sacrificed for their patients and thank them for their unwavering commitment to the children of Texas and throughout the nation. You've made a world of a difference. Thank you. Expand Your Scope through a Dual-Track PNP Program Prepare for a role as a pediatric nurse practitioner in both primary and acute environments, which gives you advanced knowledge and a wide range of opportunities. Pediatric Primary Care Track Address primary healthcare needs of children and adolescents by utilizing patient-and-family centered care within the context of the family unit Build knowledge on the normal growth and development, health promotion, health maintenance, and management of children from birth to adolescence Understand the health promotion, health maintenance, and management of common pediatric health issues Learn how to identify and address potential and actual chronic health needs of pediatric patients Examine the relationship between genes, environment, and health in a pediatric context Pediatric Primary/Acute Care Track Provide care for pediatric patients that have complex acute, critical, or chronic illness in settings including hospitals, intensive care units, and emergency departments Develop clinical judgment, decision-making skills, and procedural skills for delivering complex acute, critical, and chronic healthcare to ill or injured children Learn how to identify and address potential and actual healthcare needs of the acutely ill or injured child Master essential competencies to meet the specialized needs of infants and children with complex acute, critical, and chronic health conditions Learn More Two Entry Options Are Available To learn more about the entry options, download your digital program guide. BSN to DNP 75 Credits Just over 3 years to completion Post-Master's DNP (coming soon) 31-37 Credits 2 years to completion Clinical Placement Support At Baylor University’s Louise Herrington School of Nursing, we strongly believe in setting our students up for success. That's why we collaborate with you to identify clinical sites and preceptors for clinical rotations. Additionally, clinical placement sites may be potential locations for future employment opportunities upon graduation. If you already have a placement site or preceptor in mind, we encourage you to refer them to our placement team to secure. Get your DNP-PNP guide for more information. How Does This Benefit You? How Does the Clinical Placement Process Work? What is the Placement Experience Like? What Can I Expect from My Preceptor? Securing clinical placement sites and preceptors can be a challenging and tedious undertaking. It is not uncommon for students to contact 400+ sites before a preceptor agrees. That's why at Baylor, we collaborate with online nursing students on the heavy lifting to help identify clinical sites and preceptors for all clinical rotations. We'd much rather you focus on: Coursework Developing core competencies Current personal and professional obligations Shortly after enrollment, you will be provided with a placement intake form you are required to complete that captures your competencies, experience and placement preferences. Baylor University will collaborate with you to identify a quality placement site and preceptor. While the placement team is securing sites and preceptors, you will be responsible for completing clinical clearance requirements in preparation for placement, including: Drug screening Background check Recommended vaccinations You will not be permitted to begin your placement rotations without your clearances complete. Once the sites have been approved by the School of Nursing, Baylor University will share the placement site details with you prior to placement. During the placement experience, you will have access to faculty and other resources to support you: Faculty will be available to mentor and support you throughout the rotation with specific questions about procedures, patient interactions and general proficiencies. At the end of the placement rotation, you and your preceptor will review requirements, complete surveys and officially end the placement rotation. If you have multiple rotations, you will receive the next preceptor/site details. Your preceptor is your on-site role model and will help you develop as a nurse during your clinical rotation. They will: Bridge the gap between theory and actual practice Orient you to the practice setting (key personnel, organization, and institutional policies) Help you plan clinical assignments Provide one-on-one supervision and daily feedback Review and co-sign all documentation in the clinical records How Does This Benefit You? Securing clinical placement sites and preceptors can be a challenging and tedious undertaking. It is not uncommon for students to contact 400+ sites before a preceptor agrees. That's why at Baylor, we collaborate with online nursing students on the heavy lifting to help identify clinical sites and preceptors for all clinical rotations. We'd much rather you focus on: Coursework Developing core competencies Current personal and professional obligations How Does the Clinical Placement Process Work? Shortly after enrollment, you will be provided with a placement intake form you are required to complete that captures your competencies, experience and placement preferences. Baylor University will collaborate with you to identify a quality placement site and preceptor. While the placement team is securing sites and preceptors, you will be responsible for completing clinical clearance requirements in preparation for placement, including: Drug screening Background check Recommended vaccinations You will not be permitted to begin your placement rotations without your clearances complete. Once the sites have been approved by the School of Nursing, Baylor University will share the placement site details with you prior to placement. What is the Placement Experience Like? During the placement experience, you will have access to faculty and other resources to support you: Faculty will be available to mentor and support you throughout the rotation with specific questions about procedures, patient interactions and general proficiencies. At the end of the placement rotation, you and your preceptor will review requirements, complete surveys and officially end the placement rotation. If you have multiple rotations, you will receive the next preceptor/site details. What Can I Expect from My Preceptor? Your preceptor is your on-site role model and will help you develop as a nurse during your clinical rotation. They will: Bridge the gap between theory and actual practice Orient you to the practice setting (key personnel, organization, and institutional policies) Help you plan clinical assignments Provide one-on-one supervision and daily feedback Review and co-sign all documentation in the clinical records DNP-PNP Admissions Requirements At-A-Glance BSN from an accredited school of nursing 3.0 GPA One (1) year of full-time experience as a practicing professional nurse by the first day of class Current unencumbered RN license Complete an acceptable written personal statement Three letters of recommendation, as follows: one must be from an immediate supervisor, one must be from a peer nurse, one must be from an MSN, DNP, or PhD prepared nurse No GRE or MAT required Baylor Nursing By The Numbers % 90% of clinical placement sites provided to DNP students were within 125 miles of their home. % 100% certification pass rate for Family Nurse Practitioners graduates. % Baylor University is ranked higher than 94% of Best Colleges in the Nation in 2021 - U.S. News and World Report . % Baylor’s DNP program is ranked higher than 88% of the Best DNP Programs in Texas in 2021 - dnpprograms.com. DNP-PNP Program Features At-A-Glance Earn your Doctor of Nursing Practice degree from the Louise Herrington School of Nursing (LHSON), ranked No. 60 (Top 10%) in U.S. News & World Report’s 2022 Best Graduate Schools: DNP Main coursework is online with on-campus immersions throughout the program Practicum requirement total: 1,125 hours for Primary Care, with an additional 600 hours for Acute Care track Courses are 15 weeks long, with three terms per year Students learn from a nationally recognized faculty Clinical placement support provided Total credits: 75 for Primary Care track; 14 for the additional Acute Care track Accreditation & Rankings Baylor University is distinguished in healthcare and business, preparing students with the skills and knowledge to stand out in the industry. The Louise Herrington School of Nursing is nationally recognized and: Accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE) Approved by the Texas Board of Nursing Member of the American Association of Colleges of Nursing Recognized as one of the top educational institutions in the nation, ranking at #76 in National Universities on U.S. News & World Report 2021 list Ranked by Best-Nursing-Colleges.com as the #10 Best Nursing College in Texas. Curriculum At-A-Glance The online DNP-PNP program offers primary and acute tracks to prepare versatile, specialized nursing professionals for a variety of care environments. The advanced curriculum focuses on primary healthcare needs of children and adolescents, utilizing patient-and-family centered care within the context of the family unit, and complex acute, critical, or chronic illness for pediatric patients. Important Dates Now Accepting Applications. Seating is limited. Next Start Date: August 22nd, 2022 NUR 5305 Advanced Pediatric Health Care Management I: Primary Care Designed to prepare the pediatric nurse practitioner student to address the primary health care needs of children and adolescents by utilizing patient-and-family centered care. The focus is on normal growth and development, health promotion, and health maintenance of children from birth to adolescence, within the context of the family. NUR 5307 Advanced Pediatric Health Care Management II: Acute and Common Health Needs Designed to prepare the pediatric nurse practitioner student to address acute and common health care needs of children and adolescents by utilizing patient-and-family centered care. The focus is on health promotion, health maintenance, and management of acute and common health issues in children from birth to adolescence, within the context of the family. NUR 6309 Pediatric Acute Care Nurse Practitioner I Designed to prepare the acute care pediatric nurse practitioner student to identify and address potential and actual health care needs of the acutely ill or injured child. The focus is on clinical judgment, decision-making, and procedural skills for delivering complex acute, critical, and chronic health care to ill or injured children, within the context of the family. Get My DNP-PNP program guide Frequently Asked Questions How long will it take to complete the online DNP program? Students typically complete the DNP program in the following timeframe. Please note that actual length to program completion will vary depending on the student's background and selected track. BSN holders typically complete our DNP program in three (3) years and four (4) months, skipping the Master’s degree program entirely Students in our Pediatric Primary/Acute Care track typically complete the program in four (4) years What are the required clinical courses for the online DNP-PNP Baylor University’ Online DNP-PNP program requirements for clinical hours are: Primary Care Track NUR 5100 - Advanced Pediatric Health Care Management I: Practicum NUR 5200 - Advanced Pediatric Health Care Management II: Practicum NUR 5309 - Advanced Pediatric Health Care Management III: Practicum NUR 5400 - PNP Primary Care Residency NUR 6V76 - Advanced Practice Nursing Residency Acute Care Track NUR 6310 - Pediatric Acute Care Nurse Practitioner I: Practicum NUR 6406 - Pediatric Acute Care Nurse Practitioner II: Practicum Do I qualify for the online DNP program as a Post-Graduate Candidate? Unfortunately, the online DNP-Pediatric Nurse Practitioner program is not currently available at the Post-Master’s level. Please check back again as this may change. Is financial aid available to online students? A variety of financial aid is available to online students. Find more information on our Tuition & Financial Aid page. The Baylor University Online Experience Find out why Baylor University’s Online DNP degree program is the best choice for registered nurses seeking preparation at the highest level of nursing practice: Connect With Your Baylor Enrollment Advisor Whether you have a simple question or need advice to determine which program is best for you, our friendly advisors are here to help. They can chat with you on your schedule and guide you through the entire admissions process so you can feel confident in moving forward with Baylor University. Download your guide to get started Request More Info Request More Info Apply Now Facebook LinkedIn Twitter YouTube Online Nursing Programs Accelerated Bachelor of Science in Nursing Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) - Executive Nurse Leadership Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) Family Nurse Practitioner Track Neonatal Nurse Practitioner Track Nurse-Midwifery Track Pediatric Nurse Practitioner Track ﻿Adult-Gerontology Acute Care Nurse Practitioner Track Why Baylor University Online? Accreditations and Affiliations Career Resources Clinical Placement Services Faculty Profiles FAQ Message from the Dean Online Experience Student Testimonials Student Services and Support State Authorization Tuition & Financial Aid Blog Contact Us Become a Student Refer a Friend Preceptors Apply Now Disclosures Anonymous Reporting Legal Disclosures Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Student Complaint Process Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 888-227-5901 • Privacy Policy • California Privacy Notice • Sitemap Back to top