Skip to Main Content Brown University School of Public Health Brown University Online Master of Public Health Search Menu Site Navigation Home Admissions Financial Aid Curriculum Faculty Integrated Learning Experience Search Online Master of Public Health Faculty Learn from internationally renowned faculty who infuse courses with ground-breaking research and practice in areas such as COVID-19, minority and immigrant health, and intervention development in Brown University’s online Master of Public Health program. Take the next step Fall 2022 Application Deadline June 1; Priority Deadline: May 15 Request Program information Apply through SOPHAS Brown University’s School of Public Health has amassed a community of world-class faculty who share their diverse expertise and perspectives with online Master of Public Health students. Brown University School of Public Health faculty work in the vanguard of public health issues: the global COVID-19 pandemic, HIV/AIDS, minority and immigrant health, the opioid epidemic, aging and others. They have published in top journals, developed innovative interventions, been quoted as reliable sources by the media and awarded grants for their scholarly research. In fact, Brown University School of Public Health is ranked a Top Five school nationwide for NIH public health funding. Leadership Meet our core public health faculty leadership Megan L. Ranney, MD, MPH Academic Dean Research Profile Megan L. Ranney, MD, MPH, Academic Dean of the Brown University School of Public Health, is a practicing emergency physician, researcher and founding Director of the Brown-Lifespan Center for Digital Health. A recognized leader in firearms research, COVID-19 response and technology-based interventions for high-risk populations, Dr. Ranney’s work has been featured by hundreds of media outlets, including CNN, MSNBC, the BBC, The New York Times, The Washington Post and Fox News. Melissa Clark, PhD Professor and Associate Dean for Education Research Profile Melissa Clark, PhD, Professor and Associate Dean for Education of the Brown University School of Public Health, directs Brown SPH’s Survey Research Center, with extensive experience in data collection methodologies — qualitative, quantitative, psychometric and more. The focus of Dr. Clark’s research is to better understand individual, social and environmental facilitators and barriers to health and well-being. Jennifer Nazareno, PhD Barrett Hazeltine Assistant Professor, Inaugural Director of the Online MPH Program Research Profile Dr. Nazareno’s research and teaching interests include: Social Determinants of Health and Illness; Global Restructuring and Organization of Health and Long-Term Care; Filipino Women’s Migration, Labor and Entrepreneurship; Immigrant Health; Filipina/o/x Health; Intersectionality, Qualitative and Mixed Methods. Dr. Nazareno is also Co-Director of the Philippine Health Initiative for Research, Service, & Training (PHIRST). Our Faculty Learn more about Brown University School of Public Health faculty. Learn more Take the next step Fall 2022 Application Deadline June 1; Priority Deadline: May 15 Request Program information Apply through SOPHAS Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Public Health Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Admissions Financial Aid Curriculum Faculty Integrated Learning Experience This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Faculty Open details for Faculty Bookmark this Page