Skip to main content Louise Herrington School of Nursing Online Menu Louise Herrington School of Nursing Online Menu Contact Us Online Nursing Programs Accelerated Bachelor of Science in Nursing Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) - Executive Nurse Leadership Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) Family Nurse Practitioner Track Neonatal Nurse Practitioner Track Nurse-Midwifery Track Pediatric Nurse Practitioner Track Adult-Gerontology Acute Care Nurse Practitioner Track Online Experience Rankings and Recognition Accreditation & Affiliations Career Resources Clinical Placement Support Faculty Profiles Message from the Dean State Authorization Student Services and Support Student Testimonials Why Baylor University Online? Why Baylor University Online? Frequently Asked Questions Tuition & Financial Aid Blog Baylor in the News Legal Disclosures Legal Disclosures Anonymous Reporting Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Get Started Become a Student Refer a Friend Apply Now Online DNP - Adult-Gero Acute Care NP Provide Complex Acute Care for Adults The Doctor of Nursing Practice Adult-Gerontology Acute Care Nurse Practitioner Track (DNP AGACNP) is the optimal pathway for those seeking to provide acute care for adult patients. Get Your Guide Clinical Placement Support Ranked #10 Best Nursing College CCNE Accredited Home Online Nursing Programs Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) Adult-Gerontology Acute Care Nurse Practitioner Track Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP)Adult-Gerontology Acute Care Nurse Practitioner Track Designed for actively practicing RNs Ranked #10 Best Nursing College No GRE or MAT required [em]Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP)[/em]Adult-Gerontology Acute Care Nurse Practitioner Track Focus on the Complex Acute, Chronic & Critical Care Needs of Adult Patients Baylor University’s online Doctor of Nursing Practice Adult-Gerontology Acute Care Nurse Practitioner (DNP-AGACNP) track develops exemplary nursing leaders by focusing on advanced methods to promote patient-centered care, knowledge of information systems and technology required to deliver transformative healthcare, and the skills needed to evaluate the healthcare needs of diverse and vulnerable populations. The focus of the AGACNP population includes the entire spectrum of adults including young adults, adults, and older adults. The AGACNP serves as an advocate for patients with complex acute, critical, and chronic illness, disability, and/or injury to improve patient outcomes. The role encompasses care ranging from disease prevention to acute and critical care management. The AGACNP also: Provides direct healthcare services to improve patient outcomes by utilizing evidence-based practice, clinical reasoning, and inter-professional collaboration. Integrates, translates, and applies knowledge for nursing practice, person-centered care, population health, scholarship for nursing practice, quality and safety, inter-professional partnerships, systems-based practice, information and healthcare technologies, professionalism, and personal, professional, and leadership development (AACN, 2021). Focuses on specialized care for patients 18 years and older with greater autonomy at the highest level in multiple settings including the ICU, ER, trauma units, specialty clinics, surgery, other hospital services, and long-term care facilities. Download Your Guide Close Get more information to make the decision that's right for you: Featured courses and degree outcomes Admission requirements Tuition and financial aid information Download Program Guide What would you like to study? What would you like to study? Accelerated BSN DNP Adult-Gero Acute Care Nurse Practitioner DNP Family Nurse Practitioner DNP Neonatal Nurse Practitioner DNP Nurse-Midwifery DNP Pediatric Nurse Practitioner DNP Executive Nurse Leadership Highest Level of Education Highest Level of Education High School / GED Some College Associate Degree Bachelor's Degree Graduate / Master's Degree Curriculum Label Are you a licensed R.N.? Yes No Next Step Step 1 of 2 First Name Last Name Email Phone Country Country United States of America Canada Afghanistan Aland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Austria Australia Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia, Plurinational State of Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and Saba Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cabo Verde Cambodia Cameroon Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Congo, the Democratic Republic of the Cook Islands Costa Rica Croatia Cuba Curaçao Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Faroe Islands Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island and McDonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran, Islamic Republic of Iraq Ireland Isle of Man Israel Italy Ivory Coast Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macao Macedonia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Madagascar Malaysia Malawi Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Micronesia, Federated States of Moldova, Republic of Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island North Korea Northern Mariana Islands Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestine, State of Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Reunion !Réunion Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Saint Barthélemy Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Martin (French part) Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Sint Maarten (Dutch part) Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands South Korea South Sudan Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan, Province of China Tajikistan Tanzania, United Republic of Thailand Timor-Leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States Minor Outlying Islands Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of Vietnam Virgin Islands, British Virgin Islands, U.S. Wallis and Futuna Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Zip Code Baylor University's technology partner works with multiple universities to offer online programs. Yes, I would like to learn more about these additional online programs. Submitting this form constitutes your express written consent to be called and/or texted by Baylor University at the number(s) you provided, regarding furthering your education. You understand that these calls may be generated using an automated technology, including by way of example, auto-dialer and click-to dial technologies. Calls may be recorded for quality assurance and training purposes. Privacy Policy. Download Your Brochure « Back | Step 2 of 2 X Close Form Schedule an Appointment Now Talk to a dedicated enrollment advisor about our online nursing programs. Schedule Your Appointment Simply choose a time when you are available to chat, and one of our advisors will give you a call. Clinical Placement Support At Baylor University’s Louise Herrington School of Nursing, we strongly believe in setting our students up for success. That's why we collaborate with our students to identify clinical sites and preceptors for all clinical rotations. Additionally, clinical placement sites may be potential locations for future employment opportunities upon graduation. If you already have a placement site or preceptor in mind, we encourage you to refer them to our placement team to secure them. Download the DNP-AGACNP brochure for more information. How Does This Benefit You? How Does the Clinical Placement Process Work? What is the Placement Experience Like? What Can I Expect from My Preceptor? Securing clinical placement sites and preceptors can be a challenging and tedious undertaking. It is not uncommon for students to contact 400+ sites before a preceptor agrees. That's why at Baylor, we collaborate with online nursing students on the heavy lifting to help identify clinical sites and preceptors for all clinical rotations. We'd much rather you focus on: Coursework Developing core competencies Current personal and professional obligations Shortly after enrollment, you will be provided with a placement intake form you are required to complete that captures your competencies, experience and placement preferences. Baylor University will collaborate with you to identify a quality placement site and preceptor. While the placement team is securing sites and preceptors, you will be responsible for completing clinical clearance requirements in preparation for placement, including: Drug screening Background check Recommended vaccinations You will not be permitted to begin your placement rotations without your clearances complete. Once the sites have been approved by the School of Nursing, Baylor University will share the placement site details with you prior to placement. During the placement experience, you will have access to faculty and other resources to support you: Faculty will be available to mentor and support you throughout the rotation with specific questions about procedures, patient interactions and general proficiencies. At the end of the placement rotation, you and your preceptor will review requirements, complete surveys and officially end the placement rotation. If you have multiple rotations, you will receive the next preceptor/site details. Your preceptor is your on-site role model and will help you develop as a nurse during your clinical rotation. They will: Bridge the gap between theory and actual practice Orient you to the practice setting (key personnel, organization, and institutional policies) Help you plan clinical assignments Provide one-on-one supervision and daily feedback Review and co-sign all documentation in the clinical records How Does This Benefit You? Securing clinical placement sites and preceptors can be a challenging and tedious undertaking. It is not uncommon for students to contact 400+ sites before a preceptor agrees. That's why at Baylor, we collaborate with online nursing students on the heavy lifting to help identify clinical sites and preceptors for all clinical rotations. We'd much rather you focus on: Coursework Developing core competencies Current personal and professional obligations How Does the Clinical Placement Process Work? Shortly after enrollment, you will be provided with a placement intake form you are required to complete that captures your competencies, experience and placement preferences. Baylor University will collaborate with you to identify a quality placement site and preceptor. While the placement team is securing sites and preceptors, you will be responsible for completing clinical clearance requirements in preparation for placement, including: Drug screening Background check Recommended vaccinations You will not be permitted to begin your placement rotations without your clearances complete. Once the sites have been approved by the School of Nursing, Baylor University will share the placement site details with you prior to placement. What is the Placement Experience Like? During the placement experience, you will have access to faculty and other resources to support you: Faculty will be available to mentor and support you throughout the rotation with specific questions about procedures, patient interactions and general proficiencies. At the end of the placement rotation, you and your preceptor will review requirements, complete surveys and officially end the placement rotation. If you have multiple rotations, you will receive the next preceptor/site details. What Can I Expect from My Preceptor? Your preceptor is your on-site role model and will help you develop as a nurse during your clinical rotation. They will: Bridge the gap between theory and actual practice Orient you to the practice setting (key personnel, organization, and institutional policies) Help you plan clinical assignments Provide one-on-one supervision and daily feedback Review and co-sign all documentation in the clinical records Learn More Learn More Two Entry Options Are Available To learn more about the entry options, download your digital program guide. BSN to DNP 75 Credits Just over 3 years to completion Post-Master's DNP (coming soon) 31-37 Credits 2 years to completion DNP-AGACNP Admissions Requirements At-A-Glance BSN from a regionally accredited school of nursing 3.0 GPA One (1) year of full-time experience as a practicing professional nurse by the first day of class Current unencumbered RN license Complete an acceptable written personal statement Three letters of recommendation, as follows: One must be from an immediate supervisor One must be from a peer nurse One must be from an MSN, DNP, or PhD prepared nurse No GRE or MAT Required DNP-AGACNP Program Features At-A-Glance CCNE-accredited** and U.S. News & World Report ranked program Online main coursework with on-campus immersions throughout the program Practicum requirement total: 1,125 hours 15-week courses with three terms per year Nationally recognized faculty for students to learn from Clinical Placement Support Total credits: 75 Accreditation & Rankings Baylor University is distinguished in healthcare and business, preparing students with the skills and knowledge to stand out in the industry. The Louise Herrington School of Nursing is nationally recognized and: Accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE) Approved by the Texas Board of Nursing Member of the American Association of Colleges of Nursing Recognized as one of the top educational institutions in the nation, ranking at #76 in National Universities on U.S. News & World Report 2021 list Ranked by Best-Nursing-Colleges.com as the #10 Best Nursing College in Texas. Download Your DNP-AGACNP Course Guide to Get Started Baylor Nursing By The Numbers % 90% of clinical placement sites provided to DNP students were within 125 miles of their home. % 100% certification pass rate for Family Nurse Practitioners graduates. % Baylor University is ranked higher than 94% of Best Colleges in the Nation in 2021 - U.S. News and World Report. % Baylor’s DNP program is ranked higher than 88% of the Best DNP Programs in Texas in 2021 - dnpprograms.com. DNP-AGACNP Curriculum At-A-Glance The online DNP-AGACNP program track focuses on the complex acute, chronic and critical care needs of adult patients through an advanced curriculum that includes advanced pharmacology, applied ethics for APN, translational science and health informatics. View sample courses below: Important Dates Now Accepting Applications. Seating is limited. Next Start Date: August 22nd, 2022 NUR 5103: Diagnostic Reasoning This course includes the application of pathologic disease mechanisms and advanced pharmacotherapy to refine and integrate techniques of history taking, physical examination, and diagnostics. Development of differential diagnoses that are prioritized based on clinical assessment, critical thinking, and clinical reasoning to narrow down the appropriate final diagnosis for adult and gerontology populations. NUR 5311: Gerontology Considerations for APRN Practice The purpose of this course is to explore high quality healthcare of geriatric patients which requires special knowledge and skills including identifying the normal and abnormal changes of the aging body with an overview of psychological, sociological, and physiological processes related to aging with particular attention to environmental, circumstantial, and behavioral concerns including cognition, perception of health, performance status, falls, malnutrition, pharmacotherapy, substance abuse, elder neglect and abuse, and end of life issues. Indications for collaboration and communication with the interprofessional team is emphasized as well as exploring community resources and care of the informal caregiver. NUR 5333: Adult Gerontology Acute Care NP Management I: Common Problems This is the first course of three, and the purpose of this course is to prepare AGACNP students to assess, diagnose, and coordinate healthcare needs of adults and older adults to include health promotion, disease prevention, and disease management. Emphasis is on synthesizing theoretical, scientific, and evidence-based practice knowledge to manage selected common health problems in adult-gerontology patients in a variety of inpatient and outpatient settings. Indications for collaboration, consultation, and referral with the interprofessional team using patient-centered, evidence-based, high-quality, cost-effective care in a culturally diverse system are essential functions of the adult-gerontology acute care nurse practitioner’s role. The accompanying practicum provides students with an opportunity to utilize theoretical knowledge and clinical decision-making skills in the management of care of adult and geriatric patients experiencing common health problems. The AACN Synergy Model is used as a framework for AGACNP practice focusing on patient-centered physical, social, psychological, and spiritual care across the health-vulnerability continuum. The AGACNP is responsible for knowing and understanding patient characteristics shared by nurses, patients, and systems to include resiliency, vulnerability, stability, complexity, resource availability, participation in care, participation in decision-making, and predictability to restore a patient to an optimum level of wellness as defined by the patient which includes end-of life care (AACN, 2015a). The AGACNP must have knowledge, skills, attitudes, and experience to meet the needs of patients and families and include competencies of concern for patients, nurses, and systems such as clinical judgement, advocacy and moral agency, caring practices, collaboration, systems thinking, response to diversity, clinical inquiry, innovator/evaluator, and facilitation of learning (AACN, 2015a). NUR 5334: Adult Gerontology Acute Care NP Management II: Chronic Problems This is the second course of three, and the purpose of this course is to explore evidence-based practice models for the management of selected chronic health problems and acute exacerbations of those complex, chronic health problems. Students will focus on assessment, diagnosis, and treatment of adult-gerontology patients synthesizing theoretical, scientific, and evidence-based practice knowledge to manage selected chronic health problems in adult-gerontology patients in the acute care setting and/or specialty clinic. Indications for collaboration, consultation, and referral with the interprofessional team using patient-centered, evidence-based practice, high-quality, cost-effective care in a culturally diverse system are essential functions of the adult-gerontology acute care nurse practitioner’s role to improve health outcomes. The accompanying practicum provides students with an opportunity to utilize theoretical knowledge and clinical decision-making skills in the management of care of adult-gerontology patients experiencing chronic health problems. The AACN Synergy Model is used as a framework for AGACNP practice focusing on patient-centered physical, social, psychological, and spiritual care across the health-vulnerability continuum. The AGACNP is responsible for knowing and understanding patient characteristics shared by nurses, patients, and systems to include resiliency, vulnerability, stability, complexity, resource availability, participation in care, participation in decision-making, and predictability to restore a patient to an optimum level of wellness as defined by the patient which includes end-of life care (AACN, 2015a). The AGACNP must have knowledge, skills, attitudes, and experience to meet the needs of patients and families and include competencies of concern for patients, nurses, and systems such as clinical judgement, advocacy and moral agency, caring practices, collaboration, systems thinking, response to diversity, clinical inquiry, innovator/evaluator, and facilitation of learning (AACN, 2015a). Get MY DNP-AGACNP Program Guide Frequently Asked Questions How long will it take to complete the online DNP program? Students typically complete the DNP program in the following timeframe. Please note that actual length to program completion will vary depending on the student's background and selected track. BSN holders typically complete our DNP program in three (3) years and four (4) months, skipping the Master’s degree program entirely MSN holders typically complete our DNP program in 18 to 24 months Which practitioner degree disciplines may be eligible to transfer to the online DNP program? The following practitioner degree disciplines may be eligible to transfer to the online DNP programs: Psychiatric Nurse Practitioner Acute Care Nurse Practitioner Adult-Gerontology Nurse Practitioner Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetist (CRNA) Women’s Health Nurse Practitioner Do I qualify for the online DNP program as a Post-Graduate Candidate? Unfortunately, the online DNP-Adult-Gerontology Acute Care Nurse Practitioner program is not currently available at the Post-Master’s level. Please check back again as this may change. Is financial aid available to online students? A variety of financial aid is available to online students. Find more information on our Tuition & Financial Aid page. The Baylor University Online Experience Find out why Baylor University’s Online DNP degree program is the best choice for registered nurses seeking preparation at the highest level of nursing practice: We think you will find our school unlike any other in that we truly do consider ourselves as called to prepare nurses through the integration of faith and excellent academics. Be Bold. Be Decisive. Be Exceptional. Become a Baylor Nurse. U.S. News Featured in U.S. News & World Report for the 2022 Best Graduate Schools, ranking our DNP in the top 10% CCNE We rigorously adhere to the accreditation standards established by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE)**. Top 10 Best-Nursing-Colleges.com ranked Baylor as the #10 Best Nursing College in Texas. **The baccalaureate degree program in nursing, master's degree program in nursing, and Doctor of Nursing Practice program at Baylor University are accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, 655 K Street, NW, Suite 750, Washington, DC 20001, 202-887-6791. Connect With Your Baylor Enrollment Advisor Whether you have a simple question or need advice to determine which program is best for you, our friendly advisors are here to help. They can chat with you on your schedule and guide you through the entire admissions process so you can feel confident in moving forward with Baylor University. Download your guide to get started Request More Info Request More Info Apply Now Facebook LinkedIn Twitter YouTube Online Nursing Programs Accelerated Bachelor of Science in Nursing Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) - Executive Nurse Leadership Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) Family Nurse Practitioner Track Neonatal Nurse Practitioner Track Nurse-Midwifery Track Pediatric Nurse Practitioner Track ﻿Adult-Gerontology Acute Care Nurse Practitioner Track Why Baylor University Online? Accreditations and Affiliations Career Resources Clinical Placement Services Faculty Profiles FAQ Message from the Dean Online Experience Student Testimonials Student Services and Support State Authorization Tuition & Financial Aid Blog Contact Us Become a Student Refer a Friend Preceptors Apply Now Disclosures Anonymous Reporting Legal Disclosures Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Student Complaint Process Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 888-227-5901 • Privacy Policy • California Privacy Notice • Sitemap Back to top