Skip to main Menu Begin Your Program Application EdD expand_more About the School expand_more Faculty and Leadership Admissions Course Sequence expand_more EdD Course Descriptions PoP and Immersion Tuition and Financial Aid expand_more FAQs Events MPH expand_more About the School Admissions Course Descriptions Graduate Project and Immersion MPH Without GRE Scores Careers in Public Health Tuition and Financial Aid expand_more FAQs Events MSW expand_more Advanced Standing MSW About the School Admissions Application Requirements Curriculum Field Placement Careers in Social Work Tuition and Financial Aid expand_more FAQs Events Speech expand_more About the School Admissions Course Descriptions Careers in SLP How to Become a Speech Pathologist Tuition and Financial Aid expand_more FAQs Events Begin Your Program Application Baylor’s EdD Online in Learning and Organizational Change Request Information Next Step close Close Modal Request Information Next Step Baylor University and the School of Education are committed to education that is transformational — education that shifts the way you experience the world, enabling you to improve society at the micro and macro levels. The EdD Online in Learning and Organizational Change prepares you to address cross-functional challenges; influence systemic growth opportunities; develop service-oriented skills; lead lasting change and improve organizational cultures. You have the option to complete the program in 36 months. No GRE scores are required to apply. A Cross-Functional Doctoral Degree for Developmental Leaders No matter the organization, meaningful change is created from the inside out by determined leaders like you who possess the skills to enhance the integrity, identity, and function of any systemic infrastructure. After graduation, you’ll possess a skill set that can be adapted to a variety of organizational leadership situations and environments. You’ll be prepared to create transformative change in school systems, corporations, private and nonprofit firms, government organizations, and community programs. “Baylor has a long-standing tradition of empowering students with industry-relevant skills. That respected reputation combined with a faculty obsessed with helping their students succeed, so they in turn can improve the lives of others, is why I chose Baylor over any other institution.” — Christopher Lund 2019 Cohort “After completing my first semester, I’m confident that this online program … is going to provide the rigor and support I’ve been searching for in a doctorate program to take my professional development to the next level.” — Becki Hale Inaugural Cohort of 2018 Learn to Spearhead Organizational Change Online Through a blend of collaborative online tools, real-world experience, and personalized support, Baylor offers an engaged academic community of online learners that fosters true depth of connection and personal flexibility. Equipped with a multitude of skills that can be applied across various professional settings, you’ll be prepared to apply what you learn in the classroom to your current role in real time. Two immersions and a capstone experience give you opportunities to engage in research applicable to your interests while collaborating with peers and faculty. Request Information Next Step REQUEST INFO close Close Modal Request Information Next Step EdD MPH MSW Speech Contact Us Resources 2U, Our Program Partner Legal Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell My Personal Information COVID-19 Update Sitemap © 2022 Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 Anonymous Reporting Mental Health Resources Title IX Report It close Close Modal Request Information Next Step