Skip to main content University of Nebraska–Lincoln Visit Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Log In Search Search Form Search Submit Close Online & Distance Education Menu Search Log In About Us Distance Programs Graduate Distance Programs Undergraduate Distance Programs Great Plains IDEA and AG*IDEA For Students Tips for Success Getting Help Student Stories State Authorization For Faculty Frequently Asked Questions Proctoring and Exams Resources Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Nebraska Online & Distance Education Online & Distance Education Online & Distance Education Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Recognized as a leader in distance education for over 100 years, we offer the same high-quality UNL majors/programs in both online and blended formats. The reasons our students take online courses vary, but one thing’s for sure, we know what works and how to help you succeed. It all starts with you and that one question: “Now what?” Nationally Recognized The University of Nebraska–Lincoln is an accredited research 1, land-grant institution. Founded in 1869 and with a student body of over 25,500 students from all 50 states and 136 countries, Nebraska consistently ranks in the top tier of national research universities. Benefits of attending UNL Academically Rigorous Our distance courses are the same as the courses we offer to students who come to campus to study, taught by the same award winning faculty that teach in-person. Your diploma looks no different from the one earned by students who come to campus for all their classes. Online programs Career-Enhancing Choose from some of the most in-demand programs in education, business, engineering, interior design, merchandising, media studies, agriculture, and more. Our graduate and bachelor degree completion programs are consistently ranked among the best online programs. Nebraska's Accolades Top Ranked Programs Best Bachelor's program 2018 Best MBA program 2018 Best Graduate Education program 2018 Best Graduate Engineering program 2018 Military Advanced Education & Transition Top Colleges & Universities, 2018 Contact Us location icon 305 Brace Labs PO Box 880109 Lincoln NE 68588-0109 clock iconOffice hours: 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Monday - Friday phone iconUndergraduate Online: 402-472-2023 phone iconGraduate Online: 402-472-2875 phone iconProctor Services: 402-472-4681 Related Links Faculty Teaching Resources University of Nebraska Online University of Nebraska High School Campus Links Directory Employment Events Libraries Maps News Office of the Chancellor Report an Incident Policies & Reports Accessibility Statement Emergency Planning and Preparedness Institutional Equity and Compliance Notice of Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Security and Fire Safety Report Student Information Disclosures UNL web framework and quality assurance provided by the Web Developer Network · QA Test University of Nebraska–Lincoln Established 1869 · Copyright 2022 Some parts of this site work best with JavaScript enabled.