Skip to main content Louise Herrington School of Nursing Online Menu Louise Herrington School of Nursing Online Menu Contact Us Online Nursing Programs Accelerated Bachelor of Science in Nursing Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) - Executive Nurse Leadership Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) Family Nurse Practitioner Track Neonatal Nurse Practitioner Track Nurse-Midwifery Track Pediatric Nurse Practitioner Track Adult-Gerontology Acute Care Nurse Practitioner Track Online Experience Rankings and Recognition Accreditation & Affiliations Career Resources Clinical Placement Support Faculty Profiles Message from the Dean State Authorization Student Services and Support Student Testimonials Why Baylor University Online? Why Baylor University Online? Frequently Asked Questions Tuition & Financial Aid Blog Baylor in the News Legal Disclosures Legal Disclosures Anonymous Reporting Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Get Started Become a Student Refer a Friend Apply Now Online DNP - Executive Nurse Leadership Expand Your Influence as a Leader The Baylor University name is synonymous with excellence in healthcare education, and it is for this reason that hospitals across the state have partnered with us to educate and train the next generation of nurses. Get Your Guide Ranked #10 Best Nursing College Ranked among top 10% for DNP programs CCNE Accredited Home Online Nursing Programs Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) - Executive Nurse Leadership Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP)Executive Nurse Leadership 100% Online DNP Ranked #10 Best Nursing College in Texas No GRE or MAT required [em]Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP)[/em]Executive Nurse Leadership Designed for Nurse Leaders Distinguish yourself at nursing’s highest level with Baylor University’s Doctor of Nursing Practice - Executive Nurse Leadership (DNP-ENL) program. The 100 percent online program prepares you with executive knowledge and competencies in influential leadership, data-driven business strategy, and transformative care models. Why choose Baylor's Online DNP - Executive Nurse Leadership program? Unlike similar programs, Baylor's DNP-ENL program is 100 percent online with no required campus visits. Centered on the Adams Influence Model, a framework for nurse leaders. No GRE/MAT is required for admission. Doctoral project component can be completed in your local area. Cost Comparison Institution Program Name Credits Required Cost per Credit Hour (Online) Baylor University DNP - Executive Nurse Leadership 36 $1,100 Vanderbilt University DNP: Executive Leadership 35 $1,556 George Washington University DNP: Executive Leadership 43 $1,340 University of Pittsburgh DNP - Health Systems Executive Leadership 43 $1,306 Johns Hopkins University DNP Executive Track 40 $1,721 East Tennessee State University DNP - Executive Leadership in Nursing 38 $1,429 Download Your Guide Close Get more information to make the decision that's right for you: Featured courses and degree outcomes Admission requirements Tuition and financial aid information Download Program Guide What would you like to study? What would you like to study? Accelerated BSN DNP Adult-Gero Acute Care Nurse Practitioner DNP Family Nurse Practitioner DNP Neonatal Nurse Practitioner DNP Nurse-Midwifery DNP Pediatric Nurse Practitioner DNP Executive Nurse Leadership Highest Level of Education Highest Level of Education High School / GED Some College Associate Degree Bachelor's Degree Graduate / Master's Degree Curriculum Label Are you a licensed R.N.? Yes No Next Step Step 1 of 2 First Name Last Name Email Phone Country Country United States of America Canada Afghanistan Aland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Austria Australia Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia, Plurinational State of Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and Saba Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cabo Verde Cambodia Cameroon Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Congo, the Democratic Republic of the Cook Islands Costa Rica Croatia Cuba Curaçao Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Faroe Islands Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island and McDonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran, Islamic Republic of Iraq Ireland Isle of Man Israel Italy Ivory Coast Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macao Macedonia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Madagascar Malaysia Malawi Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Micronesia, Federated States of Moldova, Republic of Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island North Korea Northern Mariana Islands Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestine, State of Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Reunion !Réunion Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Saint Barthélemy Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Martin (French part) Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Sint Maarten (Dutch part) Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands South Korea South Sudan Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan, Province of China Tajikistan Tanzania, United Republic of Thailand Timor-Leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States Minor Outlying Islands Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of Vietnam Virgin Islands, British Virgin Islands, U.S. Wallis and Futuna Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Zip Code Baylor University's technology partner works with multiple universities to offer online programs. Yes, I would like to learn more about these additional online programs. Submitting this form constitutes your express written consent to be called and/or texted by Baylor University at the number(s) you provided, regarding furthering your education. You understand that these calls may be generated using an automated technology, including by way of example, auto-dialer and click-to dial technologies. Calls may be recorded for quality assurance and training purposes. Privacy Policy. Download Your Brochure « Back | Step 2 of 2 X Close Form Schedule an Appointment Now Talk to a dedicated enrollment advisor about our online nursing programs. Schedule Your Appointment Simply choose a time when you are available to chat, and one of our advisors will give you a call. Important Dates Now Accepting Applications. Seating is limited. Next Start Date: August 22nd, 2022 Tami Taylor, MSN, MBA, RN, NEA-BC DNP-ENL Student If I am going to spend my time to obtain a DNP, I want it to mean something. I have been thrilled with the DNP-ENL program at Baylor. Every assignment and reading we do has meaning and translates to what I do daily. The resources available to students through the DNP program are very helpful. I could not be more satisfied and I am honored to be a student. I LOVE THIS PROGRAM!" Honoring Our Healthcare Leaders This Nurses Month, we recognize your adaptability, vision, and guidance as a leader in your field. You are an integral part of the future of nursing, and we offer our heartfelt thanks for all you do to inspire others. If COVID-19 has taught us anything, it's how much the world depends on solid leaders in nursing. Thank you, nurse leaders. We're proud of your commitment to the profession and for relentlessly striving to improve the trajectory of healthcare. Program Features At-A-Glance The online DNP-ENL program allows you to learn while you continue to lead in your current role. Stand out at your organization as a proven nurse leader and practice scholar. Develop advanced business acumen and leadership skills to transform hospitals and/or healthcare systems. 100 percent online program with no required campus visits. Gain advanced knowledge while creating a network of colleagues and mentors. Earn your Doctor of Nursing Practice degree from the Louise Herrington School of Nursing, ranked 60th in U.S. News & World Report’s 2022 Best Graduate Schools. Admissions Requirements At-A-Glance There are a few requirements for admission to the DNP-ENL program: Master of Science in Nursing from a regionally accredited school of nursing, or any master’s in business/health-related degree such as MHA, MPH, MBA, etc. Bachelor of Science in Nursing from an accredited school of nursing GPA: 3.0 or above (BSN) Current unencumbered RN license Two years of supervisory/management experience at Director level or above, with strategic planning, budgetary, and financial responsibilities within the past five years Current Curriculum Vitae (CV) or Resume Am I Eligible? Visit our FAQs Page for answers to questions regarding program eligibility. Visit our State Authorization page for a list of states in which we accept applicants for the online DNP-ENL program. Curriculum At-A-Glance NUR 6302 Resource Attainment and Allocation (foundational course) Examine advanced business principles and skills that are critical to strategically obtaining and allocating financial and human resources. Learn how to operationalize resources for current and future care delivery models. NUR 6307 Strategic Economic and Financial Concepts Analyze current trends in healthcare economics and their impact on organizational financial practices. Obtain hands-on experience (i.e., practicum hour with business executives) to develop specific skills and knowledge to effectively respond to changing economic and financial expectations, and improve stakeholder perception of nursing’s value to the organization. NUR 6306 Creating Excellence in Professional Practice Environments Prepare to strategically envision and design structures and processes that will advance excellence in professional nursing practice. Learn how to develop and sustain a practice environment that promotes optimal outcomes for patients, nurses and organizations. Get My Digital DNP-ENL Program Guide Influence outcomes Baylor’s online DNP executive leadership curriculum is centered on the Adams Influence Model (AIM), a framework for nurse leaders. AIM connects the factors, attributes, and processes of influence — essential for attaining stakeholder buy-in and implementing organizational change. It can help you use your skills and knowledge to reach new heights in your professional life. Advance in your field Opportunities for nurse executives are increasing exponentially. Enroll in Baylor’s reputable online DNP executive leadership program to demonstrate your potential and address pressing needs. Join a rapidly expanding field in one of the fastest-growing industries. Employment of medical and health services managers is projected to grow 20 percent from 2016 to 2026. Increase your earning potential: The average salary for a nurse executive is $131,000 (Payscale.com). Use new skills to tap the limitless potential of data analytics and improve outcomes. Gain a thorough understanding of business and healthcare models to put patient care first. Harness out-of-control costs to providers and patients. Put your advanced understanding of leadership and business to use in various roles. Vice President of Nursing Chief Nursing Officer Chief Nursing Executive In an ever-changing landscape that relies heavily on our business and political economies, your background and expertise has never been more essential to our nation’s continued success. Learn more about the DNP-ENL program today. Download Your DNP-ENL Digital Program Guide We think you will find our school unlike any other in that we truly do consider ourselves as called to prepare nurses through the integration of faith and excellent academics. Be Bold. Be Decisive. Be Exceptional. Become a Baylor Nurse. U.S. News Featured in U.S. News & World Report for the 2022 Best Graduate Schools, ranking our DNP in the top 10%. CCNE We rigorously adhere to the accreditation standards established by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE)**. Top 10 Best-Nursing-Colleges.com ranked Baylor as the #10 Best Nursing College in Texas. **The baccalaureate degree program in nursing, master's degree program in nursing, and Doctor of Nursing Practice program at Baylor University are accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, 655 K Street, NW, Suite 750, Washington, DC 20001, 202-887-6791. Connect With Your Baylor Enrollment Advisor Whether you have a simple question or need advice to determine which program is best for you, our friendly advisors are here to help. They can chat with you on your schedule and guide you through the entire admissions process so you can feel confident in moving forward with Baylor University. Download your guide to get started Request More Info Request More Info Apply Now Facebook LinkedIn Twitter YouTube Online Nursing Programs Accelerated Bachelor of Science in Nursing Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) - Executive Nurse Leadership Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) Family Nurse Practitioner Track Neonatal Nurse Practitioner Track Nurse-Midwifery Track Pediatric Nurse Practitioner Track ﻿Adult-Gerontology Acute Care Nurse Practitioner Track Why Baylor University Online? Accreditations and Affiliations Career Resources Clinical Placement Services Faculty Profiles FAQ Message from the Dean Online Experience Student Testimonials Student Services and Support State Authorization Tuition & Financial Aid Blog Contact Us Become a Student Refer a Friend Preceptors Apply Now Disclosures Anonymous Reporting Legal Disclosures Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Student Complaint Process Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 888-227-5901 • Privacy Policy • California Privacy Notice • Sitemap Back to top