Skip to menu Skip to content WSU Cougar Head Logo WSU Global Campus WSU Give Apply Locations My WSU Menu Menu Close WSU Global Campus Home Online Degrees Undergraduate Accounting Anthropology Biology Criminal Justice Data Analytics Economics English Environmental and Ecosystem Sciences History Hospitality Business Management Human Development Humanities Integrated Strategic Communication Management Management Information Systems Marketing Political Science Psychology Senior Living Management Social Sciences Sociology Minors Graduate Agriculture Food Science & Management Option Plant Health Management Option Electrical Power Engineering (PSM) Engineering and Technology Management Executive MBA Health Communication & Promotion MBA Music Software Engineering Special Education Strategic Communication Certificates Teaching Endorsements Get Started Undergrad Dates and Deadlines Start Your Application Transfer Student Former WSU Student Current WSU Student Running Start Homeschool Freshman Adult Freshman International Student Non-Degree-Seeking Student Graduate Student Talk With Us Get More Info Explore Careers Admissions Team Change of Campus Form About Who Are Global Campus Students? Our History Why WSU Quality Flexibility Community Meet Future Cougs Student Experience Student Involvement Student Services Outstanding Seniors Cost Policies State Authorization Complaint Process Privacy Notice Campus Safety Global Campus Blog Contact Us Current Student Close 100% online. 100% WSU. WSU Global Campus Online Degrees Nationally Recognized Washington State University Global Campus’ high-demand undergraduate and graduate degrees—offered 100% online—combine the convenience and flexibility of online learning with the high-quality academics and stellar reputation of WSU. As a Global Campus student, you will earn the same diploma, with the same prestige and respect, as all WSU alumni. Regardless of their campus, all WSU students are full members of the WSU Cougar community, with all the pride and advantages it entails. You don’t have to take our word for it: U.S. News & World Report ranks WSU Global Campus as one of the best online undergraduate programs in the nation. Undergraduate Choose a category to reveal the available undergraduate degrees. All Business Communication Interdisciplinary Science and Technology Social/Behavioral Sciences Accounting WSU’s accounting major, available 100% online, prepares students for rewarding careers in the growing field of accounting. The program provides a strong base in management fundamentals, accounting information systems, accounting practice and critical thinking. Students will graduate prepared to work in private business enterprises, Fortune 500 companies, national and international accounting firms, government agencies, consulting firms and non-profit organizations. More about accounting major—online Anthropology WSU’s Bachelor of Arts in Anthropology—offered 100% online—provides students with a core base of knowledge covering fundamental anthropological concepts and practices. The program delivers a wide variety of courses specializing in anthropology subfields, with a particular emphasis on the subfield of cultural anthropology. Graduates will gain critical thinking abilities, research experience, cultural sensitivity, and effective communication skills that will prepare them to enter the job market in a wide variety of fields. More about anthropology major—online Biology WSU’s Bachelor of Science in Biology degree completion program combines transferred courses with WSU Global Campus courses to provide a broad base of knowledge in the biological sciences. Global Campus courses—delivered 100% online—are designed to provide a solid foundation in the biological sciences while allowing students latitude to shape their own programs of study. Core courses in physiology, genetics, evolution, and ecology provide the background to develop interests in a wide variety of biological fields, including human anatomy, genetics, taxonomy, disease biology, ecology, and evolutionary biology. Students will also become well versed in research design, data analysis, scientific writing, and professional communication. More about biology major—online Criminal Justice WSU’s criminal justice degree program, available 100% online, combines problem-driven research and real-world expertise to prepare students to be leaders in local, state, federal and private law enforcement. Graduates can use the advanced critical-thinking skills and practical knowledge gained from the program in a wide variety of diverse career opportunities, including crime analysis, community corrections, victim advocacy, child protective services, border security, cyber-crime prevention, security/loss prevention and court administration. More about criminal justice degree—online Data Analytics WSU’s Bachelor of Science in Data Analytics—offered 100% online—prepares students for careers in the emerging, high-demand field of big data. The curriculum includes interdisciplinary courses in data analytics, computer science, statistics, math and communication. Graduates will learn the tools and techniques to collect, manage, explore and analyze large, complex datasets. They will also gain the ability to effectively communicate data-driven findings to help organizations in a wide range of industries to make better business decisions. The skills you will learn are highly transferable, and graduates can use their knowledge to bring value to a wide spectrum of industries. More about data analytics degree—online Economics WSU’s economics program, available 100% online, trains students to become critical thinkers and excellent communicators with advanced data analysis skills. Graduates will be prepared to evaluate and apply economic concepts and quantitative methods, think critically, integrate concepts, and evaluate and clearly communicate the results of economic analyses. Economics students can go on to careers as economists, statisticians, data analysts, advisors, revenue agents, loan officers, and in government service. A bachelor’s degree in economics is also excellent preparation for earning a graduate degree in economics, getting an MBA, or going to law school. More about economics degree—online English WSU’s Bachelor of Arts in English—available 100% online—focuses on rhetoric and professional writing. The program is designed to instill applied writing and editing skills that are vital to success in the workplace. WSU English students will gain the ability to write effectively and persuasively in professional settings and communicate technical or complex subject matter to any audience. Graduates from this program will also develop a broad understanding of the English language and literary studies, fostering valuable reading, research and critical thinking abilities. More about english degree—online Environmental and Ecosystem Sciences WSU’s earth and environmental science degree completion program with a major in Environmental and Ecosystem Sciences combines transferred courses with WSU Global Campus courses to provide a broad base of knowledge in biological and physical sciences relating to earth’s environment and ecosystems. Global Campus courses—delivered 100% online—offer a flexible, interdisciplinary curriculum that instills scientific methodology and critical thinking while allowing students to focus on subjects of interest to them. Areas of study include the interactions within ecosystems, how the planets ecosystems support life on earth, soil health, water resources, climate science, plant, wildlife, and aquatic ecology, environmental conservation and restoration, resource management and sustainability, and more. More about environmental and ecosystem sciences major—online History WSU’s undergraduate history major—offered fully online—helps students develop critical thinking, quantitative and symbolic reasoning, research abilities, information literacy, and communication skills, and equips students for the changing demands of the workplace. Students will have the opportunity to study many different historical topics, including world, American west, environmental, religious, gender, military, European, and diplomatic history. An undergraduate degree in history can lead to work as a historian, archivist, librarian, information specialist, writer, teacher, researcher or in government service. History students can further train for careers in business, law, and politics. More about history degree—online Hospitality Business Management WSU’s hospitality business management program—now available entirely online—is designed to help students learn the fundamentals required to advance in this fast-growing and wide-ranging industry. Acclaimed WSU faculty members bring extensive hands-on industry experience to the curriculum. Graduates will gain expertise in operations, revenues and cost controls, sales, service, event planning, and leadership, and will learn to apply those skills to careers at hotels, restaurants, sports and convention centers, senior living communities, and tourist destinations, both in the U.S. and across the world. More about HBM degree—online Human Development WSU’s human development bachelor’s degree—available entirely online—prepares graduates for employment in a wide variety of careers, including positions with such programs as Head Start, child-care centers and preschools, social service agencies, juvenile justice, the YMCA and senior centers. Students may also earn a certificate in early childhood education or gerontology (the early childhood education certificate is available for Washington state residents only). More about human development degree—online Humanities WSU’s Bachelor of Arts in Humanities degree—available 100% online—allows students to select courses and learn about cultural concepts through literature, art, music, theater, philosophy, history, languages, and linguistics. They develop a unique, customized and integrative degree plan that will focus on their individual values, interests, and aspirations. Graduates can find employment in areas linked to business, communication, education, human resources, social services, and many others. The degree also opens the door to many graduate and professional programs. More about humanities degree—online Integrated Strategic Communication WSU’s integrated strategic communication major, offered 100% online, provides a broad-based curriculum that focuses on both traditional and digital media. Coursework in the program emphasizes theoretically grounded, data-based decision-making to innovatively solve problems. Graduates will acquire the skills they need to prepare for careers in corporate communications, social media, community and media relations, advertising and public relations. Job opportunities are available in public relations firms, advertising agencies and in virtually all businesses and industries that require the expertise of communication professionals. More about strategic communication major—online Management WSU’s management major—offered 100% online—provides a well-rounded curriculum designed to prepare students to launch or advance a career as a professional manager. Management majors will learn how to lead and motivate people, anticipate change and improve the planning, structure and operation of an organization. The skills and knowledge graduates gain as a WSU management major are applicable to business of all sizes and types. More about management major—online Management Information Systems WSU’s management information systems major, offered 100% online, teaches high-level IT skills and the ability to apply them in a dynamic business environment. The curriculum focuses on technical, business and managerial knowledge. You will learn to collaborate with non-technical colleagues, assess an organization’s IT needs, and design information systems to meet those organizational needs. Courses include extensive hands-on experience in building software applications. More about MIS major—online Marketing WSU’s marketing major—available 100% online—builds a strong foundation in business fundamentals while offering courses in consumer behavior, marketing research, promotion management, marketing management, international marketing and elective business courses. Graduates will learn both valuable knowledge and practical skills designed to prepare them for exciting careers in the dynamic field of marketing. Career opportunities in marketing include positions as a sales representative, consultant, marketing associate, retail manager, or advertising specialist. Experienced marketers may also hold senior positions such as director of marketing, market research manager or brand manager. More about marketing major—online Political Science WSU’s political science bachelor’s program, available 100% online, focuses on problem-driven research that confronts both traditional and emerging public policy challenges in the United States and across the globe. Political science students engage with a wide variety of thought-provoking subjects, including political psychology, global security and justice, environmental policy, American government, political theory, and more. Students will also gain valuable skills including critical thinking, effective communication, and research abilities. More about political science degree—online Psychology WSU’s Bachelor of Science in Psychology—available 100% online—gives students a comprehensive understanding of psychological principles and the field’s use of the scientific methods. The ability to systematically identify and solve human problems is crucial skill in all workplaces and life situations. A psychology degree is an excellent stepping stone to graduate work in psychology, but also provides invaluable skills for those interested in a wide variety of career fields, including health care, social work, law, research and development, business, management, sales, marketing and administration. More about psychology degree—online Senior Living Management WSU’s senior living management major, offered 100% online, combines wide-ranging knowledge of the broader hospitality industry with specialized training applicable in senior living and retirement communities. Students will gain expertise in operations, service, management, finances, planning, and leadership in the senior living space. As part of WSU’s hospitality business management degree program, the senior living management major also provides knowledge and skills that will apply to careers at hotels, restaurants, sports and convention centers, and tourist destinations, both in the U.S. and around the globe. More about senior living management major—online Social Sciences WSU’s undergraduate degree in social sciences, available 100% online, teaches students marketable skills that employers value, including critical thinking and analysis, cultural awareness and sensitivity and effective communication skills. Graduates have many career options, including business, social services, law enforcement, education, government, and public service. The degree also provides a solid foundation for pursuing advanced degrees. More about social sciences degree—online Sociology WSU’s undergraduate sociology major, available 100% online, develops skills in critical thinking, quantitative and symbolic reasoning, research methods, information literacy and communication. You will develop an in-depth understanding of fundamental features of society—including diversity and inequality, the problem of social order, and the intersection of society and the environment. These multi-disciplinary skill sets and knowledge prepare students for a wide range of exciting career opportunities, including, but not limited to, social work, healthcare, education, criminal justice, law, politics, business, and marketing. More about sociology degree—online Graduate Choose a category to reveal the available graduate degrees. All Agriculture Arts Business Communication Education Science and Technology Agriculture WSU’s Master of Science in Agriculture (MSAG) program—offered 100% online—is designed for agricultural professionals, practitioners, and educators who wish to gain knowledge and skills and boost their careers. The program provides a solid core curriculum in agricultural science focusing on valuable practical knowledge and skills for agricultural professionals. The degree’s flexible, fully-online format is ideal for working professionals who want to achieve their academic and career goals with continuing with their careers. Application Deadlines Summer March 1 | Fall June 1 | Spring October 1 More about agriculture degree—online Agriculture Food Science Option WSU’s Master of Science in Agriculture (MSAG) program, Food Science and Management option—offered 100% online—is designed for agricultural professionals, practitioners, and educators who wish to gain knowledge and skills and boost their careers. The Food Science and Management option provides students with a solid core curriculum in agricultural science focusing on valuable practical knowledge and skills for agricultural professionals. Students will also take courses specializing in food science, food industry practices, business and management. This combination of science and business curriculum prepares graduates to be uniquely qualified to meet the increasing demand for managers who understand science and research as well as business and industry economics. Application Deadlines Summer March 1 | Fall June 1 | Spring October 1 More about agriculture food science option—online Agriculture Plant Health Option WSU’s Master of Science in Agriculture (MSAG) program, Plant Health and Management option—offered 100% online—is designed for agricultural professionals, practitioners, and educators who wish to gain knowledge and skills and boost their careers. The Food Science and Management option provides students with a solid core curriculum in agricultural science focusing on valuable practical knowledge and skills for agricultural professionals. Students will also take courses specializing in plant health, agricultural pathology, business and management. This combination of science and business curriculum prepares graduates to be uniquely qualified to meet the increasing demand for managers who understand science and research as well as business and industry economics. Application Deadlines Summer March 1 | Fall June 1 | Spring October 1 More about agriculture plant health option—online Electrical Power Engineering (PSM) WSU’s Professional Science Master’s (PSM) in Electrical Power Engineering—offered 100% online—combines advanced technical courses with professional management training to help students achieve high-paying employment. Professional Science Master’s, or PSM, is an innovative and relatively new type of degree program that trains students in an advanced scientific field while also teaching them the skills to be leaders and managers in a professional environment. Graduates will gain both an in-depth knowledge of electric power engineering and the managerial skills needed to advance in this industry. Application Deadlines Fall July 1 | Spring November 15 More about electrical power engineering degree—online Engineering and Technology Management WSU’s Engineering and Technology Management (ETM) program—offered 100% online—prepares engineering and business professionals to make strategic and operational decisions and become leaders in the management of technology. Courses provide practicing engineers with the knowledge, tools, and skills to manage projects, operations, organizations, and people. The ETM program is specifically tailored for professionals who want to advance their careers while still working full time. Live, online lectures are available from anywhere and at anytime. Application Deadlines Application due 6 weeks prior to the start of the semester—call 509-335-0125 for more details More about engineering and technology management degree—online Executive MBA WSU’s Executive Master of Business Administration program—offered entirely online—allows students to learn executive-level business concepts and strategy from accomplished faculty with real-world experience. Executive MBA students will gain in-depth knowledge as they navigate rigorous coursework with peers from different disciplines, leading to advanced expertise in high-level business leadership. The program also puts a high emphasis on student engagement. Application Deadlines Please contact an enrollment advisor toll free at 877-348-8154 for more details More about executive MBA degree—online Health Communication and Promotion WSU’s master’s degree in Health Communication and Promotion—offered 100% online—is designed for those who work in communication and health sciences and are seeking to refresh and update their professional skills to enhance their careers. The program provides a solid core curriculum, consisting of classes in multimedia content creation, crisis communication, professional ethics, and research methods. In specialized courses in health communication, students will learn health behavior change theories relevant for prevention messaging, message creation and design for effective information distribution, and techniques for effectively communicating health information with specialized populations. Application Deadlines Summer April 15 | Fall August 1 | Spring December 1 More about health communication and promotion degree—online MBA WSU’s Master of Business Administration program—offered entirely online—helps build confident business leaders by delivering a robust curriculum with an emphasis on entrepreneurship and global business. The program also puts a high emphasis on student engagement. Application Deadlines Please contact an enrollment advisor toll free at 877-348-8154 for more details More about MBA degree—online Music WSU’s Master of Arts in Music program, offered completely online, is designed to provide music professionals and educators a convenient way to expand their musical knowledge and boost their careers. This flexible, fully-online degree is ideal for music educators seeking to enhance their skills and credentials while continuing in their teaching positions. It is also an excellent choice for aspiring music teachers and those who work, or wish to work, in the music industry as composers, arrangers, or producers. Application Deadlines Fall July 1 | Spring November 15 More about music degree—online Software Engineering WSU’s Master’s in Software Engineering program—offered 100% online—is specifically designed for workplace advancement. Course requirements were created with input from an industry advisory board that includes representatives from pioneering tech companies. Upon graduation, students will be well prepared to apply their knowledge and skills to implement high-quality software, provide innovative solutions, and take leadership roles in industry and government. Graduates can choose to pursue a career as software developer, software engineer, requirements engineer, quality assurance engineer, project manager, and many others. Application Deadlines Fall July 21 | Spring November 16 More about software engineering degree—online Special Education WSU’s Master of Education (EdM) in Special Education degree—offered 100% online—is designed for educational professionals wishing to extend their knowledge and skills in education, expand their understanding of special education practices and strategies, and pursue leadership roles in schools, organizations or agencies. The program is designed to address the Washington State Special Education Core Competencies for special education teachers and aims to prepare students for roles in teaching and leadership in this field. The program also gives certified teachers the preparation for the state endorsement they need to teach pre-kindergarten through 12th grade special education in Washington State. Application Deadlines Fall January 10 | Spring July 1 More about special education degree—online Strategic Communication WSU’s master’s degree in Strategic Communication—offered 100% online—is designed for those who want to excel in communication, advertising, public relations and corporate communication. It’s also ideal for individuals who wish to enter this field by earning trusted credentials from a university noted for excellence in communication studies. This degree program provides a solid core curriculum consisting of classes in multimedia content creation, crisis communication, professional ethics, and research methods. Students will also receive hands-on training in the most advanced platforms, tools and techniques. The program’s multidisciplinary approach offers expertise in both new and traditional media, critical knowledge and skills for today’s innovative communications environment. Application Deadlines Summer April 15 | Fall August 1 | Spring December 1 More about strategic communication degree—online Certificates Teaching Endorsements More Resources WSU Related Global Campus Websites Get TechReady Current Student Global Connections ASWSUG Non-credit Options WSU Global Campus, PO Box 645220 Pullman, WA 99164-5220, 800-222-4978, 509-335-3557 online@wsu.edu Go to wsu twitter Go to wsu facebook Go to wsu instagram Go to wsu youtube WSU Cougar Head Logo © Washington State University 2021 Access Policies MyWSU Follow WSU