Skip to main content Search form Search Search Online Learning Home About Open Educational Resources Coursera for UVA Faculty Resources Student Resources Online Education @ UVA UVA offers online courses, certificates, and degrees. Learn about them here. Home Course Certificate Degree All Arts and Humanities Business Education and Human Development Engineering and Science Medicine and Health Sciences Additional Filters -- select one -- Select List AllBatten School of Leadership and Public PolicyCollege of Arts and SciencesDarden School of BusinessMcIntire School of CommerceSchool for Continuing and Professional StudiesSchool of Data ScienceSchool of Education and Human DevelopmentSchool of Engineering and Applied ScienceSchool of MedicineCertificateCourseDegree Business Financial Accounting Fundamentals Course, Darden School of Business Learn the basics of financial accounting and how to prepare, read and analyze financial statements. course darden-school-of-business business Medicine and Health Sciences Cardio Village Course, School of Medicine Online Cardiovascular Education from a Trusted Source. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business M.S. in the Management of IT Degree, McIntire School of Commerce Master of Science Degree in the Management of Information Technology degree mcintire-school-of-commerce business Business M.S. in Business Analytics Degree, Darden School of Business, McIntire School of Commerce Transform large data sets into deliverables that inform strategic business decisions, drive value, a Most Popular!! degree darden-school-of-business mcintire-school-of-commerce business Arts and Humanities The Kennedy Half Century Course, College of Arts and Sciences Explore the Presidency, assassination, and lasting legacy of President John F. Kennedy course college-of-arts-and-sciences arts-and-humanities Education and Human Development Applied Behavior Analysis Certificate Certificate, School of Education and Human Development Certificate fulfills coursework requirement to sit for BCBA examination. certificate school-of-education-and-human-development education-and-human-development Medicine and Health Sciences Subvalvular and Subvalvular Obstruction Course, School of Medicine Interpret pressure tracings showing gradients associated with sub-aortic membranes, course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Aspectos básicos de la planificación y la gestión de proyectos Course, Darden School of Business Este es un curso de introducción a los conceptos básicos de la planificación y ejecución de proyecto course darden-school-of-business business Education and Human Development Masters in Public Safety Degree, School of Continuing & Professional Studies Masters program for working safety professionals to increase their leadership skills. degree school-of-continuing-amp-amp-professional-studies education-and-human-development Medicine and Health Sciences Aortic Valve 4: Aortic Valve Surgery Course, School of Medicine Aortic valve replacement and repair, and TEE use post-surgery. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Pathophysiology Of Cardiac Tamponade Course, School of Medicine Pericardial diseases are a diverse group of disorders that relate to both cardiac and non-cardiac. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Digital Product Management Specialization Certificate, Darden School of Business Five courses to provide an overview of digital product management. certificate darden-school-of-business business Medicine and Health Sciences The Physics Of Ultrasound 4: The Doppler Principle Course, School of Medicine Using the Doppler Principle in patient diagnosis. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Intravascular Ultrasound Course, School of Medicine Using IVUS the operator can identify arterial size, structure, and pathology. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences The Pulmonic Valve And Artery Course, School of Medicine The importance of pulmonic valve integrity and right ventricle function. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Thoracic Aorta 1: Aortic Cannulation And Aneurysms Course, School of Medicine Review the analysis of the thoracic aorta. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Engineering and Science Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Degree, School of Engineering and Applied Science Master degree program focused on mechanical and aerospace engineering. degree school-of-engineering-and-applied-science engineering-and-science Medicine and Health Sciences The Physiology Of The Fetal Cardiovascular System Course, School of Medicine An overview of fetal circulation and how it differs from post-natal circulation. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences The Physics Of Ultrasound 7: Strain And Strain Rate Course, School of Medicine Ultrasonic waves: Strain and strain rate course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Цифровая трансформация Course, Darden School of Business Цифровая трансформация — это популярная на сегодняшний день тема. Но что это такое и почему она важн course darden-school-of-business business Medicine and Health Sciences The Role Of Fractional Flow Reserve Course, School of Medicine Follow a patient with multivessel coronary heart disease. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Getting Started: Agile Meets Design Thinking Course, Darden School of Business Learn how to use agile and design thinking to surface valuable solutions to meaningful problems. course darden-school-of-business business Medicine and Health Sciences Interpreting Control Charts Course, School of Medicine Course to go over the benefits of control charts. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Newborn Dried Blood-Spot Screening Course, School of Medicine Newborn Screening is a public health activity used for early identification of infants affected by c course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Foundations of Business Strategy Course, Darden School of Business Explore the underlying theory and apply analytical tools to understand successful business strategy. course darden-school-of-business business Education and Human Development Masters of Education in Administration and Supervision Degree, School of Education and Human Development Our program and distinguished faculty can help you develop into a top-tier education leader. degree school-of-education-and-human-development education-and-human-development Business Cost and Economics in Pricing Strategy Course, Darden School of Business Learn a classic strategy for setting prices: based on economics and production and delivery costs. course darden-school-of-business business Medicine and Health Sciences Radiation Safety Course, School of Medicine The risks of cath lab radiation exposure and how to reduce them. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Collaboration and Influence Course, Darden School of Business Discover how to build trust, promote positive engagement, and gain support for new ideas. course darden-school-of-business business Business Основы бизнес-стратегии Course, Darden School of Business Развивайте способности мыслить стратегически, анализировать конкурентную среду, course darden-school-of-business business Medicine and Health Sciences Pediatric ECG Basics Course, School of Medicine Evaluate an ECG using the knowledge gained and recognize what information an ECG does not provide course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Quality Improvement: The Big Picture Course, School of Medicine Look at the big picture of quality improvement–the view from 35,000 feet with tools and roles. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences The Tricuspid Valve Course, School of Medicine Tricuspid valve integrity and long-term patient outcomes. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Cocaine-Associated ST-Elevation Myocardial Infraction Course, School of Medicine Acute ST-Elevation Myocardial Infarction (STEMI) is a common presentation. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Non-Physician Opioid Use Disorder Medication Assisted Treatment Waiver Training (16+ hours) Course, School of Medicine This is a 16+ hour course developed for health care professionals. Most Popular!! course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Arts and Humanities Bachelor of Interdisciplinary Studies Degree, School of Continuing & Professional Studies Degree completion program for bachelor degree with online classes. degree school-of-continuing-amp-amp-professional-studies arts-and-humanities Business Certificate in Procurement & Contracts Management Certificate, School of Continuing & Professional Studies A six course certificate program to understand contract and procurement management. certificate school-of-continuing-amp-amp-professional-studies business Business Digital Transformation Course, Darden School of Business This course focuses on using agile to improve the efficiency of a software development program. course darden-school-of-business business Education and Human Development Education Specialist in Curriculum and Instruction Degree, School of Education and Human Development The Ed.S. in Curriculum & Instruction degree is terminal graduate degree. degree school-of-education-and-human-development education-and-human-development Business Online Graduate Certificate in Project Management Certificate, School of Continuing & Professional Studies A core framework and information to apply a wide range of tools in order to be effective in projects certificate school-of-continuing-amp-amp-professional-studies business Medicine and Health Sciences Leading in a Microsystem Course, School of Medicine Learn the three fundamental processes of leadership and how to lead a microsystem. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Process Mapping for Opportunities Course, School of Medicine Define the value of process mapping in healthcare quality improvement. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business L'analyse marketing Course, Darden School of Business Les organisations, quelle que soit leur taille, sont inondées de données sur les choix. course darden-school-of-business business Medicine and Health Sciences When Eosinophils Attack Course, School of Medicine Eosinophils: Cardiogenic shock and missed diagnosis of cardiomyopathy. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Coding for Designers, Managers, & Entrepreneurs III Course, Darden School of Business This class focuses on creating application logic (controllers) with Javascript. course darden-school-of-business business Business Pricing Strategy Optimization Specialization Certificate, Darden School of Business Master current pricing strategies, learn to set prices the way experts do, and maximize profits. certificate darden-school-of-business business Medicine and Health Sciences Bicuspid Aortic Valve And Pulmonic Stenosis Course, School of Medicine Acyanotic heart conditions: bicuspid aortic valve, pulmonic stenosis. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Transformación digital Course, Darden School of Business La transformación digital es un tema de gran interés, pero ¿qué es exactamente y qué significa. course darden-school-of-business business Engineering and Science M.S. Data Science Degree, School of Data Science Learn how to make sense of the vast amounts of data available now, and turn insights into action. Most Popular!! degree school-of-data-science engineering-and-science Business Navigating the Path from Data to Policy Course, Batten School of Leadership and Public Policy, School of Data Science Gain fluency in the fundamentals of policy research. course batten-school-of-leadership-and-public-policy school-of-data-science business Business Business Essentials Certificate, McIntire School of Commerce Make better business decisions and gain skills to help you succeed in four key business areas. certificate mcintire-school-of-commerce business Medicine and Health Sciences The Physics Of Ultrasound 6: Speckle Tracking Course, School of Medicine Speckle causation and how speckles "fingerprint" cardiac tissue. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Managing an Agile Team Course, Darden School of Business This course focuses on using agile to improve the efficiency of a software development program. course darden-school-of-business business Medicine and Health Sciences Diastolic Function 2: Assessment Of Diastolic LV Function Course, School of Medicine Learn about mitral inflow, diastolic dysfunction, and pulmonic vein flow. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Aortic Valve 2: Quantification Of AS School of Medicine Echocardiographic methods for quantifying aortic stenosis. school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Education and Human Development Masters of Education in Educational Psychology: Social Foundations Degree, School of Education and Human Development Examine issues that reach beyond the given roles of educational specialists and practitioners. degree school-of-education-and-human-development education-and-human-development Medicine and Health Sciences Echo Use In Extracorporeal Support And Heart Failure Course, School of Medicine Review the use of ultrasound and echocardiography to manage extracorporeal support systems. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Masses, Pericardial And Myocardial Disease 3: Pericardial Disease Course, School of Medicine Learn about anatomy of the pericardium. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Multi-voting and Prioritization Course, School of Medicine This module describes tools in the idea generation group: multi-voting and use of a prioritization. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Certificate in Leadership in Human Resources Management Certificate, School of Continuing & Professional Studies Five course certificate program in leadership. certificate school-of-continuing-amp-amp-professional-studies business Medicine and Health Sciences Prosthetic Valves 2: Valvular Problems Course, School of Medicine Common issues regarding prosthetic valves. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Alternative Echocardiographic Modalities Course, School of Medicine Review ultrasound modalities not commonly utilized by anesthesiologists and intensivists. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Engineering and Science Masters Degree in Engineering in Engineering Systems and Environment Degree, School of Engineering and Applied Science Systems Engineering is concerned primarily with improving problem-solving and decision-making. degree school-of-engineering-and-applied-science engineering-and-science Medicine and Health Sciences Breastfeeding Friendly Consortium Certification Courses Certificate, School of Medicine Breastfeeding Friendly Consortium is your resource Breastfeed Training. certificate school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Cancer Prevention Course, School of Medicine Video of a conference highlighting methods to prevent cancer. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Engineering and Science Civil Engineering Degree, School of Engineering and Applied Science Master degree program focused on civil and environmental engineering. degree school-of-engineering-and-applied-science engineering-and-science Medicine and Health Sciences Understanding the Microsystem Course, School of Medicine Examine the structure of healthcare systems to understand performance and care. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences ICU And Non-Cardiac Echocardiography Course, School of Medicine Review the use of cardiac ultrasound in the ICU and perioperative settings. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business تحليلات التسويق Course, Darden School of Business تمتلك المؤسسات صغيرها وكبيرها كميات هائلة من البيانات عن اختيارات العملاء. ولكن هذا القدر الغزير من course darden-school-of-business business Medicine and Health Sciences Endocarditis Course, School of Medicine The purpose of this course is to assist the reader in the the diagnosis of endocarditis. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Mitral Regurgitation Top 10 Course, School of Medicine Pathophysiology and natural history of mitral regurgitation. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Advanced Business Strategy Course, Darden School of Business Learn tools to analyze strategy across time, industries, geographies, and stakeholders. course darden-school-of-business business Medicine and Health Sciences Coronary Angiography Principles And Catheters Course, School of Medicine The “gold standard” clinical technique for evaluating coronary anatomy in many patients. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Agile Development in Practice Course, Darden School of Business Get a start-to-finish hands-on experience leading an agile project in this project-centered course. course darden-school-of-business business Medicine and Health Sciences Quality Improvement: Conducting A Test Of Change Course, School of Medicine Prepare for and conduct a test of change. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences 3D Ultrasound Course, School of Medicine 3D Ultrasounds: Technical Considerations, Clinical Applications and 3D Imaging. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Collecting QI Data Course, School of Medicine Discuss methods for determining what data you need and how you will collect it. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Coding for Designers, Managers, & Entrepreneurs II Course, Darden School of Business The focus of this course is on creating interactive user interfaces (UIs) with Javascript. course darden-school-of-business business Medicine and Health Sciences Coronary Artery Anomalies, Basics Course, School of Medicine A course examining coronary artery anomalies. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Market and Competition in Pricing Strategy Course, Darden School of Business This course provides in-depth analysis of using market-based pricing to capture more revenue. course darden-school-of-business business Medicine and Health Sciences Advanced Coronary Angiography Course, School of Medicine Coronary artery imaging focused on coronary artery bypass grafts. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Maternal Diabetes And Congenital Heart Disease Course, School of Medicine Reviews the effects of gestational diabetes and pre-pregnancy maternal diabetes course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Certificate in Sustainable Business Certificate, McIntire School of Commerce Learn business through the lens of social, environmental, and fiscal responsibility. certificate mcintire-school-of-commerce business Business Transformação digital Course, Darden School of Business A transformação digital é um tópico importante, mas do que se trata exatamente e o que significa? course darden-school-of-business business Medicine and Health Sciences Breastfeeding Refresher Training Course Course, School of Medicine The online Refresher Breastfeeding Training Course is specifically designed for those healthcare pro course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Anomalous Coronary Origins Course, School of Medicine Discussion of the risk of coronary anomalies and potential strategies to mitigate that risk. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Hypothesis-Driven Development Course, Darden School of Business This course shows you how to facilitate alignment and create a culture of experimentation. course darden-school-of-business business Education and Human Development English as a Second Language PreK-12 Online Certificate Certificate, School of Education and Human Development As a practicing teacher, get certified to teach ESL. certificate school-of-education-and-human-development education-and-human-development Medicine and Health Sciences Prosthetic Valves 3: Types Of Valves Course, School of Medicine This course focuses on mechanical and biological prosthetic valves. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Education and Human Development Masters of Education in Curriculum and Instruction Degree, School of Education and Human Development Find impactful employment inside the K-12 classroom. degree school-of-education-and-human-development education-and-human-development Medicine and Health Sciences Treatment Of Cardiac Tamponade Course, School of Medicine Learn about surgical therapies for cardiac tamponade and/or recurrent pericardial effusions. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Innovating with the Business Model Canvas Course, Darden School of Business This course explains how to drive meaningful focus through the one-page Business Model Canvas (BMC). course darden-school-of-business business Education and Human Development Child Development Associate (CDA) Credential Certificate Three classes provided in partnership with Teachstone for the CDA credential. certificate education-and-human-development Medicine and Health Sciences Fractional Flow Reserve Measurement Course, School of Medicine Describe the technique of FFR and discuss the interpretation of results in a clinical context. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Continuous Delivery and Delivery Operations Course, Darden School of Business Learn interdisciplinary skills to cultivate a continuous deployment capability in your organization. course darden-school-of-business business Education and Human Development Library Media Program Certificate Program for teachers to build skills so they can become librarians. certificate education-and-human-development Business La transformation numérique Course, Darden School of Business Viewingas Staff Preview Course Materials Browse Business Leadership and Management La transformatio course darden-school-of-business business Business Creating the Innovative Workplace Course, Darden School of Business Learn techniques and leadership skills to create a culture of innovation in your workplace. course darden-school-of-business business Medicine and Health Sciences Congenital Heart Disease In Adults 2: Simple Defects Course, School of Medicine Review the echocardiographic assessment and management of adult patients with congenital heart disea course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Masses, Pericardial And Myocardial Disease 2: Tumors Course, School of Medicine Learn about adult and pediatric cardiac tumors, renal cell carcinoma, and carcinoid tumors course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Fetal Cardiology: Congenital Heart Disease Of The Left Heart Course, School of Medicine Congenital heart diseases of the left heart including coarctation of the aorta, and aortic stenosis. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Pregnancy In The Woman With Congenital Heart Disease Course, School of Medicine This course covers the impact of maternal cardiac disease. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Ultrasound Artifacts 5: Image Optimization Course, School of Medicine Ultrasound Artifacts: Recommendations for image optimization. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Certificate in Cybersecurity for Business Leaders Certificate, McIntire School of Commerce The convenient 12-week online program in cyber security is designed for working professionals. Most Popular!! certificate mcintire-school-of-commerce business Business Digital Product Management: Modern Fundamentals Course, Darden School of Business Learn to charter a direction and create a working environment for product success. course darden-school-of-business business Medicine and Health Sciences Coronary Artery Anomalies of Intrinsic Arterial Anatomy Course, School of Medicine Learn about coronary artery bridges and fistulas. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Waveform Interpretation: Right Atrial, Right Ventricular, Pulmonary Artery Course, School of Medicine Cardiac information gained through right-heart pressure recordings. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Waveform Interpretation: Simultaneous LV And RV Waveforms & Simultaneous LV And FA Course, School of Medicine Principles of analysis of high-quality hemodynamic pressure recordings. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Les bases de la stratégie d’entreprise Course, Darden School of Business Développez vos capacités à réfléchir de manière stratégique, à analyser l’environnement. course darden-school-of-business business Business Coding for Designers, Managers, & Entrepreneurs I Course, Darden School of Business Do you want to experience what it is to go from idea to code? If so, this is the place for you! course darden-school-of-business business Business Estrategia de IT centrada en el cliente Course, Darden School of Business Hoy más que nunca, las corporaciones realizan grandes inversiones en el sector de la tecnología. course darden-school-of-business business Medicine and Health Sciences Bachelor of Professional Studies in Health Sciences Management Degree, School of Continuing & Professional Studies Three to five year program to prepare for a career in health sciences. degree school-of-continuing-amp-amp-professional-studies medicine-and-health-sciences Business Entrepreneurship: Growing Your Business Certificate, Darden School of Business Learn leadership, employee management, strategy, planning, finance, accounting, and ethics. certificate darden-school-of-business business Medicine and Health Sciences Mitral Valve 1: Anatomy Course, School of Medicine Anatomical basics of the mitral valve. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Congenital Heart Disease In Adults 3: Complex Defects Course, School of Medicine Review the echocardiographic assessment and management of adults with a history of congenital heart. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Engineering and Science Materials Science and Engineering Degree, School of Engineering and Applied Science Master degree program with a focus on materials science and engineering. degree school-of-engineering-and-applied-science engineering-and-science Medicine and Health Sciences Analyzing Cause and Effect Processes Course, School of Medicine Create a process map to identify opportunities to build a better process. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Business Strategy Specialization Certificate, Darden School of Business Develop your business acumen and ability to think strategically in this four-course program. certificate darden-school-of-business business Medicine and Health Sciences Left To Right Shunts: Ventricular Septal Defects Course, School of Medicine This course reviews defects in the interventricular septum. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Cardiovascular Emergencies Top 10 Course, School of Medicine 10 top cardiovascular emergencies found in acutely ill patients. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Ultrasound Artifacts 1: Reflection And Extraneous Beams Course, School of Medicine Ultrasound Artifacts: Basics of refraction and reflection. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Vascular Access For Radial, Brachial, Internal Jugular, And Other Sites Course, School of Medicine Describe the unique aspects of vascular access into the internal jugular vein including technique. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Fundamentals of Project Planning and Management Course, Darden School of Business Learn how to plan, analyze, and manage projects so that you deliver on time and in budget. course darden-school-of-business business Medicine and Health Sciences Mechanical Complications Of MI: Right Ventricular Infarction Course, School of Medicine In this lesson, we review the basic features of right ventricular infarction. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Breastfeeding Friendly Performance Improvement Course, School of Medicine course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Brainstorming and Affinity Diagramming Course, School of Medicine This module describes the use of two tools for idea generation for quality improvements. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Education and Human Development Doctor of Education in Curriculum and Instruction Degree, School of Education and Human Development For practitioners committed to promoting quality and equity in school systems, and communities. degree school-of-education-and-human-development education-and-human-development Business Discovery Tools Course, Darden School of Business Connect with your customers on a human level, to get beyond what they say and observe what they do. course darden-school-of-business business Medicine and Health Sciences Cases in Nuclear Cardiology Course, School of Medicine Reading nuclear cardiology images requires experience, skill, and judgment. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Congenital Heart Disease In Adults 1: Terminology And Embryology Course, School of Medicine Review the echocardiographic assessment and management of adult patients. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Quality Improvement: Analyzing The Test Of Change Course, School of Medicine Learn a basic approach to analyzing quality improvement (QI) data. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Aortic Valve 1: Anatomy And Aortic Stenosis Course, School of Medicine Aortic valve anatomy and an overview of aortic stenosis. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Mitral Valve 4: Mitral Valve Surgery Course, School of Medicine Mitral valve surgery: To repair or replace? course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Atrial Fibrillation Basics Top 10 Course, School of Medicine Learn to identify and treat patients with atrial fibrillation. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Certificate in Health Sciences Management Certificate, School of Continuing & Professional Studies A foundation of management competencies for individuals working in health care. certificate school-of-continuing-amp-amp-professional-studies medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Total Occlusion Late After Myocardial Infarction Course, School of Medicine Managing a patient with a totally occluded artery presenting late to the cath lab. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Echo Exam 3: Complete TEE And TTE Exams Course, School of Medicine The complete TEE and TTE exams. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Design Thinking para Inovação Course, Darden School of Business Hoje em dia, a inovação é um negócio de todos. course darden-school-of-business business Medicine and Health Sciences Syncope Top 10 Course, School of Medicine Diagnosis and assessment of patients with syncope. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Using Run Charts Course, School of Medicine Describe the value of using run charts in quality improvement. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Creating and Analyzing Process Maps Course, School of Medicine Define common types of process maps. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Sarcoid Heart Disease Course, School of Medicine A case reviewing the evaluation and management of a patient with cardiac sarcoidosis. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Critical Congenital Heart Disease, Part 2 Course, School of Medicine Approximately 1 in 100 infants is born with some type of congenital heart disease (CHD). course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Engineering and Science Sustainability through Soccer: Systems-Thinking in Action Course, School of Engineering and Applied Science Learn about system components through soccer examples. course school-of-engineering-and-applied-science engineering-and-science Medicine and Health Sciences Diagnosis Of Prosthetic Valve Dysfunction Course, School of Medicine Describe the normal appearance and hemodynamic assessment of various prosthetic valves course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Left To Right Shunts: Patent Ductus Arteriosus (PDA) Course, School of Medicine PDA accounts for 10% of congenital heart defects but is relatively rare in adults. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Wide Complex Tachycardia Course, School of Medicine Define the clinical approach to the diagnosis of wide complex tachycardia. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Agile и дизайн-мышление Course, Darden School of Business Но так не должно быть. course darden-school-of-business business Medicine and Health Sciences Pacemakers And Implantable Cardioverter Defibrillators (ICD) Top 10 Course, School of Medicine The basic functions and capabilities of implantable medical devices. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences The Physics Of Ultrasound 5: Hemodynamics Mechanics Course, School of Medicine Ultrasonic waves: Producing and interpreting meaningful images. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Pediatric ECG Reading Method Course, School of Medicine Review the basic principles and findings on the pediatric electrocardiogram. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business African Scholarship Program Course Scholarship program with DeAfrica offering free access to a variety of UVA online courses. course business Medicine and Health Sciences Fetal Cardiology: Congenital Heart Disease Of The Right Heart Course, School of Medicine Evaluate common congenital right heart lesions and learn keys to aid in the diagnosis. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Echo Exam 1: Guiding Principles Course, School of Medicine Assist the reader through the performance of basic and advanced transesophageal echocardiograms. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Gestão de produtos digitais: Princípios básicos modernos Course, Darden School of Business Mas as empresas que gerenciam produtos dessa maneira estão morrendo. course darden-school-of-business business Education and Human Development English as a Second Language (ESL) Course Series Course, School of Education and Human Development Course series designed to develop successful ESL teachers. course school-of-education-and-human-development education-and-human-development Medicine and Health Sciences Prevention and Risk Reduction in Decreasing Cancer Course, School of Medicine NGCF or Less Cancer promotes a prevention paradigm for addressing this alarming trend. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Abdominal Ultrasound Course, School of Medicine Learn the use of ultrasound for examination of abdominal pathology. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Physician Opioid Use Disorder Medication Assisted Treatment Waiver Training (8+ hours) Course, School of Medicine Review of guidelines in opioid prescribing and management for acute and chronic pain. Most Popular!! course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Aortic Regurgitation Top 10 Course, School of Medicine Pathophysiology and natural history of aortic regurgitation. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Aortography And Ventriculography Course, School of Medicine Aortography and ventriculography: specialized imaging techniques. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Coarctation Of The Aorta Course, School of Medicine A review of less common conditions encountered during cardiac cath. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Bacterial Bioinformatics using PATRIC Course, School of Engineering and Applied Science, School of Medicine Exercises for performing common genomics-based analysis tasks of bacterial sequence data. course school-of-engineering-and-applied-science school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences A Tortuous Path: Radial Artery Catheterization Course, School of Medicine Issues, concerns, and potential solutions for radial artery catheterization. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Agiles Arbeiten trifft auf Design Thinking Course, Darden School of Business Trotz aller guten Absichten, harter Arbeit und solider Ideen entwickeln zu viele Teams Produkte. course darden-school-of-business business Medicine and Health Sciences Bypass Graft Angiography Pathology and Limitations Course, School of Medicine Apply our knowledge of coronary anatomy and coronary angiography to patients. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Testing with Agile Course, Darden School of Business This course focuses on the relationship between idea, usability, and software testing with agile. course darden-school-of-business business Medicine and Health Sciences Critical Congenital Heart Disease, Part 1 Course, School of Medicine Content for healthcare providers on the identification and implications of CCHD. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Marketing Analytics Course, Darden School of Business This course applies marketing analytics to predict outcomes and systematically allocate resources. course darden-school-of-business business Medicine and Health Sciences Coronary Angiography Course, School of Medicine A patient-focused, scientific approach to coronary angiography. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Bicuspid Aortic Valve And Pulmonic Stenosis Course, School of Medicine In these modules, we will learn about acyanotic heart conditions. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Design Thinking for the Greater Good: Innovation in the Social Sector Course, Darden School of Business Learn to apply design thinking to solve the problems and meet the needs of the people you serve. course darden-school-of-business business Business Agile Analytics Course, Darden School of Business Learn how to build a strong analytics infrastructure for your team. course darden-school-of-business business Medicine and Health Sciences Quality Improvement: The PDSA Cycle, Themes And Aims Course, School of Medicine How to develop Themes and Aims, the first step of the Do Study Act (PDSA) cycle. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Dementia and Acute Coronary Syndrome Course, School of Medicine Learn how heart disease and dementia are connected through this case study. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Engineering and Science Programming with Python for Scientists and Engineers Course YouTube playlist with 10 episodes providing an overview of Python. course engineering-and-science Medicine and Health Sciences Ultrasound Artifacts 4: Normal Anatomic Variants & Aortic Dissection Course, School of Medicine Normal anatomic variants and linear and mirror image artifacts. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Mitral Valve 2: Mitral Regurgitation Course, School of Medicine MR: classification, quantification, ischemic/functional, and valve specifics. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Certificate in Leadership Certificate, School of Continuing & Professional Studies Six course certificate program for leadership. certificate school-of-continuing-amp-amp-professional-studies business Engineering and Science Cyber Security Management Certificate Certificate, School of Continuing & Professional Studies A six course certificate program in cybersecurity. certificate school-of-continuing-amp-amp-professional-studies engineering-and-science Business Grundlagen der Geschäftsstrategie Course, Darden School of Business Fördern Sie Ihr strategisches Denkvermögen, analysieren Sie Ihr Wettbewerbsumfeld und schlagen. course darden-school-of-business business Medicine and Health Sciences Coronary Angiography: Views and Pitfalls Course, School of Medicine Learn about catheter pressure waveforms, the angiographic views, and angiographic view/coronary. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Engineering and Science Deep Learning: A Hands-On Approach Course, School of Data Science, School of Engineering and Applied Science Articulate concepts, algorithms, and tools to build intelligent systems. course school-of-data-science school-of-engineering-and-applied-science engineering-and-science Engineering and Science Masters Degree in Engineering in Electrical and Computer Engineering Degree, School of Engineering and Applied Science Master degree program with focus on electrical engineering. degree school-of-engineering-and-applied-science engineering-and-science Medicine and Health Sciences Diagnosis Of Cardiac Tamponade Course, School of Medicine Differentiate pericardial effusions from cardiac tamponade based on symptoms, signs, and hemodynamic course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Echo Exam 2: Basic TEE, TTE, And Emergency Algorithms Course, School of Medicine Algorithms for performing basic TEE, TTE, and emergency TEE echocardiography. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Indications And Appropriate Use Of Fetal Echocardiograms Course, School of Medicine The what and why of fetal echocardiograms. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Artificial Intelligence in Marketing Course, Darden School of Business Explore three key forces that enable AI in marketing - Algorithms, Networks, and Data course darden-school-of-business business Medicine and Health Sciences Left Ventricular Function & Geometry 2: LV Geometry Course, School of Medicine LV Geometry: Wall thickness, size, and cardiomyopathies. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Design Thinking Part 2: Ideas to Action Course, Darden School of Business Generate solutions to your challenge from Part I and move from ideation to experimentation. course darden-school-of-business business Medicine and Health Sciences Breastfeeding Training Course School of Medicine The online Breastfeeding Training Course covers 6 topics. school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Education and Human Development Gifted Learners Certificate Program Certificate, School of Education and Human Development Gain needed skills to work with gifted children. certificate school-of-education-and-human-development education-and-human-development Business Certificate in Certified Financial Planning Certificate, School of Continuing & Professional Studies This program provides competencies in financial planning, insurance, investment planning, and more. certificate school-of-continuing-amp-amp-professional-studies business Medicine and Health Sciences Bypass Graft Angiography Basics Course, School of Medicine Apply our knowledge of coronary anatomy and coronary angiography to patients. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Atrial Myxoma Course, School of Medicine Cardiac tumors are unusual, but atrial myxomas are the most common. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences The Physics Of Ultrasound 2: Tissue Course, School of Medicine Reflection, attenuation, refraction: Roles in ultrasound imagery. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Coronary Angiography: A Primer Course, School of Medicine The “gold standard” clinical technique for evaluating coronary anatomy and bypass grafts. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy Top 10 Course, School of Medicine Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy: Challenges to physicians. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Left To Right Shunts: Patent Ductus Arteriosus (PDA) Course, School of Medicine A review of patent ductus arteriosus. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Education and Human Development Master's of Public Safety Degree, School of Continuing & Professional Studies Designed for working public safety professionals who want to improve their leadership skills degree school-of-continuing-amp-amp-professional-studies education-and-human-development Medicine and Health Sciences Diastolic Function 1: Diastolic Period Physiology Course, School of Medicine Learners will be able to assess left ventricular diastolic function. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Acute Aortic Dissection Top 10 Course, School of Medicine Diagnostic and therapeutic options for acute aortic dissection. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences MOC Knowledge Self-Assessment Course Breastfeeding Friendly Consortium Course, School of Medicine The online MOC Knowledge Self-Assessment Course covers 6 topics ranging from Current Trends in Infa course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Arts and Humanities Global History from 1760 to 1910 Course, College of Arts and Sciences Learn about global history from 1760 through 1910. course college-of-arts-and-sciences arts-and-humanities Medicine and Health Sciences Waveform Interpretation: Left Atrial, Aortic, Peripheral Arteries, Left Ventricular Course, School of Medicine Left atrial pressures: Diagnostic information that can guide patient care. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Translational Microbiome Course, School of Medicine This web-based activity delves into the microbiome and is available for CME credit. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Leading the Modern Day Business Certificate, Darden School of Business Modern business requires new skills: design thinking, product mgmt, IT and digital transformation. certificate darden-school-of-business business Medicine and Health Sciences Aortic Valve 3: Aortic Insufficiency Course, School of Medicine Assessing and quantifying aortic insufficiency. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Aorto-Ostial And Bifurcation Lesions Course, School of Medicine How to approach aorto-ostial and bifurcation lesions. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Education and Human Development Gifted Education Online Course Series Course, School of Education and Human Development Learn how to build a gifted education program in this certificate program. course school-of-education-and-human-development education-and-human-development Medicine and Health Sciences Measurement Methods Of Hemodynamics Course, School of Medicine Cardiac hemodynamics in patients with cardiac and non-cardiac conditions. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Mercadeo analítico Course, Darden School of Business Las organizaciones grandes y pequeñas están inundadas de datos sobre las elecciones de los consumido course darden-school-of-business business Business Customer-Centric IT Strategy Course, Darden School of Business Use the Business Model Canvas to focus strategy and implement effective processes in IT. course darden-school-of-business business Medicine and Health Sciences Learn Cardiology From The ECG Course, School of Medicine Review clinical scenarios informed by classic ECG presentations. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Strategic Planning and Execution Course, Darden School of Business This course teaches the pillars of strategy planning and execution and how to avoid common pitfalls. course darden-school-of-business business Medicine and Health Sciences Acute Ventricular Septal Defect (VSD) Course, School of Medicine Recognize the clinical significance of cardiac murmur in a patient with acute myocardial infraction. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences An Unusual Acute Coronary Syndrome Course, School of Medicine In this case, we present a patient with STEMI and there is a diagnostic and therapeutic challenge. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Supraventricular Tachycardia Top 10 Course, School of Medicine SVT rhythm and patient management. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Engineering and Science Information Technology Certificate Certificate, School of Continuing & Professional Studies Six course certificate program for information technology. certificate school-of-continuing-amp-amp-professional-studies engineering-and-science Business Digitale Transformation Course, Darden School of Business Die digitale Transformation ist ein brandaktuelles Thema – aber was genau ist das und was bedeutet e course darden-school-of-business business Education and Human Development Masters of Education in Curriculum and Instruction: Reading Education Degree, School of Education and Human Development Become a Reading educator through our nationally recognized Reading Education program. degree school-of-education-and-human-development education-and-human-development Medicine and Health Sciences Femoral Vascular Access Using Radiographic Landmarks Course, School of Medicine Correctly identify anatomic landmarks including bony landmarks such as the femoral head. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Foundations of Diversity and Inclusion at Work Teach Out Course, Darden School of Business Conversation with six faculty with readings on diversity and inclusion. course darden-school-of-business business Medicine and Health Sciences Histograms and Pareto Charts Course, School of Medicine Learn how to interrupt histograms and Pareto charts. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Agile Development Specialization Certificate, Darden School of Business Learn to coordinate all aspects of the agile development process and practice agile management. Most Popular!! certificate darden-school-of-business business Education and Human Development Professional Studies Course, School of Education and Human Development Earn your professional studies course requirements for alternate teacher licensure in Virginia. course school-of-education-and-human-development education-and-human-development Medicine and Health Sciences Thoracic Aorta 2: Aortic Dissection Course, School of Medicine Review the analysis of the thoracic aorta. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Fetal Cardiomegaly Course, School of Medicine How fetal cardiomegaly is measured and assessed and the various etiologies of fetal cardiomegaly. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Mitral Valve 3: Mitral Stenosis Course, School of Medicine The etiology and severity measurement of mitral stenosis. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Complications And Informed Consent Course, School of Medicine Obtaining the optimal informed consent from your patient. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Right Ventricular Function 2: Echocardiographic Assessment Course, School of Medicine Learn about right ventricular function, preload, afterload, and hypertrophy. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences The Physics Of Ultrasound 3: Transducer Mechanics Course, School of Medicine Learn the physical principles of transducer mechanics. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Grundlagen zum Thema Projektplanung und -management Course, Darden School of Business Projekte findet man überall. course darden-school-of-business business Engineering and Science How Things Work: An Introduction to Physics Course, College of Arts and Sciences An introduction to physics in the context of everyday objects. course college-of-arts-and-sciences engineering-and-science Medicine and Health Sciences Left Ventricular Function & Geometry 3: Future Approaches Course, School of Medicine Ultrasound Artifacts: Recommendations for image optimization. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Wide Complex Tahycardia Course, School of Medicine Define the clinical approach to the diagnosis of wide complex tachycardia. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Gestión de productos digitales: Fundamentos modernos Course, Darden School of Business Hace poco tiempo, el trabajo del gerente de productos consistía en evaluar los datos del mercado. course darden-school-of-business business Medicine and Health Sciences Left Ventricular Function & Geometry 1: LV Function Course, School of Medicine LV Geometry: Methods of assessing LV function. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Grow to Greatness: Smart Growth for Private Businesses, Part 1 Course, Darden School of Business This course focuses on challenges faced by existing private businesses when they attempt to grow. course darden-school-of-business business Business إستراتيجية الأعمال المتقدمة Course, Darden School of Business في هذه الدورة التدريبية، ستتعلم الأدوات اللازمة لتحليل الإستراتيجية عبر الزمن والصناعات والمناطق course darden-school-of-business business Engineering and Science Masters of Chemical Engineering Degree, School of Engineering and Applied Science Master degree with a focus on chemical engineering. degree school-of-engineering-and-applied-science engineering-and-science Medicine and Health Sciences Mitral Stenosis Top 10 Course, School of Medicine Pathophysiology and natural history of mitral stenosis. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Masses, Pericardial And Myocardial Disease 1: General Approach Course, School of Medicine Assess intracardiac masses as well as pericardial and myocardial disease. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Mitral Stenosis: Hemodynamic Tracing Interpretation Course, School of Medicine Measurements made in the cardiac catheterization laboratory in the evaluation of mitral stenosis. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Opioid Prescribing: Pain Management in a New Era Course, School of Medicine This course and its resources meet the requirements for opioid training in Virginia. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Using Theory to Plan Change Course, School of Medicine This module explains the two major change theories that can be used to implement change. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Experiencing Design: Deepening Your Design Thinking Practice Course, Darden School of Business This course guides you through six key phases of the design journey. course darden-school-of-business business Medicine and Health Sciences Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy: Imaging Course, School of Medicine Review the typical findings on left ventriculography. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Quality Improvement: Identifying And Collecting Data Course, School of Medicine Review how to identify the quality data necessary to test the value of process changes you will make course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Bases de la planification et de la gestion de projet Course, Darden School of Business Les projets nous entourent. course darden-school-of-business business Business Certificate in Cybersecurity Analysis Certificate, School of Continuing & Professional Studies Develop a detailed understanding of security vulnerabilities, attacks, and mitigation solutions. certificate school-of-continuing-amp-amp-professional-studies business Medicine and Health Sciences What To Do When There Is A Family History Of Heart Disease Course, School of Medicine Recognize inherited cardiovascular diseases and implement screening. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Ultrasound Artifacts 2: Acoustic Shadowing, Enhancement & Reverberation Course, School of Medicine Acoustic shadowing, enhancement and reverberation artifacts. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business New Models of Business in Society Course, Darden School of Business Business is changing! Learn how to create a profitable business that makes the world a better place. course darden-school-of-business business Business Pensamiento de diseño para la innovación Course, Darden School of Business Hoy en día la innovación es el negocio de todos. course darden-school-of-business business Business Design Thinking for Innovation Course, Darden School of Business Learn how to use design thinking to generate ideas and experiment towards an innovative solution. Most Popular!! course darden-school-of-business business Medicine and Health Sciences Using Descriptive Data Course, School of Medicine Summarizing data numerically, a branch of statistics called descriptive statistics. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Understanding Change in Health Care Course, School of Medicine Describe stimuli such as external pressures, systems factors and data that cause change. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Business Strategy in Practice Course, Darden School of Business Complete a comprehensive strategic analysis in this project-centered course. course darden-school-of-business business Medicine and Health Sciences Coronary Artery Anomalies of Origin and Course Course, School of Medicine Learn about coronary artery anomalies with specific anatomical findings. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Right Ventricular Function 1: Geometry, Anatomy, And Physiology Course, School of Medicine Right ventricular anatomy, physiology, and pharmacology course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Design Thinking Part 1: Insights to Inspiration Course, Darden School of Business In this project-based course, learn to craft a research plan to solve a human-centered problem. course darden-school-of-business business Business التحوّل الرقمي Course, Darden School of Business المجالات الرئيسية التي يُمكن تحويلها إلى الصيغ الرقمية، ومنها الاستراتيجية، والعمليات الأساسية. course darden-school-of-business business Business Public Administration Graduate Certificate Online Certificate, School of Continuing & Professional Studies A five course graduate certificate for administration of public and non-profit organizations. certificate school-of-continuing-amp-amp-professional-studies business Medicine and Health Sciences Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy Top 10 Course, School of Medicine Review the hemodynamic, angiographic, and clinical features of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences 2021 Cancer Prevention Web-Based Activity (CE eligible) Course, School of Medicine This course focuses on the importance of prevention and risk reduction in decreasing cancer. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Business Growth Strategy Course, Darden School of Business Gain the tools to analyze, evaluate and recommend actions to help organizations grow their value. course darden-school-of-business business Medicine and Health Sciences The Physics Of Ultrasound 1: Sound Course, School of Medicine Sound principles: Acquiring/processing of ultrasonic waves. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Echo Use In Heart And Lung Transplant Procedures Course, School of Medicine Review the use of transesophageal echocardiography to manage heart or lung transplants. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Mitral Stenosis: Basics Course, School of Medicine Enumerate the common etiologies of mitral stenosis including functional causes and rare causes. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Approche agile et design thinking Course, Darden School of Business L’approche agile et le design thinking abordent le développement de produits selon une approche. course darden-school-of-business business Medicine and Health Sciences Exercise And Sports Participation With Aortic Stenosis Course, School of Medicine Who and how much: exercise and sports participation among patients with AS course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Masses, Pericardial And Myocardial Disease 4: Myocardial Disease Course, School of Medicine Learn about dilated, hypertrophic and restrictive cardiomyopathy and common diagnosis errors. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Grow to Greatness: Smart Growth for Private Businesses, Part 2 Course, Darden School of Business This course focuses on common human resource challenges faced by private businesses during growth. course darden-school-of-business business Medicine and Health Sciences Age Friendly Health Systems Course Dr. Terry Fulmer lecture on age friendly healthy systems. Continuing education credit available. course medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Aortic Stenosis Course, School of Medicine Review the complexity of patients with aortic stenosis. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Coding for Designers, Managers, and Entrepreneurs Specialization Certificate, Darden School of Business A series of three courses that bring you from an idea to code. Most Popular!! certificate darden-school-of-business business Business Certificate in Accounting Certificate, School of Continuing & Professional Studies Ten course certificate program in accounting. certificate school-of-continuing-amp-amp-professional-studies business Medicine and Health Sciences Recognizing Clinical Practice Variation Course, School of Medicine Define common and special cause variation and recognize tampering. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Quality Improvement: Designing A Test Of Change Course, School of Medicine Learn why multidisciplinary teams are essential and the role of Test Champion. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Medicine and Health Sciences Ultrasound Artifacts 3: Miscellaneous Sources Of Artifact Course, School of Medicine Ultrasound Artifacts: Miscellanous sources. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business صياغة الأفكار المحفِّزة على الابتكار Course, Darden School of Business صياغة الأفكار المحفِّزة على الابتكار course darden-school-of-business business Medicine and Health Sciences Introduction And Basics Of Image Interpretation Course, School of Medicine Myocardial nuclear imaging provides valuable anatomic and prognostic information. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Managerial Accounting Fundamentals Course, Darden School of Business This course teaches learners the fundamentals of managerial accounting. course darden-school-of-business business Medicine and Health Sciences Mechanical Complications Of MI: Papillary Muscle Rupture, Free Wall Rupture, Ventricular Course, School of Medicine Myocardial infarction may lead to profound weakening of the involved wall and disruption of the infa course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Дизайн-мышление в инновационной деятельности Course, Darden School of Business Сегодня инновации стали частью повседневной жизни. course darden-school-of-business business Medicine and Health Sciences Left To Right Shunts: Atrial Septal Defects (ASD) Course, School of Medicine The approach to ASDs in the cardiac cath lab, including shunt calculations. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Introduction to Personal Branding Course Learn about tools and methods to create and maintain a personal brand. course business Medicine and Health Sciences Overview of Quality Improvement (QI) Skills Course, School of Medicine Review of quality improvement tools and their aims. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Ethical Leadership Through Giving Voice to Values Course, Darden School of Business Expand your confidence and competence in voicing and acting on your values and principles. course darden-school-of-business business Education and Human Development UVA Edge Certificate, School of Continuing & Professional Studies One-year undergraduate experience for working adults. certificate school-of-continuing-amp-amp-professional-studies education-and-human-development Arts and Humanities Patrick Henry: Forgotten Founder Course “Give me liberty, or give me death:” Learn more about the forgotten founder, Patrick Henry. course arts-and-humanities Medicine and Health Sciences Pediatric ECGS: Emergency Room Cases Course, School of Medicine Learn to identify common conditions that are reflected in the pediatric ECG. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Education and Human Development UVA Launchpad Certificate, School of Continuing & Professional Studies Eight weeks, six credits, employer projects, one life-enriching summer—online. certificate school-of-continuing-amp-amp-professional-studies education-and-human-development Education and Human Development Instructional Design & Technology Certificate Certificate, School of Education and Human Development Prepares students to be educational technology practitioners in various settings. certificate school-of-education-and-human-development education-and-human-development Business Pricing Strategy in Practice Course, Darden School of Business This project-based course concludes the Pricing Strategy Optimization Specialization. course darden-school-of-business business Arts and Humanities Global History since 1910 Course, College of Arts and Sciences Learn about world history from 1910 through 2012. Most Popular!! course college-of-arts-and-sciences arts-and-humanities Arts and Humanities Plagues, Witches, and War: The Worlds of Historical Fiction Course, College of Arts and Sciences An introduction to the genre and craft of historical fiction. course college-of-arts-and-sciences arts-and-humanities Medicine and Health Sciences Prosthetic Valves 1: General Approach Course, School of Medicine Assessing a pre-existing and a newly implanted prosthetic valve is covered in this course. course school-of-medicine medicine-and-health-sciences Business Customer Value in Pricing Strategy Course, Darden School of Business Learn a powerful pricing strategy: setting prices based on customers willingness to pay. course darden-school-of-business business Connect With Us UVA Online Learning Global Scholarship Program Alumni Lifetime Learning Cardio Village School of Education and Human Development Darden Online School of Data Science Engineering Online McIntire School of Commerce - M.S. in Business Anayltics School of Continuing and Professional Studies School of Medicine - Continuing Eduation SHARE YOUR FEEDBACK P.O. Box 400308 Charlottesville, VA 22904-4308 PHONE: 434-924-3728 EMAIL: Provost Webmaster Notice of Non-Discrimination and Equal Opportunity | Report a Barrier | Privacy Policy © 2022 By the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia YouTube Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Instagram