Skip to main Menu Begin Your Program Application EdD expand_more About the School expand_more Faculty and Leadership Admissions Course Sequence expand_more EdD Course Descriptions PoP and Immersion Tuition and Financial Aid expand_more FAQs Events MPH expand_more About the School Admissions Course Descriptions Graduate Project and Immersion MPH Without GRE Scores Careers in Public Health Tuition and Financial Aid expand_more FAQs Events MSW expand_more Advanced Standing MSW About the School Admissions Application Requirements Curriculum Field Placement Careers in Social Work Tuition and Financial Aid expand_more FAQs Events Speech expand_more About the School Admissions Course Descriptions Careers in SLP How to Become a Speech Pathologist Tuition and Financial Aid expand_more FAQs Events Begin Your Program Application Online Graduate Programs / MSW Welcome to the MSW Online Program at Baylor Educating Aspiring Social Workers Since 1969 At Baylor, we believe your calling to pursue a Master of Social Work (MSW) transcends career goals — it’s a selfless drive to make a difference in peoples’ lives locally and globally. As a student in Baylor University’s MSW online program, you will focus on service, justice, and empowerment as you work to become a culturally responsive and compassionate social worker. Request Information Next Step close Close Modal Request Information Next Step “ My life has changed tremendously since being a part of this program. I have learned so much about myself and others. … There is no way you can be a part of this program and not expand your horizons. ” Bahja Peeples Standard MSW Part-Time Student Community Specialization Why Earn Your Master of Social Work Online From Baylor? Our Mission Starts With You For more than 50 years, Baylor University has been educating aspiring social workers to go forth and do good. With a deep commitment to the social work profession’s values of service, social justice, and human relationships, Baylor University’s Diana R. Garland School of Social Work’s MSW online program prepares students to lead lasting change for individuals, families, and communities. We’re More Than a Community – We’re a Family Made up of caring individuals from all walks of life, the Baylor Family is fully dedicated to the power of relationships, supporting one another, and maintaining an inclusive culture. Once a Baylor Bear, always a Baylor Bear. We Prepare Students to Effect Change in a Changing World Upon graduation, you will be prepared to pursue licensure and become a social work leader uniquely attuned to today’s societal and cultural needs. Your experience in Baylor’s MSW online program will prepare you to continually learn and seek new opportunities to make a positive difference. “ Thanks to the MSW program, and the Diana R. Garland School of Social Work, I’ve moved into a leadership role at my local mental health agency, and I have the tools and confidence I need to excel. ” Jack Holt Standard MSW Full-Time Student Clinical Specialization Develop the skills needed to protect those who need it most with Baylor’s MSW online. Submit your application before the June 27, 2022 deadline. Begin Your Application How We Ethically Integrate Faith and Social Work Practice Our curriculum challenges students to think critically about how faith affects their clients and communities — and to understand and respect the diversity of human spirituality. We prepare students for meaningful conversations with clients who wish to discuss how their faith shapes their experience. We welcome students from all backgrounds to engage in our holistic approach to social work, focusing on the principles of service, empathy, and the dignity of all individuals. In addition to traditional social work settings, like schools and hospitals, our curriculum prepares students to serve in religiously affiliated organizations and environments. Your Community Needs Transformative Social Workers If you are seeking to help people rebuild their lives and to advocate for those who are vulnerable and oppressed, you will find there is no limit to the opportunity to affect positive change as a social work professional. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, employment of social workers is projected to grow 13 percent from 2019 to 2029 — much faster than the average for other occupations.1 As an MSW@Baylor graduate, you will be uniquely positioned to work in a wide variety of settings at the micro, mezzo, and macro levels, such as: hospitals helping the sick cope with their illnesses school systems ensuring children succeed and thrive nonprofit organizations bringing positive change to large populations correctional facilities preparing inmates to reenter society homeless shelters providing support and tools for people to change their lives religiously affiliated organizations helping people find fulfillment and meaning You can pursue employment in a variety of roles, such as child protective services specialist, psychiatric social worker, mental health counselor, individual and family therapist, community clinic counselor, medical social worker, or foster care specialist. View our Careers in Social Work page to explore the possibilities. Your MSW Journey Starts Online With Baylor MSW@Baylor is accredited by the Council on Social Work Education (CSWE). At Baylor, social work is about service and justice; it is about the dignity of individuals and the power of relationships. Our MSW online program provides the same collaboration, engagement, and field placement opportunities available to students in our residential program. And you can be sure the education you receive meets the highest standards in the field. As a student you’ll: choose your time-to-complete based on eligibility enter the program as either a Standard or Advanced Standing MSW student specialize your MSW in either clinical or community practice gain valuable in-field experience directly in your community receive personalized guidance and mentorship to help you succeed join a welcoming and supportive community and alumni network Baylor’s MSW Online Curriculum Research, Practice, and Service Baylor’s MSW online curriculum prepares aspiring social workers to improve quality of life and serve clients from all backgrounds while addressing prevalent social issues from a strengths-based perspective. After graduation, you’ll be confidently prepared to drive meaningful change at the local, national, and global levels. The MSW@Baylor curriculum features both generalist and specialist phases. Standard MSW students begin their coursework during the generalist phase while advanced standing MSW students begin their coursework during the specialist phase. Visit our Curriculum page for more information. MSW@Baylor Program Options Standard MSW A 60-credit program for students with a bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited college or university. Advanced Standing MSW A 32-credit program for students with a Bachelor of Social Work (BSW) from a Council on Social Work Education (CSWE)-accredited college or university within the last five years. Each program option will prepare you to graduate as a culturally responsive and competent social work professional who is ready to pursue licensure and promote meaningful change in the lives of vulnerable populations worldwide. Which Program Option Is Right for You? Our dedicated admissions counselors can answer any of your questions and help you submit your best possible application. GRE scores are not required for admission. Request Information close Close Modal Request Information Next Step Choose How You’ll Make a Difference Select Your Social Work Specialization Clinical Practice prepares students to work as mental health professionals with individuals, families, and groups in a variety of settings. Graduates may become therapists or counselors working in direct practice, healthcare administration, and advanced case management. Community Practice prepares students to work with public and/or nonprofit organizations, communities, congregations, and religiously affiliated agencies. Students learn to apply evidence-informed and strengths-based community practice frameworks and methods of intervention to develop responsive human resource systems, sustainable physical and social environments, and just public and institutional policies. Visit the Course Descriptions page to learn more about the courses you’ll take during the specialist phase. In-Person Experience in Your Community The social work profession is personal. It will require your mental, physical, and emotional energy, and it can only be fully understood once you are working in the field. Your field internship experience is an opportunity to bridge the gap between theory and practice. This is why field education is the signature pedagogy in social work education and is regarded as the foundation of Baylor’s MSW curriculum. As a standard MSW student, you will complete a total of 1,030 field hours over four terms. As an advanced standing MSW student, you will complete a total of 550 field hours over two terms. Social work field placements are available in a variety of settings, such as hospices, schools, family service agencies, congregations, and more. Visit out Field Placement page for more information. Always Be Supported and Connected With Baylor The Baylor Family is at the foundation of our online programs. We have made it a priority to offer students the same support, curriculum, and connection they would expect from an on-campus experience. Online since 2019, MSW@Baylor is carefully designed using the latest in education research. As a living extension of our 50-year social work legacy, the online platform is the result of Baylor’s dedication to creating an optimal learning environment. “ Baylor has shown wrap-around support with every department I have had the chance to engage! Any time I’ve ever had a question, I receive clear, immediate responses. MSW@Baylor is an online program that doesn’t feel like an online program. ” Raashida Birmingham Advanced Standing MSW Full-Time Student Clinical Specialization From the moment you inquire about MSW@Baylor, you’ll find a level of support and connection that truly sets us apart—here’s how: Your Application Your admissions counselor is available to give you a tour of the program, guide you through the application process, and answer any questions you may have. They can help you with financial aid, choosing a program track, and gathering application materials. Your Classes and Coursework As an MSW online student, you will attend classes via our online campus, which facilitates deep collaboration between you, your professors, and your peers, regardless of location. Your student success advisor will help you select classes and serve as your main point of contact throughout the program. Your In-Field Experience Our field placement team will partner with you to find a placement site as close to your community as possible. Through our network of approved sites, we’ll help you find and secure an internship that provides the experience you need to develop your social work skills in the field. Your Career Support doesn’t end after graduation. Once you earn your MSW, you’ll have access to a dedicated Career Success Professional (CSP). Your CSP will help you identify your career interests, strategize your job search, craft your résumé, and prepare you for success in an upcoming interview or networking event. Visit the Student Experience page to learn more about the online learning experience at Baylor University. Join Our August 2022 MSW@Baylor Cohort Serve and empower vulnerable populations worldwide. Start earning your MSW online in August 2022. Begin Your Application MSW Online Admissions Baylor’s Diana R. Garland School of Social Work maintains the same admission standards for online programs as it does for residential programs. The MSW online program starts three times per year — in January, May, and August. Our admissions team reviews applications on a holistic basis and carefully considers each individual application. We accept and review applications year-round on a rolling basis. Learn more about admissions requirements and upcoming deadlines on our Admissions Overview page. Visit our Application Requirements page to learn what you need to apply. Find Guidance and Direction With an MSW Mentor As a student, you will have the option to connect with a faculty mentor through our MSW mentorship program. If you choose to participate, you will be paired with a dedicated faculty member from the Diana R. Garland School of Social Work who will provide real-world insights and guidance during your time in the program — and even after graduation. Your faculty mentor will help you: navigate your student experience learn more about the social work profession weigh your possibile career path network within the social work community get connected to research opportunities grow as an ethical, effective professional “ I have discovered new mentors and new friendships through professors and my fellow students. I have served honorably in the United States Coast Guard and in law enforcement, but I have seldom felt the camaraderie and acceptance that has been afforded by the Baylor community. ” Kristy Harris Standard MSW Part-Time Student Clinical Specialization Choose to Answer the Call Right now, there are individuals in your community who need the support of a skilled, compassionate social worker. Will you answer the call? Request Information close Close Modal Request Information Next Step Learn more about the Diana R. Garland School of Social Work — or, if you’re ready, start your application today. Begin Your Application 1 Social Workers: Job Outlook. U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. Retrieved September 29, 2020 from https://www.bls.gov/ooh/community-and-social-service/social-workers.htm#tab-6 arrow_upwardReturn to footnote reference REQUEST INFO close Close Modal Request Information Next Step EdD MPH MSW Speech Contact Us Resources 2U, Our Program Partner Legal Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell My Personal Information COVID-19 Update Sitemap © 2022 Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 Anonymous Reporting Mental Health Resources Title IX Report It close Close Modal Request Information Next Step