Skip to main Menu Begin Your Program Application EdD expand_more About the School expand_more Faculty and Leadership Admissions Course Sequence expand_more EdD Course Descriptions PoP and Immersion Tuition and Financial Aid expand_more FAQs Events MPH expand_more About the School Admissions Course Descriptions Graduate Project and Immersion MPH Without GRE Scores Careers in Public Health Tuition and Financial Aid expand_more FAQs Events MSW expand_more Advanced Standing MSW About the School Admissions Application Requirements Curriculum Field Placement Careers in Social Work Tuition and Financial Aid expand_more FAQs Events Speech expand_more About the School Admissions Course Descriptions Careers in SLP How to Become a Speech Pathologist Tuition and Financial Aid expand_more FAQs Events Begin Your Program Application Baylor’s Speech-Language Pathology Program Online Request Information Next Step close Close Modal Request Information Next Step Baylor University’s Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences offers a Master of Science in Communication Sciences and Disorders (CSD) program online. The program is designed for aspiring speech-language pathologists (SLPs) who are called to a life of compassionate service assisting children and adults with speech, language, and hearing disorders. After earning a speech pathology master’s online and pursuing your license, you will enter the field as a trained and skilled clinician who is prepared to make a meaningful difference in the lives of your clients and their families. Why Earn Your Degree Online With Baylor? Baylor University’s Communication Sciences and Disorders Department is now bringing its 50 years of SLP education experience to an online platform. 100 percent of on-campus SLP graduates found employment and passed the Praxis.1 Speech@Baylor utilizes the same curriculum as the on-campus program and is taught by the same Baylor faculty. As an online student, you will: Experience live, face-to-face interactionbetween you, your professors, and your peers from wherever you are. Engage the Baylor community with virtual tools like screen sharing, live annotation, and break-out rooms. Choose your practicum location in or near your community with the help of our placement support team. Request information to learn more about how earning your SLP master’s online prepares you for a career serving others. GRE not required for admission. 1 Baylor, Graduate Outcome Data (https://www.baylor.edu/csd/index.php?id=50578) Average of data was collected from 2014- 2017 REQUEST INFO close Close Modal Request Information Next Step EdD MPH MSW Speech Contact Us Resources 2U, Our Program Partner Legal Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell My Personal Information COVID-19 Update Sitemap © 2022 Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 Anonymous Reporting Mental Health Resources Title IX Report It close Close Modal Request Information Next Step