Skip to content Skip to main navigation Menu Home About FAQ Companies Institutions Courses Sign In Get Ahead and Stay Ahead Learn online with Harvard Medical School Earn a certificate from Harvard Medical School and hit the ground running for the next stage of your career. Connect Free trial Apply Pursuing a health care career? Build your knowledge base with in-depth courses on fundamental topics important for a variety of health care paths Develop learning strategies for success throughout your career Understand how science concepts apply to patient care Learn more about HMX courses on foundational topics. Want to help your students succeed? Find out how you can bring the HMX experience to your institution. Working on projects related to health care? Boost your knowledge in key areas relevant to work in life sciences, pharma, and related fields Collaborate more effectively across disciplines and topic areas Connect the dots between your work and applications in medicine Learn more about HMX courses designed for professionals. Want to give your company an edge? Partner with Harvard Medical School to enhance your training program. Highly Visual and Interactive Complex material comes to life through visually engaging explanations rather than traditional lectures and PowerPoint slides. “Nothing compares to how much knowledge I have gained from these courses.” Sikandar Khan, HMX learner HMX courses are designed to deliver essential knowledge - from foundational concepts to cutting-edge applications - important for a variety of health care career paths. Foundational Topics Genetics Immunology Pharmacology Biochemistry Physiology Advanced Topics Cancer Genomics and Precision Oncology Drug Delivery Genetic Testing and Sequencing Technologies Immuno-oncology Novel Therapies for Chronic Inflammation, Autoimmunity, and Allergy Vaccines and Viral Immunology Drug Discovery and Development Gene Therapy COURSE INFORMATION What Makes HMX Courses So Effective? Course components designed to maximize your learning. True-to-life Scenarios Real-world stories let you explore concepts, providing relevance and integration of key principles. Dynamic Animations Illustrative visuals guide you through complex processes in a step-by-step, self-paced way. “It’s hard to visualize all the things going on on a microscopic scale, and HMX made that very clear.” Nathan Magtoto, HMX learner Concept Videos Clear, concise, and visually engaging explanations from expert Harvard Medical School faculty teach key concepts in digestible segments, using writing, drawing, and animations along with conversational tone. Interactive Components Explore topics through active learning and experimentation with simulations and other uniquely responsive visuals. Clinical Applications Focus on the concepts that matter for your future by tying your learning to real clinical applications. Venture inside the hospital or other clinical setting with outstanding HMS clinicians. These videos bring you closer to the practice of medicine and give you a glimpse into your future. “I loved the clinical applications so you could put the theory into context with real patients.” Angela Sorensen, HMX learner Quiz Questions & Other Assessments Check your understanding, enhance your learning, and measure your progress. Quizzes at the beginning and end of each course showed significant learning gains for students at all levels of background knowledge. In HMX Immunology, students showed an average of 83% improvement in score. Notetaking Guides Downloadable for digital or paper-based note taking workflows, these visually crafted documents help you synthesize and review key topics. Learn From a Trusted Source Courses are led by Harvard Medical School faculty, working in collaboration with a multi-disciplinary team of experts in biomedical visualization, assessment, and the science of learning to create a unique learning experience that will stay with you. These are the same online courses taken by incoming Harvard Medical School students (including incoming medical, dental, and immunology graduate students) prior to starting school to prepare for their rigorous curriculum. HMX courses are also used in the new Harvard Medical School curriculum as part of a “flipped classroom” model of teaching. Read less Contact Policies Trademark Notice Terms of Service FERPA Harvard Medical School HMS External Education © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College