Ohio State nav bar Skip to main content The Ohio State University Help BuckeyeLink Map Find People Webmail Search Ohio State Ohio State Online Main menu Programs Certificates Associate Degree Undergraduate Degree Master's Degree Doctoral Degree About Faculty Newsroom Future Students Resources Apply Tuition and Fees Financial Aid State Authorization Online Student Readiness Assessment Military & Veteran Students FAQs Current Students Student Services and Benefits Tech Support Academic Integrity Search form Search Go Displaying 1 - 1 of 1 Earn a world-renowned education wherever you are Advance your career, change fields, or expand your skill set with Ohio State Online. Home Start Your Journey Certificates Associate Degrees Undergraduate Degrees Master's Degrees Doctoral Degrees Interested in taking only a course or two? Learn about enrolling in online courses. Explore All Learning Opportunities Why Ohio State Online? Our programs are top ranked. We're ranked #1 among Ohio's public colleges and #7 among best online undergraduate programs. We’re committed to academic excellence. Our programs will help make you career-ready with hard and soft skills through high-quality courses. Affordability is part of our mission. Online students are eligible to receive scholarships and apply for federal and state financial aid. We make the learning experience about you. Our faculty work with instructional designers to create online courses that are robust and engaging. Learn more about Ohio State Online Student Experiences “I have developed so many skills that I have been able to take into my job. The knowledge base that you gain at Ohio State is second to none. It’s better than I expected and more than I hoped.” - Mike Moore, Master of Science in Welding Engineering and Master of Global Engineering Leadership Graduate Learn More About Mike's Journey Explore More Student Experiences Guiding Resources Plan Displaying 1 - 1 of 1 How Much Does Online College Cost? Learn how much online college costs, and discover the best online degree for you and your budget. Learn Displaying 1 - 1 of 1 What's the Difference Between Asynchronous and Synchronous Learning? How do online classes work? We tapped online learning experts to explain the pros and cons of synchronous vs. asynchronous learning. Advance Displaying 1 - 1 of 1 What Can You Do With a Public Administration Master's Degree? Learn how an online public administration master's degree for working professionals helps students advance their knowledge and careers. View All Resources Ready to Become a Buckeye? Take the Readiness Assessment Test Drive a Course Get GI® Bill Information Want more program info? Fill out this form to get more information on the degree or certificate you are interested in. Ohio State Online Office of Distance Education and eLearning Email: osuonline@osu.edu Facebook link for Ohio State Online Twitter link for Ohio State Online YouTube link for Ohio State Online LinkedIn link for Ohio State Online Annual Security Report Privacy Statement Accessibility Statement If you have a disability and experience difficulty accessing this content, please call the Accessibility Helpline at 614-292-5000.