Skip to main content EXPLORE CATALOG PROGRAMS Physician Assistant Online Program Tropical Forest Landscapes Climate Change and Health Financing and Deploying Clean Energy Hybrid Doctor of Nursing Practice Online Master of Public Health Health Informatics Mastertrack SOM Executive Education ABOUT YALE ONLINE NEWS CONTACT US Search Breadcrumb Home Offerings Catalog Understanding Medical Research: Your Facebook Friend is Wrong Published: 4/22/2020 History of Science and Medicine Medicine Science share icon ?Get Help Coursera YouTube share icon ?Get Help Toggle sticky buttons Description How can you tell if the bold headlines seen on social media are truly touting the next big thing or if the article isn't worth the paper it's printed on? Understanding Medical Studies, will provide you with the tools and skills you need to critically interpret medical studies, and determine for yourself the difference between good and bad science. The course covers study-design, research methods, and statistical interpretation. It also delves into the dark side of medical research by covering fraud, biases, and common misinterpretations of data. Each lesson will highlight case-studies from real-world journal articles. By the end of this course, you'll have the tools you need to determine the trustworthiness of the scientific information you're reading and, of course, whether or not your Facebook friend is wrong. Course Takeaways How to efficiently read a medical research paper and how to differentiate between good and bad research The different tests used in medical research and how to spot common errors in methodology and interoperation for each Read and understand statistical figures, charts, and graphics How best to verify claims made in news articles Join the course Available Now Delivery Only available on Coursera and YouTube Duration 7 weeks (15 hours) Fees None Language English Subtitles Arabic, French, Portuguese (European), Italian, Vietnamese, German, Russian, English, Spanish, Japanese Credentials Open Online Course - No Credential Meet the Instructors F. Perry Wilson Associate Professor Term; Director, Clinical and Translational Research Accelerator (CTRA); Course Director, Interpretation of the Medical Literature; Co Director, Human Genetics and Clinical Research Core Dr. Wilson grew up in Connecticut, before attending Harvard College where he graduated with honors in biochemistry. He then attended medical school at Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons, before completing his internship, residency, and fellowship at the University of Pennsylvania. In 2012, he received a Masters degree in Clinical Epidemiology, which has informed his research ever since. At Yale since 2014, his goal is using patient-level data and advanced analytics to personalize medicine to each individual patient. He is the creator of the popular online course "Understanding Medical Research: Your Facebook Friend Is Wrong" on the Coursera platform. Full biography Twitter Partners This course was made possible in part by the George M. O'Brien Kidney Center at Yale. Also in this subject course Evolution and Medicine School of Public Health Youtube Series course Addiction Treatment for Healthcare Providers School of Medicine Coursera Course course Anatomy of the Chest, Neck, Abdomen, and Pelvis School of Medicine Coursera Course course Essentials of Global Health School of Public Health Coursera Course Explore Catalog Yale University New Haven, CT 06520 203-432-4771 Yale University New Haven, CT 06520 203-432-4771 CONTACT US ABOUT YALE ONLINE Sign up for our newsletter Sign Up Copyright © 2022 Yale University All Rights Reserved CEB4CF16-9E26-4952-98C9-88E096F1B563 5428CDCE-D9CA-4BD3-949D-8C3B518BF62E B9474A90-7358-4EE5-B5A9-909F2910CE48