Skip to main content Current Students Faculty and Staff Toggle Navigation Menu Online and Distance Education Programs Careers The NC State Difference Program Formats Our Colleges Meet Our Faculty Student Support Get Started Learning Online Technology Requirements Frequently Asked Questions Cost Financial Aid Veterans Benefits Frequently Asked Contact the Cashier's Office Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Students Graduate Students Military and Veterans International Students Non-Degree Seeking Students State Authorization About Contact Us News Programs Careers nav buttonThe NC State Difference nav buttonGet Started nav buttonCost nav buttonAdmissions About Contact Us News Current Students Faculty and Staff Toggle Navigation Full Site Navigation The NC State Difference Program Formats Our Colleges Meet Our Faculty Student Support Get Started Learning Online Technology Requirements Frequently Asked Questions Cost Financial Aid Veterans Benefits Frequently Asked Contact the Cashier's Office Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Students Graduate Students Military and Veterans International Students Non-Degree Seeking Students State Authorization Admissions This is the home of Think and Do. Learn from world-leading faculty and collaborate with high-achieving peers. Apply today to become a member of the Wolfpack. Top Your Student Classification Before you dive into the details of how to apply, it is important to determine how you will be classified by NC State for the program in which you want to enroll: Graduate Student: Students who are accepted into a graduate degree program (master’s or doctorate) or a graduate certificate program at NC State are classified as graduate students. The Graduate School is responsible for administering more than 200 different graduate degrees and certificates across all of NC State’s academic colleges. Graduate students can be enrolled in an on-campus program, an Online and Distance Education program, or a combination of the two. Undergraduate Student: Students who are accepted or transfer into an undergraduate degree program (bachelor’s) at NC State are classified as undergraduate students. Non-Degree Studies Student: Students interested in taking courses without enrolling in a degree program at NC State. Online and Distance Education offers courses at the undergraduate and graduate levels. You must still apply to the university to be approved as a Non-Degree Studies (NDS) student. However, admission to Non-Degree Studies does not imply admission to a degree program. Grades earned as an NDS student will count toward your NC State University GPA or may be transferred to another institution based on that institution’s transfer policy. Students enrolled in Undergraduate Certificate programs are classified as NDS students. NDS students are given one of two classifications: Undergraduate Studies (UGS): This classification is assigned to NDS students who have not earned a bachelor’s degree. UGS students take courses as prerequisites for admission to undergraduate programs, to transfer or for other reasons. Post-Baccalaureate Studies (PBS): This classification is assigned to those NDS students who have earned a bachelor’s degree. Enrolling as a PBS student is an excellent way to explore different fields of study to fulfill your personal and career goals, to pursue a teacher licensure program or to prepare to enter a master’s, doctoral or graduate certificate program. Admission to NC State If you are interested in taking classes or being admitted to a degree program, the information below will guide you through the appropriate application process. Admission Process Undergraduate and Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Military and Veterans Non-Degree Studies Students Out-of-State Students: State Authorization Transferring to NC State NC State welcomes applicants who began their college-level work at another university or community college. More than 25 percent of our current students studied elsewhere before transferring to NC State. Transferring into an Online and Distance Education program is much the same as transferring to an on-campus program. Graduate transfer students interested in transferring into an NC State graduate program can generally transfer up to 12 hours into a program. However, some programs do not allow transfer from a previous graduate program. Undergraduate transfer students must meet the criteria established by the university. However, these alone do not guarantee admission: Coursework Recommendations for Competitive Applicants Please note: Statistics cannot be used to meet the mathematics requirement Strong cumulative GPA for all transferable college work previously attempted 30 semester hours (or 45 quarter hours) of transferable credits (Qualifying AP scores can be used to meet transfer admission coursework requirements.) Eligibility to return to each institution previously attended UNC-system minimum course requirements, if 21 years of age and under or have fewer than 24 transferable hours at the time of the application Attempted coursework through NC State University’s Non-Degree Studies (NDS) program must have a minimum GPA of 2.0 or higher in order to be considered for admission GPAs are calculated based on all transferable-types of courses attempted. Courses repeated at previous institutions are calculated with the original grades earned. The two lowest grades below a C- will be excluded when NC State calculates the overall cumulative GPA from all transferable coursework attempted at other institutions. Transfer of graduate credits earned at other universities Graduate School Requirements for Transferring Credits A course completed at another college or university may be considered for transfer to a master’s program provided that: The course is classified as a graduate course; it was completed while the student was in a graduate or post-baccalaureate classification; it was not taken as a part of a previous master’s degree program at another institution; the grade in the course is B or better. Courses with grades of B- or lower will not be allowed to transfer; the college or university is accredited by one of the six U.S. regional accrediting agencies. Learn more about transferable credits Get Started Are you ready to develop skills that translate to the real world? Do you want to amplify your career? Do you know what program is the best fit for you? Let’s get started! Apply Undergraduate and Transfer Application Graduate Application Online and Distance Education Campus Box 7113 Raleigh, NC 27695-7555 919.515.9030 1.866.GO.STATE (467.8283) Accessibility Contact Us Courses Directions Privacy Diversity MyPack Portal State Authorization Accreditation North Carolina State University is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges to award the associate, baccalaureate, master's and doctoral degrees. Read more about NC State's participation in the SACSCOC accreditation instagram twitter facebook linked in youtube rss © 2022 NC State University Online and Distance Education. All rights reserved.