Skip to content Toggle navigation Sign-ons & more Class syllabi CHS Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail CyHire Okta Outlook Workday More Sign Ons... College of Human Sciences Online and Distance Learning Search Toggle navigation Home Online and Distance Learning College Human Sciences Iowa State University Degrees and certificates Online programs Undergraduate degree Graduate degrees Certificates Online courses Student support Educational technology services Family financial planning Family financial planning is a rapidly growing industry in need of rising leaders. Individuals who can help successfully manage wealth now and for the future are in high demand. Master's degree. Master's of Family and Consumer Sciences (MFCS) with family financial planning specialization program: 36 credits FFP certificate. Family Financial Planning graduate certificate program: 18 credits Our programs are registered with the CFP Board of Standards and the Association for Financial Counseling and Planning allowing for progress toward leading certifications in financial planning and financial counseling. Why study family financial planning? The family financial planning online programs prepare you to work in the growing financial planning field. Financial planners work in the following environments: In companies such as banks, insurance companies, and brokerage firms In employee benefits and pension departments of all types of corporations In their own personal practice, with their own clientele Diverse career specializations Insurance Real estate Investing Retirement planning Personal taxation Financial counseling Community education Interested in learning about job opportunities for certified financial planners? Learn about them on the Certified Financial Planner job board. Cost Apply What is GPIDEA? About the program University partnerships Iowa State is a member of Great Plains Interactive Distance Education Alliance (GPIDEA), a consortium of universities that have come together to offer fully online degree programs. Family Financial Planning through Iowa State University and the partnership of Great Plains IDEA means you interact with leading faculty nationwide. GPIDEA Family Financial Planning Handbook. Download the Family financial planning flyer. Curriculum Master's program The MFCS with Family Financial Planning specialization online program consists of: 24 credits in core courses (8 courses) FFP 520: Financial Theory and Research I FFP 535: Financial Counseling FFP 540: Estate Planning for Families FFP 545: Families, Employment Benefits, and Retirement Planning FFP 555: Insurance Planning for Families FFP 565: Personal Income Taxation FFP 583: Investing for the Family's Future FFP 595: Financial Planning Case Studies (take 1 semester before graduation) 12 credits as elective courses (4 courses) FFP 525: Financial Theory and Research II FFP 530: Fundamentals of Family Financial Planning FFP 541: Housing and Real Estate FFP 550: Military Personal Finance FFP 570: Professional Practice in Family Financial Planning FFP 590: Seminar (topics vary) FFP 591: Practicum 36 total credits (12 courses) total FFP Great Plains IDEA Course Planner: Master's Program Completion of this degree will prepare you to sit for the CFP (Certified Financial Planner) examination. FFP graduate certificate program The Family Financial Planning (FFP) graduate certificate program consists of 6 required 3-credit courses: FFP 540: Estate Planning for Families FFP 545: Families, Employment Benefits, and Retirement Planning FFP 555: Insurance Planning for Families FFP 565: Personal Income Taxation FFP 583: Investing for the Family's Future FFP 595: Financial Planning Case Studies (take 1 semester before graduation) FFP Great Plains IDEA Course Planner: Graduate Certificate Completion of this certificate will prepare you to sit for the CFP (Certified Financial Planner) examination. Non-degree credits You may take up to nine graduate credit hours as a non-degree seeking student before being formally admitted to the program. If you are interested in taking courses as a non-degree student, please start with the Admissions Office and contact gpideainfo@iastate.edu. Need more information? MFCS graduate program information (Questions about admission, registration, etc.) Katie Mott 2155 Lagomarcino Hall 901 Stange Road Ames, IA 50011-1041 515-294-5397 gpideainfo@iastate.edu Academic issues (Questions related to academic progress, such as advice on courses, timing of courses, career path, etc.) Dr. Jonathan Fox 1317 Palmer 2222 Osborn Dr Ames, IA 50011-1041 515-294-6993 jjfox@iastate.edu Meet Mona Weltmer, a graduate student in family financial planning. Ready for the next step? Request Information Attend a Virtual Information Session College of Human Sciences Online and Distance Learning CONTACT ONLINE AND DISTANCE LEARNING 303 MacKay Hall 2302 Osborn Drive Ames, Iowa 50011-1078 hsde@iastate.edu Copyright © 2005-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility hswebmaster@iastate.edu Trouble with the website? Report a problem or provide feedback.