Skip to Main Content Brown University School of Public Health Brown University Online Master of Public Health Search Menu Site Navigation Home Admissions Financial Aid Curriculum Faculty Integrated Learning Experience Search Online Master of Public Health Curriculum Acquire keen analytical, leadership and communication skills by studying current public health issues such as pandemics, health care system challenges and social inequities through case-based learning in our online Master of Public Health program. Take the next step Fall 2022 Application Deadline June 1; Priority Deadline: May 15 Request program information Apply through SOPHAS The Brown University School of Public Health’s online Master of Public Health curriculum has the same singular purpose as our face-to-face MPH: To train public health leaders, improve understanding of pressing health challenges, and improve global health and well-being. To that end, we’ve reimagined our online Master of Public Health curriculum as a generalist program focused on dynamic real-world priorities — to help you build data analysis capabilities, hone leadership skills, think critically and communicate effectively — through our case-based learning curriculum. This makes us one of the only schools of public health to use this innovative approach. Joyce Pak, 2020 MPH grad Learn public health by doing public health By grappling with real-world public health cases such as COVID-19, healthcare access challenges, the opioid crisis, aging/long-term care, environmental health, HIV/AIDS and global and social inequities, you will engage your public health education in a deeply experiential way. Our methodology allows you to hone your problem-solving and analytical skills while also expanding your public health expertise. You will also acquire cross-national perspectives and insights about public health challenges from an international cadre of graduate student peers. Because of the interactive nature of our Master of Public Health online program, you will develop a sense of community — and a global professional network — in our virtual collaborative learning environment. Online Master of Public Health Curriculum: Program Courses To complete the Brown University School of Public Health’s 100% online MPH program, you will take 12 courses for a total of 48 credit hours. With an emphasis on using qualitative and quantitative data to make public health decisions, as well as leadership development, our Master of Public Health online program will give you both the theoretical and practical foundation you need to effect positive change. Experiencing public health first-hand In addition to the Master of Public Health online coursework, you will also complete a 145-hour practicum, appling your newly acquired knowledge and skills in a public health setting. Your culminating project in the Master of Public Health online program consists of an Integrated Learning Experience (ILE). Solve a real-world health challenge, either singly or as a team, within your community. Types of challenges include developing local strategies for decreasing maternal and infant mortality rates, addressing a climate change-related public health problem, or alleviating a major source of addiction. Online Master of Public Health Curriculum Core Courses Semester 1 GPHP 2000: Using Data to Make Public Health Decisions I (Biostatistics) GPHP 2800: Leadership in Public Health I Semester 2 GPHP 2010: Using Data to Make Public Health Decisions II (Epidemiology) GPHP 2850: Public Health Communications Semester 3 GPHP 2020: Using Data to Make Public Health Decisions III (Survey & Qualitative Methods) GPHP 2400: Health Care Systems & Policy Semester 4 GPHP 2300: Social Determinants of Health/Equity in Public Health GPHP 2310: Interventions at the Local, National and Global Scale Semester 5 GPHP 2410: Comparative Health Care Systems GPHP 2320: Evaluations of Public Health Programs Semester 6 GPHP 2810: Leadership in Public Health II GPHP 2900: Integrative Learning Experience (ILE) Reuben Horace, 2018 MPH grad The Master of Public Health Online Experience Brown University’s School of Public Health has designed the 100% online Master of Public Health program to make our MPH experience accessible to more people domestically and internationally. We are recruiting students from around the world and throughout the United States to create a truly international student experience. We’ve built our online Master of Public Health generalist program to account for different global time zones and student-support needs. All courses take place online and will combine asynchronous and synchronous components to make the most of the online learning environment. Synchronous sessions will occur one time per week and will be recorded for students to access at their convenience. Here’s how the Master of Public Health online program works: On your own schedule, engage with faculty-created asynchronous coursework such as interactive multimedia, recorded lectures and demonstrations, expert/guest lecture videos and discussion boards. The flexibility of our online modality makes it possible to invite international luminaries from around the world to speak with online MPH students. Because of the synchronous and asynchronous nature of much of the content, you may have the opportunities to hear from notable guest speakers. Recent speakers at the Brown University School of Public Health Click on a name to see the video Sapna Desai, PhD Paul Farmer, MD, PhD Anthony Fauci, MD Helene Gayle, MD, MPH Gökhan Hotamışlıgil, MD, PhD Heidi Larson, PhD Vice Admiral Vivek Murthy Wendy Schiller, PhD Zeynep Tüfekçi, PhD Kimberly Duru, 2019 MPH grad You will also have the chance to connect with world-class faculty members and fellow students in live, synchronous sessions. During these optional, weekly small group sessions, you will meet with your cohort for live discussions about how your coursework applies to your current work situation, as well as to your region or country. The online master’s of public health program harnesses the power of instructional technologies to engage cross-continental learners, intellectually, personally and professionally so you can grow into professionals able to make critical public health contributions at home and worldwide. Take the next step Fall 2022 Application Deadline June 1; Priority Deadline: May 15 Request program information Apply through SOPHAS Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Public Health Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Admissions Financial Aid Curriculum Faculty Integrated Learning Experience This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Curriculum Open details for Curriculum Bookmark this Page