Skip to main content Louise Herrington School of Nursing Online Menu Louise Herrington School of Nursing Online Menu Contact Us Online Nursing Programs Accelerated Bachelor of Science in Nursing Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) - Executive Nurse Leadership Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) Family Nurse Practitioner Track Neonatal Nurse Practitioner Track Nurse-Midwifery Track Pediatric Nurse Practitioner Track Adult-Gerontology Acute Care Nurse Practitioner Track Online Experience Rankings and Recognition Accreditation & Affiliations Career Resources Clinical Placement Support Faculty Profiles Message from the Dean State Authorization Student Services and Support Student Testimonials Why Baylor University Online? Why Baylor University Online? Frequently Asked Questions Tuition & Financial Aid Blog Baylor in the News Legal Disclosures Legal Disclosures Anonymous Reporting Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Get Started Become a Student Refer a Friend Apply Now Online Doctor of Nursing Practice Learn. Lead. Serve. ® U.S. News & World Report ranks Baylor University as one of the Best Graduate Schools for DNP in 2022. Learn more about our clinical placements and what our online program can do for you and your future. Get Your Guide Ranked #10 Best Nursing College Ranked among top 10% for DNP programs CCNE Accredited Home Online Nursing Programs Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) Lead Change Through Practice A Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP online) is the optimal pathway for registered nurses with a BSN or MSN who are seeking preparation at the highest level of nursing practice. Graduates of the online DNP program are prepared as exemplary nursing leaders and visionary nurses who can actively shape and improve patient outcomes, policy, process and the future of nursing. Shape the future of nursing as a DNP. Learn more by downloading our program guide or learn more by exploring the specific online DNP program tracks below. Celebrate Nurses Month 2022 Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP)Executive Nurse Leadership Stand out at your organization as a proven nurse leader and scholar. Gain advanced knowledge while connecting with mentors. Learn more about this program Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP)Family Nurse Practitioner Track Develop as a holistic primary care provider who can positively impact outcomes for patients across the lifespan. Demonstrate advanced leadership and clinical skills as you learn to innovate and grow a thriving practice as a DNP FNP. Learn more about this track Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP)Neonatal Nurse Practitioner Track Take a lead role in nursing care for infants through the first two years of life. Focus on high-risk neonates and their families as you define your practice as a neonatal DNP. Learn more about this track Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP)Nurse-Midwifery Track Become a nursing leader who can provide holistic patient-centered care for women. Develop advanced competence as you learn to practice in clinical settings as a nurse-midwife. Learn more about this track Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP)Pediatric Nurse Practitioner Track Address primary healthcare needs of children and adolescents, utilizing patient-and-family centered care within the context of the family unit. Provide care for pediatric patients that have complex acute, critical, or chronic illness in settings including hospitals, intensive care units, and emergency departments. Learn more about this track Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP)Adult-Gerontology Acute Care Nurse Practitioner Track Focus on the acute critical care needs of adult patients. Practice with greater autonomy in areas of clinical practice. Learn more about this track View all online DNP program outcomes here. Baylor University’s nondiscrimination policy Download Your Guide Close Get more information to make the decision that's right for you: Featured courses and degree outcomes Admission requirements Tuition and financial aid information Download Program Guide What would you like to study? What would you like to study? Accelerated BSN DNP Adult-Gero Acute Care Nurse Practitioner DNP Family Nurse Practitioner DNP Neonatal Nurse Practitioner DNP Nurse-Midwifery DNP Pediatric Nurse Practitioner DNP Executive Nurse Leadership Highest Level of Education Highest Level of Education High School / GED Some College Associate Degree Bachelor's Degree Graduate / Master's Degree Curriculum Label Are you a licensed R.N.? Yes No Next Step Step 1 of 2 First Name Last Name Email Phone Country Country United States of America Canada Afghanistan Aland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Austria Australia Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia, Plurinational State of Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and Saba Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cabo Verde Cambodia Cameroon Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Congo, the Democratic Republic of the Cook Islands Costa Rica Croatia Cuba Curaçao Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Faroe Islands Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island and McDonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran, Islamic Republic of Iraq Ireland Isle of Man Israel Italy Ivory Coast Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macao Macedonia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Madagascar Malaysia Malawi Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Micronesia, Federated States of Moldova, Republic of Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island North Korea Northern Mariana Islands Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestine, State of Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Reunion !Réunion Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Saint Barthélemy Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Martin (French part) Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Sint Maarten (Dutch part) Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands South Korea South Sudan Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan, Province of China Tajikistan Tanzania, United Republic of Thailand Timor-Leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States Minor Outlying Islands Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of Vietnam Virgin Islands, British Virgin Islands, U.S. Wallis and Futuna Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Zip Code Baylor University's technology partner works with multiple universities to offer online programs. Yes, I would like to learn more about these additional online programs. Submitting this form constitutes your express written consent to be called and/or texted by Baylor University at the number(s) you provided, regarding furthering your education. You understand that these calls may be generated using an automated technology, including by way of example, auto-dialer and click-to dial technologies. Calls may be recorded for quality assurance and training purposes. Privacy Policy. Download Your Brochure « Back | Step 2 of 2 X Close Form Schedule an Appointment Now Talk to a dedicated enrollment advisor about our online nursing programs. Schedule Your Appointment Simply choose a time when you are available to chat, and one of our advisors will give you a call. Important Dates Next Application Deadline: October 28th, 2019 Next Start Date: January 13th, 2020 Baylor Nursing By The Numbers % 90% of clinical placement sites provided to DNP students were within 125 miles of their home % 100% certification pass rate for Family Nurse Practitioner graduates % Baylor University is ranked higher than 94% of Best Colleges in the Nation in 2021 - U.S. News and World Report % Baylor’s DNP program is ranked higher than 88% of the Best DNP Programs in Texas in 2021 - dnpprograms.com We think you will find our school unlike any other in that we truly do consider ourselves as called to prepare nurses through the integration of faith and excellent academics. Be Bold. Be Decisive. Be Exceptional. Become a Baylor Nurse. U.S. News Featured in U.S. News & World Report for the 2022 Best Graduate Schools, ranking our DNP in the top 10%. CCNE We rigorously adhere to the accreditation standards established by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE)**. ACME We follow the excellence standards established by the Accreditation Commission for Midwifery Education (ACME)*. *The Baylor University Louise Herrington School of Nursing midwifery program is accredited by the Accreditation Commission for Midwifery Education (ACME), 8403 Colesville Road, Suite 1550, Silver Spring, Maryland 20910-6374; for information about accreditation please contact ACME directly. Tel. 240-485-1802, acme@acnm.org, www.midwife.org/acme **The baccalaureate degree program in nursing, master's degree program in nursing, and Doctor of Nursing Practice program at Baylor University are accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, 655 K Street, NW, Suite 750, Washington, DC 20001, 202-887-6791. The DNP/NNP program of study conforms to the educational guidelines for the state of Texas, the National Association of Neonatal Nurses (NANN) and the National Organization of Nurse Practitioner Faculties (NONPF) Connect With Your Baylor Enrollment Advisor Whether you have a simple question or need advice to determine which program is best for you, our friendly advisors are here to help. They can chat with you on your schedule and guide you through the entire admissions process so you can feel confident in moving forward with Baylor University. Download your guide to get started Request More Info Request More Info Apply Now Facebook LinkedIn Twitter YouTube Online Nursing Programs Accelerated Bachelor of Science in Nursing Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) - Executive Nurse Leadership Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) Family Nurse Practitioner Track Neonatal Nurse Practitioner Track Nurse-Midwifery Track Pediatric Nurse Practitioner Track ﻿Adult-Gerontology Acute Care Nurse Practitioner Track Why Baylor University Online? Accreditations and Affiliations Career Resources Clinical Placement Services Faculty Profiles FAQ Message from the Dean Online Experience Student Testimonials Student Services and Support State Authorization Tuition & Financial Aid Blog Contact Us Become a Student Refer a Friend Preceptors Apply Now Disclosures Anonymous Reporting Legal Disclosures Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Student Complaint Process Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 888-227-5901 • Privacy Policy • California Privacy Notice • Sitemap Back to top