Skip to Main Content Brown University School of Public Health Brown University Online Master of Public Health Search Menu Site Navigation Home Admissions Financial Aid Curriculum Faculty Integrated Learning Experience Search Online Master of Public Health Integrated Learning Experience Complete an analysis and make recommendations to address a real-world public health issue in your Integrated Learning Experience project for the online Master of Public Health program. Take the next step Fall 2022 Application Deadline June 1; Priority Deadline: May 15 Request Program information Apply through SOPHAS In keeping with the case-based curriculum of Brown University’s online Master of Public Health program, your culminating MPH experience is an applied project that integrates everything you’ve learned into a comprehensive paper outlining your recommendations for solving a current public health problem in your community. Providence’s model Harm Reduction Center was a collaborative effort between Project Weber/RENEW and Professor Brandon Marshall's People, Place and Health Collective. Partnerships with community organizations provide hands-on learning and professional growth. Completed as part of the Integrated Learning Experience course, the project asks you to draw on everything you’ve learned throughout your Master of Public Health program to solve a public health challenge with respect to where you live. You will choose from several Integrated Learning Experience challenges, which could involve anything from issues of intervention development or policy change to pandemic preparedness. Working with Brown University’s world-renowned MPH faculty, you will examine your chosen public health challenge in your community, gathering and highlighting data on your locale, identifying stakeholders and developing recommendations on how you might advise your local health authority to address this challenge. If you share an interest with any of your peers, you can work together and share your region-specific lessons. This collaborative approach to the Integrated Learning Experience gives you cross-national perspectives and insights into an array of interventions. The result: Your final paper not only allows you to contribute to the body of scholarly knowledge of a current public health issue. It also gives you the opportunity to generate important new public health knowledge for your community.  Need more information? Ready to apply? Begin your graduate public health journey now by taking the next step toward enrolling in the online MPH below. Apply through SOPHAS Fall 2022 Application Deadline June 1; Priority Deadline: May 15 Take the next step Fall 2022 Application Deadline June 1; Priority Deadline: May 15 Request Program information Apply through SOPHAS Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Public Health Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Admissions Financial Aid Curriculum Faculty Integrated Learning Experience This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Integrated Learning Experience Open details for Integrated Learning Experience Bookmark this Page