Skip to content Main Navigation Schools Programs Skill Up Seminars News Search Menu Schools Herman Ostrow School of Dentistry of USC Keck School of Medicine of USC USC Annenberg School for Communication and Journalism USC Bovard College USC Dornsife College of Letters, Arts and Sciences USC Gould School of Law USC Iovine and Young Academy USC Leonard Davis School of Gerontology USC Marshall School of Business USC Rossier School of Education USC Sol Price School of Public Policy USC Suzanne Dworak-Peck School of Social Work USC Viterbi School of Engineering Programs Seminars News Search Schools Programs Seminars News Master Your Career with USC Online Graduate DegreesCertificatesSeminarsUpskilling Explore Your Options Join the community Stream our tuition-free Seminars with USC experts now Business & Leadership Completing M&A and Corporate Financing Transactions in the Pandemic COVID-19 & Societal Impacts How Pandemics Impact Art Health & Well-Being Anxiety in the Age of COVID-19 Politics & Policy Envisioning the Future of Los Angeles with Gloria Molina COVID-19 & Societal Impacts The Politics of Education at School Boards: Elections and Parental Alliances See all Seminars What's it like to study at USC Online? A Day in the Life Diana Qi Online Executive Master of Health Administration Nick Ciletti Online Master of Studies in Law (MSL) Allie Corrigan Online Master of Science in Integrated Design, Business and Technology Optimized for Learning Why choose USC Online? Breadth of Options Choose from a wide range of courses and degrees Convenient Study on your schedule Rigorous Benefit from USC's academic excellence Dynamic Network Access the unparalleled Trojan alumni community Leading Faculty Learn from experts at the top of their fields Online Excellence Experience the best online resources and learning environment Take the next step in your career Explore our online graduate programs Master of Science in Human Resource Management Master of Business Administration (MBA) Doctor of Education in Organizational Change and Leadership Master of Communication Management Master of Science in Integrated Design, Business and Technology Master of Science in Digital Media Management Executive Master of Health Administration Master of Public Health Master of Science in Computer Science Master of Science in Criminal Justice See all Programs The Upshot Here's what our online students and alumni say I've worked on a number of business concepts before joining [the Academy]. It always felt like some perspective or concept or key insight was missing. I'm getting it now — how exciting it is to feel like you've got this inside information that really unlocks an idea that allows it to breathe and grow. I get that from working with phenomenal people around me every day. Jim Welty Master of Science in Integrated Design, Business and Technology USC Iovine and Young Academy The MSHRM program prepared me to guide organizational development and change management initiatives which translated into a lot of meaningful and impactful results at my organization. Within months of beginning the program, I accepted a promotion and since moved on into management, where I continue to lead talent development and strategic people initiatives. Crystal L. Montoya Master of Science in Human Resource Management USC Bovard College I realized that I needed to update that traditional MBA because the solutions needed in today’s world require a fresh approach with the technical, business, and media experiences I’ve gained. Jenean Glover Master of Science in Integrated Design, Business and Technology USC Iovine and Young Academy I love the experience DEN@Viterbi was able to create for me. It made it possible to work full time while pursuing a degree. I was able to gain experience, support my family, pursue my education and successfully start my dream career — all thanks to DEN@Viterbi. Mo Zhou Master of Science in Financial Engineering USC Viterbi School of Engineering The flexibility to participate in lectures when I was available, or to watch recorded sessions at a later time, was a phenomenal experience. With the demands of the military and frequent moving, I thought I would never be able to complete a program at USC but DEN@Viterbi far exceeded my expectations and enabled me to complete a master’s degree while on active duty. Samuel Aspiranti Master of Science in Cyber Security Engineering USC Viterbi School of Engineering Get the latest news Read more headlines from USC Online Isaiah Jewett, Olympic Runner and Double Trojan, Addresses USC Bovard College Graduating Class Tuesday May 17, 2022 “A lot of people look at graduation as the end, but it’s really the beginning. The beginning of our new hero stories,” says online MS in Project Management graduate Isaiah Jewett. Read More Should You Go to Grad School Right After Completing a Bachelor’s Program? Tips for Choosing Your Education Path Monday Apr 18, 2022 While there are multiple timelines for attending graduate school, the decision to continue your higher education is certainly a personal one with plenty of factors to consider. Read More Nearing 70, USC Gould Student Proves It’s Never Too Late to Get Your Master’s Degree Tuesday May 10, 2022 “Learning is so much better when you're older,” says online Master of Studies in Law (MSL) student Virginia Polley, who is graduating from USC Gould School of Law this May. Read More How to Write a Stand-Out Personal Statement for Your Graduate School Application Thursday Nov 4, 2021 To make sure your personal statement makes its way to the top of the college admissions pile, follow these tips and advice for crafting a powerful essay. Read More USC Dornsife Student Scores Career Success in Unexpected Industry With LA Clippers Tuesday Mar 22, 2022 Natalie Wong, a student in the online MS in Applied Psychology program, found her passion in a surprise career in human resources. Read More See all News Schools & Programs Annenberg School of Communication Bovard College Leonard Davis School of Gerontology Dornsife College of Arts & Sciences Dworak-Peck School of Social Work Gould School of Law Herman Ostrow School of Dentistry Schools & Programs Iovine and Young Academy Keck School of Medicine Marshall School of Business Price School of Public Policy Rossier School of Education Viterbi School of Engineering Helpful Pages News Seminars FAQs About Us Required Disclosures Licensure Statement Authorized States State Disclosures Complaint Resolution Copyright © 2022 University of Southern California | Non-Discrimination Policy | Privacy Notice