Skip to main content Computer Science Menu Computer Science Menu Online Masters in Computer Science Data Science Track Software Engineering Track Why Baylor University Online? Why Baylor University Online? Accreditation & Affiliations Faculty Profiles Online Experience FAQs Testimonials Student Services and Support Tuition & Financial Aid Blog Contact Us Contact Us Become a Student | Baylor University Refer a Friend Legal Disclosures Legal Disclosures Anonymous Reporting Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Contact Us Become a Student Refer a Friend Apply Now Home Online Masters in Computer Science Online Masters in Computer Science 100% Online No GRE required #25 Most Innovative Schools, 2020 Online Masters in Computer Science Preparing Innovators for Worldwide Impact with an Online Masters in Computer Science Baylor University’s Master of Computer Science online degree program prepares its graduates for the highest-demand roles in software engineering and data science. Our curriculum emphasizes technical proficiency, innovative thinking, ethical considerations, and the trends shaping science and technology on a global scale. Designed for students with a Bachelor’s degree in Computer Science, Engineering, Mathematics, Physics, or a closely-related degree, this program will prepare you to become an expert in computing. Developed for maximum demand—earn advanced credentials and skills for leading computer science roles. Instills innovative thinking—gain comprehensive knowledge and thoughtful skill-building for technology experts. Globally connected, ethically centered—consider the human aspects surrounding technology in an increasingly connected and diverse world. # 1 Data Scientist ranked as the #1 job in the U.S. for 2019 Glassdoor.com 29% Data science jobs increased by 29% from 2017-18 Glassdoor.com 3 Million Current active job postings in Computer Science Burning Glass Technologies, 2019 3.6 Million Current active professionals in the Computer Science field Burning Glass Technologies, 2019 $98,350-$142,530 Salary range of computer science careers BLS.com 94% Demand for Cybersecurity jobs since 2013 Burning Glass Technologies Access Your Guide Get more information to make the decision that's right for you: Full course listing and degree outcomes Admission requirements Tuition and financial aid information What would you like to study? What would you like to study? Data Science Software Engineering I have at least a bachelor's degree, as required by Baylor University's graduate programs. Next Step Step 1 of 2 First Name Last Name Email Phone Country Country United States of America Canada Afghanistan Aland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Austria Australia Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia, Plurinational State of Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and Saba Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cabo Verde Cambodia Cameroon Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Congo, the Democratic Republic of the Cook Islands Costa Rica Croatia Cuba Curaçao Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Faroe Islands Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island and McDonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran, Islamic Republic of Iraq Ireland Isle of Man Israel Italy Ivory Coast Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macao Macedonia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Madagascar Malaysia Malawi Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Micronesia, Federated States of Moldova, Republic of Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island North Korea Northern Mariana Islands Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestine, State of Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Reunion !Réunion Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Saint Barthélemy Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Martin (French part) Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Sint Maarten (Dutch part) Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands South Korea South Sudan Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan, Province of China Tajikistan Tanzania, United Republic of Thailand Timor-Leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States Minor Outlying Islands Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of Vietnam Virgin Islands, British Virgin Islands, U.S. Wallis and Futuna Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Zip Code Baylor University's technology partner works with multiple universities to offer online programs. Yes, I would like to learn more about these additional online programs. Submitting this form constitutes your express written consent to be called and/or texted by Baylor University at the number(s) you provided, regarding furthering your education. You understand that these calls may be generated using an automated technology, including by way of example, auto-dialer and click-to dial technologies. Calls may be recorded for quality assurance and training purposes. Privacy Policy. Download Your Brochure Step 2 of 2 X Close Form Download Program Guide Prepare for Vital Roles in Technology with a Master’s Degree in Computer Science Opportunities in technology continue to grow for professionals. Baylor University’s Master of Computer Science online program provides an advanced educational experience that emphasizes mastery from both technical and professional perspectives. Foundational courses (prerequisite track) prepare you for your master’s degree by teaching key computing fundamentals Core computer science concepts build your knowledge of topics, such as algorithms, software languages, databases, and networking Specialization tracks let you focus on the role you’re most passionate about—software engineering, data science, or cybersecurity Advanced Object-Oriented Development Object-oriented design and development with best practices in solving recurring engineering problems. Topics include core object‐oriented concepts, such as composition, inheritance, polymorphism, and templates; an overview of design pattern‐based problem solving and design practices; and advanced design patterns applicable for enterprise solution development. Foundations of Algorithms This course will provide a comprehensive introduction to computer algorithms taken from diverse areas of application. This course will concentrate on algorithms of fundamental importance and on analyzing the efficiency of these algorithms. This course is considered a leveling course and it will not count toward the online master’s degree. Intro to Computation Theory Several models of computation (including finite automata, pushdown automata, and Turing machines) and their related languages. Topics include closure properties, regular languages, context‐free languages, decidability and recognizability, and time and space complexity (including NP‐completeness and randomized complexity). Is a Computer Science Degree Required to Qualify? No. Applicants with a Bachelor of Science (B.S.) degree in Engineering, Mathematics, Physics or another closely related field are also eligible. Which Track is Right for You? Our dedicated enrollment advisors can help you decide which track is best for you. Here’s some information to get the conversation started: Advanced Algorithms Pre-requisite(s): Students are expected to have competency equivalent to CSI 5301, or equivalent course. Advanced data structures, algorithm design, and analysis. Topics include common data structures, algorithms, implementation, classes of algorithms, algorithm analysis, computational tradeoffs, and adaptation of familiar algorithms to new problems. Applied Data Science Pre-requisite: CSI 5355 or consent of instructor. This course surveys practical areas of data science using an application-based approach. Students will participate in guided projects intended to replicate the integration of scalable computing, very large data sets, and analytic approaches. Foundations of Database The course covers current relational database design concepts including ER diagrams, database access techniques such as SQL, database issues including performance and security, and web‐database applications. Data Science Develops techniques and algorithms for efficient management and analysis of big data. This field employs mathematics, statistics and computer programming disciplines, and incorporates advanced techniques of data mining, machine learning, and visualization. Data Mining and Analysis Advanced topics in Data Mining are presented. These include the pattern analysis of numerical, categorical, time, and textual data. The course focuses on algorithms for clustering and predictive modeling with special attention to extracting useful information from raw data, and methods for data validation. Foundations of Software Engineering Co-requisite(s): CSI 5301 (or any similar Introduction to Algorithms course) and basic Java programming skill required. Pre-requisite(s): CSI 5301 is preferred. Fundamentals of software engineering; software development processes, requirements analysis, modular design, design patterns, software testing and evolution, configuration management, and implementation of software systems. A small project to illustrate and extend concepts from lectures. Software Engineering Pre-requisite(s): Students are expected to have competency equivalent to CSI 5303, or equivalent course. Methods for developing and maintaining software systems; system software life cycle, requirements elicitation, specification and design methods, planning, maintenance, configuration management, documentation and coding standards, cost estimation, metrics and quality attributes; class project. Software Engineering Develops the methods used to produce and maintain high-quality software in a systematic, controlled, and efficient manner. Focus spans across pattern specification, software architecture, microservice-based enterprise application design, code analysis, security assessment, model-driven analysis, and testing. Advanced Data Communications Pre-requisite(s): Students are expected to have competency equivalent to CSI 5304, or equivalent course. Survey of current and seminal research in networking. Foundations of Data Communications Introduction to the fundamentals of computer networking, including communicating issues/solutions at various layers, socket programming, and internet protocols. Cybersecurity Driven by the fundamental need to protect systems and information from malicious actors and events. It focuses on a combination of network security, data analytics, and policies and procedures for dealing with potential threats. Advanced Databases Pre-requisite(s): Students are expected to have competency equivalent to CSI 5302, or equivalent course. A continuation of database system implementations to include object-oriented and knowledge-based systems. Additional topics covered are physical-data organization, database integrity, security, transaction management, and distributed database management. Foundations of Operating Systems Operating system design and implementation. Topics include process control and synchronization, memory management, processor scheduling, file systems, and security. Course projects implement parts of an operating system. Download your course guide Foundations of Math for Computer Science A survey of mathematical topics for computer scientists. An introduction to proof techniques, matrices, and statistics. Intro to Machine Learning An introduction to topics in machine learning, including supervised and unsupervised learning, modeling for regression and classification, naive Bayes methods, kernel-based learning, support vector machines, statistical and mathematical models for learning, and model assessment and prediction. High Demand for Computer Science Roles Texas is the second-largest market for computer-related positions - Burning Glass Technologies, 2019 Program Features Earn your Master of Computer Science degree from Baylor University, ranked #76 among national universities by U.S. News & Report 100% online Courses are 15 weeks, with three intakes per year Students learn from nationally recognized faculty Total credits: 30 (up to 42 with foundation courses) Admissions Requirements 3.0 GPA in Bachelor's degree Three letters of recommendation Resume Proficient in a high-level, object-oriented programming language such as Python, C, C++, C#, or Java Am I Eligible? Connect with one of our enrollment advisors or visit our Frequently Asked Questions Page to learn more about program eligibility. Software Verification & Validation Pre-requisite(s): CSI 5303, or equivalent; or consent of instructor. Advanced topics in software engineering research, including techniques used in software verification and validation with a particular focus on software specification and testing. Online Masters in Computer Science Curriculum Designed to provide students with greater skills in software systems, this curriculum focuses on software systems development and data science cybersecurity. Foundation Courses Distributed Systems Design and implementation of distributed systems with up-to-date software architecture and relevant development frameworks. Topics include inter-module communication, asynchronous processing, security, concurrency, parallelism, and an overview of contemporary enterprise technology and challenges. Core Courses Advanced Software Engineering Prerequisite(s): CSI 5324 or consent of instructor. Advanced topics in software engineering research, including techniques used in the modeling and analysis of complex systems. Data Science Track Cloud Computing Programming and data storage with cloud architectures. Topics include the Apache Hadoop Ecosystem and related programming frameworks. Cybersecurity Track Data Visualization An in-depth exploration of the techniques and algorithms for creating effective visualizations based on principles from graphic design, visual art, psychology, and cognitive sciences. Explores how to better understand data, present clear findings, and tell engaging data stories. Software Engineering Track Cybersecurity Concepts Introduction to concepts in cybersecurity, including cryptography; instruction detection/prevention; attacking/defending; cybersecurity tools; malware and reverse engineering; and defensive programming. Cybersecurity Course(s) Download Your Course Guide Connect With Your Baylor Enrollment Advisor Whether you have a simple question or need advice to determine if this program is the best for you, our friendly advisors are here to help. They can chat with you on your schedule and guide you through the entire admissions process so that you feel confident in moving forward with Baylor University. Download your guide to get started Request More Info Request More Info Apply Now Facebook LinkedIn Twitter YouTube Online Programs Online Masters in Computer Science - Data Science Track - Software Engineering Track Why Baylor University Online? Accreditations and Affiliations Faculty Profiles Message from the Dean Online Experience Student Services and Support Tuition & Financial Aid Blog Contact Us Become a Student Refer a Friend Apply Now Disclosures Anonymous Reporting Legal Disclosures Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Student Complaint Process Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 855-817-9622 • Privacy Policy • California Privacy Notice • Sitemap Get Your Guide people downloaded a program guide in the last 24 hours. Back to top