Skip to main content Contact Us Degrees Online Canvas Libraries Open Educational Resources • Oregon State University Open Educational Resources • Oregon State University Menu Home About About Intro to OER Meet our Staff OER at Work Affordability Matters badge Affordable Learning Plan Services Services Overview Consultation Design Tools and Resources Events Upcoming Events Open Education Week Think Open Symposium Webinar Archive Open Textbooks Open Textbooks Free Open Textbooks Textbook and Course Materials Guide OERU Grant Contact Open Educational Resources Unit We put affordable learning first. You can too. Call for proposals: Affordable Learning Grant All OSU faculty are invited to apply for funding to adapt, adopt or author an open textbook. Learn more » Open Educational Resources Unit services The OERU provides a variety of services for faculty who are interested in adopting, adapting or authoring open educational resources. Explore services » Student OER feedback Student feedback is a critical part of making high quality education more affordable. We asked our students to take part in a survey focused on textbooks and affordability. If you purchased textbooks for your courses, do you think it was worth it? It's 50/50. Either we use the materials constantly, or we barely touch them. It's unfortunate that we don't know which class will fit into which category... If you could get your textbooks for free, what would you do with the money instead? I would save it for tuition, for rent, a car, groceries, everything. That money would go such a long way in other parts of my life. What is something you’d like faculty to know about your access codes or textbooks? Something I'd like faculty to know about my access codes or textbooks is understanding the shipping times it may take for some Ecampus students to receive them... How many hours a week do you work to afford school? I work 40 hours a week and I still cannot afford school. I have had to take out loans and I try to make monthly payments as much as possible... Have any of your instructors had 0 cost textbooks or course materials? Deanna Lloyd provided all reading materials within Canvas, and it was extremely beneficial... Available OSU open textbooks Oregon State faculty have authored many open textbooks, and dozens more are in production. Browse OSU textbooks Open textbook catalogs The beauty of open textbooks is they are freely accessible, so check out these databases. Browse catalogs Textbook upload guide House Bill 2871 requires faculty to indicate when open textbooks or other low-cost/no-cost course materials are used. View the guide Featured stories Textbooks are way too expensive, and Oregon State is creating change Textbooks are way too expensive, and Oregon State is creating change College textbooks are way too expensive, and Oregon State — with its faculty leading the way — is on a mission to make college more affordable and accessible for students. With the support of the OSU Open Educational Resources Unit, an increasing number of OSU instructors are adopting, adapting and authoring no-cost and low-cost course materials. OER at Work: Ditching traditional textbooks for a true ‘companion’ to learning OER at Work: Ditching traditional textbooks for a true ‘companion’ to learning Cut down on chapter length. Get rid of drawn-out, technical explanations. Connect the text directly to the coursework. Oh, and make it free to every student who needs it. Those were a few of the goals Lara Letaw established when she set out to write a textbook on software engineering. OER at Work: A book on keeping information private that’s available for all to read OER at Work: A book on keeping information private that’s available for all to read In the introduction to the textbook she authored on digital security, Oregon State University associate professor Glencora Borradaile writes in part that they want the book “to be accessible to any curious person.” This means that the information within can ideally be understood even by those without a background in cryptography. But the desire for it to be “accessible” is twofold. About Open Educational Resources Open educational resources (OERs) aim to increase the world’s access to knowledge through open textbooks and reusable digital components. OER at Oregon State is a unit within the Division of Ecampus. OER are for all classes, including on-campus, online, and hybrid. Learn more » Footer Contact Info About Us Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Quick Navigation Resources About Open Textbooks Opportunities Contact Canvas Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University | Disclaimer W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE