Skip to content Toggle navigation Events Buy Tickets Ticket Info Ticket Info Visit Give Education About ABBA The Concert Buy Tickets Dance Theatre of Harlem Virginia Johnson, Artistic Director Buy Tickets Featured Events Dance Theatre of Harlem Bringing innovative and bold new forms of artistic expression, Dance Theatre of Harlem is a must-see performance on June 1! Buy Tickets to Dance Theatre of Harlem. ABBA The Concert – Aug 3 The top ABBA tribute group in the world will razzle and dazzle with a fantastic performance. Come sing and dance to all of ABBA’s iconic hits! More Info to ABBA. Little River Band With timeless classic hits, vocal and musical energy and outstanding arrangements, Little River Band is hotter than ever! Don't miss seeing this classic rock band. Get Tickets to Little River Band. News & Noteworthy Nims Principal Selected for Arts Advocate Award R. Frank Nims Middle School Principal Dr. Benny L. Bolden, Jr. receives his 2022 Opening Nights Arts Advocate Award presented by VyStar Credit Union. More information . 70s Summer Celebration – Aug 3 Be Groovy and celebrate the 70s with a pre-show dinner, costume contest and ABBA The Concert. Get Details on 70s Summer Celebration. Latest Performance Program Opening Nights posts the latest performance program online. Take a few minutes to learn more about the who’s performing ON stage! Tickets How to Order Tickets 2022-23 Season Ticket On Sale Dates Ticket Policies, Fees and Information Student & FSU Employee Tickets Ticket Donation Requests Visit Preferred Hotel Venues, Directions and Parking Dining Donor Lounge Accessibility About History Staff Development Council Press ONews Careers Contact Us Email Sign-Up Volunteer Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Support Ways to Give Become a Member Become a Sponsor Sponsor Support Donor Hall of Fame Education Opening Nights In Class Educational Programs & Master Classes Arts Advocate Award AAA Hall of Fame Past Educational Programs Resources Opening Nights Email: openingnights@fsu.edu Like Opening Nights on Facebook Like Opening Nights on Instagram Follow Opening Nights on Twitter Subscribe to Opening Nights on YouTube View Opening Nights on Issue Ticket Office: 850.644.7670 816 S Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd. Tallahassee, FL 32301 Hours: Monday-Friday, 10 am to 4 pm