Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home About All Activities Support News Shop Interactive Game Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Home Enjoy • Explore • Learn Save the Date! We will be back on campus for the next Open House on October 8, 2022. More information will be posted here as it becomes available. Thank you to everyone who joined us for Open House 2021! Check out the videos on the Lamont-Doherty YouTube account. Whether you’re an aspiring young scientist or a long-time science enthusiast, you’re sure to enjoy Lamont-Doherty’s Open House. Join us for virtual lab tours, participate in hands-on earth science activities with our scientists from home, and learn from world-renowned researchers about their latest discoveries. Open House is free and open to the public, with a $5 suggested donation. Thank you to everyone who attended the live Lamont Open House at Home events in 2020. You can still watch all recorded activities, explore K-12 activities, and play our virtual science adventure game. Earth Science Talks Watch the talks anytime! Christine McCarthy: Icy moons and habitability: looking for friends in cold places Yves Moussallam: Communicating with volcanoes to forecast eruptions Jacqueline Austermann: Solid facts and missing pieces: What rocks can tell us about sea level change Chris Zappa: Looking through the lens of people: the fate of traditions for a coastal Alaskan community Live Virtual Events More Events > October 13: Meet the Scientist: Kevin Uno (K-12) Recording Available: Beyond Hot Headlines: From Urgency to Agency Recording Available: The Power Pivot: The Wind Alternative October 14: Meet the Scientist: Kailani Acosta (K-12) K-12 Events and Activities LDEO To-Go Activity Pack October 13: Meet the Scientist: Kevin Uno October 14: Meet the Scientist: Kailani Acosta Check out events and activities from last year Discover Lamont: A Virtual Science Adventure Play our Interactive Game > To keep up with Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory news and events throughout the year, join our email list. Lamont-Doherty Earth ObservatoryP.O. Box 1000, 61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-365-8998 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close