Jump to navigation UW Home UW Medicine UW Directory UW MedHub Display Options Font Size A A A Reset Default Calendar Donate Make an Appointment Faculty Faculty Educators, researchers, and patient care specialists Learn more Other Faculty Emeritus, courtesy, adjunct, and affiliate professors Chairs & Professorships Recognizing our faculty and supporters Alumni Linking the past and future clinicians and vision scientists Patient Care Patient Care Medical and surgical care Learn more Find a Doctor View specialties and faculty profiles Make an Appointment Online or by phone Patient Education Learn more about eye disease Patient Care Facilities Come see us at our several locations Research Research Improving the current standard of care Learn more Our Labs Vision Science Group and Vision Core Research Science Centers Ophthalmology research arm, including current innovation and internship opportunities Clinical Trials and Non-Federal Research Ophthalmology’s translational studies and research subject portal Recent Publications Department of Ophthalmology literature and peer-reviewed journals Education Education Residency, fellowships, and other programs Learn more Medical Students UW Students, Visiting students, and other students Residency Residency information for medical students Fellowships Fellowship information for residents Current Trainees UW Department of Ophthalmology residents and fellows News & Events News & Events UW Ophthalmology in the community and the world Learn more The Roger H. Johnson Award For Macular Degeneration Research Speaker Series Education for our faculty, residents, and our partners Gained in Translation Annual meeting of clinicians and vision scientists from the Pacific Northwest. InSight Newsletter Joan & Gordon Bergy Lecture: Michael Do, PhD About UW Ophthalmology About UW Ophthalmology Learn more Community Outreach Our community matters Donate Support Innovation in Ophthalmology Retina Center A new clinical research space opening 2019 UW Medicine Eye Institute Videos Check out our new videos Committed to the alleviation of suffering from eye disease. UW Medicine Ophthalmology has over thirty physicians serving patients in all major subspecialties. Schedule a visit with one of our award-winning doctors today. Schedule a visit with one of our award-winning doctors today. Top Rated Patient Care Learn how we can best serve you Advancing our understanding and treatment of eye disease. With funding from the National Institute of Health, the National Eye Institute,industry, and a number of philanthropic foundations and donors, our investigators to perform basic science and translational research in five labs seven laboratories and over 22,000 square feet of research space. Learn more Cutting Edge Research Advancing the science of eye care Nationally recognized teachers and state of the art facilities. The Department of Ophthalmology is a leading training center for future ophthalmologists and vision scientists. We offer outstanding education to practicing ophthalmologists, medical students, and residents from around the world. Learn more Outstanding Education Training the next generation UW Ophthalmology has a presence all over Washington. See how we serve. UW Ophthalmology faculty members teach in multiple locations, serve patients in neighborhood clinics, and give eye care talks to the public. Check out our news section and see where we go next. Check out our news section and see where we go next. News and Events Connect with us EQUITY, DIVERSITY, AND INCLUSION AT THE UW DEPARTMENT OF OPHTHALMOLOGY The Department of Ophthalmology held a full faculty retreat on the topic of Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion. All faculty had an opportunity to complete a survey prior to the retreat to address what the department does well in EDI and areas where the department could improve. The retreat focused on EDI as it pertains to our important objectives of education, research, and patient care. Our keynote speaker, Leo S. Morales, MD, PhD, FACP, Director of the UW School of Medicine Center for Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (CEDI), talked about the importance of EDI as a primary consideration in all aspects of our academic pursuits, and Dr. Morales’ presentation was received with positive feedback by participants. Faculty members gave talks in the areas of education, research, and patient care, including some data presentations of our own efforts to advance EDI in academics as well as a quantitative review of our patient tracking at Harborview Medical Center. Our retreat generated a host of EDI initiatives, including: addressing healthcare disparities in our UW Medicine eye health patient population, reviewing trainee recruitment efforts, and appropriate use of race, sex, and gender descriptors in educational presentations. We are in the stage of implementing some initiatives currently, in the hope of making EDI part of our daily department mission. I want to thank our faculty, trainees, and staff for participating in these efforts. Latest News Read All News Resident Alumni Day May 24th, 2022 Joan & Gordon Bergy Lecture: Michael Do, PhD March 22nd, 2022 Resident Virtual Town Hall October 26th, 2021 Message from the Chair Russell N. Van Gelder, M.D., Ph.D. Our mission is to eliminate suffering from eye disease, both in our region and the wider world. We do this by providing the highest quality medical and surgical eye care for patients, seeking new knowledge and treatments for eye diseases through rigorous research, and preparing the next generation of physicians and vision scientists to do the same. More... How can we help you? Use the quick links below to navigate our services What is it like to be a resident here? Life in Seattle and the University of Washington Learn more I'm interested in clinical trials. Finding better treatments for tomorrow Clinical trials What research is being done? Basic and translational eye research at the University of Washington Learn more How can I support the department? Opportunities to volunteer or donate Learn more Online education Lectures for patients, residents, and practicing Ophthalmologists Learn more Search Our Site Search form Search Questions? Contact the Department Patient Care Find a Doctor Make an Appointment Research Publications Education Residency Medical Student Education Ophthalmic Plastic & Reconstructive Surgery Fellowship Medical Retina and Vitreoretinal Surgery Fellowship Pediatric Ophthalmology Fellowship Uveitis and Ocular Inflammation Fellowship Alumni WAEPS Patient Education Online Courses About UW Ophthalmology Faculty Other Faculty News & Events Community Outreach Gifts Roger H. Johnson Award Our administrative offices are located at: 908 Jefferson Harborview Medical Center Our mailing address is: Box 359608, 325 Ninth Avenue Seattle, WA 98104 Phone: 206.543.7250 Fax: 206.897.4320 Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington