COVID-19 Columbia University requires evidence of COVID-19 vaccination for all Faculty, Staff and Students. Religious and medical exemptions will be provided in accordance with applicable federal and state laws. Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia University Careers at Columbia Careers at Columbia CURRENT OPPORTUNITIES Search for staff jobs. You will create a profile with your first application submission. Questions? Ask HR. Send me jobs like these We will email you new jobs that match this search. Ok, we will send you jobs like this. The email address was invalid, please check for errors. You must agree to the privacy statement Subscribe Recaptcha Privacy agreement Search results Position School/Department Location Systems Engineer Surgery Medical Center Reporting to the Associate IT Director / IT Director, the Senior Systems Engineer oversees the Department of Surgery’s portfolio of IT systems- designing and implementing new systems as business needs arise, as well as providing maintenance and operational support for existing systems. Administrative Assistant for Programs in Occupational Therapy Rehabilitation and Regenerative Medicine Medical Center The Administrative Assistant will be responsible for all administrative activities related to communications, events, and program initiatives for the Programs in Occupational Therapy, a graduate degree program within the Department of Rehabilitation and Regenerative Medicine, School of Physicians and Surgeons. Senior IRB Specialist Institutional Review Board Medical Center The Senior IRB Specialist- Manager of the Columbia University Human Research Protection Office (HRPO) reports to the Assistant Director for IRB Management or an IRB Senior Specialist – Senior Manager. The Senior IRB Specialist-Manager, working collaboratively with a team of other professionals, is primarily responsible for managing a CU IRB with a large portfolio of research to oversee team functionality; provide regulatory guidance and support to IRB members; serve as a resource for the CU research community; and develop HRPO Staff. Admin Communications Assistant Medical Humanities and Ethics Medical Center The Division of Ethics in the Department of Medical Humanities and Ethics seeks a Part-Time Administrative Communications Assistant to work with the Division Chief and a multi-disciplinary team to support divisional projects including the national Center for ELSI Resources and Analysis (CERA) and the biennial international ELSI Congress. Communications Manager of The Hub Columbia Business School Manhattanville Columbia Business School is at a transformative moment. The School is driving the future of business education and scholarship, and has recently moved to our new Manhattanville campus—a bold, one-of-a-kind set of facilities designed for innovation and collaboration. In the Spring of 2022, Columbia Business School will launch the Hub. This is a think tank that will address challenges and opportunities faced by the business world and by society. By facilitating dialogue among scholars, practitioners, and policy makers, it will equip current and future business leaders with tools to bring about positive change and rise to these challenges. Reporting to the Director, the Communications Manager will perform an array of functions that maintain, grow, and develop the Hub’s digital and print visibility and outreach initiatives to internal and external stakeholders. Technician B Neurology Medical Center The Phatnani lab is seeking a highly motivated Technician B to work on a project focusing on the progression of the neurodegenerative disease Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS). Catering Delivery Campus Services Morningside Columbia University’s department of University Event Management is the center of event planning and related services for undergraduate students, graduate students, faculty, staff and alumni. It is our goal to provide excellent facilities and exceptional service for all events, programs and activities for the Columbia community. We are a customer-focused organization with an immediate opening a Catering Delivery Person. Development Assistant Columbia College Morningside Reports to the Senior Director, Columbia College Parents Fund and supports the Assistant Director of the Parents Fund, the incumbent works as an integral part with the fundraising team, providing administrative support. Assistant Manager, HR & FA Division of Finance & Admin Medical Center Reporting to the Executive Director of Human Resources & Faculty Affairs for Columbia University School of Nursing (CUSON), the Assistant Manager of Human Resources & Faculty Affairs will provide overall support to the team by providing oversight of specific functions of the office. Non-Student Short-Term Casual Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center Medical Center The Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center seeks to hire a highly motivated Short-Term Casual position for the Molecular Pathology Shared Resource Core. Clinical Research Coordinator - PACC Medicine Medical Center The Department of Medicine, Division of Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care is recruiting a Clinical Research Coordinator for the Lung Transplant Program. Data Analyst Division of Scholarship & Rsch Medical Center Reporting to the Senior Project Director and the Data Manager, the Junior Data Analyst will provide analytic support in the areas of data management, documentation, and analysis for research studies examining care transitions and infection prevention and control in post-acute care settings (nursing homes, home healthcare) prior to and during the COVID-19 pandemic. The analyst will work with a team of researchers at the Center for Health Policy at Columbia University School of Nursing. HR Coordinator Surgery Medical Center Reporting to the Assistant Director of Academic Affairs, the Human Resources (HR) Coordinator will support a variety of HR duties. The HR Coordinator with have primary administrative responsibility for provider credentialing, faculty onboarding, will be responsible for coordinating the Short-Term Visitor process for the Department in the Department of Surgery. Project Manager Planning and Capital Project Management Morningside Columbia University is seeking an experienced Project Manager to join its Planning & Capital Project Management Department at the Morningside Campus in Manhattan. Administrative Assistant CUIMC Student Health Services Medical Center The Administrative Assistant will provide administrative support to Student Health on Haven Insurance and Administration. Responsibilities include coordinating meeting schedules for the department’s directors, manage the directors’ calendars, assist with accounts payable and account receivables process, answering phones and greeting students/patients. The Administrative Assistant will also be required to cross cover with other administrative staff, including the enrollment coordinator and the receptionists in the clinic front desk area. Performs other duties as required Social Worker School of Social Work Morningside CSSW and the District of New Jersey’s Newark Reentry Court (ReNew) are collaborating on a pilot study incorporating social work practice into its reentry court. ReNew is an interdisciplinary initiative that seeks to address the gap in services available for recently-released individuals from the federal system with the highest risk of reoffending. Laboratory Technician Dept of Mechanical Engineering Morningside We are seeking a Laboratory Technician for the Department of Mechanical Engineering in the Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science (SEAS). This position is primarily responsible for assisting in the operation of both the MECE Undergraduate Teaching Laboratory and the Makerspace. Simulation Manager P&S Vice Dean For Education Medical Center Reporting directly to the Simulation Center (SIM Center) Director of Operations and indirectly to the Medical Director of the Simulation Center, the SIM Center Simulation Manager provides supervisory management of SIM Center simulation programs. Assistant Director of Intramurals, Club Sports and Camps Department of Intercollegiate Athletics Morningside The Assistant Director of Intramurals, Club Sports, and Camps is responsible for managing the intramural program and providing administrative assistance for the Director of Intramurals and Club Sports and Director of Camps. IPHN and MS Courses Education Assistant Institute of Human Nutrition Medical Center The MS Program Education Assistant is responsible for assisting the Public Health Nutrition professor in MS program courses in the Fall and Obesity and Clinical Observership in the Spring. More Jobs 1103 Position School/Department Location Systems Engineer Surgery Medical Center Reporting to the Associate IT Director / IT Director, the Senior Systems Engineer oversees the Department of Surgery’s portfolio of IT systems- designing and implementing new systems as business needs arise, as well as providing maintenance and operational support for existing systems. Administrative Assistant for Programs in Occupational Therapy Rehabilitation and Regenerative Medicine Medical Center The Administrative Assistant will be responsible for all administrative activities related to communications, events, and program initiatives for the Programs in Occupational Therapy, a graduate degree program within the Department of Rehabilitation and Regenerative Medicine, School of Physicians and Surgeons. Senior IRB Specialist Institutional Review Board Medical Center The Senior IRB Specialist- Manager of the Columbia University Human Research Protection Office (HRPO) reports to the Assistant Director for IRB Management or an IRB Senior Specialist – Senior Manager. The Senior IRB Specialist-Manager, working collaboratively with a team of other professionals, is primarily responsible for managing a CU IRB with a large portfolio of research to oversee team functionality; provide regulatory guidance and support to IRB members; serve as a resource for the CU research community; and develop HRPO Staff. Admin Communications Assistant Medical Humanities and Ethics Medical Center The Division of Ethics in the Department of Medical Humanities and Ethics seeks a Part-Time Administrative Communications Assistant to work with the Division Chief and a multi-disciplinary team to support divisional projects including the national Center for ELSI Resources and Analysis (CERA) and the biennial international ELSI Congress. Communications Manager of The Hub Columbia Business School Manhattanville Columbia Business School is at a transformative moment. The School is driving the future of business education and scholarship, and has recently moved to our new Manhattanville campus—a bold, one-of-a-kind set of facilities designed for innovation and collaboration. In the Spring of 2022, Columbia Business School will launch the Hub. This is a think tank that will address challenges and opportunities faced by the business world and by society. By facilitating dialogue among scholars, practitioners, and policy makers, it will equip current and future business leaders with tools to bring about positive change and rise to these challenges. Reporting to the Director, the Communications Manager will perform an array of functions that maintain, grow, and develop the Hub’s digital and print visibility and outreach initiatives to internal and external stakeholders. Technician B Neurology Medical Center The Phatnani lab is seeking a highly motivated Technician B to work on a project focusing on the progression of the neurodegenerative disease Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS). Catering Delivery Campus Services Morningside Columbia University’s department of University Event Management is the center of event planning and related services for undergraduate students, graduate students, faculty, staff and alumni. It is our goal to provide excellent facilities and exceptional service for all events, programs and activities for the Columbia community. We are a customer-focused organization with an immediate opening a Catering Delivery Person. Development Assistant Columbia College Morningside Reports to the Senior Director, Columbia College Parents Fund and supports the Assistant Director of the Parents Fund, the incumbent works as an integral part with the fundraising team, providing administrative support. Assistant Manager, HR & FA Division of Finance & Admin Medical Center Reporting to the Executive Director of Human Resources & Faculty Affairs for Columbia University School of Nursing (CUSON), the Assistant Manager of Human Resources & Faculty Affairs will provide overall support to the team by providing oversight of specific functions of the office. Non-Student Short-Term Casual Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center Medical Center The Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center seeks to hire a highly motivated Short-Term Casual position for the Molecular Pathology Shared Resource Core. Clinical Research Coordinator - PACC Medicine Medical Center The Department of Medicine, Division of Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care is recruiting a Clinical Research Coordinator for the Lung Transplant Program. Data Analyst Division of Scholarship & Rsch Medical Center Reporting to the Senior Project Director and the Data Manager, the Junior Data Analyst will provide analytic support in the areas of data management, documentation, and analysis for research studies examining care transitions and infection prevention and control in post-acute care settings (nursing homes, home healthcare) prior to and during the COVID-19 pandemic. The analyst will work with a team of researchers at the Center for Health Policy at Columbia University School of Nursing. HR Coordinator Surgery Medical Center Reporting to the Assistant Director of Academic Affairs, the Human Resources (HR) Coordinator will support a variety of HR duties. The HR Coordinator with have primary administrative responsibility for provider credentialing, faculty onboarding, will be responsible for coordinating the Short-Term Visitor process for the Department in the Department of Surgery. Project Manager Planning and Capital Project Management Morningside Columbia University is seeking an experienced Project Manager to join its Planning & Capital Project Management Department at the Morningside Campus in Manhattan. Administrative Assistant CUIMC Student Health Services Medical Center The Administrative Assistant will provide administrative support to Student Health on Haven Insurance and Administration. Responsibilities include coordinating meeting schedules for the department’s directors, manage the directors’ calendars, assist with accounts payable and account receivables process, answering phones and greeting students/patients. The Administrative Assistant will also be required to cross cover with other administrative staff, including the enrollment coordinator and the receptionists in the clinic front desk area. Performs other duties as required Social Worker School of Social Work Morningside CSSW and the District of New Jersey’s Newark Reentry Court (ReNew) are collaborating on a pilot study incorporating social work practice into its reentry court. ReNew is an interdisciplinary initiative that seeks to address the gap in services available for recently-released individuals from the federal system with the highest risk of reoffending. Laboratory Technician Dept of Mechanical Engineering Morningside We are seeking a Laboratory Technician for the Department of Mechanical Engineering in the Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science (SEAS). This position is primarily responsible for assisting in the operation of both the MECE Undergraduate Teaching Laboratory and the Makerspace. Simulation Manager P&S Vice Dean For Education Medical Center Reporting directly to the Simulation Center (SIM Center) Director of Operations and indirectly to the Medical Director of the Simulation Center, the SIM Center Simulation Manager provides supervisory management of SIM Center simulation programs. Assistant Director of Intramurals, Club Sports and Camps Department of Intercollegiate Athletics Morningside The Assistant Director of Intramurals, Club Sports, and Camps is responsible for managing the intramural program and providing administrative assistance for the Director of Intramurals and Club Sports and Director of Camps. IPHN and MS Courses Education Assistant Institute of Human Nutrition Medical Center The MS Program Education Assistant is responsible for assisting the Public Health Nutrition professor in MS program courses in the Fall and Obesity and Clinical Observership in the Spring. More Jobs 1103 Powered by PageUp Sign up for Job Alerts Returning Applicant Login Filter By Work type Full Time 1046 Part Time 97 Location Campus Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory 7 Manhattanville 94 Medical Center 669 Morningside 352 Nevis 3 Other NY State Locations 4 Other NYC Locations 10 Other US Locations 15 Grade Catering Delivery Person 1 Class A-Handyperson 1 Class A-Others 3 Class C-Handyperson 2 Clerical Grade 3 4 Clerical Grade 4 7 Clerical Grade 5 2 Clerical Grade 6 2 Grade 10 30 Grade 101 9 Grade 102 8 Grade 103 126 Grade 104 128 Grade 105 158 Grade 106 40 Grade 107 7 Grade 108 1 Grade 11 84 Grade 12 86 Grade 13 54 Grade 14 43 Grade 15 20 Grade 16 4 Grade 7 1 Grade 8 7 Grade 9 11 Grade 9A 9 Grade R1 1 Grade R2 7 Grade R3 10 Grade R4 5 Grade R5 8 Grade R6 1 Grade R9 1 Head Porter 1 Head Service Mechanic 1 Libraries Grade 7 1 Maintenance Worker 1 1 Mech: Mechanic A/Mechanic 4 Medical Assistant 1 Pantry Worker 3 Plumber 1 1 Porter 10 PP: Energy Mgt Sys Mechanic 1 PP: HVAC Controls Mechanic 1 PP: Mechanic A 3 PP: Watch Engineer 3 Refrigeration Cntrl Engineer 1 1 Resident Manager 1 Retail Worker 2 Rounds-Person-Pre 1/1/99 1 Security Officer 1 Serv: Head Cleaner (Rev) 1 Serv: Heavy Cleaner 12 Short Order Cook 1 Technical Grade 2 3 Technical Grade 3 27 Technical Grade 4 73 Technical Grade 5 32 Technical Grade 6 4 Technical Grade 7 2 Technical Grade 8 5 Technical Grade 8a 1 Ungraded 62 Utility Person-Pre 1/1/99 1 Working Superintendent 1 Categories Administrative Support 181 Athletics 6 Commun/PR/Editorial 19 Compliance 19 Development/Alumni Relations 39 Facilities/Maint/Trades/RealEs 73 Finance/Accounting 89 Food Services 29 General Administration 266 Health/Clinical 179 Human Resources 33 Information Technology 63 Legal 3 Libraries 7 Marketing/Sales 15 Other 114 Pubs/Printing/Graphic Design 4 Research (Lab and Non-Lab) 349 Security 8 Stdnt Affairs/Educational Admn 75 Summer Position 1 Teacher/School 4 School/Department Aaron Diamond Aids Rsch Ct 2 Anesthesiology 8 Atlantic Fellowship for Racial Equity Program 1 Biostatistics 1 Campus Services 38 Center for Intl Earth Science Info Network 2 Center for Radiological Research 3 Center for Teaching and Learning 2 Clinic 3 Clinical Trials Office 3 CMC CUIMC SVP Fac Aff & CD 1 Columbia Business School 32 Columbia College 34 Columbia Health 24 Columbia Journalism Review 1 Columbia Residential 9 Columbia Stem Cell Initiative 2 Columbia Technology Ventures 4 Columbia University Human Resources 5 Columbia University Information Technology 3 Columbia World Projects 1 Committee on Global Thought 1 Communications & Public Affairs 1 Community DentCare 1 Controller 5 CUIMC CFO 1 CUIMC Communications 5 CUIMC EVP 2 CUIMC Facilities 16 CUIMC HR 1 CUIMC IT 7 CUIMC Student Health Services 4 Data Science Institute 4 Dean's Office 4 Dental Medicine 6 Department of Computer Science 3 Department of Intercollegiate Athletics 4 Department of Mathematics 1 Department of Psychology 3 Department of Sociology 1 Dept Industrial Eng & Oper Res 3 Dept of Biological Sciences 4 Dept of Biomedical Engineering 4 Dept of Chemical Engineering 2 Dept of Electrical Engineering 1 Dept of Mechanical Engineering 2 Dept of Political Science 1 Dermatology 4 Division of Clinical Practice 1 Division of Finance & Admin 3 Division of Scholarship & Rsch 7 Division of Student Affairs 1 Earth Institute 13 Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology 2 Emergency Medicine 7 English and Comparative Literature 3 Environmental Health Sciences 5 Epidemiology 4 Facilities Operations 29 Faculty Practice 1 Faculty Practice Organization 24 Finance and Administration 10 General 1 Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center 13 Grad Sch Architecture, Planning and Preservation 5 Graduate School of Arts & Sciences 3 Graduate School of Journalism 3 Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center 23 ICAP at Columbia 37 IMC 1 INCITE/Ctr Innovative Empirics 1 Information Technology 1 Inst Animal Care & Use Comm 2 Inst Soc& Econ Research&Policy 2 Institute for Cancer Genetics 2 Institute for Genomic Medicine 10 Institute of Comparative Medicine 4 Institute of Human Nutrition 1 Institutional Review Board 6 Internal Audit 4 Intl Students & Scholars Off 3 Irving Inst Clinical and Translational Research 6 Italian Academy 1 Justice Lab 1 Knight Institute 3 Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory 3 Lenfest Center for the Arts 1 Libraries 9 Mailman School of Public Health Administration 8 Manhattanville Development Group 1 Medical Humanities and Ethics 1 Medicine 115 Microbiology and Immunology 6 Morningside ICM 1 Naomi Berrie Diabetes Center 1 Neurological Surgery 7 Neurology 47 Neuroscience 1 Nevis Laboratories 2 Obstetrics and Gynecology 26 Office of Alumni & Development 9 Office of EVP Arts & Sciences 3 Office of the Provost 3 Ophthalmology 8 Orthopedic Surgery 12 Otolaryngology 4 P&S CUIMC Development 7 P&S Vice Dean For Admin 6 P&S Vice Dean For Education 15 P&S Vice Dean For Research 4 Pathology and Cell Biology 30 Pediatrics 54 Pharmacology 2 Planning and Capital Project Management 4 Population and Family Health 2 Procurement Services 2 Psychiatry 23 Public Safety 8 Radiation Oncology 3 Radiation Safety Office 1 Radiology 12 Real Estate 1 Rehabilitation and Regenerative Medicine 2 Research 6 School of Engineering and Applied Science Admin 13 School of General Studies 6 School of International and Public Affairs 16 School of Law 16 School of Professional Studies 12 School of Social Work 15 School of the Arts 4 Sociomedical Sciences 2 Sponsored Projects Admin 3 Strategic Communications 1 Student Financial Services 2 Surgery 28 Systems Biology 6 Taub Inst Res Alzheimers Disease Aging Brain 23 The School at Columbia Univ 1 University Life 8 Wallach Art Gallery 1 Weatherhead East Asian Inst 1 Zuckerman Institute 22 Human Resources 615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York, NY 10027 Equal Opportunity Employer / Disability / Veteran Columbia University is committed to the hiring of qualified local residents Columbia University is committed to protecting your privacy Columbia University provides reasonable accommodations to applicants with disabilities NCAA Statement | Pay Transparency | Clery Act Notification Labor Condition Applications (LCA) Notices Columbia University © Columbia University Accessibility Administrator Log in Back to Top