COVID-19 Columbia University requires evidence of COVID-19 vaccination for all Faculty, Staff and Students. Religious and medical exemptions will be provided in accordance with applicable federal and state laws. Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia University Careers at Columbia Careers at Columbia CURRENT OPPORTUNITIES Search for staff jobs. You will create a profile with your first application submission. Questions? Ask HR. Director of Development, Alumni & Major Gifts Back Apply Share Requisition no: 522357 Work type: Full Time Location: Medical Center School/Department: P&S CUIMC Development Grade: Grade 105 Categories: Development/Alumni Relations Job Type: Officer of Administration Bargaining Unit: Regular/Temporary: Regular End Date if Temporary: Hours Per Week: 35 Salary Range: Position Summary Incumbent will report to the Senior Director of Development and will manage multi-level assignments, serve as an internal and external development liaison to VP&S Alumni, grateful patients, and alumni faculty. As an integral member of the VP&S Alumni Development team, the incumbent will work closely with the Senior Director of Development during this exciting time to focus on the University Financial Aid Initiative, which is a renewed focus on medical school alumni and prospects with planned giving potential. Attention will be focused on cultivating relationships with alumni prior to class reunion years, building relationships with existing donors, building new relationships with alumni who are non-donors, and raising funds for scholarships, financial aid, and other educational initiatives, as well as meeting planned giving goals. The incumbent will manage a portfolio of donors and prospects in key regional areas to develop strategies and cultivate relationships that lead to solicitation and stewardship of major gifts. As a member of the team, the incumbent will work collaboratively across the office, specifically on planned giving prospects. Supervisory and management responsibilities as assigned; annually prepare objectives for the upcoming academic year. Other duties and special projects as assigned. Responsibilities Manage a portfolio of major gift donors, friends, alumni, and prospects across the medical center. Develop strategies and cultivate relationships that lead to solicitation and stewardship of gifts of $100,000 and above. Collaborate with major gift teams to integrate planned giving goals and objectives into all fundraising activities. Includes local and national travel as appropriate and permitted by University policy. - 50% Work in conjunction with the Senior Director of Development on Scholarship Initiative Stewardship and relationship cultivation and other duties as assigned. - 25% Work in conjunction with staff on alumni in an anniversary year with a focus on innovative ways to encourage participation and giving. - 15% Annually prepare objectives for the upcoming fiscal year (e.g. dollars to be raised, solicitations planned, and cultivation/stewardship activities). - 10% Minimum Qualifications Bachelor’s degree or equivalent in education and experience, plus four years of related experience. Preferred Qualifications Master's degree preferred. Other Requirements At least four years of progressively responsible experience in alumni fundraising or a related field, preferably in a health care or higher education environment. Management and administrative skills required to motivate and manage volunteers to accomplish fundraising goals. Must work well independently and as a member of a team; handle multiple deadline-driven assignments simultaneously. Must have the ability to write graceful and accurate prose under pressure as well as the ability to grasp complex material and present to a general audience. Ability to initiate, supervise, and complete projects and assignments under minimal supervision necessary. Excellent interpersonal, written, oral and analytical skills required. Proven ability to work successfully in a campaign environment with major gift solicitations. Excellent knowledge of management information systems and software programs such as Microsoft Office and the integration of such programs with other donor-based gift records and systems. Ability to maintain a calm and professional demeanor with a high degree of sophistication. Highly motivated with excellent judgment and discretion, resilience, with a high level of independent decision-making. Excellent ability to set priorities and perform under pressure of fast paced office environment. This position requires work beyond regular hours, including evenings and weekends, as projects and events require. *Subject to business needs, we may support flexible and hybrid work arrangements. Options will be discussed during the interview process. Equal Opportunity Employer / Disability / Veteran Columbia University is committed to the hiring of qualified local residents. Applications open: Jun 01 2022 Eastern Daylight Time Applications close: Back Apply Share Share this via: | More Send me jobs like these We will email you new jobs that match this search. Ok, we will send you jobs like this. The email address was invalid, please check for errors. You must agree to the privacy statement Subscribe Recaptcha Privacy agreement Search results Position School/Department Location Director of Development, Alumni & Major Gifts P&S CUIMC Development Medical Center This role manages multi-level assignments and serve as an internal and external development liaison to VP&S Alumni. Position School/Department Location Director of Development, Alumni & Major Gifts P&S CUIMC Development Medical Center This role manages multi-level assignments and serve as an internal and external development liaison to VP&S Alumni. Powered by PageUp Sign up for Job Alerts Returning Applicant Login Filter By Work type Full Time 1 Location Campus Medical Center 1 Grade Grade 105 1 Categories Development/Alumni Relations 1 School/Department P&S CUIMC Development 1 Human Resources 615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York, NY 10027 Equal Opportunity Employer / Disability / Veteran Columbia University is committed to the hiring of qualified local residents Columbia University is committed to protecting your privacy Columbia University provides reasonable accommodations to applicants with disabilities NCAA Statement | Pay Transparency | Clery Act Notification Labor Condition Applications (LCA) Notices Columbia University © Columbia University Accessibility Administrator Log in Back to Top