COVID-19 Columbia University requires evidence of COVID-19 vaccination for all Faculty, Staff and Students. Religious and medical exemptions will be provided in accordance with applicable federal and state laws. Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia University Careers at Columbia Careers at Columbia CURRENT OPPORTUNITIES Search for staff jobs. You will create a profile with your first application submission. Questions? Ask HR. Research Assistant Back Apply Share Requisition no: 526302 Work type: Full Time Location: Medical Center School/Department: Surgery Grade: Technical Grade 5 Categories: Research (Lab and Non-Lab) Position Summary The incumbent will provide general research support in the Division of Thoracic Surgery. The incumbent will be assisting in gathering, statistical analysis and drafting of finalized reports and manuscripts for the Thoracic Surgery and ECMO Programs. The Research Assistant will be interacting with members from all different departments within the Center. As result, the assistant must be flexible, possess exceptional communication skills and be proactive. The incumbent must be comfortable with working in a fast-paced environment Responsibilities Perform study related data entry. Coordinate the day-to-day activities of research projects. Assist with the collection, processing and shipping of lab/pathology specimens. Prepare documents, grant slips and specimen tubes in preparation for patient study visits. Maintain and organize research charts and help to prepare for monitoring visits. Assist in scheduling appointments. Support other functions as assigned. Minimum Qualifications Bachelor’s degree or at least one and one-half years of related experience or equivalent in education, training and experience. One and one-half years of related experience or equivalent in education, training and experience. Other Requirements Excellent communication and interpersonal skills. Ability to meet deadlines and good organizational skills. Basic understanding of elementary science Intermediate MS Office skills Equal Opportunity Employer / Disability / Veteran Columbia University is committed to the hiring of qualified local residents. Applications open: May 31 2022 Eastern Daylight Time Applications close: Back Apply Share Share this via: | More Send me jobs like these We will email you new jobs that match this search. Ok, we will send you jobs like this. The email address was invalid, please check for errors. You must agree to the privacy statement Subscribe Recaptcha Privacy agreement Search results Position School/Department Location Research Assistant Surgery Medical Center The incumbent will provide general research support in the Division of Thoracic Surgery. Incumbent will be assisting in gathering, statistical analysis and drafting of finalized reports and manuscripts for the Thoracic Surgery and ECMO Programs. Position School/Department Location Research Assistant Surgery Medical Center The incumbent will provide general research support in the Division of Thoracic Surgery. Incumbent will be assisting in gathering, statistical analysis and drafting of finalized reports and manuscripts for the Thoracic Surgery and ECMO Programs. Powered by PageUp Sign up for Job Alerts Returning Applicant Login Filter By Work type Full Time 1 Location Campus Medical Center 1 Grade Technical Grade 5 1 Categories Research (Lab and Non-Lab) 1 School/Department Surgery 1 Human Resources 615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York, NY 10027 Equal Opportunity Employer / Disability / Veteran Columbia University is committed to the hiring of qualified local residents Columbia University is committed to protecting your privacy Columbia University provides reasonable accommodations to applicants with disabilities NCAA Statement | Pay Transparency | Clery Act Notification Labor Condition Applications (LCA) Notices Columbia University © Columbia University Accessibility Administrator Log in Back to Top