COVID-19 Columbia University requires evidence of COVID-19 vaccination for all Faculty, Staff and Students. Religious and medical exemptions will be provided in accordance with applicable federal and state laws. Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia University Careers at Columbia Careers at Columbia CURRENT OPPORTUNITIES Search for staff jobs. You will create a profile with your first application submission. Questions? Ask HR. Benefit Systems Analyst Back Apply Share Requisition no: 525942 Work type: Full Time Location: Manhattanville School/Department: Columbia University Human Resources Grade: Grade 11 Categories: Human Resources Job Type: Officer of Administration Bargaining Unit: Regular/Temporary: Regular End Date if Temporary: Hours Per Week: 35 Salary Range: Position Summary The Benefits Systems Analyst provides functional and technical expertise on benefits systems and process integration functions in support of day-to-day benefits operations, priorities, and organizational initiatives. Responsibilities Act as benefits systems subject matter expert and point of contact for the Benefits Service Center on all benefits-related issues. Conduct trainings as required. Responsible for ongoing activities relating to benefits deductions, arrears, and true-ups for payroll processing. Participate in systems integration and improvement activities between internal HR/Benefits/payroll applications and external Benefits Enrollment System. Conduct analysis of and reporting of benefits systems data, troubleshooting existing applications and maintaining quality assurance of benefit systems and data. Support system implementation and maintenance. Participate in the quantification, documentation, and testing the effectiveness of the benefits systems control processes as defined under Sarbanes-Oxley. Run ad hoc reports from benefits systems, as required. Supports Benefits & Compensation directors in working with other internal and external HR technology leaders to develop, and improve the overall HR and Benefits system strategies and data reporting opportunities in support of organizational initiatives and priorities. Perform related duties and responsibilities as assigned and/or requested. Provide status reporting on tasks in progress. Other duties as assigned. Minimum Qualifications Bachelor's degree and/or equivalent. Minimum 2-4 years experience required; preferably in benefits/HR systems administration and reporting. Experience with HR/Benefits system processes, documentation, and workflows. Must have strong computer and data analysis skills; requires high proficiency in MS Excel, SQL, PeopleSoft Query, or other data reporting functions. Excellent written, oral, and interpersonal communication skills. Knowledge of MS Access or data management preferred. Equal Opportunity Employer / Disability / Veteran Columbia University is committed to the hiring of qualified local residents. Applications open: Jun 01 2022 Eastern Daylight Time Applications close: Back Apply Share Share this via: | More Send me jobs like these We will email you new jobs that match this search. Ok, we will send you jobs like this. The email address was invalid, please check for errors. You must agree to the privacy statement Subscribe Recaptcha Privacy agreement Search results Position School/Department Location Benefit Systems Analyst Columbia University Human Resources Manhattanville The Benefits Systems Analyst provides functional and technical expertise on benefits systems and process integration functions in support of day-to-day benefits operations, priorities, and organizational initiatives Position School/Department Location Benefit Systems Analyst Columbia University Human Resources Manhattanville The Benefits Systems Analyst provides functional and technical expertise on benefits systems and process integration functions in support of day-to-day benefits operations, priorities, and organizational initiatives Powered by PageUp Sign up for Job Alerts Returning Applicant Login Filter By Work type Full Time 1 Location Campus Manhattanville 1 Grade Grade 11 1 Categories Human Resources 1 School/Department Columbia University Human Resources 1 Human Resources 615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York, NY 10027 Equal Opportunity Employer / Disability / Veteran Columbia University is committed to the hiring of qualified local residents Columbia University is committed to protecting your privacy Columbia University provides reasonable accommodations to applicants with disabilities NCAA Statement | Pay Transparency | Clery Act Notification Labor Condition Applications (LCA) Notices Columbia University © Columbia University Accessibility Administrator Log in Back to Top