COVID-19 Columbia University requires evidence of COVID-19 vaccination for all Faculty, Staff and Students. Religious and medical exemptions will be provided in accordance with applicable federal and state laws. Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia University Careers at Columbia Careers at Columbia CURRENT OPPORTUNITIES Search for staff jobs. You will create a profile with your first application submission. Questions? Ask HR. Technician B Back Apply Share Requisition no: 524522 Work type: Full Time Location: Medical Center School/Department: Neurology Grade: Technical Grade 4 Categories: Research (Lab and Non-Lab) Position Summary The Phatnani lab is seeking a highly motivated Technician B to work on a project focusing on the progression of the neurodegenerative disease Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS). The technician will work closely with colleagues using techniques such as but not limited to in vivo mouse genetics, gene expression profiling, and in vitro cell culture assays. Responsibilities Genotyping and general husbandry and maintenance of mouse colony Real-time PCR analysis of gene expression Cell culture of mouse pluripotent cells for differentiation into motor neurons and cortical cell isolation for astrocytes RNA extraction and purification Sectioning, in situ hybridization, and antibody staining of tissues for gene expression analysis Cortical and spinal cord dissections Minimum Qualifications Bachelor's degree in chemistry, biology or physics or a completed animal husbandry program or equivalent in education, training and experience. Preferred Qualifications Comfortability with dissections. Knowledge of various related laboratory procedures and techniques. One year of related experience. B.Sc. or M.Sc. in Molecular Biology (or related field). Previous experience with mammalian cell culture is helpful, iPSC culture a bonus. Equal Opportunity Employer / Disability / Veteran Columbia University is committed to the hiring of qualified local residents. Applications open: May 31 2022 Eastern Daylight Time Applications close: Sep 30 2022 Eastern Daylight Time Back Apply Share Share this via: | More Send me jobs like these We will email you new jobs that match this search. Ok, we will send you jobs like this. The email address was invalid, please check for errors. You must agree to the privacy statement Subscribe Recaptcha Privacy agreement Search results Position School/Department Location Technician B Neurology Medical Center The Phatnani lab is seeking a highly motivated Technician B to work on a project focusing on the progression of the neurodegenerative disease Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS). Position School/Department Location Technician B Neurology Medical Center The Phatnani lab is seeking a highly motivated Technician B to work on a project focusing on the progression of the neurodegenerative disease Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS). Powered by PageUp Sign up for Job Alerts Returning Applicant Login Filter By Work type Full Time 1 Location Campus Medical Center 1 Grade Technical Grade 4 1 Categories Research (Lab and Non-Lab) 1 School/Department Neurology 1 Human Resources 615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York, NY 10027 Equal Opportunity Employer / Disability / Veteran Columbia University is committed to the hiring of qualified local residents Columbia University is committed to protecting your privacy Columbia University provides reasonable accommodations to applicants with disabilities NCAA Statement | Pay Transparency | Clery Act Notification Labor Condition Applications (LCA) Notices Columbia University © Columbia University Accessibility Administrator Log in Back to Top