COVID-19 Columbia University requires evidence of COVID-19 vaccination for all Faculty, Staff and Students. Religious and medical exemptions will be provided in accordance with applicable federal and state laws. Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia University Careers at Columbia Careers at Columbia CURRENT OPPORTUNITIES Search for staff jobs. You will create a profile with your first application submission. Questions? Ask HR. Technician B Back Apply Share Requisition no: 526318 Work type: Full Time Location: Medical Center School/Department: Neurology Grade: Technical Grade 4 Categories: Research (Lab and Non-Lab) Position Summary Working under the general supervision of Principal Investigator in the Department of Neurology, and in accordance with established hospital policies and procedures, conducts a variety of routine experiments where methodologies are clearly established. Manage mouse colony including breeding and genotyping, calculates, transcribes and analyzes data using basic statistics. May perform literature searches under direction of supervisor. Responsibilities -Performs cell culture based experiments: completes experiments with primary human cells or cell lines in tissue culture that include live cell imaging, RNA or chromatin extraction, or metabolomics measures -Performing density gradient separations of PBMCs -Preparing RNA, cDNA and performing real-time PCR -Performs flow cytometry acquisition and data analysis -Maintains basic records of experiments, methodologies and test results in a log of work performed -Process o human biosamples, including but not limited to spinal fluid, saliva, urine, and stool. -Help to organize and maintain the lab biosample archive -Maintain research equipment, calling in repair services as needed -Maintain inventory and order supplies as needed Minimum Qualifications Requires a bachelor's degree in chemistry, biology, physics or related science or equivalent combination of education, training and experience. Other Requirements -Good organizational skills, detail oriented. -Able to show initiative, identify problems and propose solutions to supervisor. -Sound degree of computer literacy. -Ability to methodically record data and to analyze data using basic statistics -Ability to perform a variety of routine tests and prioritize work. -Good interpersonal and communication skills. -Ability to demonstrate professionalism. Equal Opportunity Employer / Disability / Veteran Columbia University is committed to the hiring of qualified local residents. Applications open: Jun 01 2022 Eastern Daylight Time Applications close: Back Apply Share Share this via: | More Send me jobs like these We will email you new jobs that match this search. Ok, we will send you jobs like this. The email address was invalid, please check for errors. You must agree to the privacy statement Subscribe Recaptcha Privacy agreement Search results Position School/Department Location Technician B Neurology Medical Center Working under the general supervision of Principal Investigator in the Department of Neurology, and in accordance with established hospital policies and procedures, conducts a variety of routine experiments where methodologies are clearly established. Position School/Department Location Technician B Neurology Medical Center Working under the general supervision of Principal Investigator in the Department of Neurology, and in accordance with established hospital policies and procedures, conducts a variety of routine experiments where methodologies are clearly established. Powered by PageUp Sign up for Job Alerts Returning Applicant Login Filter By Work type Full Time 1 Location Campus Medical Center 1 Grade Technical Grade 4 1 Categories Research (Lab and Non-Lab) 1 School/Department Neurology 1 Human Resources 615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York, NY 10027 Equal Opportunity Employer / Disability / Veteran Columbia University is committed to the hiring of qualified local residents Columbia University is committed to protecting your privacy Columbia University provides reasonable accommodations to applicants with disabilities NCAA Statement | Pay Transparency | Clery Act Notification Labor Condition Applications (LCA) Notices Columbia University © Columbia University Accessibility Administrator Log in Back to Top