COVID-19 Columbia University requires evidence of COVID-19 vaccination for all Faculty, Staff and Students. Religious and medical exemptions will be provided in accordance with applicable federal and state laws. Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia University Careers at Columbia Careers at Columbia CURRENT OPPORTUNITIES Search for staff jobs. You will create a profile with your first application submission. Questions? Ask HR. Admin Communications Assistant Back Apply Share Requisition no: 523401 Work type: Part Time Location: Medical Center School/Department: Medical Humanities and Ethics Grade: Grade 103 Categories: General Administration, Administrative Support Job Type: Officer of Administration Bargaining Unit: Regular/Temporary: Regular End Date if Temporary: Hours Per Week: 20 Salary Range: Position Summary The Division of Ethics in the Department of Medical Humanities and Ethics seeks a Part-Time Administrative Communications Assistant to work with the Division Chief and a multi-disciplinary team to support divisional projects including the national Center for ELSI Resources and Analysis (CERA) and the biennial international ELSI Congress. Place of work will be in the Division of Ethics in the Department of Medical Humanities and Ethics, housed in Vagelos College of Physicians & Surgeons at Columbia University. Responsibilities Coordinate newsletters, Twitter and other social media platforms for the Division of Ethics, developing content and audiences for divisional initiatives. Support the planning and implementation of CERA initiatives, communications, social media, public outreach and community engagement activities. Assist in planning and setting up zoom meetings and taking meeting minutes. Support the development of design elements for event flyers, newsletters, and other content. Develop campaigns and strategies for expanding and maintaining the Division and CERA’s presence across all social media platforms. Support the planning, execution, and publicizing of the biennial ELSI Congress. Support content updates on the CERA and Division websites. Support event planning for in-person, hybrid, and virtual events. Minimum Qualifications Bachelor's degree or equivalent in education and experience, plus two years of related experience. Preferred Qualifications Interest in bioethics, public health or related field is preferred, as is experience in video production and website editing. Other Requirements Should have experience in social media and digital marketing, event planning, and outreach. Have outstanding organizational, writing, social media and communication skills. Equal Opportunity Employer / Disability / Veteran Columbia University is committed to the hiring of qualified local residents. Applications open: May 31 2022 Eastern Daylight Time Applications close: Sep 30 2022 Eastern Daylight Time Back Apply Share Share this via: | More Send me jobs like these We will email you new jobs that match this search. Ok, we will send you jobs like this. The email address was invalid, please check for errors. You must agree to the privacy statement Subscribe Recaptcha Privacy agreement Search results Position School/Department Location Admin Communications Assistant Medical Humanities and Ethics Medical Center The Division of Ethics in the Department of Medical Humanities and Ethics seeks a Part-Time Administrative Communications Assistant to work with the Division Chief and a multi-disciplinary team to support divisional projects including the national Center for ELSI Resources and Analysis (CERA) and the biennial international ELSI Congress. Position School/Department Location Admin Communications Assistant Medical Humanities and Ethics Medical Center The Division of Ethics in the Department of Medical Humanities and Ethics seeks a Part-Time Administrative Communications Assistant to work with the Division Chief and a multi-disciplinary team to support divisional projects including the national Center for ELSI Resources and Analysis (CERA) and the biennial international ELSI Congress. Powered by PageUp Sign up for Job Alerts Returning Applicant Login Filter By Work type Part Time 1 Location Campus Medical Center 1 Grade Grade 103 1 Categories Administrative Support 1 General Administration 1 School/Department Medical Humanities and Ethics 1 Human Resources 615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York, NY 10027 Equal Opportunity Employer / Disability / Veteran Columbia University is committed to the hiring of qualified local residents Columbia University is committed to protecting your privacy Columbia University provides reasonable accommodations to applicants with disabilities NCAA Statement | Pay Transparency | Clery Act Notification Labor Condition Applications (LCA) Notices Columbia University © Columbia University Accessibility Administrator Log in Back to Top