COVID-19 Columbia University requires evidence of COVID-19 vaccination for all Faculty, Staff and Students. Religious and medical exemptions will be provided in accordance with applicable federal and state laws. Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia University Careers at Columbia Careers at Columbia CURRENT OPPORTUNITIES Search for staff jobs. You will create a profile with your first application submission. Questions? Ask HR. Development Assistant Back Apply Share Requisition no: 526283 Work type: Full Time Location: Morningside School/Department: Columbia College Grade: Grade 9A Categories: Administrative Support Job Type: Support Staff - Union Bargaining Unit: Local 2110 Regular/Temporary: Regular End Date if Temporary: Hours Per Week: 35 Salary Range: Position Summary Reports to the Senior Director, Columbia College Parents Fund and supports the Assistant Director of the Parents Fund, the incumbent works as an integral part with the fundraising team, providing administrative support. Responsibilities Serves as a liaison with donors and staff, receives and organizes correspondence and prepares draft responses and acknowledgements, makes travel arrangements, completes and submits travel reimbursement documents and expense reports, makes telephone calls, handles inquiries and/or directs them appropriately to assure effective day-to-day operations. Conducts research to support development officers’ efforts: pulls gift reports and processes gifts, prepares and runs statistical and analytical reports, financial and gift summaries using University’s alumni database. Enters and corrects data in alumni/ae records. Prepares or assists with all mailings to alumni/parents/friends of Columbia College, compiling and checking mailing lists for accuracy, drafting and editing copy, assuring adequate supplies of materials related to the department’s activities—reply cards and envelopes, brochures and other related documents, etc. Assists in planning and implementing events and meetings, as well as preparing promotional materials, invitations, and reports for internal and external purposes; interacts with vendors, arranges for use of facilities within and outside of the University for gatherings, tracks responses, calls parents to confirm meeting attendance/appointment, and prepares briefing materials. Provides support for officers’ prospect appointments; prepares background information materials, may attend meetings to assist with volunteer outreach and follow-up on participation level gifts. Responsible for assisting with the Parents Leadership Council newsletters and event invitation process, including working closely with the Senior Director and Assistant Director of the Parents Fund to gather content, cross-team collaboration with the Columbia College Fund marketing team, and pulling lists for the email sends. Performs other related duties as required, including relieving the Office receptionist. Minimum Qualifications High School diploma or its equivalent required. A minimum of three years of relevant experience required, or a combination of education and experience. Excellent experience with Microsoft Word required--including mail merges; strong Excel spreadsheet and database skills necessary. Must have outstanding interpersonal skills--an ability to interact well with faculty, staff, alumni, parents, and other constituents. Strong communication skills both written and oral required. Must be well organized, self- motivated, detail-oriented and able to work independently, as well as in a group setting. The ability to plan, prioritize and balance the workload of several projects simultaneously in a fast-paced environment is essential. *Occasional overtime is needed.* **Applications submitted without a resume and cover letter will not be reviewed.** Preferred Qualifications Some college preferred. Work supporting fundraising efforts in a university or other complex not-for-profit environment. Familiarity with Microsoft Suite, Google Drive, and complex databases desired. Equal Opportunity Employer / Disability / Veteran Columbia University is committed to the hiring of qualified local residents. Applications open: May 31 2022 Eastern Daylight Time Applications close: Back Apply Share Share this via: | More Send me jobs like these We will email you new jobs that match this search. Ok, we will send you jobs like this. The email address was invalid, please check for errors. You must agree to the privacy statement Subscribe Recaptcha Privacy agreement Search results Position School/Department Location Development Assistant Columbia College Morningside Reports to the Senior Director, Columbia College Parents Fund and supports the Assistant Director of the Parents Fund, the incumbent works as an integral part with the fundraising team, providing administrative support. Position School/Department Location Development Assistant Columbia College Morningside Reports to the Senior Director, Columbia College Parents Fund and supports the Assistant Director of the Parents Fund, the incumbent works as an integral part with the fundraising team, providing administrative support. Powered by PageUp Sign up for Job Alerts Returning Applicant Login Filter By Work type Full Time 1 Location Campus Morningside 1 Grade Grade 9A 1 Categories Administrative Support 1 School/Department Columbia College 1 Human Resources 615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York, NY 10027 Equal Opportunity Employer / Disability / Veteran Columbia University is committed to the hiring of qualified local residents Columbia University is committed to protecting your privacy Columbia University provides reasonable accommodations to applicants with disabilities NCAA Statement | Pay Transparency | Clery Act Notification Labor Condition Applications (LCA) Notices Columbia University © Columbia University Accessibility Administrator Log in Back to Top