COVID-19 Columbia University requires evidence of COVID-19 vaccination for all Faculty, Staff and Students. Religious and medical exemptions will be provided in accordance with applicable federal and state laws. Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia University Careers at Columbia Careers at Columbia CURRENT OPPORTUNITIES Search for staff jobs. You will create a profile with your first application submission. Questions? Ask HR. Financial Coordinator Back Apply Share Requisition no: 526299 Work type: Full Time Location: Morningside School/Department: Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology Grade: Grade 9A Categories: Finance/Accounting, Administrative Support Job Type: Support Staff - Union Bargaining Unit: Local 2110 Regular/Temporary: Regular Hours Per Week: 35 Salary Range: $54,615 minimum Position Summary Reporting to the Director of Academic Administration and Finance, and working closely with the Business Manager, the incumbent provides in person, front facing administrative services to the Department of Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology. Responsibilities The incumbent provides administrative support to the M.A. and Ph.D. programs; oversees paper and electronic files; processes financial and payroll transactions for department; using Concur and ARC fund management systems processes all accounts payable, reimbursements and purchasing transactions for faculty and students; setting up of vendors; resolves payment problems; coordinates Arts and Sciences departmental reimbursement programs; processes Work Study, temporary help and casual onboarding and payrolls; performs monthly reconciliation of accounts; researches and resolves problems with open commitments and overdrafts. He/she maintains office inventory and orders equipment and supplies; manages facilities requests oversees maintenance/service contracts; scheduling of department vehicles; assists with set-up, repair and troubleshooting of electronic/audio visual equipment in the department. Additionally, the incumbent assists with scheduling and coordinating of weekly seminars with light catering, special events; assists in maintaining the department's website and social media platforms; explains policies and procedures to students; answers telephones and responds to visitors. Performs other duties as assigned. Minimum Qualifications High School diploma or its equivalent required. Three years' related experience required. Preferred Qualifications Some college preferred. Other Requirements Ability to work in a busy department office serving faculty, administrators, and students and to manage multiple concurrent projects with varying deadlines with minimal supervision required. Experience with Microsoft Office or comparable program, including spreadsheet and database applications. Knowledge of or ability to learn University electronic financial systems required. Must be able to acquire knowledge to maintain department's web page. Confidentiality, excellent organizational, communication skills and attention to detail required. Equal Opportunity Employer / Disability / Veteran Columbia University is committed to the hiring of qualified local residents. Applications open: Jun 01 2022 Eastern Daylight Time Applications close: Back Apply Share Share this via: | More Send me jobs like these We will email you new jobs that match this search. Ok, we will send you jobs like this. The email address was invalid, please check for errors. You must agree to the privacy statement Subscribe Recaptcha Privacy agreement Search results Position School/Department Location Financial Coordinator Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology Morningside Reporting to the Director of Academic Administration and Finance, and working closely with the Business Manager, the incumbent provides in person, front facing administrative services to the Department of Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology. Position School/Department Location Financial Coordinator Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology Morningside Reporting to the Director of Academic Administration and Finance, and working closely with the Business Manager, the incumbent provides in person, front facing administrative services to the Department of Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology. Powered by PageUp Sign up for Job Alerts Returning Applicant Login Filter By Work type Full Time 1 Location Campus Morningside 1 Grade Grade 9A 1 Categories Administrative Support 1 Finance/Accounting 1 School/Department Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology 1 Human Resources 615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York, NY 10027 Equal Opportunity Employer / Disability / Veteran Columbia University is committed to the hiring of qualified local residents Columbia University is committed to protecting your privacy Columbia University provides reasonable accommodations to applicants with disabilities NCAA Statement | Pay Transparency | Clery Act Notification Labor Condition Applications (LCA) Notices Columbia University © Columbia University Accessibility Administrator Log in Back to Top