COVID-19 Columbia University requires evidence of COVID-19 vaccination for all Faculty, Staff and Students. Religious and medical exemptions will be provided in accordance with applicable federal and state laws. Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia University Careers at Columbia Careers at Columbia CURRENT OPPORTUNITIES Search for staff jobs. You will create a profile with your first application submission. Questions? Ask HR. Send me jobs like these We will email you new jobs that match this search. Ok, we will send you jobs like this. The email address was invalid, please check for errors. You must agree to the privacy statement Subscribe Recaptcha Privacy agreement Search results Position School/Department Location Director of Development, Alumni & Major Gifts P&S CUIMC Development Medical Center This role manages multi-level assignments and serve as an internal and external development liaison to VP&S Alumni. Manager-Manhattanville Ops Public Safety Manhattanville Reporting to the Director of Manhattanville Operations, The Manager oversees the day-to-day operational functions and is responsible for the development, maintenance, and accuracy of management data for the Manhattanville Campus. The Operations Manager is responsible for creating training schedules, vacation schedules, and for the efficient processing of routine reports including maintaining Disciplinary logs (Minor Violations log), and self-inspection programs. The Operations Manager is responsible for maintaining the sick leave and tardiness monitoring programs, including monitoring and validating absences, conducting attendance control interviews, counseling employees, and when necessary, disciplining. The Operations Manager is responsible for ensuring all post orders and policies are current, and all Manhattanville Campus locations are properly staffed. In addition, the Operations Manager is responsible for ensuring that all security officer posts have properly working equipment and furniture including the guest sign-in system. The Operations Manager is responsible for the Lost and Found Program and leading the shift bidding process for Union members on the Manhatanville campus. The Operations Manager will also work with the Manager, Admin and Planning in maintaining the Manhattanville Campus Fleet, and the Director, Special Events in coordinating coverage for Guard Services, Fire Services, and other Special requests. Associate Director of Development P&S CUIMC Development Medical Center This role includes being a member of the fundraising team dedicated to cancer programs at the Herbert Irving Compressive Cancer Center (HICCC) at Columbia University Irving Medical Center (CUIMC), an institutional priority area. Financial Coordinator Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology Morningside Reporting to the Director of Academic Administration and Finance, and working closely with the Business Manager, the incumbent provides in person, front facing administrative services to the Department of Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology. Athletic Trainer Orthopedic Surgery Medical Center Athletic Trainers work directly with physicians in providing quality care to patients. Benefit Systems Analyst Columbia University Human Resources Manhattanville The Benefits Systems Analyst provides functional and technical expertise on benefits systems and process integration functions in support of day-to-day benefits operations, priorities, and organizational initiatives Technician B Neurology Medical Center Working under the general supervision of Principal Investigator in the Department of Neurology, and in accordance with established hospital policies and procedures, conducts a variety of routine experiments where methodologies are clearly established. Technician A Psychiatry Medical Center The Division of Developmental Neuroscience, Department of Psychiatry seeks a Technician Assistant. The candidate will participate in the collection, processing, and analysis of maternal/fetal/infant physiological data in support of research on the effects of prenatal exposures to several risk factors on maternal/fetal/infant health, premature birth, and neurodevelopmental disorders or delays. Technician B Systems Biology Medical Center The laboratory of Professor Harris Wang in the Department of Systems Biology is seeking a research Technician B. The work in the Wang laboratory is focused on diverse questions in systems and synthetic biology including mammalian microbiome function, host-microbiome interactions in health and disease, microbial horizontal gene flow, and foundational technology development. Manager of Marketing and Communications Orthopedic Surgery Medical Center The Department of Orthopedic Surgery is seeking a Manager of Marketing and Communications to manage production, implementation, and oversight of a broad range of internal and external communications and marketing initiatives across web, digital, and print media. Research Project Coordinator Orthopedic Surgery Other NYC Locations The Department of Orthopedic Surgery is seeking a Research Project Coordinator to support the research efforts of the Spine Division at the Och Spine Hospital/Allen Hospital. Research Assistant Surgery Medical Center The incumbent will provide general research support in the Division of Thoracic Surgery. Incumbent will be assisting in gathering, statistical analysis and drafting of finalized reports and manuscripts for the Thoracic Surgery and ECMO Programs. Systems Engineer Surgery Medical Center Reporting to the Associate IT Director / IT Director, the Senior Systems Engineer oversees the Department of Surgery’s portfolio of IT systems- designing and implementing new systems as business needs arise, as well as providing maintenance and operational support for existing systems. Administrative Assistant for Programs in Occupational Therapy Rehabilitation and Regenerative Medicine Medical Center The Administrative Assistant will be responsible for all administrative activities related to communications, events, and program initiatives for the Programs in Occupational Therapy, a graduate degree program within the Department of Rehabilitation and Regenerative Medicine, School of Physicians and Surgeons. Senior IRB Specialist Institutional Review Board Medical Center The Senior IRB Specialist- Manager of the Columbia University Human Research Protection Office (HRPO) reports to the Assistant Director for IRB Management or an IRB Senior Specialist – Senior Manager. The Senior IRB Specialist-Manager, working collaboratively with a team of other professionals, is primarily responsible for managing a CU IRB with a large portfolio of research to oversee team functionality; provide regulatory guidance and support to IRB members; serve as a resource for the CU research community; and develop HRPO Staff. Admin Communications Assistant Medical Humanities and Ethics Medical Center The Division of Ethics in the Department of Medical Humanities and Ethics seeks a Part-Time Administrative Communications Assistant to work with the Division Chief and a multi-disciplinary team to support divisional projects including the national Center for ELSI Resources and Analysis (CERA) and the biennial international ELSI Congress. Communications Manager of The Hub Columbia Business School Manhattanville Columbia Business School is at a transformative moment. The School is driving the future of business education and scholarship, and has recently moved to our new Manhattanville campus—a bold, one-of-a-kind set of facilities designed for innovation and collaboration. In the Spring of 2022, Columbia Business School will launch the Hub. This is a think tank that will address challenges and opportunities faced by the business world and by society. By facilitating dialogue among scholars, practitioners, and policy makers, it will equip current and future business leaders with tools to bring about positive change and rise to these challenges. Reporting to the Director, the Communications Manager will perform an array of functions that maintain, grow, and develop the Hub’s digital and print visibility and outreach initiatives to internal and external stakeholders. Technician B Neurology Medical Center The Phatnani lab is seeking a highly motivated Technician B to work on a project focusing on the progression of the neurodegenerative disease Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS). Catering Delivery Campus Services Morningside Columbia University’s department of University Event Management is the center of event planning and related services for undergraduate students, graduate students, faculty, staff and alumni. It is our goal to provide excellent facilities and exceptional service for all events, programs and activities for the Columbia community. We are a customer-focused organization with an immediate opening a Catering Delivery Person. Development Assistant Columbia College Morningside Reports to the Senior Director, Columbia College Parents Fund and supports the Assistant Director of the Parents Fund, the incumbent works as an integral part with the fundraising team, providing administrative support. More Jobs 1117 Position School/Department Location Director of Development, Alumni & Major Gifts P&S CUIMC Development Medical Center This role manages multi-level assignments and serve as an internal and external development liaison to VP&S Alumni. Manager-Manhattanville Ops Public Safety Manhattanville Reporting to the Director of Manhattanville Operations, The Manager oversees the day-to-day operational functions and is responsible for the development, maintenance, and accuracy of management data for the Manhattanville Campus. The Operations Manager is responsible for creating training schedules, vacation schedules, and for the efficient processing of routine reports including maintaining Disciplinary logs (Minor Violations log), and self-inspection programs. The Operations Manager is responsible for maintaining the sick leave and tardiness monitoring programs, including monitoring and validating absences, conducting attendance control interviews, counseling employees, and when necessary, disciplining. The Operations Manager is responsible for ensuring all post orders and policies are current, and all Manhattanville Campus locations are properly staffed. In addition, the Operations Manager is responsible for ensuring that all security officer posts have properly working equipment and furniture including the guest sign-in system. The Operations Manager is responsible for the Lost and Found Program and leading the shift bidding process for Union members on the Manhatanville campus. The Operations Manager will also work with the Manager, Admin and Planning in maintaining the Manhattanville Campus Fleet, and the Director, Special Events in coordinating coverage for Guard Services, Fire Services, and other Special requests. Associate Director of Development P&S CUIMC Development Medical Center This role includes being a member of the fundraising team dedicated to cancer programs at the Herbert Irving Compressive Cancer Center (HICCC) at Columbia University Irving Medical Center (CUIMC), an institutional priority area. Financial Coordinator Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology Morningside Reporting to the Director of Academic Administration and Finance, and working closely with the Business Manager, the incumbent provides in person, front facing administrative services to the Department of Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology. Athletic Trainer Orthopedic Surgery Medical Center Athletic Trainers work directly with physicians in providing quality care to patients. Benefit Systems Analyst Columbia University Human Resources Manhattanville The Benefits Systems Analyst provides functional and technical expertise on benefits systems and process integration functions in support of day-to-day benefits operations, priorities, and organizational initiatives Technician B Neurology Medical Center Working under the general supervision of Principal Investigator in the Department of Neurology, and in accordance with established hospital policies and procedures, conducts a variety of routine experiments where methodologies are clearly established. Technician A Psychiatry Medical Center The Division of Developmental Neuroscience, Department of Psychiatry seeks a Technician Assistant. The candidate will participate in the collection, processing, and analysis of maternal/fetal/infant physiological data in support of research on the effects of prenatal exposures to several risk factors on maternal/fetal/infant health, premature birth, and neurodevelopmental disorders or delays. Technician B Systems Biology Medical Center The laboratory of Professor Harris Wang in the Department of Systems Biology is seeking a research Technician B. The work in the Wang laboratory is focused on diverse questions in systems and synthetic biology including mammalian microbiome function, host-microbiome interactions in health and disease, microbial horizontal gene flow, and foundational technology development. Manager of Marketing and Communications Orthopedic Surgery Medical Center The Department of Orthopedic Surgery is seeking a Manager of Marketing and Communications to manage production, implementation, and oversight of a broad range of internal and external communications and marketing initiatives across web, digital, and print media. Research Project Coordinator Orthopedic Surgery Other NYC Locations The Department of Orthopedic Surgery is seeking a Research Project Coordinator to support the research efforts of the Spine Division at the Och Spine Hospital/Allen Hospital. Research Assistant Surgery Medical Center The incumbent will provide general research support in the Division of Thoracic Surgery. Incumbent will be assisting in gathering, statistical analysis and drafting of finalized reports and manuscripts for the Thoracic Surgery and ECMO Programs. Systems Engineer Surgery Medical Center Reporting to the Associate IT Director / IT Director, the Senior Systems Engineer oversees the Department of Surgery’s portfolio of IT systems- designing and implementing new systems as business needs arise, as well as providing maintenance and operational support for existing systems. Administrative Assistant for Programs in Occupational Therapy Rehabilitation and Regenerative Medicine Medical Center The Administrative Assistant will be responsible for all administrative activities related to communications, events, and program initiatives for the Programs in Occupational Therapy, a graduate degree program within the Department of Rehabilitation and Regenerative Medicine, School of Physicians and Surgeons. Senior IRB Specialist Institutional Review Board Medical Center The Senior IRB Specialist- Manager of the Columbia University Human Research Protection Office (HRPO) reports to the Assistant Director for IRB Management or an IRB Senior Specialist – Senior Manager. The Senior IRB Specialist-Manager, working collaboratively with a team of other professionals, is primarily responsible for managing a CU IRB with a large portfolio of research to oversee team functionality; provide regulatory guidance and support to IRB members; serve as a resource for the CU research community; and develop HRPO Staff. Admin Communications Assistant Medical Humanities and Ethics Medical Center The Division of Ethics in the Department of Medical Humanities and Ethics seeks a Part-Time Administrative Communications Assistant to work with the Division Chief and a multi-disciplinary team to support divisional projects including the national Center for ELSI Resources and Analysis (CERA) and the biennial international ELSI Congress. Communications Manager of The Hub Columbia Business School Manhattanville Columbia Business School is at a transformative moment. The School is driving the future of business education and scholarship, and has recently moved to our new Manhattanville campus—a bold, one-of-a-kind set of facilities designed for innovation and collaboration. In the Spring of 2022, Columbia Business School will launch the Hub. This is a think tank that will address challenges and opportunities faced by the business world and by society. By facilitating dialogue among scholars, practitioners, and policy makers, it will equip current and future business leaders with tools to bring about positive change and rise to these challenges. Reporting to the Director, the Communications Manager will perform an array of functions that maintain, grow, and develop the Hub’s digital and print visibility and outreach initiatives to internal and external stakeholders. Technician B Neurology Medical Center The Phatnani lab is seeking a highly motivated Technician B to work on a project focusing on the progression of the neurodegenerative disease Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS). Catering Delivery Campus Services Morningside Columbia University’s department of University Event Management is the center of event planning and related services for undergraduate students, graduate students, faculty, staff and alumni. It is our goal to provide excellent facilities and exceptional service for all events, programs and activities for the Columbia community. We are a customer-focused organization with an immediate opening a Catering Delivery Person. Development Assistant Columbia College Morningside Reports to the Senior Director, Columbia College Parents Fund and supports the Assistant Director of the Parents Fund, the incumbent works as an integral part with the fundraising team, providing administrative support. More Jobs 1117 Powered by PageUp Sign up for Job Alerts Returning Applicant Login Filter By Work type Full Time 1040 Part Time 97 Location Campus Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory 7 Manhattanville 94 Medical Center 664 Morningside 352 Nevis 3 Other NY State Locations 4 Other NYC Locations 9 Other US Locations 15 Grade Catering Delivery Person 1 Class A-Handyperson 1 Class A-Others 3 Class C-Handyperson 2 Clerical Grade 3 4 Clerical Grade 4 7 Clerical Grade 5 2 Clerical Grade 6 2 Grade 10 30 Grade 101 9 Grade 102 8 Grade 103 125 Grade 104 127 Grade 105 158 Grade 106 38 Grade 107 7 Grade 108 1 Grade 11 84 Grade 12 85 Grade 13 54 Grade 14 43 Grade 15 21 Grade 16 4 Grade 7 1 Grade 8 7 Grade 9 11 Grade 9A 9 Grade R1 1 Grade R2 7 Grade R3 10 Grade R4 5 Grade R5 8 Grade R6 1 Grade R9 1 Head Porter 1 Head Service Mechanic 1 Libraries Grade 7 1 Maintenance Worker 1 1 Mech: Mechanic A/Mechanic 4 Medical Assistant 1 Pantry Worker 3 Plumber 1 1 Porter 10 PP: Energy Mgt Sys Mechanic 1 PP: HVAC Controls Mechanic 1 PP: Mechanic A 3 PP: Watch Engineer 3 Refrigeration Cntrl Engineer 1 1 Resident Manager 1 Retail Worker 2 Rounds-Person-Pre 1/1/99 1 Security Officer 1 Serv: Head Cleaner (Rev) 1 Serv: Heavy Cleaner 12 Short Order Cook 1 Technical Grade 2 3 Technical Grade 3 27 Technical Grade 4 72 Technical Grade 5 30 Technical Grade 6 4 Technical Grade 7 2 Technical Grade 8 5 Technical Grade 8a 1 Ungraded 63 Utility Person-Pre 1/1/99 1 Working Superintendent 1 Categories Administrative Support 180 Athletics 6 Commun/PR/Editorial 20 Compliance 19 Development/Alumni Relations 39 Facilities/Maint/Trades/RealEs 73 Finance/Accounting 89 Food Services 29 General Administration 264 Health/Clinical 178 Human Resources 33 Information Technology 63 Legal 3 Libraries 7 Marketing/Sales 15 Other 112 Pubs/Printing/Graphic Design 4 Research (Lab and Non-Lab) 346 Security 8 Stdnt Affairs/Educational Admn 75 Summer Position 2 Teacher/School 4 School/Department Aaron Diamond Aids Rsch Ct 2 Anesthesiology 8 Atlantic Fellowship for Racial Equity Program 1 Biostatistics 1 Campus Services 38 Center for Intl Earth Science Info Network 2 Center for Radiological Research 3 Center for Teaching and Learning 2 Clinic 3 Clinical Trials Office 3 CMC CUIMC SVP Fac Aff & CD 1 Columbia Business School 32 Columbia College 34 Columbia Health 24 Columbia Journalism Review 1 Columbia Residential 9 Columbia Stem Cell Initiative 2 Columbia Technology Ventures 4 Columbia University Human Resources 5 Columbia University Information Technology 3 Columbia World Projects 1 Committee on Global Thought 1 Communications & Public Affairs 2 Community DentCare 1 Controller 5 CUIMC CFO 1 CUIMC Communications 5 CUIMC EVP 2 CUIMC Facilities 16 CUIMC HR 1 CUIMC IT 7 CUIMC Student Health Services 4 Data Science Institute 4 Dean's Office 4 Dental Medicine 6 Department of Computer Science 3 Department of Intercollegiate Athletics 4 Department of Mathematics 1 Department of Psychology 3 Department of Sociology 1 Dept Industrial Eng & Oper Res 3 Dept of Biological Sciences 4 Dept of Biomedical Engineering 4 Dept of Chemical Engineering 2 Dept of Electrical Engineering 1 Dept of Mechanical Engineering 2 Dept of Political Science 1 Dermatology 4 Division of Clinical Practice 1 Division of Finance & Admin 3 Division of Scholarship & Rsch 7 Division of Student Affairs 1 Earth Institute 13 Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology 2 Emergency Medicine 7 English and Comparative Literature 3 Environmental Health Sciences 5 Epidemiology 4 Facilities Operations 29 Faculty Practice 1 Faculty Practice Organization 23 Finance and Administration 10 General 1 Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center 13 Grad Sch Architecture, Planning and Preservation 5 Graduate School of Arts & Sciences 3 Graduate School of Journalism 3 Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center 23 ICAP at Columbia 35 IMC 1 INCITE/Ctr Innovative Empirics 1 Information Technology 1 Inst Animal Care & Use Comm 2 Inst Soc& Econ Research&Policy 2 Institute for Cancer Genetics 2 Institute for Genomic Medicine 10 Institute of Comparative Medicine 4 Institute of Human Nutrition 1 Institutional Review Board 6 Internal Audit 4 Intl Students & Scholars Off 3 Irving Inst Clinical and Translational Research 6 Italian Academy 1 Justice Lab 1 Knight Institute 3 Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory 3 Lenfest Center for the Arts 1 Libraries 9 Mailman School of Public Health Administration 8 Manhattanville Development Group 1 Medical Humanities and Ethics 1 Medicine 115 Microbiology and Immunology 6 Morningside ICM 1 Naomi Berrie Diabetes Center 1 Neurological Surgery 7 Neurology 46 Neuroscience 1 Nevis Laboratories 2 Obstetrics and Gynecology 26 Office of Alumni & Development 9 Office of EVP Arts & Sciences 3 Office of the Provost 3 Ophthalmology 8 Orthopedic Surgery 12 Otolaryngology 4 P&S CUIMC Development 7 P&S Vice Dean For Admin 6 P&S Vice Dean For Education 15 P&S Vice Dean For Research 4 Pathology and Cell Biology 30 Pediatrics 54 Pharmacology 2 Planning and Capital Project Management 4 Population and Family Health 2 Procurement Services 2 Psychiatry 23 Public Safety 8 Radiation Oncology 3 Radiation Safety Office 1 Radiology 12 Real Estate 1 Rehabilitation and Regenerative Medicine 2 Research 6 School of Engineering and Applied Science Admin 13 School of General Studies 6 School of International and Public Affairs 16 School of Law 15 School of Professional Studies 12 School of Social Work 15 School of the Arts 4 Sociomedical Sciences 2 Sponsored Projects Admin 3 Strategic Communications 1 Student Financial Services 2 Surgery 29 Systems Biology 6 Taub Inst Res Alzheimers Disease Aging Brain 20 The School at Columbia Univ 1 University Life 8 Wallach Art Gallery 1 Weatherhead East Asian Inst 1 Zuckerman Institute 22 Human Resources 615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York, NY 10027 Equal Opportunity Employer / Disability / Veteran Columbia University is committed to the hiring of qualified local residents Columbia University is committed to protecting your privacy Columbia University provides reasonable accommodations to applicants with disabilities NCAA Statement | Pay Transparency | Clery Act Notification Labor Condition Applications (LCA) Notices Columbia University © Columbia University Accessibility Administrator Log in Back to Top