COVID-19 Columbia University requires evidence of COVID-19 vaccination for all Faculty, Staff and Students. Religious and medical exemptions will be provided in accordance with applicable federal and state laws. Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia University Careers at Columbia Careers at Columbia CURRENT OPPORTUNITIES Search for staff jobs. You will create a profile with your first application submission. Questions? Ask HR. Catering Delivery Back Apply Share Requisition no: 526247 Work type: Full Time Location: Morningside School/Department: Campus Services Grade: Catering Delivery Person Categories: Facilities/Maint/Trades/RealEs, Food Services Bargaining Unit: Local 1199 Schedule: Monday - Friday 9:00a.m.-5:00p.m. Salary: $20.01 per hour Location: Morningside and Manhattanville Campuses Position Summary Reporting to the General Manager of Events and Programs, the Catering Delivery Person is responsible for the set-up and break-down of events and programs. Responsibilities Deliver food, beverage and related supplies to catered event buildings before scheduled event start time. Deliver and set up drop-off events before scheduled event start time. Pick up completed events and return food and equipment to proper area. Directs and/or is assisted by Porters during the prep, execution, and break down of a large event or when several events are taking place during the same timeframe. Responsible for proper transport and storage of equipment and supplies. Complete accurate, comprehensive packing list for drop-off events. Checks delivery food, beverage and supplies for order accuracy. Set up coffee stations, bar stations, and cheese and crudité display tables. Set up china service for any meal or reception. Complete all aspects of buffet table set up. Interacts with customer at event location to ensure that the service meets client expectations. Solves any outstanding customer issues. Assists in the planning and scheduling of daily and next day delivery activity. Performs related duties as required or assigned with job classification. Minimum Qualifications High School diploma or its equivalent Valid Driver’s License Good interpersonal skills including ability to effectively communicate with customers verbally and ability to listen to others Able to work independently, plan and time work proactively Equal Opportunity Employer / Disability / Veteran Columbia University is committed to the hiring of qualified local residents. Applications open: May 31 2022 Eastern Daylight Time Applications close: Back Apply Share Share this via: | More Send me jobs like these We will email you new jobs that match this search. Ok, we will send you jobs like this. The email address was invalid, please check for errors. You must agree to the privacy statement Subscribe Recaptcha Privacy agreement Search results Position School/Department Location Catering Delivery Campus Services Morningside Columbia University’s department of University Event Management is the center of event planning and related services for undergraduate students, graduate students, faculty, staff and alumni. It is our goal to provide excellent facilities and exceptional service for all events, programs and activities for the Columbia community. We are a customer-focused organization with an immediate opening a Catering Delivery Person. Position School/Department Location Catering Delivery Campus Services Morningside Columbia University’s department of University Event Management is the center of event planning and related services for undergraduate students, graduate students, faculty, staff and alumni. It is our goal to provide excellent facilities and exceptional service for all events, programs and activities for the Columbia community. We are a customer-focused organization with an immediate opening a Catering Delivery Person. Powered by PageUp Sign up for Job Alerts Returning Applicant Login Filter By Work type Full Time 1 Location Campus Morningside 1 Grade Catering Delivery Person 1 Categories Facilities/Maint/Trades/RealEs 1 Food Services 1 School/Department Campus Services 1 Human Resources 615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York, NY 10027 Equal Opportunity Employer / Disability / Veteran Columbia University is committed to the hiring of qualified local residents Columbia University is committed to protecting your privacy Columbia University provides reasonable accommodations to applicants with disabilities NCAA Statement | Pay Transparency | Clery Act Notification Labor Condition Applications (LCA) Notices Columbia University © Columbia University Accessibility Administrator Log in Back to Top