COVID-19 Columbia University requires evidence of COVID-19 vaccination for all Faculty, Staff and Students. Religious and medical exemptions will be provided in accordance with applicable federal and state laws. Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia University Careers at Columbia Careers at Columbia CURRENT OPPORTUNITIES Search for staff jobs. You will create a profile with your first application submission. Questions? Ask HR. Technician A Back Apply Share Requisition no: 526323 Work type: Part Time Location: Medical Center School/Department: Psychiatry Grade: Technical Grade 3 Categories: Research (Lab and Non-Lab) Job Type: Support Staff - Non-Union Bargaining Unit: SSA Regular/Temporary: Regular End Date if Temporary: Hours Per Week: 15 Salary Range: Position Summary The Division of Developmental Neuroscience, Department of Psychiatry seeks a Technician Assistant. The candidate will participate in the collection, processing, and analysis of maternal/fetal/infant physiological data in support of research on the effects of prenatal exposures to several risk factors on maternal/fetal/infant health, premature birth, and neurodevelopmental disorders or delays. Responsibilities Preparation, processing, organizing, and coding physiological and behavioral data collected. Assist in collection of maternal/fetal/infant physiological and behavioral data. Minimum Qualifications Two years of college or a completed A.A. program with an emphasis in chemistry, biology or physics or a completed animal husbandry program Other Requirements Must successfully complete all online system trainings requirements Prior experience recruiting and interacting participants/patients in a research setting is required Fluency in both English and Spanish is required Knowledgeable in using the following software applications: R-studio, Adobe, Excel Equal Opportunity Employer / Disability / Veteran Columbia University is committed to the hiring of qualified local residents. Applications open: Jun 01 2022 Eastern Daylight Time Applications close: Back Apply Share Share this via: | More Send me jobs like these We will email you new jobs that match this search. Ok, we will send you jobs like this. The email address was invalid, please check for errors. You must agree to the privacy statement Subscribe Recaptcha Privacy agreement Search results Position School/Department Location Technician A Psychiatry Medical Center The Division of Developmental Neuroscience, Department of Psychiatry seeks a Technician Assistant. The candidate will participate in the collection, processing, and analysis of maternal/fetal/infant physiological data in support of research on the effects of prenatal exposures to several risk factors on maternal/fetal/infant health, premature birth, and neurodevelopmental disorders or delays. Position School/Department Location Technician A Psychiatry Medical Center The Division of Developmental Neuroscience, Department of Psychiatry seeks a Technician Assistant. The candidate will participate in the collection, processing, and analysis of maternal/fetal/infant physiological data in support of research on the effects of prenatal exposures to several risk factors on maternal/fetal/infant health, premature birth, and neurodevelopmental disorders or delays. Powered by PageUp Sign up for Job Alerts Returning Applicant Login Filter By Work type Part Time 1 Location Campus Medical Center 1 Grade Technical Grade 3 1 Categories Research (Lab and Non-Lab) 1 School/Department Psychiatry 1 Human Resources 615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York, NY 10027 Equal Opportunity Employer / Disability / Veteran Columbia University is committed to the hiring of qualified local residents Columbia University is committed to protecting your privacy Columbia University provides reasonable accommodations to applicants with disabilities NCAA Statement | Pay Transparency | Clery Act Notification Labor Condition Applications (LCA) Notices Columbia University © Columbia University Accessibility Administrator Log in Back to Top