COVID-19 Columbia University requires evidence of COVID-19 vaccination for all Faculty, Staff and Students. Religious and medical exemptions will be provided in accordance with applicable federal and state laws. Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia University Careers at Columbia Careers at Columbia CURRENT OPPORTUNITIES Search for staff jobs. You will create a profile with your first application submission. Questions? Ask HR. Research Project Coordinator Back Apply Share Requisition no: 526168 Work type: Full Time Location: Other NYC Locations School/Department: Orthopedic Surgery Grade: Grade 103 Categories: Research (Lab and Non-Lab) Job Type: Officer of Administration Regular/Temporary: Regular End Date if Temporary: Hours Per Week: 35 Position Summary The position will provide general research and administrative support to the Spine Division at The Och Spine Hospital location. Responsibilities Job responsibilities include but are not limited to: Assist with management and execution of multi-site Department of Defense grant. Assisting with ordering supplies, maintaining central files, updating databases, clinical trials, help with IRBs, patient recruitment and scheduling follow-up visits. Assisting in the preparation for meetings. Performs other related duties as assigned. This position involves significant patient interaction while working on clinical patient studies and obtaining questionnaires from pre- and post-operative patients (in hospital and by phone). The candidate will prepare follow-up schedules, enter patient data and assist with statistical analysis, tabulation, and digital graphing of clinical results. Minimum Qualifications Requires a bachelor's degree or equivalent in education and experience, plus two years of related experience Proficiency with PC and Mac computers, windows environment, graphic and video software and knowledge of digital video and video editing via computer essential Preferred Qualifications Previous research experience is desired Equal Opportunity Employer / Disability / Veteran Columbia University is committed to the hiring of qualified local residents. Applications open: May 31 2022 Eastern Daylight Time Applications close: Back Apply Share Share this via: | More Send me jobs like these We will email you new jobs that match this search. Ok, we will send you jobs like this. The email address was invalid, please check for errors. You must agree to the privacy statement Subscribe Recaptcha Privacy agreement Search results Position School/Department Location Research Project Coordinator Orthopedic Surgery Other NYC Locations The Department of Orthopedic Surgery is seeking a Research Project Coordinator to support the research efforts of the Spine Division at the Och Spine Hospital/Allen Hospital. Position School/Department Location Research Project Coordinator Orthopedic Surgery Other NYC Locations The Department of Orthopedic Surgery is seeking a Research Project Coordinator to support the research efforts of the Spine Division at the Och Spine Hospital/Allen Hospital. Powered by PageUp Sign up for Job Alerts Returning Applicant Login Filter By Work type Full Time 1 Location Campus Other NYC Locations 1 Grade Grade 103 1 Categories Research (Lab and Non-Lab) 1 School/Department Orthopedic Surgery 1 Human Resources 615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York, NY 10027 Equal Opportunity Employer / Disability / Veteran Columbia University is committed to the hiring of qualified local residents Columbia University is committed to protecting your privacy Columbia University provides reasonable accommodations to applicants with disabilities NCAA Statement | Pay Transparency | Clery Act Notification Labor Condition Applications (LCA) Notices Columbia University © Columbia University Accessibility Administrator Log in Back to Top