COVID-19 Columbia University requires evidence of COVID-19 vaccination for all Faculty, Staff and Students. Religious and medical exemptions will be provided in accordance with applicable federal and state laws. Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia University Careers at Columbia Careers at Columbia CURRENT OPPORTUNITIES Search for staff jobs. You will create a profile with your first application submission. Questions? Ask HR. Manager of Marketing and Communications Back Apply Share Requisition no: 526169 Work type: Full Time Location: Medical Center School/Department: Orthopedic Surgery Grade: Grade 105 Categories: Marketing/Sales Job Type: Officer of Administration Regular/Temporary: Regular Hours Per Week: 35 Position Summary The Manager of Marketing and Communications will manage production, implementation, and oversight of a broad range of internal and external communications and marketing initiatives across web, digital, and print media. Responsibilities Essential Duties Develop and implement comprehensive communications and marketing plans to promote the primary patient care, research, and education missions of assigned divisions. Develop and implement comprehensive communications and marketing plans to support the business development and reputation management goals. Creates public-facing visual content for the promotion of the department to prospective and current patients and the community at large. Produces and manages digital content (video, photography, graphics, etc.) required for web and social media distribution. Patterns the competition to understand best practices and makes compelling recommendations to optimize the digital customer experience. Helps define and uphold high image quality standards and ensures images are optimized for the web. Manage web properties for assigned divisions, including content production, information maintenance, news items, and administrative oversight. Manage and update the social media accounts of assigned divisions, collaborating where appropriate with institutional partners. Provide support for educational and community events, including project management, promotion, and logistical support. Manage the digital asset management system. Maintain close ties with CUIMC, FPO, and NYP public relations, social media, and marketing teams to ensure that content strategy is in alignment with institutional initiatives and policies. Solicit and mange intake of stories and content from clinicians, researchers, and administrators. Develop and maintain partnerships with affiliated organizations to increase traffic/visibility. Track, analyze, and report on social media and correlated web-traffic performance across all distribution channels. Support faculty and administrative leadership in development of strategic marketing and communications priorities, and identify opportunities to improve internal and external marketing communications. Assist and support the marketing communications team with various departmental marketing and communications projects, and perform additional support tasks assigned by department leadership Strategy Under the direction of the Director of Marketing and Communications, implements approved marketing and communication initiatives in support of identified business goals, academic initiatives, and strategic priorities. Monitors the impact of marketing efforts, and develop metrics for gauging the efficacy of marketing initiatives. Assists with the collection of input from key stakeholders and department leadership. Contributes to projects and engages stakeholders accordingly. Uses tracking/reporting tools to monitor key unit metrics, including performance indicators, staff productivity, and patient satisfaction. Provides monthly and ad-hoc progress reports and dashboard as needed. Under the direction of the Director of Marketing and Communications, implements approved change management and communication strategies that support organizational goals and process improvement initiatives. Maximizes employee adoption and measure effectiveness. Ensures communication of changes is cascaded throughout unit and feedback channels are in place. Ensures staff support system is in place. Assists Director to address any escalated concerns and identified risks as needed. People Supervises assigned staff including recruiting and human resource management. Ensures approved HR strategy is implemented and adhered to. Ensures staff productivity benchmarks and quality measures are achieved. Develops remediation plans as needed. Works with HR to establish unit metrics and goals to measure effectiveness of retention strategies. Promotes staff professionalism and performance with coaching, training and feedback. Mentors others in individual and team accountability, modeling behavior and demonstrating best practices/techniques. Demonstrates self-development and keeps current on a variety of marketing and communication topics. Other Keeps current on all organizational, regulatory compliance and patient privacy trainings policies (e.g. infection control, public safety, EH&S, HIPAA, OSHA, etc.) and successfully complete all required trainings. Maintain patient privacy and confidentiality according to HIPAA requirements at all times. Ensure that Medical Center and Department policies and procedures are followed. Minimum Qualifications Bachelor's degree in marketing, communication s, business or related field. A minimum of 4 years of related experience in marketing, social media, and/or digital production. Strong working knowledge of social media management platforms, website content management environments (Drupal preferred), and web/social analytics tracking and reporting (Google Analytics). Proficient in Adobe Creative Suite: Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign, Premier (FinalCut or similar). Proven track record of successful implementing multi-channel digital media campaigns to attract and engage target audiences. Experience managing production of web-ready digital content, with proven track record meeting production goals within budget and on-time. Candidate must be well organized and be able to manage a demanding workload and moderately complex cases in an accurate and timely. Demonstrated strong skills in problem assessment, and resolution and collaborative problem solving in complex, and interdisciplinary settings including an understanding of healthcare administration. Demonstrated advanced writing, communication and interpersonal skills. This position requires the ability to interact positively, constructively and effectively with patients, professional staff, providers and organizational stakeholders. Ability to work independently and follow-through and handle multiple tasks simultaneously. Ability to work collaboratively with a culturally diverse staff and patient/family population demonstrating tact and sensitivity in stressful situations. Advanced proficiency of Microsoft Office (Word & Excel) or similar software is required and an ability and willingness to learn new systems and programs. Must be a motivated individual with a positive mindset and exceptional work ethic. Preferred Qualifications Master's degree is preferred. Equal Opportunity Employer / Disability / Veteran Columbia University is committed to the hiring of qualified local residents. Applications open: May 31 2022 Eastern Daylight Time Applications close: Back Apply Share Share this via: | More Send me jobs like these We will email you new jobs that match this search. Ok, we will send you jobs like this. The email address was invalid, please check for errors. You must agree to the privacy statement Subscribe Recaptcha Privacy agreement Search results Position School/Department Location Manager of Marketing and Communications Orthopedic Surgery Medical Center The Department of Orthopedic Surgery is seeking a Manager of Marketing and Communications to manage production, implementation, and oversight of a broad range of internal and external communications and marketing initiatives across web, digital, and print media. Position School/Department Location Manager of Marketing and Communications Orthopedic Surgery Medical Center The Department of Orthopedic Surgery is seeking a Manager of Marketing and Communications to manage production, implementation, and oversight of a broad range of internal and external communications and marketing initiatives across web, digital, and print media. Powered by PageUp Sign up for Job Alerts Returning Applicant Login Filter By Work type Full Time 1 Location Campus Medical Center 1 Grade Grade 105 1 Categories Marketing/Sales 1 School/Department Orthopedic Surgery 1 Human Resources 615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York, NY 10027 Equal Opportunity Employer / Disability / Veteran Columbia University is committed to the hiring of qualified local residents Columbia University is committed to protecting your privacy Columbia University provides reasonable accommodations to applicants with disabilities NCAA Statement | Pay Transparency | Clery Act Notification Labor Condition Applications (LCA) Notices Columbia University © Columbia University Accessibility Administrator Log in Back to Top