COVID-19 Columbia University requires evidence of COVID-19 vaccination for all Faculty, Staff and Students. Religious and medical exemptions will be provided in accordance with applicable federal and state laws. Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia University Careers at Columbia Careers at Columbia CURRENT OPPORTUNITIES Search for staff jobs. You will create a profile with your first application submission. Questions? Ask HR. Administrative Assistant for Programs in Occupational Therapy Back Apply Share Requisition no: 526301 Work type: Full Time Location: Medical Center School/Department: Rehabilitation and Regenerative Medicine Grade: Grade 103 Categories: Administrative Support Job Type: Officer of Administration Bargaining Unit: Regular/Temporary: Regular End Date if Temporary: Hours Per Week: 35 Salary Range: Position Summary The Administrative Assistant will be responsible for all administrative activities related to communications, events, and program initiatives for the Programs in Occupational Therapy, a graduate degree program within the Department of Rehabilitation and Regenerative Medicine, School of Physicians and Surgeons. Responsibilities Manage all aspects of communications for the Occupational Therapy program including creating and writing content for our semi-annual newsletter, website, and social media platforms, updating the website, and disseminating information on our social media platforms, including Facebook, Instagram, Linked In, and Twitter. Create event materials and manage event planning for orientation, graduation and other program events, including the annual Dr. Janet Falk-Kessler Distinguished Lectureship and alumni events. Responsible for updating alumni contact information and creating and distributing alumni communications. Assist admissions office in reviewing applications, entering student information in SIS, and supporting the Admissions Manager and Program Director as needed. Responsible for editing student handbook and bulletin, managing student communication system, and processing reports on Maxient, as well as any other projects or administrative duties as assigned by the Program Director. Minimum Qualifications Bachelor’s degree or equivalent in education and experience required; plus two years of related experience. Other Requirements Excellent interpersonal skills, good communication skills both verbal and written, and ability to interact with students, faculty, and staff. Strong organizational skills, ability to prioritize work and meet deadlines. Excellent computer skills and proficiency in Microsoft Office and Excel. Proficiency in Website management (Drupal) and social media platforms needed. Candidate must be able to work independently with minimal supervision. Discretion and confidentiality. Equal Opportunity Employer / Disability / Veteran Columbia University is committed to the hiring of qualified local residents. Applications open: May 31 2022 Eastern Daylight Time Applications close: Back Apply Share Share this via: | More Send me jobs like these We will email you new jobs that match this search. Ok, we will send you jobs like this. The email address was invalid, please check for errors. You must agree to the privacy statement Subscribe Recaptcha Privacy agreement Search results Position School/Department Location Administrative Assistant for Programs in Occupational Therapy Rehabilitation and Regenerative Medicine Medical Center The Administrative Assistant will be responsible for all administrative activities related to communications, events, and program initiatives for the Programs in Occupational Therapy, a graduate degree program within the Department of Rehabilitation and Regenerative Medicine, School of Physicians and Surgeons. Position School/Department Location Administrative Assistant for Programs in Occupational Therapy Rehabilitation and Regenerative Medicine Medical Center The Administrative Assistant will be responsible for all administrative activities related to communications, events, and program initiatives for the Programs in Occupational Therapy, a graduate degree program within the Department of Rehabilitation and Regenerative Medicine, School of Physicians and Surgeons. Powered by PageUp Sign up for Job Alerts Returning Applicant Login Filter By Work type Full Time 1 Location Campus Medical Center 1 Grade Grade 103 1 Categories Administrative Support 1 School/Department Rehabilitation and Regenerative Medicine 1 Human Resources 615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York, NY 10027 Equal Opportunity Employer / Disability / Veteran Columbia University is committed to the hiring of qualified local residents Columbia University is committed to protecting your privacy Columbia University provides reasonable accommodations to applicants with disabilities NCAA Statement | Pay Transparency | Clery Act Notification Labor Condition Applications (LCA) Notices Columbia University © Columbia University Accessibility Administrator Log in Back to Top