COVID-19 Columbia University requires evidence of COVID-19 vaccination for all Faculty, Staff and Students. Religious and medical exemptions will be provided in accordance with applicable federal and state laws. Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia University Careers at Columbia Careers at Columbia CURRENT OPPORTUNITIES Search for staff jobs. You will create a profile with your first application submission. Questions? Ask HR. Technician B Back Apply Share Requisition no: 526340 Work type: Full Time Location: Medical Center School/Department: Systems Biology Grade: Technical Grade 4 Categories: Research (Lab and Non-Lab) Job Type: Support Staff - Union Bargaining Unit: SSA Regular/Temporary: Regular End Date if Temporary: Hours Per Week: 35 Salary Range: Position Summary The laboratory of Professor Harris Wang in the Department of Systems Biology is seeking a research Technician B. The work in the Wang laboratory is focused on diverse questions in systems and synthetic biology including mammalian microbiome function, host-microbiome interactions in health and disease, microbial horizontal gene flow, and foundational technology development. The candidate for this position will carry out routine molecular biology and microbiology experiments, microbiome studies in vitro and in animal models, library preparations for next-generation sequencing, and microbial cultivation studies to serve ongoing projects. May also perform general laboratory management responsibilities, including media preparation and ordering of supplies. Responsibilities Interacting and collaborating with lab personnel on diverse projects in the lab. Ability to accurately record data and keep a very neat, well organized and up-to-date lab notebook on ongoing projects. Technical proficiency in laboratory molecular biology bench-work, genomics-based analyses and laboratory automation necessary for achieving precise and consistent results. Carry out complex tasks and communicate results to lab personnel and the principal investigator. Minimum Qualifications Bachelor's degree or equivalent in education and work experience. Prior laboratory experience in Microbiology. Meticulous, attention to detail and focus on accuracy. Well organized and good time management skills. Excellent verbal and written communication skills are required. Must be able to work independently in an orderly manner and in accordance with all safety regulations. Preferred Qualifications One year of related experience. Prior laboratory experience in mouse experiments and next-generation sequencing protocols are a strong plus. Equal Opportunity Employer / Disability / Veteran Columbia University is committed to the hiring of qualified local residents. Applications open: Jun 01 2022 Eastern Daylight Time Applications close: Back Apply Share Share this via: | More Send me jobs like these We will email you new jobs that match this search. Ok, we will send you jobs like this. The email address was invalid, please check for errors. You must agree to the privacy statement Subscribe Recaptcha Privacy agreement Search results Position School/Department Location Technician B Systems Biology Medical Center The laboratory of Professor Harris Wang in the Department of Systems Biology is seeking a research Technician B. The work in the Wang laboratory is focused on diverse questions in systems and synthetic biology including mammalian microbiome function, host-microbiome interactions in health and disease, microbial horizontal gene flow, and foundational technology development. Position School/Department Location Technician B Systems Biology Medical Center The laboratory of Professor Harris Wang in the Department of Systems Biology is seeking a research Technician B. The work in the Wang laboratory is focused on diverse questions in systems and synthetic biology including mammalian microbiome function, host-microbiome interactions in health and disease, microbial horizontal gene flow, and foundational technology development. Powered by PageUp Sign up for Job Alerts Returning Applicant Login Filter By Work type Full Time 1 Location Campus Medical Center 1 Grade Technical Grade 4 1 Categories Research (Lab and Non-Lab) 1 School/Department Systems Biology 1 Human Resources 615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York, NY 10027 Equal Opportunity Employer / Disability / Veteran Columbia University is committed to the hiring of qualified local residents Columbia University is committed to protecting your privacy Columbia University provides reasonable accommodations to applicants with disabilities NCAA Statement | Pay Transparency | Clery Act Notification Labor Condition Applications (LCA) Notices Columbia University © Columbia University Accessibility Administrator Log in Back to Top