COVID-19 Columbia University requires evidence of COVID-19 vaccination for all Faculty, Staff and Students. Religious and medical exemptions will be provided in accordance with applicable federal and state laws. Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia University Careers at Columbia Careers at Columbia CURRENT OPPORTUNITIES Search for staff jobs. You will create a profile with your first application submission. Questions? Ask HR. Financial Assistant Back Apply Share Requisition no: 520869 Work type: Full Time Location: Morningside School/Department: Columbia College Grade: Grade 9A Categories: Administrative Support Job Type: Support Staff - Union Bargaining Unit: Local 2110 Regular/Temporary: Regular End Date if Temporary: Hours Per Week: 35 Salary Range: Position Summary The Roger Lehecka Double Discovery Center (DDC) at Columbia College works with low-income and first-generation college bound youth between the ages of 12 and 27 to ensure their high school graduation, college access & enrollment, and college persistence and completion to support productive transition into responsible adulthood. The incumbent, under guidance from the Associate Director, will assist in the daily financial and operational activities of The Double Discovery Center. This position reports to the Associate Director. *THIS IS A GRANT-FUNDED POSITION. CONTINUED EMPLOYMENT IN THIS POSITION IS CONTINGENT UPON ONGOING SUFFICIENT FUNDING.* Responsibilities Finance: Collects, processes and tracks all accounts payable and purchasing transactions including but not limited to invoices; reimbursements; petty cash disbursements; purchase requisitions; purchase orders; Pcard transactions; vendor maintenance; travel reimbursements; stipends; and internal fund transfers. Maintain monthly invoice tracking system to proactively follow-up and troubleshoot challenges as needed. Liaises with vendors and subcontractors to create vendor profiles and to ensure compliance with University, federal, sponsor, policies and regulations in submission of documentation. Follows-up on all questions and/or concerns regarding payable and purchasing processes and guidelines. Troubleshoots and resolves payment problems as directed. Assists with annual fiscal year close. Researches and resolves problems with open commitments and overdrafts. Liaises with purchasing and accounts payable to resolve issues. Processes gift transmittals and check deposits as needed. Tracks and downloads monthly report of on-line donations. Provides staff with information on administrative/financial policies and procedures. Human Resources: Prepares all paperwork for the processing of all temporary personnel. Liaises with the human resources and payroll departments to ensure complete, accurate, and timely submission of information. Data Entry & Recordkeeping: Enters student data from applications and transcripts into database. Liaises with schools and families, as needed, to secure documentation. Maintains confidential filing system of student records in accordance with the department's data management protocol. Liaises with data platform vendors to troubleshoot and resolve data entry challenges. Event Management: Oversees the planning and coordination, including room reservations, of key special events such as Grade-Level Town Hall Meetings; Principal & Counselor Sessions; Graduation; Piper Scholarship competition; Alumni Events; etc. Secures rooms for all program activities during the academic year and summer. Schedules meetings and reserves space as needed; and arrange for catering as needed. Makes travel arrangements for student trips and assists with logistics. Stakeholder Engagement: Greets guests, answers multiple phone lines, and relays messages using sound judgment. Discerns the nature and purpose of visits and calls with professionalism and exceptional customer service. Acts as a liaison to a broad range of external and internal constituents. Liaises with campus departments to ensure services for DDC students and staff (e.g. ID office, library, dining halls, etc.). Liaises with DDSO to facilitate student volunteerism based on needs identified by program staff. Staff Support: Takes minutes at staff team meetings and disseminate minutes to staff on timely basis. Maintains electronic files of all team meetings. Maintains departmental calendar. Ensures office machines are functional. Order office and instructional supplies and materials as needed. Performs other duties as assigned. Minimum Qualifications HS Diploma or its equivalent and minimum of 3 years of directly related experience required. Demonstrated effective organizational, interpersonal and communication skills (oral and written). Demonstrated effective project management skills, including ability to be flexible, to manage multiple projects as well as to prioritize competing and shifting demands/needs of stakeholders in a highly collaborative environment. Meet deadlines reliably. Strong collaborative skills as evidenced by ability to work as part of a team with a strong initiative to drive forward project goals that are data-informed. Demonstrated proficiency with database management; internet navigation/research; and Microsoft Office (e.g. Excel, Word, etc.). *Ability to work flexible hours including some evenings and weekends.* **Applications submitted without a resume and cover letter will not be considered** Preferred Qualifications BS or Associates Degree with accounting background preferred. Equal Opportunity Employer / Disability / Veteran Columbia University is committed to the hiring of qualified local residents. Applications open: Apr 13 2022 Eastern Daylight Time Applications close: Back Apply Share Share this via: | More Send me jobs like these We will email you new jobs that match this search. Ok, we will send you jobs like this. The email address was invalid, please check for errors. You must agree to the privacy statement Subscribe Recaptcha Privacy agreement Search results Position School/Department Location Financial Assistant Columbia College Morningside The Roger Lehecka Double Discovery Center (DDC) at Columbia College works with low-income and first-generation college bound youth between the ages of 12 and 27 to ensure their high school graduation, college access & enrollment, and college persistence and completion to support productive transition into responsible adulthood. The incumbent, under guidance from the Associate Director, will assist in the daily financial and operational activities of The Double Discovery Center. This position reports to the Associate Director. Position School/Department Location Financial Assistant Columbia College Morningside The Roger Lehecka Double Discovery Center (DDC) at Columbia College works with low-income and first-generation college bound youth between the ages of 12 and 27 to ensure their high school graduation, college access & enrollment, and college persistence and completion to support productive transition into responsible adulthood. The incumbent, under guidance from the Associate Director, will assist in the daily financial and operational activities of The Double Discovery Center. This position reports to the Associate Director. Powered by PageUp Sign up for Job Alerts Returning Applicant Login Filter By Work type Full Time 1 Location Campus Morningside 1 Grade Grade 9A 1 Categories Administrative Support 1 School/Department Columbia College 1 Human Resources 615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York, NY 10027 Equal Opportunity Employer / Disability / Veteran Columbia University is committed to the hiring of qualified local residents Columbia University is committed to protecting your privacy Columbia University provides reasonable accommodations to applicants with disabilities NCAA Statement | Pay Transparency | Clery Act Notification Labor Condition Applications (LCA) Notices Columbia University © Columbia University Accessibility Administrator Log in Back to Top