COVID-19 Columbia University requires evidence of COVID-19 vaccination for all Faculty, Staff and Students. Religious and medical exemptions will be provided in accordance with applicable federal and state laws. Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia University Careers at Columbia Careers at Columbia CURRENT OPPORTUNITIES Search for staff jobs. You will create a profile with your first application submission. Questions? Ask HR. Manager-Manhattanville Ops Back Apply Share Requisition no: 526335 Work type: Full Time Location: Manhattanville School/Department: Public Safety Grade: Grade 12 Categories: Security Position Summary Reporting to the Director of Manhattanville Operations, The Manager oversees the day-to-day operational functions and is responsible for the development, maintenance, and accuracy of management data for the Manhattanville Campus. The Operations Manager is responsible for creating training schedules, vacation schedules, and for the efficient processing of routine reports including maintaining Disciplinary logs (Minor Violations log), and self-inspection programs. The Operations Manager is responsible for maintaining the sick leave and tardiness monitoring programs, including monitoring and validating absences, conducting attendance control interviews, counseling employees, and when necessary, disciplining. The Operations Manager is responsible for ensuring all post orders and policies are current, and all Manhattanville Campus locations are properly staffed. In addition, the Operations Manager is responsible for ensuring that all security officer posts have properly working equipment and furniture including the guest sign-in system. The Operations Manager is responsible for the Lost and Found Program and leading the shift bidding process for Union members on the Manhatanville campus. The Operations Manager will also work with the Manager, Admin and Planning in maintaining the Manhattanville Campus Fleet, and the Director, Special Events in coordinating coverage for Guard Services, Fire Services, and other Special requests. Responsibilities Oversees the day-to-day operational functions and responsible for the development, maintenance, and accuracy of management data for the Manhattanville Campus. Create training schedules, vacation schedules, and maintain Disciplinary logs (Minor Violations log), and self-inspection programs Maintain the sick leave and tardiness monitoring programs, including monitoring and validating absences, conducting attendance control interviews, counseling employees, and when necessary, disciplining. Ensure all post orders and policies are current, and all Manhattanville Campus locations are properly staffed. In addition, the Operations Manager is responsible for ensuring that all security officer posts have properly working equipment and furniture including the guest sign-in system Maintain the Lost and Found Program and lead the shift bidding process for Union members on the Manhatanville campus Work with the Manager, Admin and Planning in maintaining the Manhattanville Campus Fleet, and the Director, Special Events in coordinating coverage for Guard Services, Fire Services, and other Special requests Other duties as assigned Minimum Qualifications Bachelor's degree or its equivalent, plus two years of related experience required. Preferred Qualifications Public Safety and supervisory experience is highly desirable. Other Requirements Excellent interpersonal, organizational and administrative skills are required. Strong computer skills, including high proficiency in Microsoft Excel and Word required. Must be flexible yet thorough, and possess the demonstrated ability to manage multiple tasks efficiently and productively in a fast-paced, team-oriented environment. Ability to work in a client-service environment required. Must be able to handle confidential information with exceptional judgment and discretion. Must effectively interact with University administration, faculty, students and the general public. Equal Opportunity Employer / Disability / Veteran Columbia University is committed to the hiring of qualified local residents. Applications open: Jun 01 2022 Eastern Daylight Time Applications close: Back Apply Share Share this via: | More Send me jobs like these We will email you new jobs that match this search. Ok, we will send you jobs like this. The email address was invalid, please check for errors. You must agree to the privacy statement Subscribe Recaptcha Privacy agreement Search results Position School/Department Location Manager-Manhattanville Ops Public Safety Manhattanville Reporting to the Director of Manhattanville Operations, The Manager oversees the day-to-day operational functions and is responsible for the development, maintenance, and accuracy of management data for the Manhattanville Campus. The Operations Manager is responsible for creating training schedules, vacation schedules, and for the efficient processing of routine reports including maintaining Disciplinary logs (Minor Violations log), and self-inspection programs. The Operations Manager is responsible for maintaining the sick leave and tardiness monitoring programs, including monitoring and validating absences, conducting attendance control interviews, counseling employees, and when necessary, disciplining. The Operations Manager is responsible for ensuring all post orders and policies are current, and all Manhattanville Campus locations are properly staffed. In addition, the Operations Manager is responsible for ensuring that all security officer posts have properly working equipment and furniture including the guest sign-in system. The Operations Manager is responsible for the Lost and Found Program and leading the shift bidding process for Union members on the Manhatanville campus. The Operations Manager will also work with the Manager, Admin and Planning in maintaining the Manhattanville Campus Fleet, and the Director, Special Events in coordinating coverage for Guard Services, Fire Services, and other Special requests. Position School/Department Location Manager-Manhattanville Ops Public Safety Manhattanville Reporting to the Director of Manhattanville Operations, The Manager oversees the day-to-day operational functions and is responsible for the development, maintenance, and accuracy of management data for the Manhattanville Campus. The Operations Manager is responsible for creating training schedules, vacation schedules, and for the efficient processing of routine reports including maintaining Disciplinary logs (Minor Violations log), and self-inspection programs. The Operations Manager is responsible for maintaining the sick leave and tardiness monitoring programs, including monitoring and validating absences, conducting attendance control interviews, counseling employees, and when necessary, disciplining. The Operations Manager is responsible for ensuring all post orders and policies are current, and all Manhattanville Campus locations are properly staffed. In addition, the Operations Manager is responsible for ensuring that all security officer posts have properly working equipment and furniture including the guest sign-in system. The Operations Manager is responsible for the Lost and Found Program and leading the shift bidding process for Union members on the Manhatanville campus. The Operations Manager will also work with the Manager, Admin and Planning in maintaining the Manhattanville Campus Fleet, and the Director, Special Events in coordinating coverage for Guard Services, Fire Services, and other Special requests. Powered by PageUp Sign up for Job Alerts Returning Applicant Login Filter By Work type Full Time 1 Location Campus Manhattanville 1 Grade Grade 12 1 Categories Security 1 School/Department Public Safety 1 Human Resources 615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York, NY 10027 Equal Opportunity Employer / Disability / Veteran Columbia University is committed to the hiring of qualified local residents Columbia University is committed to protecting your privacy Columbia University provides reasonable accommodations to applicants with disabilities NCAA Statement | Pay Transparency | Clery Act Notification Labor Condition Applications (LCA) Notices Columbia University © Columbia University Accessibility Administrator Log in Back to Top