COVID-19 Columbia University requires evidence of COVID-19 vaccination for all Faculty, Staff and Students. Religious and medical exemptions will be provided in accordance with applicable federal and state laws. Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia University Careers at Columbia Careers at Columbia CURRENT OPPORTUNITIES Search for staff jobs. You will create a profile with your first application submission. Questions? Ask HR. Associate Director of Development Back Apply Share Requisition no: 526320 Work type: Full Time Location: Medical Center School/Department: P&S CUIMC Development Grade: Grade 104 Categories: Development/Alumni Relations Job Type: Officer of Administration Bargaining Unit: Regular/Temporary: Regular End Date if Temporary: Hours Per Week: 35 Salary Range: Position Summary The incumbent will be a member of the fundraising team dedicated to cancer programs at the Herbert Irving Compressive Cancer Center (HICCC) at Columbia University Irving Medical Center (CUIMC), an institutional priority area. In its 50th year of NCI Comprehensive designations, the HICCC spans 6 schools across Columbia University, and 38 departments, bringing together world-class expertise with one goal: to end cancer, for good. The incumbent will report to the Director of Development and work closely with the Executive Director of Development on program priorities that raise funds to support the research and clinical mission of the program as defined by cancer center leadership and key faculty. The incumbent will project manage the Peer2Peer fundraising event, Velocity: Columbia’s Ride to End Cancer, a signature cornerstone event of CUIMC and the HICCC in its 6th year and raises over $1M annually for cancer research and clinical care. The incumbent will serve as a key liaison with the outside production firm for Velocity to manage bike ride programming logistics, rider participation and internal CUIMC stakeholders including the coordination of all fundraising and outreach aspects such as promotional materials, communications, and on/off-campus engagement opportunities. He/she will develop strategies and proposals to recruit corporate sponsors and sponsor teams, and work with faculty, staff, and students to recruit donors and participants. In addition, the incumbent will work with the Director of Development and support the Executive Director of Development on strategic initiatives to steward and cultivate current riders and sponsors to maintain and expand involvement annually. In addition, the incumbent will assist in Annual Fund efforts for Columbia’s Cancer programs. He/she will liaise with faculty and the Annual Fund team to help develop collateral to meet the needs of the Cancer Program. The incumbent will play an integral role in identifying prospects to grow the donor pipeline for cancer programs. Responsibilities Serves as a Development liaison for the Cancer Center's annual signature Peer2Peer fundraising event providing logistics oversight, faculty & participant engagement, and communications management with university communication partners. Work with the Director of Development to implement best practices and standards for the Velocity fundraising programs with a strong emphasis on growing participation and retention, maximizing corporate opportunities and existing relationships and maximizing fundraising potential. Monitor the progress of Velocity and develop timelines and strategies to ensure that tasks are completed on time and within budget. - 40% Support the Director of Development and Executive Director of Development on Velocity fundraising initiatives. Develop strategies, cultivate relationships, and prepare proposals to utilize in solicitation and stewardship of corporate sponsors. Manage a portfolio of corporate prospects as assigned and pursue new corporate sponsors. - 30% Manage an effort to leverage the existing grateful patient annual fund program to develop a pipeline of higher-level donors for Velocity and other cancer program areas. - 15% Manage on campus and off campus grassroots rider recruitment opportunities in partnership with key University Stakeholders and production firm. - 10% Other duties as assigned. - 5% Minimum Qualifications Bachelor’s degree or equivalent in education and experience, plus three years of related experience. Preferred Qualifications Experience in non-profit event management and peer to peer fundraising experience preferred. Experience in recruiting and managing Corporate Partners. Other Requirements Must demonstrate excellent verbal and written communication skills. Detail-oriented and strong organizational skills. Must have ability to exercise excellent judgment, tact, confidentiality, and diplomacy in all interactions. Ability to travel minimally and within the tristate, as required or requested. Must be able to accurately handle diverse projects and a large volume of detailed work simultaneously, and use good judgment in prioritizing work. Convey a professional and positive image that reflects favorably on the team and institution. Must demonstrate the ability to work with management information systems and software systems; superior Excel, MS Office required. This position requires work beyond regular hours, including evenings and weekends, as projects and events require. Subject to business needs, we may support flexible and hybrid work arrangements. Options will be discussed during the interview process. Equal Opportunity Employer / Disability / Veteran Columbia University is committed to the hiring of qualified local residents. Applications open: Jun 01 2022 Eastern Daylight Time Applications close: Back Apply Share Share this via: | More Send me jobs like these We will email you new jobs that match this search. Ok, we will send you jobs like this. The email address was invalid, please check for errors. You must agree to the privacy statement Subscribe Recaptcha Privacy agreement Search results Position School/Department Location Associate Director of Development P&S CUIMC Development Medical Center This role includes being a member of the fundraising team dedicated to cancer programs at the Herbert Irving Compressive Cancer Center (HICCC) at Columbia University Irving Medical Center (CUIMC), an institutional priority area. Position School/Department Location Associate Director of Development P&S CUIMC Development Medical Center This role includes being a member of the fundraising team dedicated to cancer programs at the Herbert Irving Compressive Cancer Center (HICCC) at Columbia University Irving Medical Center (CUIMC), an institutional priority area. Powered by PageUp Sign up for Job Alerts Returning Applicant Login Filter By Work type Full Time 1 Location Campus Medical Center 1 Grade Grade 104 1 Categories Development/Alumni Relations 1 School/Department P&S CUIMC Development 1 Human Resources 615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York, NY 10027 Equal Opportunity Employer / Disability / Veteran Columbia University is committed to the hiring of qualified local residents Columbia University is committed to protecting your privacy Columbia University provides reasonable accommodations to applicants with disabilities NCAA Statement | Pay Transparency | Clery Act Notification Labor Condition Applications (LCA) Notices Columbia University © Columbia University Accessibility Administrator Log in Back to Top