COVID-19 Columbia University requires evidence of COVID-19 vaccination for all Faculty, Staff and Students. Religious and medical exemptions will be provided in accordance with applicable federal and state laws. Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia University Careers at Columbia Careers at Columbia CURRENT OPPORTUNITIES Search for staff jobs. You will create a profile with your first application submission. Questions? Ask HR. Sorry, we can't provide additional information about this job right now. Send me jobs like these We will email you new jobs that match this search. Ok, we will send you jobs like this. The email address was invalid, please check for errors. You must agree to the privacy statement Subscribe Recaptcha Privacy agreement Search results Position School/Department Location Vice President, Finance and Administration, Faculty of Arts and Sciences Office of EVP Arts & Sciences Morningside The Vice President for Administration and Finance (VPF&A) is the chief financial, business, and administrative officer of the Arts & Sciences with oversight of financial matters, human resources, IT, capital budget, and other business operations. With a goal of strengthening the impact and ensuring the long-term financial sustainability of the largest unit at Columbia University outside of the Medical Center, the VPF&A will bring strategic leadership, tactful management, a focus on transparency and data-driven decisions, and a high level of energy with a can-do, mission-driven mindset. Senior Grants Manager ICAP at Columbia Medical Center The Clinical Trials Senior Grants Manager (SGM) leads the effective and efficient administration of ICAP clinical trial projects throughout their entire award life-cycle, from pre-ward to close-out, focused on ensuring congruence with project terms and conditions, regulatory compliance, mitigation of business risk, and adherence to Columbia University (CU) and ICAP policies and procedures. Data Analyst ICAP at Columbia Medical Center The Data Analyst will provide surveillance and monitoring and evaluation (M&E) support in the areas of data management, documentation, and analysis, including to an evaluation study investigating the impact of recency testing on 1) identifying HIV positive contacts of newly diagnosed individuals living with HIV and 2) the risk of intimate partner violence resulting from the disclosure of recency testing results. Nurse Practitioner Faculty Practice Organization Other NYC Locations The ColumbiaDoctors Faculty Practice Organization (FPO) Nurse Practitioner provides a full scope of primary care, travel medicine, episodic and chronic care, and women's health care services in FPO clinical practice and corporate health practice locations. The NP will also provide clinical and clinical competency oversight for the FPO practice clinical support staff. The NP will have clinical and admitting privileges at New York-Presbyterian hospital, and will have the opportunity to collaborate with the network of nearly 2,000 providers in more than 230 specialties and subspecialties at Columbia University Irving Medical Center. Assistant Director, Events Management School of Professional Studies Morningside Reporting to the Associate Director of Events Management, the Assistant Director is responsible for managing the planning and implementation of a broad array of internal and external facing non-academic events. The Assistant Director will plan, organize and execute activities related to SPS events and programming, creating an optimal client experience through high-level customer satisfaction. Director of Development, Alumni & Major Gifts P&S CUIMC Development Medical Center This role manages multi-level assignments and serve as an internal and external development liaison to VP&S Alumni. Manager-Manhattanville Ops Public Safety Manhattanville Reporting to the Director of Manhattanville Operations, The Manager oversees the day-to-day operational functions and is responsible for the development, maintenance, and accuracy of management data for the Manhattanville Campus. The Operations Manager is responsible for creating training schedules, vacation schedules, and for the efficient processing of routine reports including maintaining Disciplinary logs (Minor Violations log), and self-inspection programs. The Operations Manager is responsible for maintaining the sick leave and tardiness monitoring programs, including monitoring and validating absences, conducting attendance control interviews, counseling employees, and when necessary, disciplining. The Operations Manager is responsible for ensuring all post orders and policies are current, and all Manhattanville Campus locations are properly staffed. In addition, the Operations Manager is responsible for ensuring that all security officer posts have properly working equipment and furniture including the guest sign-in system. The Operations Manager is responsible for the Lost and Found Program and leading the shift bidding process for Union members on the Manhatanville campus. The Operations Manager will also work with the Manager, Admin and Planning in maintaining the Manhattanville Campus Fleet, and the Director, Special Events in coordinating coverage for Guard Services, Fire Services, and other Special requests. Associate Director of Development P&S CUIMC Development Medical Center This role includes being a member of the fundraising team dedicated to cancer programs at the Herbert Irving Compressive Cancer Center (HICCC) at Columbia University Irving Medical Center (CUIMC), an institutional priority area. Financial Coordinator Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology Morningside Reporting to the Director of Academic Administration and Finance, and working closely with the Business Manager, the incumbent provides in person, front facing administrative services to the Department of Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology. Athletic Trainer Orthopedic Surgery Medical Center Athletic Trainers work directly with physicians in providing quality care to patients. Associate Director, Strategic Initiatives School of Law Morningside The Associate Director, Strategic Initiatives, works with the Dean’s senior management team to assist with planning, tracking, and implementing a range of school-wide initiatives. Serving as a critical node of coordination, the Associate Director is a highly skilled and organized generalist responsible for guiding the execution of complex projects involving stakeholders from across the Law School community. The Associate Director also conducts research and drafts internal communications. This position reports to the Associate Dean for Planning, Communications, and Faculty Affairs. Benefit Systems Analyst Columbia University Human Resources Manhattanville The Benefits Systems Analyst provides functional and technical expertise on benefits systems and process integration functions in support of day-to-day benefits operations, priorities, and organizational initiatives Technician B Neurology Medical Center Working under the general supervision of Principal Investigator in the Department of Neurology, and in accordance with established hospital policies and procedures, conducts a variety of routine experiments where methodologies are clearly established. Technician A Psychiatry Medical Center The Division of Developmental Neuroscience, Department of Psychiatry seeks a Technician Assistant. The candidate will participate in the collection, processing, and analysis of maternal/fetal/infant physiological data in support of research on the effects of prenatal exposures to several risk factors on maternal/fetal/infant health, premature birth, and neurodevelopmental disorders or delays. Technician B Systems Biology Medical Center The laboratory of Professor Harris Wang in the Department of Systems Biology is seeking a research Technician B. The work in the Wang laboratory is focused on diverse questions in systems and synthetic biology including mammalian microbiome function, host-microbiome interactions in health and disease, microbial horizontal gene flow, and foundational technology development. Research Assistant Taub Inst Res Alzheimers Disease Aging Brain Medical Center Assist with running cognitive and imaging studies in healthy young and old adults, as well as populations with neurological diseases. Technician B Taub Inst Res Alzheimers Disease Aging Brain Medical Center The candidate will work with the Department of Neurology, Taub Institute on clinical studies involving patients with Alzheimer’s disease, related disorders, and healthy volunteers. The Technician B will be assisting other lab members in ensuring the appropriate reporting to regulatory boards such as the Institutional Review Board and the Food and Drug Administration. In addition, the candidate will be trained to process PET and MR images and will be assisting research staff in processing data for the lab studies. The Technician B may have the opportunity to conduct research participant visits in the future but will begin by working on regulatory compliance and image processing. Senior Technician Neurology Medical Center We are seeking a Senior Technician to join the laboratory of Dr. Neil Shneider in the Motor Neuron Center at Columbia University Irving Medical Center in New York, NY. The Senior Technician will join an ongoing research effort using novel mouse models of ALS/FTD and human tissue samples to explore molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying neurodegeneration in ALS, frontotemporal dementia (FTD) and related disorders. Administrative Assistant Taub Inst Res Alzheimers Disease Aging Brain Medical Center Full-time staff member needed to work on an ongoing study of familial longevity. Manager of Marketing and Communications Orthopedic Surgery Medical Center The Department of Orthopedic Surgery is seeking a Manager of Marketing and Communications to manage production, implementation, and oversight of a broad range of internal and external communications and marketing initiatives across web, digital, and print media. More Jobs 1124 Position School/Department Location Vice President, Finance and Administration, Faculty of Arts and Sciences Office of EVP Arts & Sciences Morningside The Vice President for Administration and Finance (VPF&A) is the chief financial, business, and administrative officer of the Arts & Sciences with oversight of financial matters, human resources, IT, capital budget, and other business operations. With a goal of strengthening the impact and ensuring the long-term financial sustainability of the largest unit at Columbia University outside of the Medical Center, the VPF&A will bring strategic leadership, tactful management, a focus on transparency and data-driven decisions, and a high level of energy with a can-do, mission-driven mindset. Senior Grants Manager ICAP at Columbia Medical Center The Clinical Trials Senior Grants Manager (SGM) leads the effective and efficient administration of ICAP clinical trial projects throughout their entire award life-cycle, from pre-ward to close-out, focused on ensuring congruence with project terms and conditions, regulatory compliance, mitigation of business risk, and adherence to Columbia University (CU) and ICAP policies and procedures. Data Analyst ICAP at Columbia Medical Center The Data Analyst will provide surveillance and monitoring and evaluation (M&E) support in the areas of data management, documentation, and analysis, including to an evaluation study investigating the impact of recency testing on 1) identifying HIV positive contacts of newly diagnosed individuals living with HIV and 2) the risk of intimate partner violence resulting from the disclosure of recency testing results. Nurse Practitioner Faculty Practice Organization Other NYC Locations The ColumbiaDoctors Faculty Practice Organization (FPO) Nurse Practitioner provides a full scope of primary care, travel medicine, episodic and chronic care, and women's health care services in FPO clinical practice and corporate health practice locations. The NP will also provide clinical and clinical competency oversight for the FPO practice clinical support staff. The NP will have clinical and admitting privileges at New York-Presbyterian hospital, and will have the opportunity to collaborate with the network of nearly 2,000 providers in more than 230 specialties and subspecialties at Columbia University Irving Medical Center. Assistant Director, Events Management School of Professional Studies Morningside Reporting to the Associate Director of Events Management, the Assistant Director is responsible for managing the planning and implementation of a broad array of internal and external facing non-academic events. The Assistant Director will plan, organize and execute activities related to SPS events and programming, creating an optimal client experience through high-level customer satisfaction. Director of Development, Alumni & Major Gifts P&S CUIMC Development Medical Center This role manages multi-level assignments and serve as an internal and external development liaison to VP&S Alumni. Manager-Manhattanville Ops Public Safety Manhattanville Reporting to the Director of Manhattanville Operations, The Manager oversees the day-to-day operational functions and is responsible for the development, maintenance, and accuracy of management data for the Manhattanville Campus. The Operations Manager is responsible for creating training schedules, vacation schedules, and for the efficient processing of routine reports including maintaining Disciplinary logs (Minor Violations log), and self-inspection programs. The Operations Manager is responsible for maintaining the sick leave and tardiness monitoring programs, including monitoring and validating absences, conducting attendance control interviews, counseling employees, and when necessary, disciplining. The Operations Manager is responsible for ensuring all post orders and policies are current, and all Manhattanville Campus locations are properly staffed. In addition, the Operations Manager is responsible for ensuring that all security officer posts have properly working equipment and furniture including the guest sign-in system. The Operations Manager is responsible for the Lost and Found Program and leading the shift bidding process for Union members on the Manhatanville campus. The Operations Manager will also work with the Manager, Admin and Planning in maintaining the Manhattanville Campus Fleet, and the Director, Special Events in coordinating coverage for Guard Services, Fire Services, and other Special requests. Associate Director of Development P&S CUIMC Development Medical Center This role includes being a member of the fundraising team dedicated to cancer programs at the Herbert Irving Compressive Cancer Center (HICCC) at Columbia University Irving Medical Center (CUIMC), an institutional priority area. Financial Coordinator Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology Morningside Reporting to the Director of Academic Administration and Finance, and working closely with the Business Manager, the incumbent provides in person, front facing administrative services to the Department of Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology. Athletic Trainer Orthopedic Surgery Medical Center Athletic Trainers work directly with physicians in providing quality care to patients. Associate Director, Strategic Initiatives School of Law Morningside The Associate Director, Strategic Initiatives, works with the Dean’s senior management team to assist with planning, tracking, and implementing a range of school-wide initiatives. Serving as a critical node of coordination, the Associate Director is a highly skilled and organized generalist responsible for guiding the execution of complex projects involving stakeholders from across the Law School community. The Associate Director also conducts research and drafts internal communications. This position reports to the Associate Dean for Planning, Communications, and Faculty Affairs. Benefit Systems Analyst Columbia University Human Resources Manhattanville The Benefits Systems Analyst provides functional and technical expertise on benefits systems and process integration functions in support of day-to-day benefits operations, priorities, and organizational initiatives Technician B Neurology Medical Center Working under the general supervision of Principal Investigator in the Department of Neurology, and in accordance with established hospital policies and procedures, conducts a variety of routine experiments where methodologies are clearly established. Technician A Psychiatry Medical Center The Division of Developmental Neuroscience, Department of Psychiatry seeks a Technician Assistant. The candidate will participate in the collection, processing, and analysis of maternal/fetal/infant physiological data in support of research on the effects of prenatal exposures to several risk factors on maternal/fetal/infant health, premature birth, and neurodevelopmental disorders or delays. Technician B Systems Biology Medical Center The laboratory of Professor Harris Wang in the Department of Systems Biology is seeking a research Technician B. The work in the Wang laboratory is focused on diverse questions in systems and synthetic biology including mammalian microbiome function, host-microbiome interactions in health and disease, microbial horizontal gene flow, and foundational technology development. Research Assistant Taub Inst Res Alzheimers Disease Aging Brain Medical Center Assist with running cognitive and imaging studies in healthy young and old adults, as well as populations with neurological diseases. Technician B Taub Inst Res Alzheimers Disease Aging Brain Medical Center The candidate will work with the Department of Neurology, Taub Institute on clinical studies involving patients with Alzheimer’s disease, related disorders, and healthy volunteers. The Technician B will be assisting other lab members in ensuring the appropriate reporting to regulatory boards such as the Institutional Review Board and the Food and Drug Administration. In addition, the candidate will be trained to process PET and MR images and will be assisting research staff in processing data for the lab studies. The Technician B may have the opportunity to conduct research participant visits in the future but will begin by working on regulatory compliance and image processing. Senior Technician Neurology Medical Center We are seeking a Senior Technician to join the laboratory of Dr. Neil Shneider in the Motor Neuron Center at Columbia University Irving Medical Center in New York, NY. The Senior Technician will join an ongoing research effort using novel mouse models of ALS/FTD and human tissue samples to explore molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying neurodegeneration in ALS, frontotemporal dementia (FTD) and related disorders. Administrative Assistant Taub Inst Res Alzheimers Disease Aging Brain Medical Center Full-time staff member needed to work on an ongoing study of familial longevity. Manager of Marketing and Communications Orthopedic Surgery Medical Center The Department of Orthopedic Surgery is seeking a Manager of Marketing and Communications to manage production, implementation, and oversight of a broad range of internal and external communications and marketing initiatives across web, digital, and print media. More Jobs 1124 Powered by PageUp Sign up for Job Alerts Returning Applicant Login Filter By Work type Full Time 1047 Part Time 97 Location Campus Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory 7 Manhattanville 94 Medical Center 669 Morningside 353 Nevis 3 Other NY State Locations 4 Other NYC Locations 10 Other US Locations 15 Grade Catering Delivery Person 1 Class A-Handyperson 1 Class A-Others 3 Class C-Handyperson 2 Clerical Grade 3 4 Clerical Grade 4 7 Clerical Grade 5 2 Clerical Grade 6 2 Grade 10 30 Grade 101 9 Grade 102 8 Grade 103 126 Grade 104 128 Grade 105 158 Grade 106 40 Grade 107 7 Grade 108 1 Grade 11 84 Grade 12 87 Grade 13 54 Grade 14 43 Grade 15 20 Grade 16 4 Grade 7 1 Grade 8 7 Grade 9 11 Grade 9A 9 Grade R1 1 Grade R2 7 Grade R3 10 Grade R4 5 Grade R5 8 Grade R6 1 Grade R9 1 Head Porter 1 Head Service Mechanic 1 Libraries Grade 7 1 Maintenance Worker 1 1 Mech: Mechanic A/Mechanic 4 Medical Assistant 1 Pantry Worker 3 Plumber 1 1 Porter 10 PP: Energy Mgt Sys Mechanic 1 PP: HVAC Controls Mechanic 1 PP: Mechanic A 3 PP: Watch Engineer 3 Refrigeration Cntrl Engineer 1 1 Resident Manager 1 Retail Worker 2 Rounds-Person-Pre 1/1/99 1 Security Officer 1 Serv: Head Cleaner (Rev) 1 Serv: Heavy Cleaner 12 Short Order Cook 1 Technical Grade 2 3 Technical Grade 3 27 Technical Grade 4 73 Technical Grade 5 32 Technical Grade 6 4 Technical Grade 7 2 Technical Grade 8 5 Technical Grade 8a 1 Ungraded 62 Utility Person-Pre 1/1/99 1 Working Superintendent 1 Categories Administrative Support 181 Athletics 6 Commun/PR/Editorial 19 Compliance 19 Development/Alumni Relations 39 Facilities/Maint/Trades/RealEs 73 Finance/Accounting 89 Food Services 29 General Administration 267 Health/Clinical 179 Human Resources 33 Information Technology 63 Legal 3 Libraries 7 Marketing/Sales 15 Other 115 Pubs/Printing/Graphic Design 4 Research (Lab and Non-Lab) 349 Security 8 Stdnt Affairs/Educational Admn 74 Summer Position 1 Teacher/School 4 School/Department Aaron Diamond Aids Rsch Ct 2 Anesthesiology 8 Atlantic Fellowship for Racial Equity Program 1 Biostatistics 1 Campus Services 38 Center for Intl Earth Science Info Network 2 Center for Radiological Research 3 Center for Teaching and Learning 2 Clinic 3 Clinical Trials Office 3 CMC CUIMC SVP Fac Aff & CD 1 Columbia Business School 32 Columbia College 34 Columbia Health 24 Columbia Journalism Review 1 Columbia Residential 9 Columbia Stem Cell Initiative 2 Columbia Technology Ventures 4 Columbia University Human Resources 5 Columbia University Information Technology 3 Columbia World Projects 1 Committee on Global Thought 1 Communications & Public Affairs 1 Community DentCare 1 Controller 5 CUIMC CFO 1 CUIMC Communications 5 CUIMC EVP 2 CUIMC Facilities 16 CUIMC HR 1 CUIMC IT 7 CUIMC Student Health Services 4 Data Science Institute 4 Dean's Office 4 Dental Medicine 6 Department of Computer Science 3 Department of Intercollegiate Athletics 4 Department of Mathematics 1 Department of Psychology 3 Department of Sociology 1 Dept Industrial Eng & Oper Res 3 Dept of Biological Sciences 4 Dept of Biomedical Engineering 4 Dept of Chemical Engineering 2 Dept of Electrical Engineering 1 Dept of Mechanical Engineering 2 Dept of Political Science 1 Dermatology 4 Division of Clinical Practice 1 Division of Finance & Admin 3 Division of Scholarship & Rsch 7 Division of Student Affairs 1 Earth Institute 13 Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology 2 Emergency Medicine 7 English and Comparative Literature 3 Environmental Health Sciences 5 Epidemiology 4 Facilities Operations 29 Faculty Practice 1 Faculty Practice Organization 24 Finance and Administration 10 General 1 Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center 13 Grad Sch Architecture, Planning and Preservation 5 Graduate School of Arts & Sciences 3 Graduate School of Journalism 3 Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center 23 ICAP at Columbia 37 IMC 1 INCITE/Ctr Innovative Empirics 1 Information Technology 1 Inst Animal Care & Use Comm 2 Inst Soc& Econ Research&Policy 2 Institute for Cancer Genetics 2 Institute for Genomic Medicine 10 Institute of Comparative Medicine 4 Institute of Human Nutrition 1 Institutional Review Board 6 Internal Audit 4 Intl Students & Scholars Off 3 Irving Inst Clinical and Translational Research 6 Italian Academy 1 Justice Lab 1 Knight Institute 3 Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory 3 Lenfest Center for the Arts 1 Libraries 9 Mailman School of Public Health Administration 8 Manhattanville Development Group 1 Medical Humanities and Ethics 1 Medicine 115 Microbiology and Immunology 6 Morningside ICM 1 Naomi Berrie Diabetes Center 1 Neurological Surgery 7 Neurology 47 Neuroscience 1 Nevis Laboratories 2 Obstetrics and Gynecology 26 Office of Alumni & Development 9 Office of EVP Arts & Sciences 3 Office of the Provost 3 Ophthalmology 8 Orthopedic Surgery 12 Otolaryngology 4 P&S CUIMC Development 7 P&S Vice Dean For Admin 6 P&S Vice Dean For Education 15 P&S Vice Dean For Research 4 Pathology and Cell Biology 30 Pediatrics 54 Pharmacology 2 Planning and Capital Project Management 4 Population and Family Health 2 Procurement Services 2 Psychiatry 23 Public Safety 8 Radiation Oncology 3 Radiation Safety Office 1 Radiology 12 Real Estate 1 Rehabilitation and Regenerative Medicine 2 Research 6 School of Engineering and Applied Science Admin 13 School of General Studies 6 School of International and Public Affairs 16 School of Law 16 School of Professional Studies 13 School of Social Work 15 School of the Arts 4 Sociomedical Sciences 2 Sponsored Projects Admin 3 Strategic Communications 1 Student Financial Services 2 Surgery 28 Systems Biology 6 Taub Inst Res Alzheimers Disease Aging Brain 23 The School at Columbia Univ 1 University Life 8 Wallach Art Gallery 1 Weatherhead East Asian Inst 1 Zuckerman Institute 22 Human Resources 615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York, NY 10027 Equal Opportunity Employer / Disability / Veteran Columbia University is committed to the hiring of qualified local residents Columbia University is committed to protecting your privacy Columbia University provides reasonable accommodations to applicants with disabilities NCAA Statement | Pay Transparency | Clery Act Notification Labor Condition Applications (LCA) Notices Columbia University © Columbia University Accessibility Administrator Log in Back to Top