COVID-19 Columbia University requires evidence of COVID-19 vaccination for all Faculty, Staff and Students. Religious and medical exemptions will be provided in accordance with applicable federal and state laws. Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia University Careers at Columbia Careers at Columbia CURRENT OPPORTUNITIES Search for staff jobs. You will create a profile with your first application submission. Questions? Ask HR. Communications Manager of The Hub Back Apply Share Requisition no: 523904 Work type: Full Time Location: Manhattanville School/Department: Columbia Business School Grade: Grade 12 Categories: Commun/PR/Editorial, Other, Marketing/Sales Job Type: Officer of Administration Bargaining Unit: Regular/Temporary: Regular End Date if Temporary: Hours Per Week: 35 Salary Range: Commensurate with experience Position Summary Columbia Business School is at a transformative moment. The School is driving the future of business education and scholarship, and has recently moved to our new Manhattanville campus—a bold, one-of-a-kind set of facilities designed for innovation and collaboration. In the Spring of 2022, Columbia Business School will launch the Hub. This is a think tank that will address challenges and opportunities faced by the business world and by society. By facilitating dialogue among scholars, practitioners, and policy makers, it will equip current and future business leaders with tools to bring about positive change and rise to these challenges. Reporting to the Director, the Communications Manager will perform an array of functions that maintain, grow, and develop the Hub’s digital and print visibility and outreach initiatives to internal and external stakeholders. Responsibilities Draft and deploy high-impact written materials, digital content, memos, and presentations. Work collaboratively with the Director and the Development & Alumni Relations to create written and graphic materials that will inform donors, partners, press and other influencers and persuasively convey our thought leadership in a way that is sticky and memorable Create event invitations, registration pages, and event pages to market events; Create, edit, and/or proofread event collateral such as programs and bios; assist with onsite and post-event marketing. Manage all Social media outreach (e.g., using twitter, facebook, instagram) to reach key audiences: business leaders, practitioners, policy makers, journalists, students, prospective students, and alum Manage and maintain the center website. Create ways to repurpose existing content and ensure a supply of fresh, new and creative content. Conduct background research on a range of topics that are of strategic importance to the school and help position the school as a center of thought leadership in topics that define the future of business education and practice, and that are of vital importance to society(e.g., the future of capitalism, the future of work, the business of climate change, etc) Monitor economic data releases and track new research publications, working papers, and reports released by academic, think tank, and other research organizations. Work with the Director in their various functions, work on additional projects as assigned and share in the responsibilities of other staff members as a flexible team player. Minimum Qualifications Bachelor's degree and/or its equivalent required. 3-5 years related experience required. The incumbent must be a proven team player, able to work cooperatively in small groups as well as independently with changing priorities and multiple responsibilities. Must have previous experience with utilizing major social media channels including Facebook, YouTube, Twitter, and Instagram). HTML and Photoshop experience required. Must be pro-active with excellent writing, organizational and communication skills, acute attention to detail and computer literate. Must exercise tact and discretion when interacting with international faculty, administrators, leaders in academia, business, and with students. Equal Opportunity Employer / Disability / Veteran Columbia University is committed to the hiring of qualified local residents. Applications open: May 31 2022 Eastern Daylight Time Applications close: Back Apply Share Share this via: | More Send me jobs like these We will email you new jobs that match this search. Ok, we will send you jobs like this. The email address was invalid, please check for errors. You must agree to the privacy statement Subscribe Recaptcha Privacy agreement Search results Position School/Department Location Communications Manager of The Hub Columbia Business School Manhattanville Columbia Business School is at a transformative moment. The School is driving the future of business education and scholarship, and has recently moved to our new Manhattanville campus—a bold, one-of-a-kind set of facilities designed for innovation and collaboration. In the Spring of 2022, Columbia Business School will launch the Hub. This is a think tank that will address challenges and opportunities faced by the business world and by society. By facilitating dialogue among scholars, practitioners, and policy makers, it will equip current and future business leaders with tools to bring about positive change and rise to these challenges. Reporting to the Director, the Communications Manager will perform an array of functions that maintain, grow, and develop the Hub’s digital and print visibility and outreach initiatives to internal and external stakeholders. Position School/Department Location Communications Manager of The Hub Columbia Business School Manhattanville Columbia Business School is at a transformative moment. The School is driving the future of business education and scholarship, and has recently moved to our new Manhattanville campus—a bold, one-of-a-kind set of facilities designed for innovation and collaboration. In the Spring of 2022, Columbia Business School will launch the Hub. This is a think tank that will address challenges and opportunities faced by the business world and by society. By facilitating dialogue among scholars, practitioners, and policy makers, it will equip current and future business leaders with tools to bring about positive change and rise to these challenges. Reporting to the Director, the Communications Manager will perform an array of functions that maintain, grow, and develop the Hub’s digital and print visibility and outreach initiatives to internal and external stakeholders. Powered by PageUp Sign up for Job Alerts Returning Applicant Login Filter By Work type Full Time 1 Location Campus Manhattanville 1 Grade Grade 12 1 Categories Commun/PR/Editorial 1 Marketing/Sales 1 Other 1 School/Department Columbia Business School 1 Human Resources 615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York, NY 10027 Equal Opportunity Employer / Disability / Veteran Columbia University is committed to the hiring of qualified local residents Columbia University is committed to protecting your privacy Columbia University provides reasonable accommodations to applicants with disabilities NCAA Statement | Pay Transparency | Clery Act Notification Labor Condition Applications (LCA) Notices Columbia University © Columbia University Accessibility Administrator Log in Back to Top