COVID-19 Columbia University requires evidence of COVID-19 vaccination for all Faculty, Staff and Students. Religious and medical exemptions will be provided in accordance with applicable federal and state laws. Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia University Careers at Columbia Careers at Columbia CURRENT OPPORTUNITIES Search for staff jobs. You will create a profile with your first application submission. Questions? Ask HR. Systems Engineer Back Apply Share Requisition no: 526305 Work type: Full Time Location: Medical Center School/Department: Surgery Grade: Grade 104 Categories: Information Technology Position Summary Reporting to the Associate IT Director / IT Director, the Senior Systems Engineer oversees the Department of Surgery’s portfolio of IT systems- designing and implementing new systems as business needs arise, as well as providing maintenance and operational support for existing systems. Responsibilities Develop and execute system deployment plans in keeping with the needs of the department and the policies of the institution. Provide administration and support for systems including AWS-hosted services and solutions, Windows Server OS, Linux, macOS, Exchange, Active Directory, MDM, and Jamf among other systems in a virtualized environment. Administer and provide maintenance for server hardware including rackmount servers, Cisco UCS blades, storage arrays, and ancillary networking equipment. Test new software versions and participate in standard installation and upgrade methodologies, creating flowcharts, diagrams, and other documentation in the process. Design, code, and implement software / scripts to meet solution needs and specialized application requirements. Perform daily functions that include user support, operational systems tasks, upgrade coordination, and institutional mandates / audits. Ensure the successful resolution of all server & client computing / application problems. Develop, maintain, and disseminate knowledge of best practices to recurring problems. Coordinate with other institutional IT groups to ensure that shared services including email, network, electronic medical record systems, and cloud-based environments are supported and properly implemented for department users. Respond to queries from IT team, end users, developers, and operations staff regarding systems availability, performance, or functionality problems. Monitor and create automated reports and/or respond to alerts for hardware and software issues, implementing new monitoring processes as needed. Work closely with clients, vendors, and project teams to determine support requirements and provide resolution within defined schedules. Review other IT team members’ systems-related work and provide feedback and training as needed. Participate in 24-hour on-call rotation for problems and resolution and after-hours / weekend upgrade work when required. Minimum Qualifications Minimum education: Bachelor's degree or equivalent in education and experience required. Minimum related experience: 3 years related experience. Preferred Qualifications Bachelor’s degree in Computer Science or related field preferred. Vendor management and service level agreement negotiation experience preferred. 4-6 years of experience preferred. Other Requirements General skills: Experience with the following technologies: AWS or equivalent, Windows Server / Windows and macOS, Active Directory, MS Office, Jamf, ECM (SCCM), VDI technology (VMware / Citrix). Familiarity with scripting languages (PowerShell, BASH), object-oriented programming (Python). Excellent interpersonal and communication skills. Highly technically skilled and administratively organized. Extensive experience working with end users. Assertive and able to work successfully in a fast-paced work environment. Ability to proactively work on problems of diverse scope. Exhibit tact, analytical, and critical thinking skills. Strong initiative, resourcefulness, and follow-through. Ability to independently research problems and develop solutions. Project management experience. Comprehensive knowledge of laws, policies, procedures, and practices regarding privacy and security of protected health information, including HIPAA and HITECH. Equal Opportunity Employer / Disability / Veteran Columbia University is committed to the hiring of qualified local residents. Applications open: May 31 2022 Eastern Daylight Time Applications close: Back Apply Share Share this via: | More Send me jobs like these We will email you new jobs that match this search. Ok, we will send you jobs like this. The email address was invalid, please check for errors. You must agree to the privacy statement Subscribe Recaptcha Privacy agreement Search results Position School/Department Location Systems Engineer Surgery Medical Center Reporting to the Associate IT Director / IT Director, the Senior Systems Engineer oversees the Department of Surgery’s portfolio of IT systems- designing and implementing new systems as business needs arise, as well as providing maintenance and operational support for existing systems. Position School/Department Location Systems Engineer Surgery Medical Center Reporting to the Associate IT Director / IT Director, the Senior Systems Engineer oversees the Department of Surgery’s portfolio of IT systems- designing and implementing new systems as business needs arise, as well as providing maintenance and operational support for existing systems. Powered by PageUp Sign up for Job Alerts Returning Applicant Login Filter By Work type Full Time 1 Location Campus Medical Center 1 Grade Grade 104 1 Categories Information Technology 1 School/Department Surgery 1 Human Resources 615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York, NY 10027 Equal Opportunity Employer / Disability / Veteran Columbia University is committed to the hiring of qualified local residents Columbia University is committed to protecting your privacy Columbia University provides reasonable accommodations to applicants with disabilities NCAA Statement | Pay Transparency | Clery Act Notification Labor Condition Applications (LCA) Notices Columbia University © Columbia University Accessibility Administrator Log in Back to Top