Office of Population Research Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Main Menu Menu Home About Us Submenu Center Administration Executive Committee History Submenu OPR Buildings 50th Anniversary 75th Anniversary Annual Reports Contact Us People Submenu Faculty Submenu Emeritus Graduate Students Post Docs Staff Submenu Administrative Computing Library CRCW Visiting Scholars Research Submenu Research Themes Submenu Biosocial Interactions Poverty & Inequality Data & Methods Population Health Migration & Development Children, Youth, Families and Education Affiliated Centers and Labs Working Groups Data Archive Recent Publications Graduate Program Submenu Prospective Students Submenu Ph.D in Population Studies (PIPS) Ph.D in Population Studies and Social Policy (PIPS/JDP) Joint Ph.D in Population Studies and Department Degree Certificate in Demography Apply for a Ph.D. Current Ph.D. Students Submenu PIPS Program Requirements PIPS/JDP Program Requirements PIPS/Department Degree Program Requirements Grad Student Handbook Courses Workshops Publications Presentations OPR Alumni Submenu Certificate Alumni Doctoral Program Alumni On The Job Market Notestein Seminars State of the Nation Series Events News For Undergraduates Contact Us Search Search Office of Population Research Coming of Age in Appalachia, Emerging or Expedited Adulthood? Paper by OPR Graduate student Emily Miller & Kathy Edin in The Russell Sage Foundation Journal of the Social Sciences Globalization Is Over. The Global Culture Wars Have Begun. Arun Hendi’s Research Cited in NYT Matthew Salganik Awarded 2022 AAPOR Book Award Bit by Bit: Social Research in the Digital Age Janet Currie Briefs White House on Lead Remediation Janet Currie briefed President Joe Biden, Vice President Kamala Harris, and members of the President's economic team focused on the economics of infrastructure investments. Pandemics: The Maths, The Masks, The Madness Sanyu Mojola and Jessica Metcalf frame the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic and the ways it has unfolded 1 / 5 Start animation ▶ < > About the Office of Population Research (OPR) The Office of Population Research (OPR) at Princeton University, founded in 1936, is one of the nation’s oldest demographic research and training centers. OPR has a distinguished history of contributions in formal demography and the global study of fertility change. Subsequent generations of OPR scholars have made significant and ground-breaking contributions in the areas of social demography, bio-social interactions, health and wellbeing, children, youth and families, poverty and racial/ethnic inequality, urbanization, migration and development, and innovative methodologies. (Click here for more) Research Themes Upcoming Events Biosocial Interactions Data & Methods Population Health Poverty & Inequality Migration & Development Children, Youth, Families & Education No content available to show. Footer Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University