Home About OREC How Can We Help? Enterprise Risk Management & Compliance Civil Rights & Equity Investigations / Title IX Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Clery Act Privacy Open Records University Youth Programs Insurance Services Reporting and Preventing Fraud Make a Report Our Team Search website... Skip to primary navigation Skip to main content Skip to primary sidebar Skip to footer Office of Risk, Ethics and Compliance Texas A&M University Menu Header Right Search website... About OREC How Can We Help? Enterprise Risk Management Civil Rights & Equity Investigations / Title IX Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Clery Act Privacy Open Records University Youth Programs Insurance Services Reporting and Preventing Fraud Drug-Free Schools and Communities Act Make a Report University Rules & SAPs Our Team Make a Report If you are in an emergency situation, DIAL 911 immediately for law enforcement and/or medical assistance. Clery Campus Security Reporting Reporting Criminal Incidents and Non-Emergency Police Calls If you are victim of a crime or know someone who has been a victim of crime, you should contact the Texas A&M University Police Department (UPD) at (979) 845-2345 at the main College Station campus or campus police/security at your local campus. For Emergency Situations If a situation represents an immediate threat to life or property, please contact local authorities. If you require emergency assistance or believe a crime is in progress, call 9-1-1 to reach police, fire, or medical services. Report a Title IX or Civil Rights Violation Texas A&M strongly encourages reporting incidents of sexual assault, sexual exploitation, or sex discrimination — including discrimination of the basis of gender identity, gender expression, and sexual orientation — in addition to sexual harassment, dating and domestic violence, related retaliation, and stalking. Report a Title IX or Civil Rights Violation Report an ADA Concern The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 prohibits discrimination on the basis of a disability. Texas A&M University (TAMU) is committed to maintaining an accessible campus community and providing reasonable accommodations to qualified students, faculty, staff and visitors, including making its web sites accessible and usable. Report an ADA Concern Report Fraud The prevention of fraud and abuse and the minimization of waste is the responsibility of every Texas A&M University employee. When Texas A&M University employees have information about dishonest, unethical or criminal activities that might affect a Texas A&M System member, they are required to report that information. Reportable activities include, but are not limited to, theft, corruption, misuse of System vehicles and/or equipment, and conflicts of interest. Learn More about Reporting and Preventing Fraud Report Travel Anyone taking students on trips to off campus locations are required to report, if the travel meets Department of Education guidelines. Learn More about Travel Reporting Primary Sidebar Contact OREC Office of Risk, Ethics, & Compliance YMCA Bldg. #108 1243 TAMU College Station, TX 77843-1243 ☎ 979-458-8191 ✉ orec.tamu.edu Non-Discrimination and Abuse Notice Compliance Corner You are here: Home / Make a Report Site Footer Location for Administration & Privacy YMCA Building Suite 108/ MS 1243 TAMU College Station, TX 77843-1243 979-458-8191 orec@tamu.edu Location for Civil Rights & Equity Investigations/Title IX Medical Sciences Library Suite 007 | MS 1268 TAMU 202 Olsen Blvd College Station, TX 77843-4462 ☎ 979-458-8407 ✉ civilrights@tamu.edu Location for Audit Liaison, Clery, ERM, Insurance, Open Records, & Rules General Services Complex Suite 2101/ MS 1280 TAMU 750 Agronomy Rd #2101 College Station, TX 77843-1280 Copyright © 2022 · Texas A&M University · Office of Risk, Ethics and Compliance | Accessibility · Site Policies · Report Fraud