Home About OREC How Can We Help? Enterprise Risk Management & Compliance Civil Rights & Equity Investigations / Title IX Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Clery Act Privacy Open Records University Youth Programs Insurance Services Reporting and Preventing Fraud Make a Report Our Team Search website... Skip to primary navigation Skip to main content Skip to primary sidebar Skip to footer Office of Risk, Ethics and Compliance Texas A&M University Menu Header Right Search website... About OREC How Can We Help? Enterprise Risk Management Civil Rights & Equity Investigations / Title IX Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Clery Act Privacy Open Records University Youth Programs Insurance Services Reporting and Preventing Fraud Drug-Free Schools and Communities Act Make a Report University Rules & SAPs Our Team Enterprise Risk Management Enterprise Risk Management Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) is a process applied strategically across the University to identify potential events that may adversely affect the entity and to manage the risks associated with those events. Learn more about Enterprise Risk Management at Texas A&M. Ethics and Compliance Committee Texas A&M University aspires to excellence. To achieve excellence, each of us must behave in ways that are consistent with all the applicable laws, rules, regulations, and policies that govern our University. These requirements span our teaching, research, and outreach missions. Key to a successful Compliance Program is the involvement of the entire campus community. Each individual must recognize their role and responsibilities and ensure that they behave in an ethical way when carrying out daily activities. Doing so is just another way we fulfill the Aggie Code of Honor. Learn more about the Compliance Committee. Learn more about the Texas A&M Compliance Program. Audit Liaison The audit liaison function was created to assist and support Texas A&M University management in responding effectively to auditors and other external agencies, as requested. The audit liaison staff work with Texas A&M University System internal auditors and Texas A&M University’s constituents to facilitate mutual understanding of the audit process. Learn more about Audit Liaison services. Primary Sidebar Enterprise Risk Management and Compliance Enterprise Risk Management Compliance Program Audit Liaison Management Advisory Services Drug-Free Schools and Communities Act Reporting & Preventing Fraud Contact OREC General Services Complex 750 Agronomy Road, #2101 1280 TAMU College Station, TX 77843 You are here: Home / Enterprise Risk Management & Compliance Site Footer Location for Administration & Privacy YMCA Building Suite 108/ MS 1243 TAMU College Station, TX 77843-1243 979-458-8191 orec@tamu.edu Location for Civil Rights & Equity Investigations/Title IX Medical Sciences Library Suite 007 | MS 1268 TAMU 202 Olsen Blvd College Station, TX 77843-4462 ☎ 979-458-8407 ✉ civilrights@tamu.edu Location for Audit Liaison, Clery, ERM, Insurance, Open Records, & Rules General Services Complex Suite 2101/ MS 1280 TAMU 750 Agronomy Rd #2101 College Station, TX 77843-1280 Copyright © 2022 · Texas A&M University · Office of Risk, Ethics and Compliance | Accessibility · Site Policies · Report Fraud