Home About OREC How Can We Help? Enterprise Risk Management & Compliance Civil Rights & Equity Investigations / Title IX Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Clery Act Privacy Open Records University Youth Programs Insurance Services Reporting and Preventing Fraud Make a Report Our Team Search website... Skip to primary navigation Skip to main content Skip to primary sidebar Skip to footer Office of Risk, Ethics and Compliance Texas A&M University Menu Header Right Search website... About OREC How Can We Help? Enterprise Risk Management Civil Rights & Equity Investigations / Title IX Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Clery Act Privacy Open Records University Youth Programs Insurance Services Reporting and Preventing Fraud Drug-Free Schools and Communities Act Make a Report University Rules & SAPs Our Team Clery Act If you are in an emergency situation, DIAL 911 immediately for law enforcement, fire and/or medical assistance. What is the Clery Act? The Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act, or Clery Act, is a federal law that requires all U.S. colleges and universities (including foreign campuses of U.S. institutions), both public and private, participating in federal student aid programs to maintain and disclose certain crime statistics and campus security/fire information. The Clery Act mandates requirements for incidents of sexual violence and emergency situations. The Act is named in memory of Jeanne Clery who was raped and murdered in her residence hall room by a fellow student on April 5, 1986 at Lehigh University in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania. Disclosures about required crime and fire statistics and summaries of security and fire policies are made in an Annual Security Report and Annual Fire Safety Report on Student Housing. Information about specific crimes and emergencies is made available on an ongoing basis through the daily crime log, fire log, timely warnings, and emergency notifications. Why is the Clery Act important? The Act was designed to assist students, parents, and other members of the campus community in making decisions which affect their personal safety. The Clery Act requires institutions of higher education to provide current and prospective students and employees with accurate, complete, and timely information about crime and campus safety. Reporting Crime on Campus Reporting Criminal Incidents and Non-Emergency Police Calls: If you are victim of a crime or know someone who has been a victim of crime, you should contact the Texas A&M University Police Department (UPD) at (979) 845-2345 at the main College Station campus or campus police/security at your local campus. For Emergency Situations: If a situation represents an immediate threat to life or property, please contact local authorities. If you require emergency assistance or believe a crime is in progress, call 911 to reach police, fire, or medical services. Notice of Availability Email notifications are distributed to current and prospective students and employees informing them of the availability of the Clery Annual Security Reports and Annual Fire Safety Reports and the exact url to access the reports. The Notice of Availability is applicable to all Texas A&M University campuses. Sign Up for Code Maroon Emergency Notifications Code Maroon is Texas A&M University’s emergency notification system that gives the University the ability to communicate health and safety information in an emergency. Texas A&M will use the system only to provide official notification of critical emergencies (i.e. situations that pose an imminent, physical threat to the community). Sign up for Code Maroon Primary Sidebar Clery Campus Security Report Clery Act Home About the Clery Act Annual Security Report Make A Report Campus Clery Statistics & Maps Clery Compliance Committee and Resources Contact Us Michelle Jackson Compliance Officer III General Services Complex 750 Agronomy Rd, #2101 1280 TAMU College Station, TX 77843 ☎ 979-862-1624 ✉ michelle.jackson@tamu.edu You are here: Home / Clery Act Site Footer Location for Administration & Privacy YMCA Building Suite 108/ MS 1243 TAMU College Station, TX 77843-1243 979-458-8191 orec@tamu.edu Location for Civil Rights & Equity Investigations/Title IX Medical Sciences Library Suite 007 | MS 1268 TAMU 202 Olsen Blvd College Station, TX 77843-4462 ☎ 979-458-8407 ✉ civilrights@tamu.edu Location for Audit Liaison, Clery, ERM, Insurance, Open Records, & Rules General Services Complex Suite 2101/ MS 1280 TAMU 750 Agronomy Rd #2101 College Station, TX 77843-1280 Copyright © 2022 · Texas A&M University · Office of Risk, Ethics and Compliance | Accessibility · Site Policies · Report Fraud