Home About OREC How Can We Help? Enterprise Risk Management & Compliance Civil Rights & Equity Investigations / Title IX Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Clery Act Privacy Open Records University Youth Programs Insurance Services Reporting and Preventing Fraud Make a Report Our Team Search website... Skip to primary navigation Skip to main content Skip to primary sidebar Skip to footer Office of Risk, Ethics and Compliance Texas A&M University Menu Header Right Search website... About OREC How Can We Help? Enterprise Risk Management Civil Rights & Equity Investigations / Title IX Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Clery Act Privacy Open Records University Youth Programs Insurance Services Reporting and Preventing Fraud Drug-Free Schools and Communities Act Make a Report University Rules & SAPs Our Team Tips For Requestors Appointments Scheduling an Appointment to Discuss a Public Information Request Tips for Requestors to Expedite Responses Be clear and concise in regard to the information you are requesting. The University is not required to do research to try to determine the scope or nature of a request. When inquiring about an active request, please refer to the reference number assigned to the request by the Office of Open Records. When a request for information has been withdrawn and it is necessary to submit a new request for the same information, citing reference numbers of previous requests is not an acceptable means of submitting a new request. State the exact information that is being requested and indicate the current date. Provide a separate piece of correspondence for new requests. New requests can be overlooked when combined within correspondence that deals with another subject. Adhere to deadlines when providing responses to cost estimates. This will eliminate the need to resubmit requests that have been closed as a result of untimely responses. Provide a time period in which to search for requested information, as applicable. Provide keywords to guide a search for requested information, as applicable. Provide current contact information. Correspondence that cannot be delivered within the time period required by law can result in the automatic withdrawal of a request. Your cooperation will enable this office to better accommodate your open records needs. Additional Resources Texas Attorney General’s Office Open Government Web Site Primary Sidebar Open Records Information Open Records Home Open Records Request Portal Public Information Liaison Coordinator Resources and Cost Info & Estimates Tips For Requestors Public Information Act TAMU System Public Information Officers Contact Us Patricia Bledsoe Director Knesha Brashear Public Information Administrator Wendy Ramirez Public Information Administrator 1280 TAMU General Services Complex 750 Agronomy Rd, Ste 2101 College Station, TX 77843 Phone: 979-845-4571 Fax: 979-845-6437 Email: open-records@tamu.edu You are here: Home / Tips For Requestors Site Footer Location for Administration & Privacy YMCA Building Suite 108/ MS 1243 TAMU College Station, TX 77843-1243 979-458-8191 orec@tamu.edu Location for Civil Rights & Equity Investigations/Title IX Medical Sciences Library Suite 007 | MS 1268 TAMU 202 Olsen Blvd College Station, TX 77843-4462 ☎ 979-458-8407 ✉ civilrights@tamu.edu Location for Audit Liaison, Clery, ERM, Insurance, Open Records, & Rules General Services Complex Suite 2101/ MS 1280 TAMU 750 Agronomy Rd #2101 College Station, TX 77843-1280 Copyright © 2022 · Texas A&M University · Office of Risk, Ethics and Compliance | Accessibility · Site Policies · Report Fraud