Home About OREC How Can We Help? Enterprise Risk Management & Compliance Civil Rights & Equity Investigations / Title IX Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Clery Act Privacy Open Records University Youth Programs Insurance Services Reporting and Preventing Fraud Make a Report Our Team Search website... Skip to primary navigation Skip to main content Skip to primary sidebar Skip to footer Office of Risk, Ethics and Compliance Texas A&M University Menu Header Right Search website... About OREC How Can We Help? Enterprise Risk Management Civil Rights & Equity Investigations / Title IX Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Clery Act Privacy Open Records University Youth Programs Insurance Services Reporting and Preventing Fraud Drug-Free Schools and Communities Act Make a Report University Rules & SAPs Our Team Insurance Services If your department needs to receive a quote for insurance, enroll in an insurance policy, renew an insurance policy, or cancel an insurance policy, complete the Insurance Initiation Form, and follow the instructions on the form for submittal. Available Policies Content related to the type of insurance you have by default as part of TAMU, and determining your additional insurance policy needs goes here. Inland Marine Insurance Information about this type of insurance. Texas A&M University participates in an insurance policy that provides coverage for property owned by university departments (including computing equipment, audio-visual equipment, and other property). University departments may elect to enroll in this coverage. The policy provides replacement coverage and has a $1,000 deductible per loss occurrence. The premium for this coverage is $0.15 per $100 of value; this is subject to change in July. The Inland Marine Policy Outline is available for review. To enroll, departments will need to submit an Insurance Initiation Form and an Inland Marine Inventory of all items to be included on the policy. Scheduled and electronic items should be grouped separately on the inventory list. Here is a list of examples that will assist you in determining whether each item is Scheduled Property or Electronic Equipment. Insurance Initiation Forms should be submitted to the attention of Jason Boyle, Office of University Risk, Ethics & Compliance, 1243 TAMU. Inland Marine Inventory should be submitted electronically to Jason Boyle at to jboyle@tamu.edu. Special Event Insurance Texas A&M University departments and recognized student organizations have the option to secure general liability and excess accident medical coverage for special events. Additional information, including policy rates and limits, can be found on the Special Event Policy Outline . Departments need to send a completed a Special Event Application and the program itinerary/schedule to insurance@tamu.edu to secure this coverage. Student organizations can obtain this coverage by completing the event planning process through the Department of Student Activities . Student Internship Liability Insurance For Texas A&M University students serving in health or medical internships which require professional liability insurance, Texas A&M University departments should complete the Internship Individual Liability Insurance Application for each student and return it to insurance@tamu.edu. Primary Sidebar Claims: File a Claim Contact Us Jason Boyle Compliance Officer 1280 TAMU College Station, TX 77843 ☎ 979-845-2850 ✉ jboyle@tamu.edu Grace Mullendore Insurance Coordinator 1280 TAMU College Station, TX 77843 ☎ 979-458-2818 ✉ gmullendore@tamu.edu Office Location: General Services Complex (GSC) Suite 2101 You are here: Home / Insurance Services Site Footer Location for Administration & Privacy YMCA Building Suite 108/ MS 1243 TAMU College Station, TX 77843-1243 979-458-8191 orec@tamu.edu Location for Civil Rights & Equity Investigations/Title IX Medical Sciences Library Suite 007 | MS 1268 TAMU 202 Olsen Blvd College Station, TX 77843-4462 ☎ 979-458-8407 ✉ civilrights@tamu.edu Location for Audit Liaison, Clery, ERM, Insurance, Open Records, & Rules General Services Complex Suite 2101/ MS 1280 TAMU 750 Agronomy Rd #2101 College Station, TX 77843-1280 Copyright © 2022 · Texas A&M University · Office of Risk, Ethics and Compliance | Accessibility · Site Policies · Report Fraud