Home About OREC How Can We Help? Enterprise Risk Management & Compliance Civil Rights & Equity Investigations / Title IX Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Clery Act Privacy Open Records University Youth Programs Insurance Services Reporting and Preventing Fraud Make a Report Our Team Search website... Skip to main content Skip to footer Office of Risk, Ethics and Compliance Texas A&M University Menu Header Right Search website... About OREC How Can We Help? Enterprise Risk Management Civil Rights & Equity Investigations / Title IX Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Clery Act Privacy Open Records University Youth Programs Insurance Services Reporting and Preventing Fraud Drug-Free Schools and Communities Act Make a Report University Rules & SAPs Our Team Main Content Office of Risk, Ethics and Compliance (OREC) Texas A&M University The Office of Risk, Ethics and Compliance Texas A&M University relies on all faculty, staff, and students to be knowledgeable about risk mitigation, ethical behavior, and compliance obligations associated with their respective roles. The Office of Risk, Ethics, and Compliance (OREC) provides leadership and university-wide services that strengthen accountability, mitigate significant risks, investigate and resolve allegations, and reduce the consequences of non-compliance with federal and state laws. OREC Resources Notice of Non-Discrimination and Abuse Office of Civil Rights & Equity Investigations Rules & SAPs Compliance Corner Senate Bill 18: Protected Expression on Campus How can we help? Our services strengthen transparency and: – Promote a culture of ethical conduct and compliance with legal obligations; – Systematically address university-wide risks; – Enhance effective response to risks identified in audits; and – Communicate standards that clarify regulatory and operational requirement and responsibilities. Enterprise Risk Management Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) is a process applied strategically across the University to identify potential events that may adversely affect the entity and to manage the risks associated with those events. Civil Rights & Equity Investigations/Title IX Texas A&M University will promptly address all complaints of sex-based discrimination, harassment, and related retaliation made by or against faculty, staff, students, guests and vendors in accordance with our policies and applicable federal and state laws. Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 prohibits discrimination on the basis of a disability. Texas A&M University (TAMU) is committed to maintaining an accessible campus community and providing reasonable accommodations to qualified students, faculty, staff and visitors, including making its web sites accessible and usable. Clery Annual Security Report The Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act or Clery Act requires all colleges and universities that participate in federal financial aid programs to report information about security policies and crimes statistics on and near their campus by October 1 of each year in an Annual Security Report. An Annual Fire Safety Report, containing fire safety information and fire statistics associated with on-campus student housing facilities, is also required by October 1 for institutions that have on-campus student housing facilities. Privacy The Texas A&M University Privacy website and policy explain how information is collected, used and disclosed by the University with respect to your use of the tamu.edu website and other University sites which display this policy, so you can make an informed decision about using the sites. Rules & Standard Administrative Procedures (SAPs) University Rules and SAPs are used to communicate the responsibilities, procedures, and practices that guide the operations of Texas A&M units. Open Records The Texas A&M University Office of Open Records is dedicated to the principles of open government and strives to ensure compliance as set forth by the Texas Public Information Act. Travel Abroad The travel resource website is intended to serve the TAMU campus community with timely updates on travel rules, news, safety information, and training opportunities. The site brings together information that is communicated in other places, but not easily tied together for a “big picture” understanding of the rules and processes. University Youth Programs The requirements for hosting campus programs for minors stem from a shared commitment to provide a safe environment and meaningful experience for participants that not only meet the minimum legal requirements but also reflect the University’s core values of Excellence, Integrity, Leadership, Loyalty, Respect, and Selfless Service. Insurance Services Providing assistance if your department needs to receive a quote for insurance, enroll in an insurance policy, renew an insurance policy, or cancel an insurance policy. Compliance Corner Senate Bill 18: Protected Expression on Campus December 2, 2020December 2, 2020 Why Does Title IX Matter to Me? June 27, 2019September 12, 2019 Information Resources Backup and Recovery Annual Test June 27, 2019October 7, 2019 Site Footer Location for Administration & Privacy YMCA Building Suite 108/ MS 1243 TAMU College Station, TX 77843-1243 979-458-8191 orec@tamu.edu Location for Civil Rights & Equity Investigations/Title IX Medical Sciences Library Suite 007 | MS 1268 TAMU 202 Olsen Blvd College Station, TX 77843-4462 ☎ 979-458-8407 ✉ civilrights@tamu.edu Location for Audit Liaison, Clery, ERM, Insurance, Open Records, & Rules General Services Complex Suite 2101/ MS 1280 TAMU 750 Agronomy Rd #2101 College Station, TX 77843-1280 Copyright © 2022 · Texas A&M University · Office of Risk, Ethics and Compliance | Accessibility · Site Policies · Report Fraud