Home About OREC How Can We Help? Enterprise Risk Management & Compliance Civil Rights & Equity Investigations / Title IX Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Clery Act Privacy Open Records University Youth Programs Insurance Services Reporting and Preventing Fraud Make a Report Our Team Search website... Skip to primary navigation Skip to main content Skip to primary sidebar Skip to footer Office of Risk, Ethics and Compliance Texas A&M University Menu Header Right Search website... About OREC How Can We Help? Enterprise Risk Management Civil Rights & Equity Investigations / Title IX Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Clery Act Privacy Open Records University Youth Programs Insurance Services Reporting and Preventing Fraud Drug-Free Schools and Communities Act Make a Report University Rules & SAPs Our Team How Can We Help? The Office of Risk, Ethics, and Compliance (OREC) provides leadership and university-wide services that strengthen accountability, mitigate significant risks, and reduce the consequences of noncompliance with federal and state laws. Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) is a process applied strategically across the University to identify potential events that may adversely affect the entity and to manage the risks associated with those events. Essentially it is balancing those risks and the ability of the University to continue to fulfill the critical missions of teaching, research, and outreach. The Texas A&M University Compliance Officer chairs a university-wide Compliance Committee that has identified significant risks through Texas A&M University’s Enterprise Risk Management program and developed a Compliance Plan to systematically address and monitor effective mitigation of significant risks. This process is on-going and continuously updated. The university-wide Compliance Program enhances the understanding of ethical behavior and compliance requirements and systematically address compliance risks. Learn More about ERM Title IX / Civil Rights and Equity Investigations (CREI) Title IX of the Education Amendment of 1972 prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex in educational programs and activities at federally funded institutions. Title IX protects students, faculty, staff, and visitors to our campus from all forms of sex discrimination. As outlined in Texas A&M System Policy 08.01.01, Texas A&M University does not tolerate acts of discrimination, harassment, or retaliation based on a protected class. The Department of Civil Rights and Equity Investigations is committed to protecting equal access to University programs, activities, and services by conducting fair, equitable, and thorough investigations and by supporting Texas A&M’s commitment to promoting diversity and inclusion. Learn More about Title IX and CREI Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 prohibits discrimination on the basis of a disability. Texas A&M University (TAMU) is committed to maintaining an accessible campus community and providing reasonable accommodations to qualified students, faculty, staff and visitors, including making its web sites accessible and usable. Learn More about the Americans with Disabilities Act Clery Annual Campus Security Report The Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act or Clery Act requires all colleges and universities that participate in federal financial aid programs to report information about security policies and crimes statistics on and near their campus by October 1 of each year in an Annual Security Report. An Annual Fire Safety Report, containing fire safety information and fire statistics associated with on-campus student housing facilities, is also required by October 1 for institutions that have on-campus student housing facilities. Learn More about the Clery Act and Campus Security Report Rules and Standard Administrative Procedures (SAPs) University Rules and Standard Administrative Procedures (SAPs) are used to communicate the responsibilities, procedures, and practices that guide the operations of Texas A&M units. The Rules and SAPs website is your guide to the governance found in University Rules and SAPs. Learn More about Rules and SAPs Open Records The Texas A&M University Office of Open Records is dedicated to the principles of open government, and strives to ensure compliance as set forth by the Texas Public Information Act. Learn More about Open Records Travel Abroad The travel resource website is intended to serve the TAMU campus community with timely updates on travel rules, news, safety information, and training opportunities. The site brings together information that is communicated in other places, but not easily tied together for a “big picture” understanding of the rules and processes. University Youth Programs The requirements for hosting campus programs for minors stem from a shared commitment to provide a safe environment and meaningful experience for participants that not only meet the minimum legal requirements but also reflect the University’s core values of Excellence, Integrity, Leadership, Loyalty, Respect, and Selfless Service. Learn More about University Youth Programs Insurance Providing assistance if your department needs to receive a quote for insurance, enroll in an insurance policy, renew an insurance policy, or cancel an insurance policy, Learn More about Insurance Privacy The Texas A&M University Privacy website and policy explain how information is collected, used and disclosed by the University with respect to your use of the tamu.edu website and other University sites which display this policy, so you can make an informed decision about using the sites. Learn More about Privacy Primary Sidebar Contact OREC Office of Risk, Ethics, & Compliance YMCA Bldg. #108 1243 TAMU College Station, TX 77843-1243 ☎ 979-458-8191 ✉ orec.tamu.edu Non-Discrimination and Abuse Notice Compliance Corner You are here: Home / How Can We Help? Site Footer Location for Administration & Privacy YMCA Building Suite 108/ MS 1243 TAMU College Station, TX 77843-1243 979-458-8191 orec@tamu.edu Location for Civil Rights & Equity Investigations/Title IX Medical Sciences Library Suite 007 | MS 1268 TAMU 202 Olsen Blvd College Station, TX 77843-4462 ☎ 979-458-8407 ✉ civilrights@tamu.edu Location for Audit Liaison, Clery, ERM, Insurance, Open Records, & Rules General Services Complex Suite 2101/ MS 1280 TAMU 750 Agronomy Rd #2101 College Station, TX 77843-1280 Copyright © 2022 · Texas A&M University · Office of Risk, Ethics and Compliance | Accessibility · Site Policies · Report Fraud