Skip to main content Oregon State University Story Menu All Stories Home Open Menu Open Search search for people and pages Search OSU Looking for a person? Try the campus directory. Exit Search Stay close to home for spring break — and still have a blast. March 15, 2022 The days are getting longer, the daffodils are about to emerge, and many of us are asking each other the same question: what will you do for spring break? If you’re looking for some great places to get some R&R or unique areas to explore, you don’t have to look much further than your backyard. Video file Breathe in some fresh, Pacific Northwest air. Take a stroll — solo or with friends — through Bald Hill, Marys Peak or William L. Finley National Wildlife Refuge. Observe plants waking up from their winter hibernation, catch a glimpse of a squirrel or snail — and take in the beauty of Corvallis. Dive into the Willamette Valley’s natural wonders — and even make a furry friend. If you have new experiences on your list, head south to the town of Monroe and give Goat Yoga a try. Located less than 25 minutes from Corvallis, No Regrets Farm and Sanctuary hosts several classes where you can clear your mind and change up your exercise scenery. Or if you’re interested in a quick road trip, you can spend the night in an adorable cottage at Leaping Lamb Farm in Alsea — located less than 35 minutes from OSU. Video file Get creative: with food! Settle in with a hot cup of coffee and a good book. Enjoy a creamy, vanilla latte and a croissant at Tried & True Coffee in southtown Corvallis, or head downtown to Greenhouse Coffee + Plants where you can sip a cold brew while shopping for some greenery. In nearby Albany, Margin Coffee Roasters is a great place to sit for a while, grab an Americano and catch up with friends. Treat yourself and design your very own burger or donut tour. Or do both. Map out a mini road trip and try as many as you can! Burgers: From unique burgers with all the fixings to vegetarian options, you’re sure to find your fave. Just a few blocks from campus, head to Bo & Vine for the Willamette — complete with goat cheese crumbles, bacon and sweet chili sauce. If classic burgers are on your mind, check out Cheesy Stuffed Burgers or Sky High Brewing — also located in downtown Corvallis. At Brick and Mortar Café in nearby Albany, try the spicy fireside burger or travel just a bit further to Salem, where you can grab a patty topped with mac and cheese at The Ram. Donuts: If you haven’t had the Canadian maple donut at Benny’s, it’s a must try. At Death by Donutz — located right off campus on Monroe at 14th Street — you’ll find cookie dough, s’mores and more mouthwatering flavors. In nearby Lebanon, stop by Sugar Vibes for donuts topped with M&Ms or gummy candies. Or, if you need an allergy-free option, downtown Salem’s Bigwig Donuts are all gluten-free and vegan — and delicious. Food Carts: If a variety of cuisine is more your jam, grab some friends and head over to a local food cart park. Grab some plates to share, or stock up your fridge for the week. Corvallis: Common Fields (try the BBQ at Terra’s Tastee Treats) Albany: The Barn (grab a milkshake topped with a churro at Don Bigote’s) Salem: The Yard (enjoy authentic Indian food at Spicee Bite) and Beehive Station (check out the street tacos and ginormous burritos at Dalia’s Taqueria). Video file Uncover the perfect gift — for yourself or someone you know. The Willamette Valley is full of trendy — and charming — shops. Whether you’re looking for home décor, unique gifts or even something for your pet, you’ll discover something you love. In Corvallis, you’ll find Mod Pod and Many Hands Trading in addition to the Corvallis Indoor Winter Market, which runs until early April. In Albany, stop by Oak Creek Collection and Emma, or explore Felicity, Urban Block and The Arbor in Salem. Catch a show — or two. If movies and popcorn are your game, swing by Darkside Cinema in Corvallis or treat yourself to some pizza or nachos while you watch at The Pix in Albany. Or if live theater is more your style, visit The Majestic Theatre. No matter where you decide to go, you truly can’t go wrong. Happy exploring! Culture Food Student Life Related Stories Video file Barriers don’t stop Trevor Denning. He rolls over them. Video file A destination of choice for more students. Video file Top spots to escape the rain. Video file Instigating change has a ripple effect. OSU's Instagram OSU's TikTok OSU's Twitter OSU's Facebook OSU's Youtube Spotify Oregon State University 1500 SW Jefferson Way Corvallis, OR 97331 541-737-1000 Campus Map Accessibility Information Campus Safety OSU Beaver Store Contact OSU Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer What kind of beaver are you?