Skip to main content Front Page - Main navigation About Academics Research Extension & Engagement Athletics Future Students Current Students Online Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Open Menu Open Search search for people and pages Search OSU Looking for a person? Try the campus directory. Exit Search Sexual Misconduct, Hotline and Other Reporting and Services Office of Equal Opportunity and Access The Office of Equal Opportunity and Access oversees compliance within Oregon State University regarding civil rights and affirmative action laws, regulations and policies. EOA serves as the university’s coordinating office for Title IX and the Americans with Disabilities Act/Section 504. Contact EOA to report sexual misconduct; submit a concern of discrimination, harassment, bullying or retaliation; request accommodation; or report child abuse and neglect. E-mail: Equal.Opportunity@oregonstate.edu Phone: 541-737-3556 Survivor Advocacy & Resource Center The Survivor Advocacy & Resource Center's confidential and legally privileged advocacy services support survivors and their allies by providing information about rights and choices, resources and referrals to other services. Survivors can meet with resource center advocates to personally discuss different options and resources available to them. E-mail: survivoradvocacy@oregonstate.edu Phone: 541-737-2030 Department of Public Safety The Department of Public Safety provides emergency and public safety services at OSU’s campuses in Corvallis and Bend, and supports public safety at OSU facilities throughout Oregon. Services on the Corvallis campus include licensed law enforcement by trained sworn officers. Public safety services on the Corvallis and OSU-Cascades campuses include security checks of buildings and responding to fire and medical emergencies. The department also provides Clery Act reporting and emergency management for the university and dispatch services for the Corvallis campus. In case of an emergency: call 911 Corvallis campus 24/7 business line: 541-737-3010 OSU-Cascades 24/7 business line: 541-322-3110 Accountability and Integrity Hotline The Accountability and Integrity hotline can be used to report suspected wrongdoing or breaches of ethical conduct within Oregon State University. OSU has contracted with EthicsPoint – an independent, third-party vendor – to provide a confidential and anonymous telephone and internet system for reporting any concerns. All reports made through this system will be reviewed by the Office of Audit, Risk and Compliance and then investigated by the appropriate office. Phone: 855-388-4971 Website link to report concerns: www.oregonstate.ethicspoint.com Bias Incident Response The Bias Response Team (BRT) is an interdisciplinary team led by the Office of Institutional Diversity that addresses bias incidents affecting OSU community members through education and care, or referral to other offices, including the Office of Equal Opportunity and Access, for investigation and follow up. The university's bias response process is guided by a Reported Bias Incident Response Protocol (PDF). The BRT provides support to community members who may be negatively affected by bias incidents, engages in a restorative process to educate community members about the harmful impacts of bias, and develops and implements strategies to cultivate living, learning and working environments where all can thrive. E-mail: diversity@oregonstate.edu Phone: 541-737-1063 Office of Human Resources The OSU Office of Human Resources is the university’s central office for human resource services, including employee support and services; leave and benefits; employment policies and programs; accident and incident reporting and more. Email: cathy.hasenpflug@oregonstate.edu Phone: 541-737-0546 Office of Audit, Risk and Compliance The Office of Audit, Risk and Compliance supports the academic, research and public service missions of the university by identifying ways to promote efficient and effective processes and promoting compliant and ethical practices. The Office of Audit, Risk and Compliance oversees OSU’s enterprise risk management and compliance programs. E-mail: patricia.snopkowski@oregonstate.edu Phone: 541-737-0505 University Ombuds Office The University Ombuds Office provides informal, impartial conflict management services to all members of the university community. The Ombuds Office also assists with concerns through service and education to address group conflict and systemic concerns. E-mail: ombuds@oregonstate.edu Phone: 541-737-4537 Office of Research Integrity The Office of Research Integrity supports OSU’s commitment to engaging in exceptional research by collaborating with faculty, staff and students to facilitate and ensure ethical research and regulatory compliance in areas including research conflict of interest; animal programs and protection; human research protection; scientific diving and boating; and export control and international compliance. E-mail: chris.viggiani@oregonstate.edu Phone: 541-737-2878 Environmental Health and Safety The department of Environmental Health and Safety helps maintain a safe and healthy university environment for staff, faculty, students and visitors. The department provides training, consultation, and safety and health services to assure the university complies with local, state and federal regulatory requirements. For questions or to report workplace environmental health or safety concerns, contact: E-mail: thomas.doyle@oregonstate.edu Phone: 541-737-8257 OSU's Instagram OSU's TikTok OSU's Twitter OSU's Facebook OSU's Youtube Spotify Oregon State University 1500 SW Jefferson Way Corvallis, OR 97331 541-737-1000 Campus Map Accessibility Information Campus Safety OSU Beaver Store Contact OSU Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer What kind of beaver are you?