Skip to main content Oregon State University Story Menu All Stories Home Open Menu Open Search search for people and pages Search OSU Looking for a person? Try the campus directory. Exit Search Our future depends on alternative energy solutions. One student team is already making waves. August 6, 2021 Their creation of the Lightning Wave Energy Converter (WEC) provides a sustainable option for ocean observation. The invention, which received two Marine Energy Collegiate Competition awards, was developed and tested by undergraduate and graduate students in disciplines ranging from engineering to public policy, in collaboration with Columbia Power Technologies, Inc. (also known as C-Power). Hear what the team had to say about their experience: Courtney K. Beringer Graduate student, College of Engineering Team lead Your browser does not support the audio element. Nicholas Touchette, '21 College of Engineering Your browser does not support the audio element. Diane Brandt, M.P.P '21 College of Liberal Arts Your browser does not support the audio element. Bryson Robertson Co-director Pacific Marine Energy Center Your browser does not support the audio element. The WEC is about 5m tall. The size is comparable to typical oceanographic buoys and is designed to replace buoys dependent on fossil fuels and intermittent sources like wind and solar. This attenuator style device was tested at the O.H. Hinsdale Wave Research Laboratory at OSU’s Corvallis campus. The team worked on the testing and data collection for a week in March of 2021. Engineering Technology Related Stories Video file Hope is blooming in cystic fibrosis research. Video file Forging a unique career path, she now leads the way for others. Video file Dancing the mechanisms of COVID-19. Video file Beautiful, flavorful, healthful. OSU's Instagram OSU's TikTok OSU's Twitter OSU's Facebook OSU's Youtube Spotify Oregon State University 1500 SW Jefferson Way Corvallis, OR 97331 541-737-1000 Campus Map Accessibility Information Campus Safety OSU Beaver Store Contact OSU Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer What kind of beaver are you?