Skip to main content Oregon State University Story Menu All Stories Home Open Menu Open Search search for people and pages Search OSU Looking for a person? Try the campus directory. Exit Search Top spots to escape the rain. December 3, 2021 Love or loath the rain, it’s a part of living in Oregon’s Willamette Valley. Some days, you just have to push through and get where you’re going. But some days, either you either have the luxury of waiting it out, or the rain is so intense that you’re forced to do nothing but take shelter. In either case, we got you covered. Here’s our favorite spots: Hallie Ford Center Take a seat on one of the benches that are part of the central staircase. With the soft light filtering through the skylights, enjoy the pitter patter of the rain. MU Lounge Need we say more? It’s OSU’s living room. Bonus points if you get a seat next to the window and there’s a fire going in the fireplace. Maximum cozy. Valley Library rotunda Grab an armchair and enjoy the 180-degree view of the drizzle from the second, fourth or fifth floors. If you’re in it for the long haul, you can grab a hot drink from Java II for that next level of warmth. Weatherford Hall arch This classic portrait location also serves as an excellent respite from the rain. Strike a pose, rain or shine! Plaza at the Student Experience Center Sit under the banana tree, pretend it’s 20 degrees warmer and enjoy your tropical escape from the rain. Kelley Engineering Center Sit on the benches that line the floor-to-ceiling windows on either end of the building. Grab a cup of coffee from eCafe. And if you’re lucky, someone might be playing the piano. Atrium in Peavy Hall Surround yourself with the soothing textures and piney smell of the wood interior of this newly built hall. Austin Hall Sit by the fireplace and enjoy a salad from Trader Bing’s. Watch the rain fall down the sides of the windows. Or, head upstairs to walk through the history of the College of Business with the Abacus sculpture. Culture Related Stories Video file This dog harness is made for more than walking. Video file Our commitment to a better world extends worldwide. Video file Water is essential to life. Knowledge is essential to managing it wisely. Video file A destination of choice for more students. OSU's Instagram OSU's TikTok OSU's Twitter OSU's Facebook OSU's Youtube Spotify Oregon State University 1500 SW Jefferson Way Corvallis, OR 97331 541-737-1000 Campus Map Accessibility Information Campus Safety OSU Beaver Store Contact OSU Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer What kind of beaver are you?