Skip to main content Oregon State University Story Menu All Stories Home Open Menu Open Search search for people and pages Search OSU Looking for a person? Try the campus directory. Exit Search Who wins when OSU-Cascades partners with local industry? Everybody. December 16, 2020 Brittnye Freeberg on the Tumalo campus near Bend (Photo: Rob Kerr) For companies, the win comes from access to a skilled workforce. Students win with internships that give them real-world work experience. And those internships often lead to life-changing opportunities. For Brittnye Freeberg, opportunity became the pathway to a brighter future — for herself and her three children. A standout student at Central Oregon Community College, Freeberg transferred to OSU-Cascades to pursue a bachelor’s degree in biology. OSU-Cascades guarantees experiential learning opportunities for all students, and faculty encouraged Freeberg to pursue lab research. With that experience, she earned a Layman Fellowship examining tent caterpillar plant detoxification and resistance to anesthesia in fruit flies. Freeberg also landed an internship as a lab technician at Lonza, a global biotech company with a location in Bend. Freeberg excelled at Lonza. Her internship led to a full-time job offer after she graduated magna cum laude in 2019. Today, as a product development scientist, Freeberg focuses on late-stage pharmaceutical development, testing and optimizing formulations for new drugs. Central Oregon is home to multiple biotech, software, outdoor products and other companies that work closely with OSU-Cascades on internships and workforce development. Brittnye Freeberg is a winning example of that partnership — and one of many. Science Student Life Related Stories Video file Celebrating queer joy. Video file During a time of distance, we’re drawing people in. Video file Growth is heating up at OSU-Cascades. Video file In Beaver Nation, we are better together. OSU's Instagram OSU's TikTok OSU's Twitter OSU's Facebook OSU's Youtube Spotify Oregon State University 1500 SW Jefferson Way Corvallis, OR 97331 541-737-1000 Campus Map Accessibility Information Campus Safety OSU Beaver Store Contact OSU Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer What kind of beaver are you?