Skip to main content Oregon State University Story Menu All Stories Home Open Menu Open Search search for people and pages Search OSU Looking for a person? Try the campus directory. Exit Search During a time of distance, we’re drawing people in. December 16, 2020 Art connects us all — bringing beauty, creativity and meaning that can lift our spirits. Even when a global pandemic shuts down gallery spaces, art can still be shared with the world. Seniors in Oregon State’s fine arts program spend months — sometimes years — preparing to showcase their art in their final spring term. And despite COVID-19, they did. Their exhibition “Knew Normal” transformed from an on-campus event to a completely digital experience. Students initially worried the intricacies of embroidery, paint, sculpture and other elements might be lost. But after thinking beyond physical space and exploring new mediums, they discovered a digital art show had the potential to make an impression on a much larger audience than a single gallery presentation. Their swift adaptation also developed new skills making dynamic art for a digital world — an advantage as they launch their careers. Art relentlessly pushes boundaries. And pulls us together. “Art has existed long before art galleries, and it will exist long after. Artists are always finding new ways to get their ideas out into the world.” Andrew Nigon | Instructor College of Liberal Arts Fine Arts Related Stories Video file Top spots to escape the rain. Video file The path to inclusivity cannot be traveled alone. It takes all of us. Video file Stay close to home for spring break — and still have a blast. Video file Celebrating queer joy. OSU's Instagram OSU's TikTok OSU's Twitter OSU's Facebook OSU's Youtube Spotify Oregon State University 1500 SW Jefferson Way Corvallis, OR 97331 541-737-1000 Campus Map Accessibility Information Campus Safety OSU Beaver Store Contact OSU Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer What kind of beaver are you?