Skip to main content Oregon State University Story Menu All Stories Home Open Menu Open Search search for people and pages Search OSU Looking for a person? Try the campus directory. Exit Search Hemp vs. Covid: OSU finds compounds that could prevent infection. Could hemp help prevent infection or treat COVID-19? Research at Oregon State University shows potential. April 12, 2022 Richard van Breemen, a researcher in Oregon State’s Global Hemp Innovation Center, College of Pharmacy and Linus Pauling Institute has identified two hemp compounds that may prevent the coronavirus that causes COVID-19 from infecting human cells. Using a mass spectrometry-based screening technique that was invented at Oregon State, van Breemen, OSU colleague Ruth Muchiri and five collaborators from Oregon Health & Science University found that a pair of cannabinoids — cannabigerolic acid (CBGA) and cannabidiolic acid (CBDA) — bind to the coronavirus spike protein, blocking a critical step in the infection process. Hemp is a rich source of unique natural products that have therapeutic value. Unlike other cannabinoids that have psychoactive properties, the CBGA and CBDA compounds are not controlled substances and have a good safety profile in humans, van Breemen says, and they also have potential to prevent as well as treat COVID-19 infections. van Breemen expects preclinical trials will happen within a few months. He says preclinical trials, required by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration before any clinical testing in humans can begin, involve using cell cultures and/or animal models to test the safety and efficacy of a new drug candidate. COVID-19 hasn’t been beaten yet. But the discoveries made at Oregon State could be an effective tool in the fight. Oregon State researchers Richard van Breemen and Ruth Muchiri have identified two hemp compounds that may prevent the coronavirus that causes COVID-19 from infecting human cells. Agriculture Innovation Pharmaceutical Sciences Science Wellness Related Stories Video file Forging a unique career path, she now leads the way for others. Video file No parent left behind. Video file Beautiful, flavorful, healthful. Video file Hope is blooming in cystic fibrosis research. OSU's Instagram OSU's TikTok OSU's Twitter OSU's Facebook OSU's Youtube Spotify Oregon State University 1500 SW Jefferson Way Corvallis, OR 97331 541-737-1000 Campus Map Accessibility Information Campus Safety OSU Beaver Store Contact OSU Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer What kind of beaver are you?