Skip to main content Front Page - Main navigation About Academics Research Extension & Engagement Athletics Future Students Current Students Online Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Open Menu Open Search search for people and pages Search OSU Looking for a person? Try the campus directory. Exit Search About Leadership Diversity News Safety Land Acknowledgment Events Jobs Podcasts About Oregon State is an international public research university that draws people from all 50 states and more than 100 countries. We go wherever the challenges are, push ourselves to the very edge of what’s known and keep going. We are determined to forge solutions. We are diverse and welcoming. We embrace our responsibility to Oregon and the world, building a future that’s smarter, healthier, more prosperous and more just. We see what could be and have worked relentlessly for 150 years to make it so. 1 of 3 land, sea, space and sun grant universities in the U.S. 2 campuses, 11 colleges, 12 experiment stations, Extension programs in all 36 counties, 200+ academic programs — COUNTLESS IMPACTS. Top 1.4% university in the world More research funding than any public university in Oregon #3 best university for solving climate change Corvallis A beautiful, historic and state-of-the-art campus, Pac-12 sports and boundless possibilities — all in one of America’s best college towns. OSU-Cascades Our Bend campus offers 20+ majors, small classes, unlimited outdoor recreation and a vast natural laboratory in Central Oregon. Hatfield Marine Science Center Our coastal research hub in Newport offers a variety of opportunities to take classes or pursue experiential learning next to the Pacific Ocean. Portland Earn an Oregon State degree in business or education in an online/in-person format — or take professional development courses — in the City of Roses. Extension With operations in all 36 counties, the OSU Extension Service provides information, services and expertise to 2.3 million Oregonians every year. Students make OSU a vibrant, welcoming community This is your place to find belonging. Use your voice to advocate for what matters to you. Celebrate your culture and discover others in one of our seven cultural resource centers. Live and learn with people from all 50 states and more than 100 countries around the world. And embark on an incredible journey filled with support, friendships and unforgettable experiences. 28,607 undergraduate students 5,833 graduate students 34,108 total students 106 countries represented 9,633 students of color Faculty come here to make a better world out there You can call them groundbreaking, innovative, engaging and dedicated. We call them faculty. Exceptional in the classroom, the laboratory and wherever answers can be found for the world’s greatest challenges, Oregon State University faculty lead the way to a brighter future for all. 4,700 faculty 18 to 1 student to teacher ratio $383.9 million in research funding 4 Top 1% of the world's most-cited researchers Alumni earn a degree that’s valuable for life It will arrive sooner than you think: the day you accept your diploma. But no matter where you go from here, you will always be a Beaver. Because an Oregon State degree is valuable for life. Equipped with a top-notch interdisciplinary education, critical thinking skills and practical experience through research, internships or study abroad, OSU alumni go out there to build impactful lives with confidence. You will too. 210,000+ alumni 118 countries represented $110,000 median mid-career salary OSU's Instagram OSU's TikTok OSU's Twitter OSU's Facebook OSU's Youtube Spotify Oregon State University 1500 SW Jefferson Way Corvallis, OR 97331 541-737-1000 Campus Map Accessibility Information Campus Safety OSU Beaver Store Contact OSU Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer What kind of beaver are you?