Skip to main content Front Page - Main navigation About Academics Research Extension & Engagement Athletics Future Students Current Students Online Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Open Menu Open Search search for people and pages Search OSU Looking for a person? Try the campus directory. Exit Search Official Web Disclaimer Information in the Oregon State University web is provided by many different people. While we try to keep it accurate and up-to-date, we cannot guarantee that it always will be. If you see something in a document that should be corrected or updated, send mail to the address on the document. Be sure to give the full URL of the document in your message. Unless otherwise noted, the web information may not represent official statements or views of Oregon State University. Use information here at your own risk. Affirmative Action and Equal Employment Opportunity Progress in research and teaching, in educating and learning depends upon the interaction of different disciplines, different perspectives, different ideas, and different people. Equal opportunity and affirmative action preserve and build diversity with the university. Oregon State University is committed to the principles of equal employment and affirmative action. The university's affirmative action and equal opportunity programs are administered by the Office of Equal Opportunity and Access (EOA). Americans with Disabilities Act This publication will be made available in accessible formats upon request. Please call 541-737-4411 for further information. Privacy Statement Oregon State University has a firm commitment to privacy. The following statement addresses the information-gathering and dissemination practices for the OSU website. OSU does not collect personal information (e.g., name, address or telephone number) unless you voluntarily provide it to us by sending email, participating in a survey or completing an online form. We do not share any personal information with any third parties. When you visit our website, we automatically collect certain information, such as: Domain, country, IP address Browser, platform, resolution Entrance-Exit Pages, Referrals Date, Time Search Terms and Search Engines This is standard practice for websites, and is not used for any purpose other than to evaluate how we can design the site to best serve your needs. In order to provide better and more secure service we will occasionally use a "cookie." A cookie is a small piece of information stored on your computer that can uniquely identify your browser, and may include other information about your visit to the site. The cookie cannot be read by a website other than the one that set the cookie. Security This site has security measures in place to protect the loss, misuse, and alteration of the information under our control. User and password information is encrypted before it is transmitted across the network. Oregon State University complies with all statutory and legal requirements with respect to access to information. Links to External Sites This site contains links to external, non-OSU sites. Oregon State University is not responsible for the privacy practices or the content of such sites. Google Analytics Oregon State University uses Google Analytics, a website traffic tracking and reporting service, on many of our Web pages. This service helps us to better understand and improve our sites' performance and user experience. We adhere to Google's data processing methods for this service, which prohibit the collection or association of personal information with web analytics. Interest-Based Advertising Oregon State may provide third-party service providers with the cookies it has obtained in order for such service provider to inform, optimize and serve advertisements on other websites a user visits, based on such user's prior visits to the OSU Site. OSU directs these service providers to not use the provided cookies for any purpose other than to provide the advertising services explicitly requested. You can opt out of certain service providers' use of cookies. For example, Google permits you to register your preferences. Google Analytics also provides an opt-out add-on for your browser. The Self-Regulatory Program for Online Behavioral Advertising and the Digital Advertising Alliance and the Network Advertising Initiative have websites that allow you to register your choice to opt-out of receiving interest-based advertisements from certain companies that participate in such initiatives. Questions If you have questions or concerns regarding privacy, you may contact the Office of Information Security. OSU's Instagram OSU's TikTok OSU's Twitter OSU's Facebook OSU's Youtube Spotify Oregon State University 1500 SW Jefferson Way Corvallis, OR 97331 541-737-1000 Campus Map Accessibility Information Campus Safety OSU Beaver Store Contact OSU Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer What kind of beaver are you?