Skip to main content Front Page - Main navigation About Academics Research Extension & Engagement Athletics Future Students Current Students Online Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Open Menu Open Search search for people and pages Search OSU Looking for a person? Try the campus directory. Exit Search Research News Stories Research Office OSU Libraries Research With a record $380 million in competitive research grants and contracts in 2021, Oregon State University continues to lead the way with practical, problem-solving research that improves lives, protects natural resources and generates economic growth to transform our future for the better. Oregon State’s researchers are top-ranked in their fields, hold leadership positions in international and national professional organizations, have received prestigious honors and earned global reputations. Putting research innovations to work The Oregon State University Advantage connects research to real-world applications. Our Innovation Impact Program helps turn research discoveries into new products, services, investments and businesses. We are an engine driving widely shared prosperity, improved human welfare and a healthier planet. More research funding than any university in Oregon 1 of 3 land, sea, space, and sun grant universities in the U.S. #1 in the Pacific Northwest for innovation Research Stories Video file Outstanding in their fields. Distinguished at Oregon State. Video file Hemp vs. Covid: OSU finds compounds that could prevent infection. Video file In Beaver Nation, we are better together. Video file This dog harness is made for more than walking. Video file Recreation is good for you — and your wallet. Video file Our future depends on alternative energy solutions. Video file Beautiful, flavorful, healthful. Video file Dancing the mechanisms of COVID-19. OSU's Instagram OSU's TikTok OSU's Twitter OSU's Facebook OSU's Youtube Spotify Oregon State University 1500 SW Jefferson Way Corvallis, OR 97331 541-737-1000 Campus Map Accessibility Information Campus Safety OSU Beaver Store Contact OSU Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer What kind of beaver are you?