Skip to main content Oregon State University Story Menu All Stories Home Open Menu Open Search search for people and pages Search OSU Looking for a person? Try the campus directory. Exit Search Winners on the field. Leaders everywhere. December 14, 2020 The summer of 2020 became a forum for racial justice, with protests nationwide over the deaths of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor and other African Americans by law enforcement. Among the voices: Black student-athletes at Oregon State University, who used their social media platforms to speak up about their own experiences and speak out against systemic racism. They also launched a new platform — Dam Change — to educate, empower and enhance the experience of Black student-athletes and staff. Driven by student-athletes and supported by Oregon State Athletics, Dam Change is helping lead the fight against racism and inequality within the athletics community, across OSU and beyond. Jaydon Grant — Football It is far past the time to address these issues not only in our country, but in suburban communities like West Linn specifically. It is time for change, and I stand on that! Come support and please share this post‼️✊? #BLACKLIVESMATTER pic.twitter.com/ck3SKQI64W — Jaydon Grant (@JaydonGrant) June 16, 2020 Isis Lowery — Women’s Gymnastics View this post on Instagram A post shared by ISIS LOWERY ? (@isis_lowery) Nya Buckner — Women’s Volleyball View this post on Instagram A post shared by n y a (@nyabuckner) Gianni Hunt — Men’s Basketball View this post on Instagram A post shared by Gianni (@giannihunt) Joel Walker — Men’s Soccer View this post on Instagram A post shared by Joel Nyamieh Walker ?? (@ayee_joel8) Beaver Athletics Today, our student-athletes launch #DamChange, a platform to educate, empower, and enhance the experience of Black student-athletes and staff. Take two minutes. Hear their experiences. Then help us create #DamChange. Learn More: https://t.co/67o5Ulumac #GoBeavs pic.twitter.com/fjqGO3i3eR — The Beavs (@BeaverAthletics) July 14, 2020 Humanities Social Justice Student Life Related Stories Video file Fall into the beauty of Oregon. Video file Forging a unique career path, she now leads the way for others. Video file Celebrating queer joy. Video file Water is essential to life. Knowledge is essential to managing it wisely. OSU's Instagram OSU's TikTok OSU's Twitter OSU's Facebook OSU's Youtube Spotify Oregon State University 1500 SW Jefferson Way Corvallis, OR 97331 541-737-1000 Campus Map Accessibility Information Campus Safety OSU Beaver Store Contact OSU Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer What kind of beaver are you?