Home Training Workshops Peer Mentors Peer Mentor Schedule Empathy Chairs About Plan of Action All Staff Bios Additional Resources FAQs More Use tab to navigate through the menu items. EARS (Empathy, Assistance & Referral Service) provides training, workshops, and peer mentoring to promote mental health, well-being, and help-seeking among the Cornell campus community. EARS has reimagined its services through a new model of peer mentoring, support, and outreach which involves building relationships and integrating EARS-trained students into communities on campus. We have two new programs -- EARS Peer Mentors and Empathy Chairs -- that will expand our outreach to the Cornell Community. Please check out our new tabs to find out more information about each role. For our official statement on how EARS has changed, please click here. Drop-in Peer Mentoring hours are now closed for the Spring 2022 semester. We will return in the Fall 2022 semester. For other additional resources, click here. For more information and updates please visit our social media channels: Facebook: @cornellears Instagram: @cornell_ears #NoProblemTooSmall #WeHearYou EARS (Empathy, Assistance and Referral Service) is a vibrant peer support, outreach, and training program open to all members of the Cornell community. EARS Announces New Model This Cornell Chronicle article explains our latest updates. This FAQ helps address questions about our new model of services, to begin Fall 2021. This organization is a registered student organization of Cornell University. EARS is staffed by undergraduate, graduate students, and professional students and is advised by Cornell staff. EARS is a student-run organization that is housed under the Skorton Center for Health Initiatives and funded in part by the Student Activity Fee. PEER MENTORING EARS will begin offering free, drop-in, Peer Mentoring hours in Fall 2021. Peer Mentors are trained to serve as a listening ear and mental health referral service to the Cornell student community. TRAINING EARS offers training in active listening, empathy, and communication skills. Anyone in the Cornell Community is welcome to train to be a better communicator and leader. WORKSHOPS EARS staff and trainers offer free interactive workshops upon request for any campus group. "EARS really helped me learn to listen and understand people, regardless of their background or circumstance, and I really think it ultimately helps you become a more empathetic and considerate person as a result. Super grateful for every minute I spent in EARS and definitely recommend that everybody get involved if possible!" Matt Chen '20 EARS (Empathy, Assistance and Referral Service) ears@cornell.edu Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 ©2021 by EARS (Empathy, Assistance and Referral Service). Proudly created with Wix.com