retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs MENU Header Menu Google Translate/En Español Search Search Programming New Student Orientation Longhorn Welcome First Generation Living Learning Community Horns Helping Horns Longhorn TIES RISE Off Campus Longhorn Welcome Spring Longhorn Welcome Fall Longhorn Welcome Resources Campus Safety Conduct Expectations Campus Services Academic Resources Getting Involved UT Lingo About Contact Us Mission and Vision Social Media Guidelines Student Leadership Positions COVID-19 (Coronavirus) Updates Breadcrumb Home New Student Orientation New Student Orientation FAQs New Student Orientation FAQs Jump to: Orientation Registration Selecting Your Session/Date Orientation and Tuition Payments Session Changes and Attendance Preparing for Orientation What to Expect at Orientation Class Registration Housing and Parking Placement Testing Other Orientation Registration Are all incoming students required to complete orientation? Yes, orientation is required for undergraduate students. You will register for your classes during your orientation session. When can I register for an orientation session? Orientation registration is now open. You must be admitted and satisfy your enrollment deposit before you can register for a session. Visit MyStatus to accept your offer of admission and, if required, to satisfy the enrollment deposit. Please note, an enrollment deposit is not required for students entering in the spring semester. Please register early as sessions are filled on a first-come, first-served basis. You will not be able to register for classes until you participate in an orientation session. Orientation Sessions will close if seat capacity is met (“full”) and/or on the scheduled close date: Summer Term Admitted Students: Registration closes at 11:59 p.m., CST, 6 calendar days before the start of the session. Fall Term Admitted Students: Registration closes at 11:59 p.m., CST, 10 calendar days before the start of each session. If you are unable to participate in an orientation session, you must contact New Student Services at nss@austin.utexas.edu. How do I register for orientation if I’m an international student (non-U.S. citizen, non-permanent resident)? If you are not a U.S. citizen or permanent resident upon admission to UT Austin, you are classified as an international student. There are three requirements that you will need to complete as a part of your orientation process. You will not be able to register for classes until you have completed these tasks: Register for your required university orientation. Complete the check-in process with Texas Global BEFORE your required university orientation? Satisfy the immunization requirements. Click here to learn more about requirements for international students. Participate in your required university orientation and register for classes. Selecting Your Session/Date When is Freshman Orientation for fall term admitted students? For Freshman Orientation, different sessions are offered depending on your college or school. Find your college/school in the Orientation Dates section of our website to view which orientation sessions you can participate in. If you cannot participate in a June/July session, an August session will be offered virtually before classes begin August 16-18. Students who attend August orientation will have the chance to connect with campus and students in-person at Longhorn Welcome August 19-28. When is Transfer Orientation for fall term admitted students? For Transfer Orientation, different sessions are offered depending on your college or school. Find your college/school in the Orientation Dates section of our website to see which orientation sessions you can participate in. If you cannot participate in a June/July session, an August session will be offered virtually before classes begin August 15-16 with registration on August 18. Students who complete their orientation requirement virtually will have the chance to connect with campus and students in-person at Longhorn Welcome August 19-27. Will I complete my orientation session in an online format? All June/July freshman sessions of New Student Orientation 2022 will be hosted in-person on-campus. Transfer sessions will be hosted online for all three sessions with an additional option to register for an in-person on-campus format for the third session. Summer School Orientation and August Orientation will take place 100% virtually. Students who complete their orientation requirement virtually will have the chance to connect with campus and students in-person at Longhorn Welcome August 19-27. If I choose to complete transfer orientation virtually, will I have the opportunity to meet other new students? Yes, students participating in transfer orientation virtually will be able to connect with other students during their sessions through fun virtual socials and events. They will receive information for campus organizations they can join, as well as interact with orientation advisors (OAs) who are fellow UT Austin students. OAs receive training with schools/colleges to assist students with the class registration process during orientation. Students can start building relationships with their classmates online even before orientation. If you’re an incoming freshman, we encourage you to join the official UT Austin Class of 2026 Facebook Group. Transfer students can make similar connections by joining the Transfer Students Facebook group. Students who complete their orientation requirement virtually will also have the chance to connect with campus and students in-person at Longhorn Welcome August 19-27. Which orientation session should Path to Admission through Co-Enrollment (PACE) students register for? If you are a PACE student who is starting in the fall semester, you must sign up for one of the first four Freshman Orientation sessions. View orientation dates. Which orientation session should Coordinated Admission Program (CAP) participants register for? All students in the CAP program should sign up for a June/July session of Transfer Orientation. If you cannot attend a June/July session, you must attend August Orientation. View orientation dates. Which orientation session should UTeach ACCess students register for? If you are a UTeach ACCess student who is starting in the fall semester, you must sign up for the first or fourth Freshman Orientation sessions. View orientation dates Is there an orientation program for parents and families? Yes, Family Orientation is facilitated by Texas Parents and is separate from student orientation. Family orientation requires a separate registration process. You can find more information about Family Orientation at parents.utexas.edu/FamilyOrientation or by contacting Texas Parents at FamilyOrientation@austin.utexas.edu. Orientation and Tuition Payments What is included in the cost for orientation? Orientation fees are determined by many different factors, including housing and meals, operational costs, hardware, software, student personnel, and swag distributed to students. We understand your concerns and hope this has provided more insight into the program. We look forward to hosting you at orientation soon! When do I pay for my orientation session? You must pay for your session when you register via What I Owe. You will not be placed in a session or receive a confirmation email until you have paid. Can I defer my orientation payment? The orientation charge may be automatically deferred for students who qualify based on financial need. For those who qualify, the registration system will automatically show your deferral when you log in to register. If you receive a financial aid award, your payment will be deducted from your fall award. If your award does not have sufficient funds to cover your orientation balance, you will have until the first day of classes to complete the payment. Please note that a deferment means that the balance is due at a later date, and the balance will show on your What I Owe account until your financial aid award is disbursed in August or you submit payment prior to the start of classes. Admissions and other fee waivers are not the same as deferment for orientation. While orientation fees may be deferred to a later date, the costs are not waived. I have registered for orientation, but I haven’t received a confirmation email about my orientation session. What should I do? You will receive a confirmation email when you register and pay for a session. Please check your spam folder if you believe you haven't received an email. If it’s not in your spam, add nss@austin.utexas.edu as a contact and then email us. Can I get a refund if I cancel my orientation session? If you are unable to attend your scheduled session, you must cancel at least 10 calendar days in advance to receive a refund (at least six calendar days for Spring and Summer School Orientation). For the full refund policy applicable to your specific orientation, please review the links below. If you registered to attend June or July orientation and fail to attend (no show), the charges are non-refundable and can only be transferred to an August Orientation session. You must register to attend August Orientation if you do not attend orientation in June or July. There will be no cancellations or refunds for August Orientation. Please review the full Refund Policy specific to your orientation: Freshman Orientation Refund Policy Transfer Orientation Refund Policy Do I have to pay my tuition during my orientation session? No, if you are participating in Summer School Orientation on May 31, tuition payment will be due June 7, 2022. If you’re participating in a June/July orientation session, payment will be due in August, and if you’re participating in the August Orientation, payment will be due at the end of August. The academic calendar will list tuition payment deadlines when they become available. Session Changes and Attendance Can I switch orientation sessions? If you need to change your session, you must switch your registration before the registration deadline of that session by visiting the online registration page. You will only be able to switch to a session that has space available. Please do not attempt to coordinate with another student to switch orientation sessions, even if you are both in the same college. There are several factors that determine how many spaces are available in each session and who can fill those spaces. Can I get on a waitlist for a session? Sessions do not have waitlists. If the session you wish to participate in is full, you should register for a different session that you can attend. You can continue to check the orientation registration system to see if a space opens up in your desired session, but New Student Services cannot place you in a session that is full. Sessions must maintain caps in order to ensure that all students have quality time allotted during college and advising meetings in preparing to successfully register for your classes. What if I can’t attend any of the orientation sessions or my school/college indicates “full” on the registration page for June/July? If you are admitted for fall term and are unable to participate in any of the June/July sessions, there will be an August Orientation session held before classes begin. If all June/July orientation sessions are full for your college, you will automatically see the option to register for August Orientation within the registration portal. Please note: All students may not see the option to register for August Orientation simultaneously as it is dependent on their specific college reaching capacity. Registration for August Orientation will open for all students by late-July. All colleges will be participating in the August Orientation session so you will be able to interact with your college, academic advisor, meet other new students, and register for classes during August Orientation, consistent with June/July sessions. August Orientation will take place August 15-16 for incoming transfer students and August 16-17 for incoming freshman students with all students will register for their first semester of classes on August 18. While August Orientation will be hosted 100% virtually, students will have the opportunity to connect with campus and fellow Longhorns in-person at Longhorn Welcome August 19-27. If you are unable to participate in an orientation session, you must contact New Student Services and we will assist you. Please note that you will not be able to register for classes until you participate in an orientation session. What if I miss or do not complete my orientation session? If you miss your orientation session, you will not be able to register for classes at your designated access time. You will need to contact New Student Services to make arrangements and discuss the steps you need to take to be able to register. If you register for a June/July session, but fail to participate, you will need to go back into the orientation registration system and register for either a later session that is still available or August Orientation. Your payment for the June/July session will transfer to the August Session but will not be refunded. If you miss your June/July session and do not register for August Orientation, you will not be able to register for classes at your designated access time. Preparing for Orientation What equipment will I need in order to complete my required online orientation program? To complete your Canvas modules, and if you are attending a virtual session, you will need a computer, webcam, headphones or quiet place and a reliable internet connection. If you have questions about technology requirements, please contact nss@austin.utexas.edu. If you are attending an in-person orientation session, in addition to the items above, we suggest you bring the following items with you to campus: comfortable walking shoes, backpack/bag, umbrella, towels and toiletries, and a reuseable water bottle. What digital platform will be used for the orientation program? Canvas will be used for orientation and will include modules as well as the orientation schedule. This helps introduce students to the Canvas platform, which they will use throughout their time at UT Austin for classroom instruction and support. Students login to Canvas using their UT EIDs and Duo authentication. If you are completing orientation virtually, orientation will be presented in a variety of formats: live, video conferencing (via Zoom) and pre-recorded. What is Duo and how do I register? In order to maintain the highest level of security, UT Austin students, faculty and staff must use Duo, a Multi-Factor authorization solution. Multi-Factor authorization provides an added level of protection and minimizes the risk of unauthorized access to UT Austin resources and your accounts. Setting up Duo is easy. Just follow these step-by-step instructions from Information Technology Services. How do I set up my UT Austin email address? Visit the ITS website for instructions on how to set up your UT Austin email address. How do I request accommodations for the online orientation and video modules? If you have a disability and need accommodations for online orientation, you can find information about how to request accommodations at newstudentservices.utexas.edu/students-with-disabilities. Do I need to complete medical clearances, including immunizations, before orientation? Both domestic and international students must satisfy all medical clearance requirements at least two weeks prior to your orientation session. These requirements need to be met so that you can enroll in classes. Domestic students, click here to learn more about these requirements. International students, click here to learn more about these requirements. How do I submit my transcript? You should submit your final, official high school transcript as soon as possible after your graduation. If you attend a Texas public school, ask your school counselor to submit your final transcript electronically through Texas Records Exchange (TREx) which is a system managed by the Texas Education Agency and available to all public high schools in Texas. Another option is to have your school counselor submit your transcript electronically through Parchment (a partner of Naviance to some schools). Otherwise, an original, official document must be mailed to the Office of Admissions: The University of Texas at Austin Office of Admissions P.O. Box 8058 Austin, TX 78713-8058 Do I need to have my test scores (Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate, etc.) with me at my academic advising appointment? You should have any test scores sent to Testing Services, but it's also helpful to gather all test scores and have them with you for your advising appointment at orientation. If you don't have all your scores, it's not a problem. Students can still register for orientation if their test scores are pending. Additionally, your advisor can still work with you to plan out your course selections even if some of your scores are still pending. What should I pack? All students will need: DUO App on your smartphone Laptop/Tablet/Charger Headphones If you are joining us on campus (all freshman sessions and the third transfer session), then you will need: Backpack Folder/Binder to hold any handouts Number 2 pencils (placement tests) Umbrella Comfortable Walking/Running Shoes Snacks Change of clothes/Towels/Toiletries Refillable Water Bottle A government issued ID Any medications you may take regularly Face Mask (optional) What to Expect at Orientation What can I expect at orientation? Programming for incoming fall term admitted students will be as follows: all sessions of Freshman Orientation will be in-person across three days, and Transfer Orientation programming will be across two days with the first two sessions hosted 100% virtually and the third virtually or in-person. If you are a summer school admitted student, programming for your virtual orientation will be on May 31. The goal of orientation is to ensure incoming students are informed about academic and campus resources, understand how to get involved and connect with campus community, and learn about information that can help with a successful transition to UT Austin. You will participate in your school/college meeting, receive academic advising, and complete course registration during your scheduled orientation session. Will I be able to meet with my college/school and academic advisor and register for my classes during orientation? Yes, regardless of the format for your orientation session, you will participate in college meetings and interact with your academic advisor prior to course registration (course registration is on the last day of session). Additional details about your meetings will be shared with you closer to the orientation session you register for. Can I change my major during my orientation session? If you are concerned about your major choice, you will have time to discuss it with your advisor during your academic advising appointment. If I participate in an on-campus in-person student session, do I need to plan to stay on-campus? Yes, you are required to stay on campus for the entirety of your orientation session, even if you reside in Austin. In order to maximize your orientation and get the full experience of the robust schedule, students attending an in-person orientation session from check-in through 2:30 p.m. on the final day. On-campus housing is included with orientation registration for all in-person sessions. How can I stay connected and learn about activities that I can participate in over the summer as I prepare for my first semester at UT-Austin? We are excited to stay connected with you on social media channels throughout the summer. Be sure to follow @UTOrientation on Instagram, Twitter and Facebook, and @UTAustinNSS on Instagram and Twitter for important orientation information and area events. You will also be able to find updated resources at newstudentservices.utexas.edu and offcampus.utexas.edu. We are also thrilled to host Longhorn Welcome, a Texas-size welcome in August. Class Registration When do I register for classes? For freshman and transfer students participating in a June/July session, you will register for classes on the last day of orientation and you will have access to the registration system until midnight that day. You won't be able to make changes to your schedule until the add/drop period in July. Students who attend August Orientation will register on the final day of programming. Following this registration period, you will not be able to make changes to your schedule until the add/drop period later in August. You can check your Registration Information Sheet to view your access times. Will I still be able to get the classes I want if I attend a later orientation session? In some classes, seats will be reserved so that students in each orientation session have a chance to register for those classes. No matter which session you participate in, there will be classes you can register for that will fulfill your core requirements and keep you on track for graduation. You should expect to be flexible with class days and times. Being open about professors will also help you maximize your options for courses. What do I do if I have a registration bar? Any bars you have will be listed on your Registration Information Sheet. If you have an advising bar, that will be cleared during orientation once you meet with your academic advisor. If you have a health bar, that will be cleared once you have submitted your immunization documentation. Domestic students, click here to learn more about medical clearance requirements. International students, click here to learn more about medical clearance requirements. If you have an international bar, that will be cleared once you have completed your International Briefing and Check-In session. If you have a high school transcript bar, it will not prevent you from registering for classes. If you have a financial bar, in most cases, financial bars may be paid in cash or by check at the cashier's office in Main Building room 8, or cleared online at the What I Owe page. If you have a non-financial bar, you must resolve a nonfinancial bar with the administrative office that imposed it. What if I miss a required program at orientation? Will I still be able to register for classes? There are required programs throughout the duration of your orientation session that you must participate in and, if you miss them, you may not be able to register for classes. If you miss a required program, please contact New Student Services at nss@austin.utexas.edu immediately for further instructions. After I have attended an orientation session, if necessary, when can I make changes to my class schedule? You can only make changes to your schedule during the official add/drop period. You can check your Registration Information Sheet to see when you can add and drop classes. Housing and Parking Where will I stay during orientation? If you attend an in-person orientation session, you will stay in the Jester dorm. Are there resources if I choose to live off-campus for the fall semester? The Off-campus Living Resources website provides students with a wide variety of information including tips on Austin neighborhoods and how to find roommates, safety and transportation, and a calendar of events specifically designed for Longhorns living off-campus. Where can I find information about on-campus housing for the fall semester? You can find information about on-campus housing, including best contact information, on the University Housing and Dining website. Will parking be available for in-person orientation sessions? You will receive more information about available parking options after registering for orientation. Placement Testing How can I contact Student Testing Services for information about testing or policies? Call 512-232-2662, email us at ctl-testing@utlists.utexas.edu, or visit our office Monday through Friday from 8 a.m.-5 p.m. What tests should I take at orientation? Not everyone needs to take all of the placement tests that are offered at orientation—it often depends on a number of factors, including your major, what tests you have taken, and what kind of credits you have obtained from other colleges through transfer work or dual-credit. To find out which tests are most appropriate for you, either contact the Student Testing Services office or speak with your academic advisor during your orientation session. Do I need to take the Texas Success Initiative (TSI) assessment? You can check your TSI status on your Registration Information Sheet (RIS). If you are exempt it will say "Exempt" or "Complete" on your RIS and there is no further action needed from you. If not, you will need to provide documentation of your exemption or present passing scores from the TSI Assessment before you can register for courses. For more information, email the TSI Office at tsi@austin.utexas.edu. How do I register for tests at orientation? There are two primary ways to register for orientation tests: Online using the Orientation Registration page In-person with Student Testing Services located in the George I. Sánchez Building (SZB), Room 5.102, 1912 Speedway, Austin, TX, 78712 during your orientation. When you register in either of these manners, you will not be charged for the test until after you take it. I signed up through the orientation website for tests that I don’t need. What should I do? If you are still able to access your orientation selections through the New Student Services orientation website, you are welcome to cancel your test registration through the “Making Changes to Your Reservation” link. If you no longer have access to the orientation system, you do not need to worry about trying to cancel your test registration. As long as you registered through the orientation website for our tests, you have not yet been charged any testing fees. Students are only charged for a test after they take them, so if you do not show up for the test for which you registered, you will not be charged for it. When and how should I plan on paying for my orientation tests? If you registered for a test through the orientation website or in person with Student Testing Services, you will be charged for any testing fees after you sit for the test. You will have up to two weeks to pay for these charges. There are three ways that you can pay: Online through your What I Owe page In-person at the Bursar’s Office located in the Main Building, Room 8 By mail to the Bursar’s Office, University of Texas at Austin, P.O. Box 7398, Austin, TX 78713-7398 Other How do I upgrade my UT EID or get a student ID? Important: If you have not already, please make sure to upgrade your UT EID. To verify whether your EID is already upgraded, go to the EID Self Help Tools and select "Upgrade My UT EID." You WILL NEED an upgraded UT EID to: View your grades online Update banking information online Make Payments on the What I Owe page Use Financial Aid to pay tuition or housing costs Order Official UT Transcripts online Please visit our 'Upgrading a UT EID' knowledge article for more info on upgrading your EID! EID upgrades are provided at no cost while ID cards cost $10. The ID Card fee is due within 30 days of card issuance may be paid in person at the Cashier’s Office in the Main Building, or online at the What I Owe page on the Student Accounts Receivable Website, or by clicking the “What I Owe” link in MyUT (my.utexas.edu). How can I obtain health insurance while attending UT Austin? If you have health insurance or a prescription card, make sure you have them with you on campus! If you don’t have health insurance, learn more about the Student Health Insurance Plan, an affordable health, dental, and vision plan approved by the UT System. FacebookFind us on Facebook InstagramSee us on Instagram TwitterFind us on Twitter YoutubeSee us on Youtube Footer menu Contact About Us Orientation FAQs UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022