Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About 'Cane Kickoff Orientation Students Parents & Families Orientation Staff Our Sponsors Commuter Students Commuter Assistants Great Start Association of Commuter Students (ACS) Transfer Students Transfer Assistants Tau Sigma Transfer National Honor Society Transfer Student Guide Parents & Families Family Weekend Family Well-Being Resources Family Newsletter Family 'Cane Kickoff Family Resource Guide About 'Cane Kickoff Orientation Commuter Students Transfer Students Parents & Families Search About 'Cane Kickoff Orientation Students Parents & Families Orientation Staff Our Sponsors Commuter Students Commuter Assistants Great Start Association of Commuter Students (ACS) Transfer Students Transfer Assistants Tau Sigma Transfer National Honor Society Transfer Student Guide Parents & Families Family Weekend Family Well-Being Resources Family Newsletter Family 'Cane Kickoff Family Resource Guide Parents & Families Virtual Family 'Cane Kickoff Students Orientation Staff Our Sponsors About 'Cane Kickoff Orientation Commuter Students Transfer Students Remote Students Parents & Families Home Orientation Family 'Cane Kickoff AAA Parents & Families We are very excited to welcome you and your student to the University of Miami. The orientation experiences for students and for families are intentionally planned separately to give each of you the opportunity to learn about the University and all it has to offer. While your student is meeting classmates and learning about life on campus, we strive to help you become familiar with the University of Miami community through the offerings listed in this program. You will have the opportunity to meet UM administrators, faculty, staff, and current students. This a great time to have your questions and concerns addressed in person. Everyone on campus, including our orientation staff, is excited to help you learn all you need to know about the U and will assist you by offering information and support. We encourage you to stay in touch with us should questions arise beyond ‘Cane Kickoff. Registration Students must provide their family members' email addresses when registering for 'Cane Kickoff via CaneLink. Family members will receive a separate email containing Family 'Cane Kickoff registration instructions. Click here for a Coral Gables map and directions Click here for local hotels The Family Road to UM Your student’s next steps have been prepared for them in their Road to UM, but we know that you are their partner and biggest supporter when it comes to their personal, financial, and academic success. We welcome your partnership in helping to get your student started on the right foot. First-Year Road to UM Guide Transfer Student Guide This Family Road to UM is your guide to the tools, resources, and connections you will need to support your student as they embark on their college journey. We trust that the checklist, important dates, and deadlines and details information found on corresponding web pages will be just what you need to be informed and empowered as your student makes the transition from high school to college. 'Cane Kickoff Schedules Open All Tabs Fall 2022 Schedule Incoming international undergraduate first-year and transfer students: Monday, August 15 through Sunday, August 21. New International Students and Incoming Exchange Students living on campus will move in on Monday. International Student Orientation will be held on Tuesday. Compulsory Session for Exchange Students will be held on Tuesday. Incoming domestic undergraduate first-year and transfer students: Monday, August 15 through Sunday, August 21. Domestic Students living on campus will move in during their assigned day and time slot on either Monday or Tuesday. If you will be commuting or living off-campus, you may check in for ‘Cane Kickoff Wednesday morning. Family ’Cane Kickoff (for families of new undergraduate first-year and transfer students): Monday, August 15 through Wednesday, August 17. Select offerings on day of student’s designated housing move-in. Full-day program for families of all residential and commuter students held on Wednesday until 6:30pm. Student Schedule Family Schedule Spring 2023 Schedule Incoming International undergraduate first-year and transfer students: Tuesday, January 10 through Sunday, January 15 New International Students and Incoming Exchange Students living on campus will move in on Tuesday International Student Orientation will be held on Wednesday Compulsory Session for Exchange Students will be held on Wednesday Incoming domestic undergraduate first-year and transfer students: Wednesday, January 11 through Sunday, January 15 Domestic Students living on campus will move in during their assigned day and time slot on Wednesday If you will be commuting or living off-campus, you may check in for ‘Cane Kickoff on TBD. Family ’Cane Kickoff (for families of new undergraduate first-year and transfer students): Thursday, January 12 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Shalala Student Center 1330 Miller Drive, Suite 203 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-5646 305-284-5646 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices