Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Orientation myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Register Prepare Attend Parents and Guests Post-Orientation checklist Your first year Select to follow link Hawk Week Academics Select to follow link First-year programs Exploring majors Earning your degree Campus life Select to follow link Parking & Transit Housing & Dining Employment Finding your community Health and Support Select to follow link Health and recreation Campus security Academic Resources Info for International Students Graduate Students Edwards Students Law School Students Medical Center Campus Students Pharmacy Students myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Orientation Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Parents and guests Orientation isn’t just for students. We invite parents and guests to share in the experience and attend alongside their Jayhawks. What to expect You and your student will start the day together, with the Rock Chalk Welcome. After that, you’ll break off for your own separate activities. Like your student, you’ll attend information sessions about first-year expectations and opportunities. This is a chance for you to engage one-on-one with staff and faculty, ask questions, and learn about the student experience at KU. Advising and enrollment Students will attend an advising and enrollment appointment with their academic advisor. Guests will not attend advising with their students. Attending this appointment on their own allows students to begin developing a strong relationship with their academic advisor. However, we encourage you to discuss your student’s plans for their advising session ahead of time. Where to stay Planning an overnight stay in Lawrence? KU has partnered with a selection of local hotels to offer discounted rates to Orientation attendees. See hotel discounts See hotel discounts Summerfield Hall 1300 Sunnyside Ave., Room 315 Lawrence, KS 66045-7601 orientation@ku.edu 785-864-4270 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin About Staff Academics Safety Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.