Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Orientation myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Register Prepare Attend Parents and Guests Post-Orientation checklist Your first year Select to follow link Hawk Week Academics Select to follow link First-year programs Exploring majors Earning your degree Campus life Select to follow link Parking & Transit Housing & Dining Employment Finding your community Health and Support Select to follow link Health and recreation Campus security Academic Resources Info for International Students Graduate Students Edwards Students Law School Students Medical Center Campus Students Pharmacy Students myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Orientation Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Post-Orientation checklist Tie up the following loose ends and you’ll be all set for your first day on campus. Your first-year to-do list Submit your immunization history The easiest way is through your student health portal, which you’ll gain access to three days after enrolling at Orientation. Upload your KU card info If you haven’t already, submit your personal details and photo for your KU ID card. Pick a parking plan Parking permits are first come, first served. If you plan to bring a vehicle to campus and haven’t purchased a permit, you should do so as soon as possible. Confirm a dining plan Review your options, or the perks of the plan that you’ve chosen. List Log in to your KU email account You’ll use your KU email for all official university communications. Submit remaining scores or transcripts If you haven’t already, send KU your final, official transcripts, or updated exam scores. Review your housing details If you’re living on campus, get to know community opportunities, roommates, and more. Review your financial aid and payment options Know the amount of aid to expect, how you’ll receive it, and where you can pay your bill. Post-Orientation course After Orientation, you'll round out the experience with a course that covers important first-year topics, including financial aid and fees, academic opportunities, and campus involvement. You are required to complete the course prior to the start of the semester. To access your course, sign in to Canvas using your KU ID and password, then select DiscoverKU from the My Courses section on the front page. Go to Canvas Summerfield Hall 1300 Sunnyside Ave., Room 315 Lawrence, KS 66045-7601 orientation@ku.edu 785-864-4270 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin About Staff Academics Safety Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.