Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Orientation myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Register Prepare Attend Parents and Guests Post-Orientation checklist Your first year Select to follow link Hawk Week Academics Select to follow link First-year programs Exploring majors Earning your degree Campus life Select to follow link Parking & Transit Housing & Dining Employment Finding your community Health and Support Select to follow link Health and recreation Campus security Academic Resources Info for International Students Graduate Students Edwards Students Law School Students Medical Center Campus Students Pharmacy Students myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Orientation Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Your first year Campus life Support your goals, fund your future In your first year, you’ll encounter new financial responsibilities and opportunities. Many college students balance the need to make a wage while working on a degree. At KU, this balance works best on campus. Earn a paycheck You’ll find campus employment opportunities in a variety of settings, including libraries, museums, labs, offices, and dining. Beyond flexible schedules and convenience, student jobs may offer career experience in relevant fields and professional connections with faculty, staff, and industry leaders. Campus employment Get a feel for the kinds of jobs available — or start connecting with campus employers — through KU’s employment website. Learn More Hire Jayhawks For an advanced look at prospects beyond campus, search the HireJayhawks career management service for internship, part-time, and full-time opportunities. Learn More Swipe to see more Consider work-study If you filed a FAFSA, you may be eligible for federal work-study. Through work-study, students can earn a wage through federally-subsidized, part-time employment on campus. See opportunities Ask the experts University Career Center The University Career Center specializes in coaching students new to the workforce — then connecting them with employers and positions that lead to promising post-KU careers. Visit UCC Student Money Management Services SMMS helps students analyze their budgets, make sound financial decisions, and commit to controlling their financial lives while at KU and into the future. Visit SMMS Jayhawk Career Network Through mentorship, programming, and an active job board, the Jayhawk Career Network connects current students with future employers and career opportunities. Visit JCN Summerfield Hall 1300 Sunnyside Ave., Room 315 Lawrence, KS 66045-7601 orientation@ku.edu 785-864-4270 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin About Staff Academics Safety Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.