Skip to Main Content Brown University Undergraduate Orientation Search Menu Site Navigation Home Before You Arrive You’re In! Here’s What Comes Next. Summer Emails Get Oriented Pre-Orientation New Student Orientation Transfer & RUE Orientation Orientation Welcoming Committee Parent & Family Orientation Design Your Education Course Placement Your Campus Home Search Undergraduate Orientation Pre-Orientation Breadcrumb Home Get Oriented Sub Navigation In This Section Pre-Orientation New Student Orientation Transfer & RUE Orientation Orientation Welcoming Committee Parent & Family Orientation Pre-Orientation Pre-Orientation programs offer additional perspectives on college life. Brown offers an array of Pre-Orientation programs that may help you further acclimate to college life. These free, optional programs have limited space and require application or pre-registration. Pre-Orientation programs provide you with an opportunity to engage more deeply in conversations about the University experience, through a variety of perspectives. As a participant in these programs, you will learn how to access resources and networks that support particular interests, identities and disciplines and connect with peers, staff and faculty around those topics. Students check in new arrivals to Pre-Orientation and have fun under Faunce Arch at the Stephen Roberts Campus Center. Pre-Orientation Options Mosaic+ Transition Program Application deadline : The Mosaic+ Transition Program is for newly admitted students interested in learning more about computer science, with an emphasis on being a receptive and inclusive space for community members from racial or ethnic backgrounds that are historically underrepresented. Students will experience an exciting mix of technical and community-oriented activities and tasks to help prepare them for the rigors of computer science. The three-week online program includes both asynchronous computer science lessons and synchronous activities, workshops, info sessions and talks. Program dates 2022 dates forthcoming Third World Transition Program Application deadline : The Third World Transition Program is a community-building program that promotes interracial understanding. The program helps entering students identify and increase their awareness of issues encountered by minority students in a predominantly white institution. The program gives students the opportunity to understand and discuss social identities while learning about the resources available at the University. These discussions are carried forward throughout the year through discussions with minority peer counselors in the residence halls and at the Brown Center for Students of Color. The Third World Transition Program is open to all students, but space is limited. Program dates 2022 dates forthcoming New Scientist-Catalyst Application deadline : The New Scientist-Catalyst program is a uniquely blended academic and orientation program for newly admitted students of all backgrounds who are committed to increasing the representation of historically underrepresented groups in the STEM fields of science, technology, engineering and mathematics. The program begins with an introductory three-week online academic course that focuses on developing science concepts, problem solving and learning skills. By the end of this program, you will develop effective group working skills and study practices and engage with challenging problems in STEM. Through group activities, discussions and a short project, you will be introduced to other incoming students in an effort to build a Brown STEM community. The experience is meant to empower students in their pursuit of science and set them on the path to be dynamic members of the New Scientist Collective, an academic year program focused on building community. Program dates 2022 dates forthcoming International Orientation Application deadline : International Orientation engages participants in the opportunities and challenges of coming to Brown as an international student, including academic expectations, campus life, immigration and visa policies, and transition to life in the United States. International Orientation is primarily organized and run by international students at Brown, ensuring that it is both informed by their experience and socially engaging. Incoming first-year and transfer students who self-identify as international, regardless of citizenship or residency (including in the United States), should attend International Orientation. Students studying at Brown on a visa are expected to attend. Throughout International Orientation, students engage with peer mentors from the International Mentoring Program, who continue to offer peer advising and programming throughout the year. While International Orientation is primarily for students, there are a limited number of sessions open to family members, too. Program dates 2022 dates forthcoming Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Before You Arrive You’re In! Here’s What Comes Next. Summer Emails Get Oriented Pre-Orientation New Student Orientation Transfer & RUE Orientation Orientation Welcoming Committee Parent & Family Orientation Design Your Education Course Placement Your Campus Home This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Pre-Orientation Open details for Pre-Orientation Bookmark this Page