Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About 'Cane Kickoff Orientation Students Parents & Families Orientation Staff Our Sponsors Commuter Students Commuter Assistants Great Start Association of Commuter Students (ACS) Transfer Students Transfer Assistants Tau Sigma Transfer National Honor Society Transfer Student Guide Parents & Families Family Weekend Family Well-Being Resources Family Newsletter Family 'Cane Kickoff Family Resource Guide About 'Cane Kickoff Orientation Commuter Students Transfer Students Parents & Families Search About 'Cane Kickoff Orientation Students Parents & Families Orientation Staff Our Sponsors Commuter Students Commuter Assistants Great Start Association of Commuter Students (ACS) Transfer Students Transfer Assistants Tau Sigma Transfer National Honor Society Transfer Student Guide Parents & Families Family Weekend Family Well-Being Resources Family Newsletter Family 'Cane Kickoff Family Resource Guide Parents & Families Students 'Cane Kickoff: Fall Orientation 'Cane Kickoff: Spring Orientation Orientation Staff Our Sponsors About 'Cane Kickoff Orientation Commuter Students Transfer Students Remote Students Parents & Families Home Orientation Students AAA 'Cane Kickoff Orientation Before you arrive The Road to UM and Communication Series are your go-to resources to keep you informed prior to your arrival and to prepare you for a smooth transition to the University of Miami. Contact us with any questions or concerns you have as you get ready to become part of the Hurricane community and we look forward to meeting you! The Road to UM The Road to UM will be your go-to guide for all things you need to know during the months prior to your start at the U. We cannot stress enough how important it will be for you to read through this upon receiving it. First-Year Road to UM Guide Transfer Road to UM Checklist This road map will guide you as you plan your arrival in Miami. To ensure a smooth transition to your new life as a Miami Hurricane, pay close attention to the checklist items and their due dates. More information about each checklist item can be found on the departments’ web pages. We can’t wait to see you on campus. Go ’Canes! Registration Registration is required for ’Cane Kickoff. Once you have paid your enrollment deposit and when the systems opens (May for Fall ‘Cane Kickoff and October for Spring ‘Cane Kickoff), you will have access to the registration system by following the prompts through CaneLink. Please click on “CaneLink for Student” button, then expand the “Admissions” dropdown on the side menu. From there you should see the “Student Orientation” link to enter your information. Step-by-step images are available here. You will receive a confirmation email once you have completed registration. Schedule Schedules are developed in the months leading up to each ‘Cane Kickoff, though we seek to provide you with basic information online as early as possible to assist you and your family with travel arrangements. Please note that the information will change periodically as the schedule is updated. Fall 'Cane Kickoff Spring 'Cane Kickoff University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Shalala Student Center 1330 Miller Drive, Suite 203 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-5646 305-284-5646 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices