Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford New Student Orientation Search this site Submit Search Menu Home Schedule Pre-Orientation Programs Contact Us About NSO Meet the Team Main content start Welcome Class of 2026 and Transfer Students! The Approaching Stanford and New Student Orientation (NSO) team is thrilled to welcome our undergraduate first-year and transfer students as the newest members of the Stanford family. New Undergraduate Student Move-In Day: September 20, 2022 New Student Orientation (NSO): September 21-25, 2022 All new undergraduate students are required to live on campus and participate in New Student Orientation. The multi-day orientation will introduce you to the rich academic, social, and cultural life at Stanford. Plan to arrive to campus and move in to your residence on September 20. If you are selected to participate in a pre-orientation program, you will need to arrive to campus a few days earlier. Dates and details will be provided by your program. Students required to attend International Student Orientation will move to campus on September 18 and ISO will be held September 18-20, 2022. We invite family members to accompany your students to the first day of NSO, September 21. Welcome events for students and families, including our Opening Convocation Ceremony, will be held throughout the day. Plan to say your goodbyes before dinner, so that students can join their dormmates for their first dinner and house meeting together. If you arrive to the area before Move-In Day, we recommend that you book local lodging, as you cannot move in earlier than your designated move-in day. Local Lodging Guide Information on this website will be updated in detail by September 1, 2022. Stanford Indigenous Land Acknoweldgment Stanford sits on the ancestral land of the Muwekma Ohlone Tribe. This land was and continues to be of great importance to the Ohlone people. Consistent with our values of community and inclusion, we have a responsibility to acknowledge, honor, and make visible the University’s relationship to Native peoples. A Note About Accessibility & Accommodations Accommodations are available for those with accessibility or disability needs during New Student Orientation. Contact the Diversity and Access Office by calling (650) 725-0326 or emailing disability.access@stanford.edu for disability access information and/or to request assistance for NSO. All NSO event locations are wheelchair accessible. Web Accessibility Stanford University is committed to providing an online environment that is accessible to everyone, including individuals with disabilities. Having trouble accessing any of this content due to a disability? Learn more about accessibility at Stanford and report accessibility issues. Stanford New Student Orientation Web Login Address New Student Orientation 590 Escondido Mall Stanford, CA 94305 United States Connect with Us Meet the Team Contact Us Links About VPUE About Academic Advising Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top