Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Orientation myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Register Prepare Attend Parents and Guests Post-Orientation checklist Your first year Select to follow link Hawk Week Academics Select to follow link First-year programs Exploring majors Earning your degree Campus life Select to follow link Parking & Transit Housing & Dining Employment Finding your community Health and Support Select to follow link Health and recreation Campus security Academic Resources Info for International Students Graduate Students Edwards Students Law School Students Medical Center Campus Students Pharmacy Students myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Orientation Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Your first year Academics Earning your degree You’ll earn your degree by fulfilling certain requirements and taking the right classes. Let’s examine the building blocks that make up your KU education. KU Core The KU Core offers a broader, multidisciplinary approach to general education requirements. As you move toward a major, and eventually earn your degree, you’ll also establish a broad set of knowledge and skills fulfilled by the KU Core. By taking classes that satisfy Core goals, you’ll learn subjects that may otherwise exist outside the scope of your major, allowing you to form a solid academic foundation while staying on track to your degree. See requirements Degree requirements Whichever degree you end up pursuing, it’ll come with its own set of requirements. Degree requirements include fulfilling the KU Core, completing a certain number of credit hours per subject, and maintaining a minimum grade point average throughout your degree path. Major coursework Major coursework is any work in courses related directly to your declared field of study. All degree programs require you to complete a minimum number of credit hours in major courses. Electives Simply put, an elective is an optional course. You may think of electives as diversions from your degree, but they don’t have to be. Instead, electives can define a specialization, strengthen your major, expand your awareness or abilities, or simply help you explore other fields. As a Jayhawk, you aren’t limited to a narrow path or held back from pursuing your interests. Your advisor can help you identify electives ideal for your degree path. Summerfield Hall 1300 Sunnyside Ave., Room 315 Lawrence, KS 66045-7601 orientation@ku.edu 785-864-4270 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin About Staff Academics Safety Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.