Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About 'Cane Kickoff Orientation Students Parents & Families Orientation Staff Our Sponsors Commuter Students Commuter Assistants Great Start Association of Commuter Students (ACS) Transfer Students Transfer Assistants Tau Sigma Transfer National Honor Society Transfer Student Guide Parents & Families Family Weekend Family Well-Being Resources Family Newsletter Family 'Cane Kickoff Family Resource Guide About 'Cane Kickoff Orientation Commuter Students Transfer Students Parents & Families Search About 'Cane Kickoff Orientation Students Parents & Families Orientation Staff Our Sponsors Commuter Students Commuter Assistants Great Start Association of Commuter Students (ACS) Transfer Students Transfer Assistants Tau Sigma Transfer National Honor Society Transfer Student Guide Parents & Families Family Weekend Family Well-Being Resources Family Newsletter Family 'Cane Kickoff Family Resource Guide 'Cane Kickoff: Fall Orientation 'Cane Kickoff: Spring Orientation About 'Cane Kickoff Orientation Commuter Students Transfer Students Remote Students Parents & Families Home Orientation Students 'Cane Kickoff: Fall Orientation AAA 'Cane Kickoff: Fall Orientation Fall 2022 Schedule Incoming international undergraduate first-year and transfer students: Monday, August 15 through Sunday, August 21. New International Students and Incoming Exchange Students living on campus will move in on Monday. International Student Orientation will be held on Tuesday . Compulsory Session for Exchange Students will be held on Tuesday. Incoming domestic undergraduate first-year and transfer students: Monday, August 15 through Sunday, August 21. Domestic Students living on campus will move in during their assigned day and time slot on either Monday or Tuesday . If you will be commuting or living off-campus , you may check in for ‘Cane Kickoff Wednesday morning. Family ’Cane Kickoff (for families of new undergraduate first-year and transfer students): Monday, August 15 through Wednesday, August 17. Select offerings on day of student’s designated housing move-in. Full-day program for families of all residential and commuter students held on Wednesday until 6:30pm. Student Schedule Family Schedule Pre-Orientation Programs Open All Tabs Great Start Sponsored by the Department of Orientation & Commuter Student Involvement, Great Start is an weekend-long pre-orientation program designed to create a college adjustment and campus involvement experience for new students who will be living off campus in their first year at the University of Miami. Register International Student Orientation MANDATORY PRE-ORIENTATION SESSION FOR ALL FRESHMEN AND TRANSFER INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS International Student Orientation (ISO) is a pre-orientation program sponsored by ISSS for new and transfer University of Miami international students. ISO complements 'Cane Kickoff: Fall Orientation program for undergraduate students by providing international students with information and experiences that will assist in their transition to living and studying in the U.S. All first-year and transfer international students are required to attend. Time, location, and further details are available on the ISSS webpage. Exchange Students This session is designed for incoming students on a university-sponsored exchange to Miami. The Study Abroad Office will be presenting on processes, services, and opportunities specifically for exchange students. Horizons Horizons is a pre-orientation program designed to assist new African, Hispanic, Asian, and Native American students in their transition to the University of Miami. It is sponsored by the Department of Multicultural Student Affairs. Register Hillel FreshFest UM Hillel is excited to welcome you to campus and help you get ready for incredible years of Jewish Life at the University of Miami Hillel: The Braman Miller Center for Jewish Life! We invite you visit miamihillel.org to fill out the contact form and we will ship you a UM Hillel branded mask. UM Hillel looks forward to engaging with you from the moment you step onto campus for ‘Cane Kickoff and continuing into your first semester. Connect with us on social media and stay tuned for all we have to offer! LEARN MORE UCatholic Life UCatholic is excited to welcome you to campus and to the Catholic Student Center at the University of Miami! We invite you visit https://ucatholic.org/life20 to sign up for email updates and connect with us on social media. UCatholic looks forward to becoming a part of your life at our ‘Cane Kickoff activities at the U and continuing into the Fall semester! LEARN MORE University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Shalala Student Center 1330 Miller Drive, Suite 203 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-5646 305-284-5646 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices