Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About 'Cane Kickoff Orientation Students Parents & Families Orientation Staff Our Sponsors Commuter Students Commuter Assistants Great Start Association of Commuter Students (ACS) Transfer Students Transfer Assistants Tau Sigma Transfer National Honor Society Transfer Student Guide Parents & Families Family Weekend Family Well-Being Resources Family Newsletter Family 'Cane Kickoff Family Resource Guide About 'Cane Kickoff Orientation Commuter Students Transfer Students Parents & Families Search About 'Cane Kickoff Orientation Students Parents & Families Orientation Staff Our Sponsors Commuter Students Commuter Assistants Great Start Association of Commuter Students (ACS) Transfer Students Transfer Assistants Tau Sigma Transfer National Honor Society Transfer Student Guide Parents & Families Family Weekend Family Well-Being Resources Family Newsletter Family 'Cane Kickoff Family Resource Guide About Mission Professional Staff Contact Us Transfer Students About 'Cane Kickoff Orientation Commuter Students Transfer Students Remote Students Parents & Families Home About AAA About Us Mission The Department of Orientation & Commuter Student Involvement (OCSI) supports new students and families through their transition to the University of Miami. OCSI facilitates programs and resources to successfully and holistically acclimate all new undergraduate students to the academic and social fabric of the institution. To this end, the Department of Orientation & Commuter Student Involvement: Provides programs, resources, and education that support transition. Empowers students to achieve their personal and academic goals in support of the University of Miami’s mission. Engages parents and family members as partners in supporting student success. Develops students as leaders who facilitate the successful transition of their new student peers. Creates transitional interventions for special student populations including commuter students and transfer students. Actively supports transfer and commuter students through advocacy and programming. Contact Us Stop by the Shalala Student Center, Suite 203 to meet the staff and learn more about our programs and services. We are open Monday through Friday from 8:30am-5:00pm (EST). Phone: 305.284.5646 Email: orientation@miami.edu Meet Our Professional Staff Michael Baumhardt Director, Programs mxb525@miami.edu (305) 284-5646 Log in to view address Michael C. Baumhardt serves as the Director of Orientation & Commuter Student Involvement. He is responsible for the annual implementation of a variety of transition programs for over 3,500 new students and their families. His areas of oversight includes New Student Orientation, Commuter & Transfer Student Involvement, First Year... Read More > Stephanie Marie Fleitas Asst. Director, Programs s.fleitas@umiami.edu (305) 284-2660 Log in to view address Stephanie Fleitas serves as the Assistant Director for the Department of Orientation & Commuter Student Involvement. She is responsible for the annual implementation of the Great Start Program, a pre-semester program for new commuter students, supervises the Commuter and Transfer Assistant Program and serves as the advisor... Read More > Ashley Renee Brown Administrative Assistant arm273@miami.edu (305) 284-9363 Log in to view address Read More > Colleen McCarthy GRADUATE ASSISTANT cam472@miami.edu (305) 284-5646 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Shalala Student Center 1330 Miller Drive, Suite 203 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-5646 305-284-5646 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices