Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Orientation myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Register Prepare Attend Parents and Guests Post-Orientation checklist Your first year Select to follow link Hawk Week Academics Select to follow link First-year programs Exploring majors Earning your degree Campus life Select to follow link Parking & Transit Housing & Dining Employment Finding your community Health and Support Select to follow link Health and recreation Campus security Academic Resources Info for International Students Graduate Students Edwards Students Law School Students Medical Center Campus Students Pharmacy Students myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Orientation Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Your first year Health and Support Security and accessibility on campus Your personal well-being is extremely important to us. The university operates its own police department on campus and provides many support services and offices that assist students with wellness and security. Sexual Assault Prevention & Education Center SAPEC coordinates KU’s sexual assault prevention and education programs, including bystander intervention, gender-based violence prevention, men’s engagement, affirmative consent, and healthy relationships. SAPEC SafeRide and the Jayhawk Buddy System During the spring and summer semesters, SafeRide offers free transportation from 10:30 p.m. to 2:30 a.m., seven nights a week (Thursday through Sunday during summer session). Services like SafeRide and practices like the Jayhawk Buddy System keep students secure and accountable. SafeRide Jayhawk Buddy System » Public Safety Office KU’s police department provides campus law enforcement services and sponsors educational programs on personal safety, property, and alcohol. Public Safety Advocacy and support Office of Institutional Opportunity & Access IOA administers equal opportunity and nondiscrimination policies, and assists with investigations into reported acts of harassment, discrimination, sexual misconduct, and sexual violence. IOA Student Support and Case Management Students may turn to SSCM when experiencing undue stress, mental health concerns, personal challenges, and other difficulties impeding their success at KU. SSCM KU Alerts At enrollment, students are automatically signed up for KU’s emergency notification system, which sends out SMS alerts in the event of a health or safety emergency on campus. Students may also download the Rave Guardian mobile app, which connects them to a local, interactive public safety network. Alert resources KU alerts Rave Guardian app Summerfield Hall 1300 Sunnyside Ave., Room 315 Lawrence, KS 66045-7601 orientation@ku.edu 785-864-4270 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin About Staff Academics Safety Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.