Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Orientation myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Register Prepare Attend Parents and Guests Post-Orientation checklist Your first year Select to follow link Hawk Week Academics Select to follow link First-year programs Exploring majors Earning your degree Campus life Select to follow link Parking & Transit Housing & Dining Employment Finding your community Health and Support Select to follow link Health and recreation Campus security Academic Resources Info for International Students Graduate Students Edwards Students Law School Students Medical Center Campus Students Pharmacy Students myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Orientation Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Your pre-Orientation to-do list Once you’ve registered for Orientation, your to-do list awaits. The steps involved will prepare you for enrollment and tie up loose ends before your first semester. List Double-check your Orientation date Do you know when your session is? Are the guests that you're bringing registered? Note these details, and watch your inbox for more information as you prep for the big day. Send KU your transcripts and exam scores If you are an incoming freshman, you should submit your final high school transcript to the Office of Admissions by July 1. If you have college credit from a university other than KU, please have those institutions send official transcripts directly to KU. If possible, transcripts should be sent at least two weeks before your Orientation date. In addition, send official Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate, and/or CLEP scores as soon as they are available. Order your KU card Your KU card is your personal student identification card, and you’ll use it throughout your time on campus. To order your KU card, you’ll need a valid identification and photo. In order to ensure we will have your KU Card ready for you on your Orientation day, you must complete these steps one week prior to your session. List Take a language placement exam If you’re continuing study of a language, you may take a placement exam to place into a more advanced language course. Take a math placement exam If you plan to take a higher-level math course, you’ll need to take the ALEKS online math placement exam. Plan to take the exam at least one week before your Orientation session. Prepare your immunization records You will need to submit your immunization history to Watkins Health Services. The preferred method is through the secure patient portal, accessible 72 hours after enrollment. Update your application If your exam scores, grade point average, or intended major has changed since you applied, you should update your application as soon as possible, and at least five days before your Orientation session. Closer to your session Pre-Orientation course Prior to your Orientation session, you'll receive an email with access to a required online course that will prepare you for Orientation and your transition to campus. The course will introduce you to programs and resources that will help you plan for your education and prepare for enrollment. To log in to the course, you’ll need your KU online ID and password. Where to stay Planning an overnight stay in Lawrence? KU has partnered with a selection of local hotels to offer discounted rates to Orientation attendees. See hotel discounts See hotel discounts Summerfield Hall 1300 Sunnyside Ave., Room 315 Lawrence, KS 66045-7601 orientation@ku.edu 785-864-4270 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin About Staff Academics Safety Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.