Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Give to UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap Search Tools People Search Course Search Cane Link myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Give to UM Schools Alumni Roadmap Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links News and Events Center People Search Canelink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About 'Cane Kickoff Orientation Students Parents & Families Orientation Staff Our Sponsors Commuter Students Commuter Assistants Great Start Association of Commuter Students (ACS) Transfer Students Transfer Assistants TAU SIGMA TRANSFER NATIONAL HONOR SOCIETY Remote Students Remote Assistants Parents & Families Family Weekend Family Newsletter Family 'Cane Kickoff Family Resource Guide Search Mobile Site Remote Students x.Orientation Before You Arrive 'Cane Kickoff: Fall Orientation 'Cane Kickoff: Spring Orientation Orientation Staff Our Sponsors Transfer Students About 'Cane Kickoff Orientation Commuter Students Transfer Students Remote Students Parents & Families Home Orientation AAA You should be re-directed to another page momentarily. If not, please visit site://ACAD-STUAF-orientation.studentaffairs.miami.edu/cane-kickoff/index. Orientation Remote Students x.Orientation Before You Arrive 'Cane Kickoff: Fall Orientation 'Cane Kickoff: Spring Orientation Orientation Staff Our Sponsors Transfer Students About 'Cane Kickoff Orientation is a time of celebration and new beginnings. 'Cane Kickoff is a mandatory transition program immediately prior to the start of classes that assists first-year undergraduate and transfer students with their academic, personal, social, and cultural transition to the University of Miami. By participating in 'Cane Kickoff, students will: Gain insight, familiarity, and appreciate that they are important members of the University community. Begin to understand their academic requirements and expectations as well as community expectations, requirements, and responsibilities. Develop a connection to the UM community through interactions with fellow incoming students, current students, faculty, and staff. Be exposed to some of the transition issues they may encounter and develop strategies to manage these transitions. Know how to access information about co-curricular opportunities. Begin to feel comfortable on campus and know where various resources and services are located. Have fun, feel comfortable, and be excited about their decision to attend the University of Miami. Registration Registration is required for ’Cane Kickoff. Once you have paid your enrollment deposit, you will have access to the registration system by following the prompts through CaneLink. To register, please click on the “Orientation Registration” link and complete the directions with your information. You will receive a confirmation email once you have completed registration. Schedules Schedules are developed through the summer, though we seek to provide you with basic information online as early as possible to assist you and your family with travel arrangements. Please note that the information will change periodically as the schedule is updated. Electronic Communication All of our communication is electronic, so please be on the lookout for emails from our department. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Shalala Student Center 1330 Miller Drive, Suite 203 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-5646 305-284-5646 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2020 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices