Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About 'Cane Kickoff Orientation Students Parents & Families Orientation Staff Our Sponsors Commuter Students Commuter Assistants Great Start Association of Commuter Students (ACS) Transfer Students Transfer Assistants Tau Sigma Transfer National Honor Society Transfer Student Guide Parents & Families Family Weekend Family Well-Being Resources Family Newsletter Family 'Cane Kickoff Family Resource Guide About 'Cane Kickoff Orientation Commuter Students Transfer Students Parents & Families Search Tau Sigma Transfer National Honor Society Transfer Assistants About 'Cane Kickoff Orientation Students Parents & Families Orientation Staff Our Sponsors Commuter Students Commuter Assistants Great Start Association of Commuter Students (ACS) Transfer Students Transfer Assistants Tau Sigma Transfer National Honor Society Transfer Student Guide Parents & Families Family Weekend Family Well-Being Resources Family Newsletter Family 'Cane Kickoff Family Resource Guide Tau Sigma Transfer National Honor Society Transfer Assistants About 'Cane Kickoff Orientation Commuter Students Transfer Students Remote Students Parents & Families Home Transfer Students Tau Sigma Transfer National Honor Society AAA Tau Sigma Transfer National Honor Society Tau Sigma Transfer National Honor Society Transfer Assistants Tau Sigma is a nationally recognized academic honor society designed specifically to "recognize and promote the academic excellence and involvement of transfer students." By establishing chapters at four-year institutions across the country, Tau Sigma is able to recognize the academic achievement of the most outstanding transfers nationwide and, in the process, help universities better serve their transfer populations. Tau Sigma members are perhaps the greatest resource available to serve the current and future transfers at your institution. Tau Sigma was approved as an official student organization at the University of Miami through the Committee on Student Organizations (COSO) in Spring 2019. The Department of Orientation and Commuter Student Involvement advises the organization. Tau Sigma hosts social and academic events to help transfer students find connections and an additional sense of community at the University. Open All Tabs What is the criteria to be inducted into Tau Sigma? You must be registered in a course of study leading to a bachelor's degree for an amount of work equal to an average full load. The minimum academic average required for membership is either a 3.5 on a 4.0 scale (or the equivalent thereof). Academic eligibility shall be obtained on the grades of one full semester. What are the benefits of joining Tau Sigma? Recognition of academic achievement, early involvement opportunities, opportunity to assume leadership positions within the organization, a welcoming environment to find community, part of an organization equipped to address the needs and concerns that are unique to the transfer student population. What are the membership fees? The Tau Sigma membership fee is a onetime fee of $50. Where can one find more information? Find out more about Tau Sigma at the University of Miami by checking out the organization’s page on Engage. E-mail: umiamitausigma@gmail.com Instagram: @umiamitausigma University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Shalala Student Center 1330 Miller Drive, Suite 203 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-5646 305-284-5646 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices