Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Orientation myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Register Prepare Attend Parents and Guests Post-Orientation checklist Your first year Select to follow link Hawk Week Academics Select to follow link First-year programs Exploring majors Earning your degree Campus life Select to follow link Parking & Transit Housing & Dining Employment Finding your community Health and Support Select to follow link Health and recreation Campus security Academic Resources Info for International Students Graduate Students Edwards Students Law School Students Medical Center Campus Students Pharmacy Students myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Orientation Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Your first year Health and Support There’s help in all sorts of places Our faculty members, academic resources, and support services can help you improve the quality of your work and transition to life on campus. Student support University Academic Support Centers UASC offers supplemental instruction, tutoring services, academic success workshops, and consultations on important topics like time management and study strategies. Visit UASC Student Access Services Through specialized accommodations, resources, and support staff, SAS ensures that students with disabilities and learning differences have equitable access to educational, social, and career opportunities on campus. Visit SAS Work and study spaces The Ermal Garinger Academic Resource Center EGARC is a multimedia workspace, housing two classrooms, a computer lab, a conference room, a recording studio, a collaborative commons, and an audio/video library featuring over 60 languages. ERGARC More computer labs KU Libraries KU has seven libraries on the Lawrence campus, with nearly 6 million print items available for student research. Each location supports undergraduate learning by providing access to expert staff, new technology, and adaptable study spaces. KU Libraries Military-Affiliated Student Center The MASC assists with VA education benefits, provides a full-time on-campus vocational rehabilitation and career counselor, offers scholarships, and provides general support for all military-affiliated students. Study spaces are available, including a 24-7 lounge and computer workstations. MASC Tutoring and consultations Math help room The math help room, in Room 323 Strong Hall, is open more than 60 hours a week in the fall and spring semesters, and provides free tutoring for Math 002 and Math 101 students. KU Writing Center The KU Writing Center assists students with writing assignments. It has offices across campus, including in libraries and residence halls. Faculty connections Blackboard Many — but not all — instructors use Blackboard to post course materials and grades. Log in with your KU online ID and password to view your Blackboard-enabled classes, academic notices, and more. (If you don’t see a certain course, or a course’s content, it’s probably because your instructor has not made their course “live” on Blackboard.) Coming up: Canvas KU will soon transition from Blackboard to Canvas, a new learning management system that connects students with faculty and coursework. The system won’t be widely adopted until late 2022, but some instructors may start using it before then. Office hours All KU faculty members keep office hours for the classes they teach. We encourage you to meet with them to ask questions and discuss your academic performance. Books and supplies KU Bookstore The bookstore in the Kansas Union is the only outlet which offers all required KU course supplies and materials for sale or rent, such as blue books or lab coats. They also sell convenience items and KU merchandise. Bookstore Tech Shop Located in the KU Bookstore on Level 2 of the Kansas Union, the Tech Shop carries Apple, Dell, and HP computers and tablets at academic prices and provides support, service, and repairs on those devices for KU students. Tech Shop Discounted and free software Students can access Microsoft Office 365 online and download MS Office to their personal device at no cost. Learn more and view a complete list of software available at KU: Student software Technology and IT services The KU IT Customer Service Center is on hand to help students with any campus technology needs or questions they may have. We also recommend reviewing KU’s self-service articles at the KU Knowledge Base, and downloading mobile apps built to guide you through student life. Contact KU IT Contact KU IT Download apps Download apps Read articles Read articles Summerfield Hall 1300 Sunnyside Ave., Room 315 Lawrence, KS 66045-7601 orientation@ku.edu 785-864-4270 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin About Staff Academics Safety Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.