Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Orientation myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Register Prepare Attend Parents and Guests Post-Orientation checklist Your first year Select to follow link Hawk Week Academics Select to follow link First-year programs Exploring majors Earning your degree Campus life Select to follow link Parking & Transit Housing & Dining Employment Finding your community Health and Support Select to follow link Health and recreation Campus security Academic Resources Info for International Students Graduate Students Edwards Students Law School Students Medical Center Campus Students Pharmacy Students myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Orientation Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Your first year Health and Support Take care, seriously Considerations beyond academics, such as personal wellness, exist for all KU students. In fact, health and fitness play active roles in your educational goals. Prioritize your well-being by taking advantage of these services and resources. Watkins Health Services Watkins provides comprehensive care for KU students. A health fee is included in students’ required campus fees; it covers most provider office visits and entitles students to use some services at no additional cost and other services at reduced rates. Watkins’ services include General medicine. Gynecology. Immunizations. Laboratory testing. Massage therapy. Pharmacy. Sexual Assault Nurse Examiners. 24-Hour Nurse Help Line: 785-864-9583. Walk-ins are often available, but not guaranteed. Appointments are strongly encouraged. You can make yours at 785-864-9507, or on the Watkins website. Visit WHS Counseling & Psychological Services Dealing with stress? Anxiety? Relationship issues? CAPS licensed psychologists, clinical social workers, board-certified psychiatrists, and doctoral psychology interns may help. Students can walk in daily, Monday through Friday, for their first appointment. Visit CAPS Recreation Services KU Recreation Services offers activities like intramural sports, open recreation play, sport clubs, group fitness classes, personal training — plus outdoor equipment rentals available to every member of the KU community. The 144,000-square-foot Ambler Student Recreation Fitness Center, home to KU Recreation Services, contains 16,000 square feet of cardiovascular and resistance training equipment, a functional fitness studio, racquetball/squash courts, gym courts, group fitness and martial arts studios, an indoor arena, a golf simulator, a suspended track, a bike repair shop, outdoor equipment for rent, and “the Chalk Rock,” a 42-foot rock climbing wall. Recreation services Required education courses AlcoholEdu The university requires all newly enrolled, degree-seeking students on the Lawrence campus under the age of 21 to complete AlcoholEdu, an online alcohol education course. You’ll complete the first part of the course before the start of the fall semester. Part two is released approximately 45 days later. Watch your KU email inbox for further instructions. Go to AlcoholEdu Sexual assault prevention and awareness As a part of KU’s comprehensive prevention programming, all students complete Everfi, an annual course addressing sexual and intimate partner violence prevention. The deadline to complete the course is Dec. 1. Watch your KU email inbox for further instructions. Go to SAPEC Summerfield Hall 1300 Sunnyside Ave., Room 315 Lawrence, KS 66045-7601 orientation@ku.edu 785-864-4270 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin About Staff Academics Safety Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.