Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Orientation myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Register Prepare Attend Parents and Guests Post-Orientation checklist Your first year Select to follow link Hawk Week Academics Select to follow link First-year programs Exploring majors Earning your degree Campus life Select to follow link Parking & Transit Housing & Dining Employment Finding your community Health and Support Select to follow link Health and recreation Campus security Academic Resources Info for International Students Graduate Students Edwards Students Law School Students Medical Center Campus Students Pharmacy Students myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Orientation Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Your first year Academics The perfect first-year experience As you work toward graduation, your focus narrows and your work deepens. But your first year is broader, full of exploration and discovery. First-year programs teach indispensable skills and connect you to the KU community in unexpected ways. First-year courses UNIV 101 In UNIV 101, you and a small group of peers will learn to navigate KU. You’ll build a plan centered on your academic and personal goals, develop important skills, and connect with people and resources here to support you on campus. UNIV 101 First-year seminars Each First Year Seminar focuses on a single, exciting topic. Over the semester, you and other students (fewer than 20 in all) explore issues, gather and evaluate evidence, and learn academic skills that you will use throughout your KU career. Seminars satisfy a KU Core requirement, and no prior knowledge or prerequisites are necessary. First-year seminars Learning communities Learning communities encourage you to make deeper connections with other new students and KU. The themed sections of UNIV 101, like sports or creativity, connect you with students and instructors with interests similar to yours. Linked-Course Learning Communities enroll groups of students in two shared classes. Learning communities Other seminar options If you’re admitted into a professional school or certain academic program, you may be required to attend one or more first-year seminars. Your advisor will work with you to identify the requirements that match your program. Summerfield Hall 1300 Sunnyside Ave., Room 315 Lawrence, KS 66045-7601 orientation@ku.edu 785-864-4270 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin About Staff Academics Safety Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.