Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Give to UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap Search Tools People Search Course Search Cane Link myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Give to UM Schools Alumni Roadmap Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links News and Events Center People Search Canelink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About 'Cane Kickoff Orientation Students Parents & Families Orientation Staff Our Sponsors Commuter Students Commuter Assistants Great Start Association of Commuter Students (ACS) Transfer Students Transfer Assistants TAU SIGMA TRANSFER NATIONAL HONOR SOCIETY Remote Students Remote Assistants Parents & Families Family Weekend Family Newsletter Family 'Cane Kickoff Family Resource Guide Search Mobile Site Before You Arrive 'Cane Kickoff: Fall Orientation 'Cane Kickoff: Spring Orientation Orientation Staff Our Sponsors About 'Cane Kickoff Orientation Commuter Students Transfer Students Remote Students Parents & Families Home Orientation Before You Arrive AAA You should be re-directed to another page momentarily. If not, please visit site://ACAD-STUAF-orientation.studentaffairs.miami.edu/cane-kickoff/index. Before You Arrive Before You Arrive 'Cane Kickoff: Fall Orientation 'Cane Kickoff: Spring Orientation Orientation Staff Our Sponsors The pre-orientation webinars, Road to UM, and Communication Series are your go-to resources to keep you informed prior to your arrival and to prepare you for a smooth transition to the University of Miami. Contact us with any questions or concerns you have as you get ready to become part of the Hurricane community and we look forward to meeting you! Pre-Orientation Webinars The summer webinar series is designed to provide you with information about a variety of topics related to being a student at the University of Miami. The sessions are presented by university administrators, faculty, and students on topics that may generate questions over the summer that you would like answered before you arrive to campus for the orientation program. All webinars will be recorded and available on the orientation webpage for view at a later time. The specific dates and times for the webinars are listed below. The link to the livestream videos can be found at the UMiami Department of Orientation & Commuter Student Involvement YouTube page. The Road to UM The Road to UM will be your go-to guide for all things you need to know during the months prior to your start at the U. We cannot stress enough how important it will be for you to read through this upon receiving it. You will receive The Road to UM in mid-May via physical mail. The Road to UM Communication Series Prior to arrival to campus, students and families will receive a series of emails containing important information and topics that will help students get prepared for the U. New Students receive each newsletter via their UM Email. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Shalala Student Center 1330 Miller Drive, Suite 203 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-5646 305-284-5646 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2020 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices