Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search About 'Cane Kickoff Orientation Students Parents & Families Orientation Staff Our Sponsors Commuter Students Commuter Assistants Great Start Association of Commuter Students (ACS) Transfer Students Transfer Assistants Tau Sigma Transfer National Honor Society Transfer Student Guide Parents & Families Family Weekend Family Well-Being Resources Family Newsletter Family 'Cane Kickoff Family Resource Guide About 'Cane Kickoff Orientation Commuter Students Transfer Students Parents & Families Search About 'Cane Kickoff Orientation Students Parents & Families Orientation Staff Our Sponsors Commuter Students Commuter Assistants Great Start Association of Commuter Students (ACS) Transfer Students Transfer Assistants Tau Sigma Transfer National Honor Society Transfer Student Guide Parents & Families Family Weekend Family Well-Being Resources Family Newsletter Family 'Cane Kickoff Family Resource Guide Home Commuter Students Great Start AAA Great Start REGISTRATION INFORMATION Great Start will help you, as a new commuter student, prepare for a smooth start to your time at the University of Miami. Register for your Great Start experience today! Learn More > WEEKEND 1 (JULY 9-10) REGISTRATION DEADLINE The deadline to register for the first Great Start weekend of the summer is Tuesday, July 5 at 5:00pm. WEEKS DAYS HOURS MINUTES SECONDS About Great Start Designed with the specific needs of commuter students in mind, Great Start helps you prepare for a smooth start to your time at the University of Miami and to be successful throughout your college experience. Learn More Registration Information You can tune in to Great Start either remotely or attend in-person for a two-day overnight stay in one of the residential colleges on the Coral Gables campus. There are even scholarship opportunities to help you attend. Learn More Great Start Staff Great Start places all participants into small groups led by experienced student counselors. These counselors are here to help you through your transition and give you an inside look at life on campus. Learn More Give to Great Start Whether you are a local business looking to get additional exposure or you’re a friend of the Great Start program and looking for ways to give, we have plenty of opportunities for you. We offer a variety of sponsorship levels and welcome monetary as well as in-kind donations. Learn more. Learn More Contact Us We understand that transitiong to college is a confusing time. For answers to any questions or to receive additional information, contact us today! Learn More University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Shalala Student Center 1330 Miller Drive, Suite 203 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-5646 305-284-5646 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices