Skip to main content University of California, Riverside UCR Home A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People Search UC Riverside Highlander Orientation Search Home Register Now Session Dates Pre-Orientation Module First-Year Orientation Overview To Do List Before You Arrive Fees & Payments Resources Frequently Asked Questions Transfer Orientation Family Program Overview Orientación Familiar Campus Resources Employment UCR Home A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People Breadcrumb Highlander Orientation Fall 2022 Orientation Registration is now open and available HERE. We are excited to announce that Highlander Orientation will be delivered in a hybrid format for 2022! Highlander Orientation is mandatory for all of our incoming students. This year's program will consist of a mandatory two-day in-person program, followed by a virtual half-day academic advising and course registration appointment; both components are required for incoming students to attend. Highlander Orientation is a rite of passage. Highlander Orientation 2022 will be held in a hybrid format. We will return to a traditional two-day on campus experience followed by a virtual academic advising and course registration appointment. During the two-day mandatory in-person program you will stay overnight in our campus residential halls and learn about UCR’s campus and traditions, connect with other first-year students, discover ways to get involved, and learn about campus resources that will support you in your transition to the university. During the mandatory virtual academic advising and course registration appointment you will learn about how to navigate UCR’s student portal, talk with academic advisors, schedule your classes for the Fall 2022 quarter and connect with peer leaders that can support your transition to campus. Please continue to check your email for continuous updates for Highlander Orientation 2022! Previous Next Orientation Quick Links: REGISTER: Pay for your Orientation online FEES: How much does it cost? DATES: See when Orientation is held COLLEGES: Which one am I in? LEARN MORE: Highlander Early Start Academy (HESA) FAMILIES: Should you attend? GETTING HERE: Download a map New Student Orientation There are 11 in-person sessions and 10 virtual academic advising appointments offered throughout July and August for incoming first-year students. There are five in-person sessions and 5 virtual academic advising appointments for incoming transfer students in August and September. It is mandatory for all incoming students to register for and attend both an in-person session and an academic advising appointment. Find the right ones for you and enjoy all of the exciting things we have in store! Read More Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR Highlander Orientation 229 Highlander Union Building Riverside, CA 92521 tel: (951) 827-2789 alt tel: (951) 827-2785 fax: (951) 827-2439 email: orientation@ucr.edu Find Us Related Links MyUCR – Admissions Portal Marlan and Rosemary Bourns College of Engineering (BCOE) College of Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences (CHASS) College of Natural and Agricultural Sciences (CNAS) School of Business (Business) School of Education (SOE) School of Public Policy (SPP) First Year Success Series Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search Cancel