Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Orientation myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Register Prepare Attend Parents and Guests Post-Orientation checklist Your first year Select to follow link Hawk Week Academics Select to follow link First-year programs Exploring majors Earning your degree Campus life Select to follow link Parking & Transit Housing & Dining Employment Finding your community Health and Support Select to follow link Health and recreation Campus security Academic Resources Info for International Students Graduate Students Edwards Students Law School Students Medical Center Campus Students Pharmacy Students myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Orientation Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Your first year Campus life Why live on campus? KU student housing is conveniently located and offers the privacy and day-to-day amenities that all students crave in their transition to university life. Professional staff and resident assistants live in every housing community and are there to support your adjustment to KU. We’re happy to welcome you and the more than 5,000 Jayhawks who live on campus each year. Before you arrive Set up your residential wifi That way you’ll be all set on Move-In Day. Read the rules Not that we think you’ll cause trouble — but it’s important to know what is and isn’t allowed in KU Student Housing. Request accommodations If you require assistance or accommodations related to medical, dietary, or other personal needs, contact KU Student Housing. Moving in Move-in promises to be one of the most exciting times of your KU career. Beyond settling in to your new campus residence, you’ll also attend your first community meeting and get to know the Jayhawks you’ll live alongside. Plan for move-in After you arrive You officially live on campus now — go, you! Next up is Hawk week, a series of welcome events hosted throughout campus. You’ll attend events with your residential community, forging bonds with your fellow Jayhawks and the campus you’re now a part of. Explore Hawk Week Campus dining Meal plans Living on campus and want unlimited dining? We can do that. Living off-campus and looking for more on-the-go offerings? That’s also possible. KU’s dining plans are flexible and designed to fit different schedules and budgets. Review plans Dining locations With over 20 dining locations on campus, you’re never far from a great meal or quick bite. KU’s food selection is as wide-ranging as our student body: campus originals and national franchises, smoothie bars and coffee shops, late-night spots and sit-down dining. Browse locations Dietary accommodations All KU dining locations are equipped to accommodate specific dietary needs and preferences, including vegan and vegetarian. If you have a food allergy or need nutritional accommodations, contact a KU Dining representative at 785-864-2424. Learn about accommodations Summerfield Hall 1300 Sunnyside Ave., Room 315 Lawrence, KS 66045-7601 orientation@ku.edu 785-864-4270 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin About Staff Academics Safety Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.