Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Orientation myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Register Prepare Attend Parents and Guests Post-Orientation checklist Your first year Select to follow link Hawk Week Academics Select to follow link First-year programs Exploring majors Earning your degree Campus life Select to follow link Parking & Transit Housing & Dining Employment Finding your community Health and Support Select to follow link Health and recreation Campus security Academic Resources Info for International Students Graduate Students Edwards Students Law School Students Medical Center Campus Students Pharmacy Students myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Orientation Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Registering for freshman Orientation For admitted freshmen, the first step to Orientation registration is to pay their enrollment deposit. Set up your KU online ID You’ll need your KU online ID and password to register. If you haven’t already done so, set up your KU student account to create those credentials. Account setup Pay the freshman enrollment deposit All freshmen are required to pay a $221 deposit. The deposit secures your spot at KU, and, beyond enrollment, covers Orientation, your KU ID card, and first-year programs and events. If you or your family is unable to pay your deposit at this time, you may request a deferment at the link below, or contact the Office of Admissions at adm@ku.edu. Deposit Register for freshman Orientation With your deposit paid and account created, you’ll now be able to register for an in-person session. The sooner you do, the wider the selection of session dates you’ll have to choose from. Once you’ve registered, you can log back in at any time to update your information, see available dates, or register guests. Be sure to select “SUBMIT” for your registration to be finalized. Registration About Orientation What happens at Orientation? Orientation really begins before your session, when you take your online pre-Orientation course. After completing that — which covers important topics related to Orientation and your first year — you’ll attend your session. There, you’ll connect with other Jayhawks, learn about campus resources, and get your questions answered. Finally, you and your advisor will meet to discuss goals and enroll in your first-semester courses. When is Orientation? Orientation is a full-day, in-person event. Students admitted for fall will attend their session in the summer. Exact dates are based on your major or academic interest. Students admitted for the spring term will attend Orientation in November, December, or January. Do transfer students attend Orientation? No, transfer students don't attend summer Orientation with freshmen. Instead, they attend their own, one-day onboarding event in August. We'll send out more details about the event soon. Orientation changes, alternatives, and cancellations Orientation is a requirement for all incoming undergraduate freshmen. However, we recognize that every student’s availability is unique to their circumstances. If you are unable to attend any of the dates provided in the registration website or no dates are showing for you, please contact us at orientation@ku.edu or 785-864-4270. Changing Your Date Click to expand If you need to change your session date, you can log in to the registration website to view other available dates and make changes to your reservation. Date changes must be made by 5 p.m. CT one week prior to your original session date. Make changes Canceling Your Date Click to expand If you no longer plan to attend KU or will be attending in a future semester, please notify the Office of Admissions by updating your application. Completing the form will serve as cancellation of your Orientation session. Update application Open Enrollment Click to expand If you’re unable to attend Orientation, you’ll need to enroll during Open Enrollment, which is an abbreviated Orientation program that occurs on the Thursday prior to the first day of classes each semester. Contact our office for more information. Exception Requests Click to expand If you have extenuating circumstances that prevent you from attending Orientation or Open Enrollment, you may submit an Exception Request form for consideration. Exception Request Form Summerfield Hall 1300 Sunnyside Ave., Room 315 Lawrence, KS 66045-7601 orientation@ku.edu 785-864-4270 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin About Staff Academics Safety Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.