Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About 'Cane Kickoff Orientation Students Parents & Families Orientation Staff Our Sponsors Commuter Students Commuter Assistants Great Start Association of Commuter Students (ACS) Transfer Students Transfer Assistants Tau Sigma Transfer National Honor Society Transfer Student Guide Parents & Families Family Weekend Family Well-Being Resources Family Newsletter Family 'Cane Kickoff Family Resource Guide About 'Cane Kickoff Orientation Commuter Students Transfer Students Parents & Families Search About 'Cane Kickoff Orientation Students Parents & Families Orientation Staff Our Sponsors Commuter Students Commuter Assistants Great Start Association of Commuter Students (ACS) Transfer Students Transfer Assistants Tau Sigma Transfer National Honor Society Transfer Student Guide Parents & Families Family Weekend Family Well-Being Resources Family Newsletter Family 'Cane Kickoff Family Resource Guide Commuter Assistants Great Start Association of Commuter Students (ACS) About 'Cane Kickoff Orientation Commuter Students Transfer Students Remote Students Parents & Families Home Commuter Students Association of Commuter Students (ACS) AAA Association of Commuter Students (ACS) The Association of Commuter Students (ACS) began in 1974 as the organization “Women’s Commuter Organization,” later known as “Road Runners.” The now dubbed Association of Commuter Students has transformed over the years into a strong network of spirited University of Miami students and alumni. ACS is a second home for its members and provides a place to bond with fellow students and to participate in all that the University of Miami has to offer. It is not merely a club, but a family. ACS has a long tradition of involvement in a range of campus events including Homecoming, service days, intramurals, and more. You can find ACS in the first row of the football stadium, riding on floats in the Homecoming Parades, as well as occupying various leadership positions throughout the University. ACS provides its members with a working knowledge of UM that gives them the opportunity to become fully involved in campus life. An invaluable resource to all its members, ACS also provides a unique chance to become part of a community of dedicated and extraordinary friends. Brought together by a simple fact of life, commuting to school, ACS members have forged bonds that extend beyond this common circumstance. ACS members form friendships that last a lifetime. Open All Tabs How to Join Learn more about joining ACS on Engage or by talking to an executive board member. Membership Fees ACS is a registered student organization through the Committee on Student Organizations located in the Shalala Student Center Student Organization Suite, room 210C. ACS membership is open to all enrolled students and requires a $25 per semester or $35 for a full year. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Shalala Student Center 1330 Miller Drive, Suite 203 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-5646 305-284-5646 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices