Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Orientation myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Register Prepare Attend Parents and Guests Post-Orientation checklist Your first year Select to follow link Hawk Week Academics Select to follow link First-year programs Exploring majors Earning your degree Campus life Select to follow link Parking & Transit Housing & Dining Employment Finding your community Health and Support Select to follow link Health and recreation Campus security Academic Resources Info for International Students Graduate Students Edwards Students Law School Students Medical Center Campus Students Pharmacy Students myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Orientation Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Your first year Academics What will you study at KU? You may have a major in mind. You may end up changing it. Or you may still be exploring your options. No matter which path you take, we’ll guide you to graduation. Here are our recommendations for kicking things off. Review your options, again You’ve probably already pored through KU’s fields of study. But now that you’ve met with your advisor and your first year awaits, it may help to revisit the possibilities. See all majors Explore with confidence In your first semester, your advisor will guide you toward an Exploratory Pathway — one of six tracks designed to help you decide on a major. Exploratory Pathways allow you to satisfy KU Core requirements, which means you can stay on track to graduation even as you investigate your options. Pick a Pathway Talk with the experts Your advisor Your advisor is your go-to contact for many facets of your academic life. Throughout your first year, you should regularly check in with them to discuss goals, develop success strategies, and find ways to meaningfully explore your degree options. Learn More University Career Center Sometimes having a career in mind can help you choose a major. The University Career Center is a great resource for exploring the relationships between majors and potential careers. Learn More Swipe to see more Earn a different kind of experience Experiential learning certificates Experiential learning programs allow students to apply their education outside of the classroom, all the while earning experience that could translate to a future major or career. Learn about certificates Study abroad KU offers study abroad programs in more than 70 countries, with courses taught in over 20 languages. With semester, academic year, summer, and short-term break programs, Jayhawks can make studying abroad fit any academic schedule. Explore study abroad Service learning Service Learning combines academic-based opportunities with community service. Students may take designated service-learning courses, complete a Certificate in Service Learning as a part of fulfilling the KU Core Goal 5 requirement, or participate in co-curricular volunteer activities. Visit CSL Undergraduate research By starting undergraduate research early in your KU career, you’ll learn valuable skills, investigate new areas of study, and make faculty connections that could open doors down the road. Start your research Summerfield Hall 1300 Sunnyside Ave., Room 315 Lawrence, KS 66045-7601 orientation@ku.edu 785-864-4270 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin About Staff Academics Safety Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.