Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Orientation myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Register Prepare Attend Parents and Guests Post-Orientation checklist Your first year Select to follow link Hawk Week Academics Select to follow link First-year programs Exploring majors Earning your degree Campus life Select to follow link Parking & Transit Housing & Dining Employment Finding your community Health and Support Select to follow link Health and recreation Campus security Academic Resources Info for International Students Graduate Students Edwards Students Law School Students Medical Center Campus Students Pharmacy Students myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Orientation Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Your first year Campus life Finding your place in the KU community There's no better way to explore KU than to connect with the diverse groups, programs, and people that make up its campus. In unfamiliar places, you'll feel right at home. Among new communities, you'll form lasting bonds. 600+ student clubs and organizations With over 600 student clubs and organizations, you’re bound to find your place among like-minded Jayhawks. Along the way, you’ll gain experience in leadership roles and contributing to your community. Search clubs 100+ multicultural student groups Many campus organizations offer platforms for students to share their cultures and identities and advocate for their communities. See multicultural groups Volunteer and service work The Center for Community Outreach connects students to volunteer opportunities and community service, as well as volunteer training, speakers, workshops, and a volunteer resource library. Explore CCO Celebrate your identity Emily Taylor Center for Women & Gender Equity ETC is committed to the advancement of gender equity on campus. The center offers support services and involvement opportunities for students of all genders and identities. Emily Taylor Center Center For Sexuality & Gender Diversity As the center of LGBTQIA+ and ally life on campus, SGD provides a community drop-in space and platforms for student-led organizations. CSGD Office of Multicultural Affairs OMA’s programs and services support the academic, personal, and professional development of all students, particularly students from historically marginalized populations. OMA Mark your calendar In a typical year, Student Union Activities hosts more than 200 campus events. The student-run board plans and carries out a diverse calendar of events, including live performances, culinary and arts celebrations, and gaming and technology experiences. See upcoming events Summerfield Hall 1300 Sunnyside Ave., Room 315 Lawrence, KS 66045-7601 orientation@ku.edu 785-864-4270 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin About Staff Academics Safety Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.