Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Orientation myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Register Prepare Attend Parents and Guests Post-Orientation checklist Your first year Select to follow link Hawk Week Academics Select to follow link First-year programs Exploring majors Earning your degree Campus life Select to follow link Parking & Transit Housing & Dining Employment Finding your community Health and Support Select to follow link Health and recreation Campus security Academic Resources Info for International Students Graduate Students Edwards Students Law School Students Medical Center Campus Students Pharmacy Students myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Orientation Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Your first year Campus life Getting to campus and getting around Jayhawks are always on the go. Campuswide parking options and free bus routes that extend throughout Lawrence mean you’re always able to make it from point Jay to point B. Parking permits go on sale July 6 If you plan to bring a vehicle to campus, you’ll need to purchase a permit to park in a campus lot or parking garage. KU offers a variety of virtual permit options, each with its own rate and range of access to parking locations. Permits should be purchased by the first day of classes in August. Parking permits Other campus transportation Bus services All KU on Wheels and Lawrence buses are free to use for students, and run throughout campus and Lawrence. Just board with a valid KU card and you’ll be ready to navigate Mount Oread and beyond. KU on Wheels SafeRide If you’re traveling late at night, we encourage you to use KU’s SafeRide service. When classes are in session during the spring and fall semesters, SafeRide runs from 10:30 p.m. to 2:30 a.m., seven nights a week. When summer classes are in session, it runs Thursday through Sunday. SafeRide Bicycling KU is a bike-friendly campus. Between the bus routes, bike lanes, and over 100 miles of bike-friendly trails, you can get pretty much anywhere in Lawrence without a car. Biking at KU Accessible parking and transportation ADA placards If you plan to use an Americans With Disabilities Act (ADA) placard to park on campus, you’ll need to register your placard by mail or in person and purchase a KU parking permit. Register JayLift JayLift is a complementary paratransit service for students who are unable to board, ride, or disembark KU on Wheels’ lift-equipped buses. Learn more Hawk Route For those in wheelchairs or in need of physical assistance, Hawk Route offers an accessible path to navigate campus. Explore the route Summerfield Hall 1300 Sunnyside Ave., Room 315 Lawrence, KS 66045-7601 orientation@ku.edu 785-864-4270 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin About Staff Academics Safety Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.