Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Orientation myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Register Prepare Attend Parents and Guests Post-Orientation checklist Your first year Select to follow link Hawk Week Academics Select to follow link First-year programs Exploring majors Earning your degree Campus life Select to follow link Parking & Transit Housing & Dining Employment Finding your community Health and Support Select to follow link Health and recreation Campus security Academic Resources Info for International Students Graduate Students Edwards Students Law School Students Medical Center Campus Students Pharmacy Students myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Orientation Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Your Orientation day With KU closer than ever, it’s time to attend your last major milestone: Orientation. Here’s what to know about your upcoming session. Session highlights Rock Chalk Welcome You’ll begin the day with an introduction to Orientation programs and your transition to KU. Student-to-student In your student-to-student session, you’ll meet other future Jayhawks in your major or with similar academic interests. In our experience, these sessions often form the basis for future friendships. Advising and enrollment You’ll also attend a one-on-one appointment with your advisor. Together, you’ll discuss your future plans, possible majors or Exploratory Pathways, and enroll in your first semester. What to bring Final scores or transcripts: If you have remaining test scores or transcripts to submit, bring them to your session and take care of it there. Weather-appropriate clothes: It’s Kansas, so expect a surprise. Your Jayhawk guides Orientation Assistants Our Orientation Assistants are current KU students who are trained to help you get the most out of your session. They’ll be with you throughout your session, answering questions, offering advice, and preparing you for Jayhawk life. Orientation Staff Each Orientation staff member is from the Center for Orientation & Transition Programs, which means they’re experts at providing new students with the information and tools they need to excel in their first semesters at KU. Together, they organize and oversee the Orientation process. Where to stay Planning an overnight stay in Lawrence? KU has partnered with a selection of local hotels to offer discounted rates to Orientation attendees. See hotel discounts See hotel discounts Masks and COVID-19 campus protocols If you feel more comfortable wearing a mask on campus, you are free to do so. Masks are optional in nearly all spaces on campus, with the exception of clinical spaces. Procedures and policies are updated when needed. Get informed about our current protocols: See COVID guidance Summerfield Hall 1300 Sunnyside Ave., Room 315 Lawrence, KS 66045-7601 orientation@ku.edu 785-864-4270 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin About Staff Academics Safety Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.