Research and Project Administration Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Main Menu Menu About Us Submenu Our Team Departmental Contacts Finding Funding Submenu Princeton Research Funding Gateway Pivot Federal and Non-Federal Opportunities COVID-19 Funding Opportunities Sponsored Project Lifecycle Submenu Proposal Development Subawards Award Management Cost Sharing Equipment and Property Transfers and Terminations Award Closeout Resources Submenu New to Research Admin? COVID-19 FAQs Submenu Have a Question? Princeton ERA Coeus Forms Institutional Information Citadel - Secure Research Infrastructure Sponsored Research Dashboard Internal Grant Awards Listservs News Submenu Archive Inappropriate Foreign Influence and Disclosure Integrity Submenu DOD Guidance DOE Guidance Key Internal Communications and Additional References NASA Guidance NIH Guidance Submenu DocuSign and Other Support NSF Guidance Policies and Procedures Submenu Harassment and Sexual Assault Submenu National Institutes of Health National Science Foundation Simons Foundation Responsible Conduct of Research Sponsors Faculty Individual Portfolio Report Registration Know Your Rights Training Submenu Overview Research Administration Mentoring Program Research Administration Training Program Export Controls Submenu Russia, Belarus and Ukraine Guidance Export Controls Policy Submenu Federal Regulations Exceptions Export Licenses Exports and Imports Submenu Exports Imports Remote Study and Work Sanctioned Countries Non-U.S. Persons Submenu Restricted Party Screenings Sharing Technical Information Hiring Non-U.S. Persons International Travel Conference Considerations Export Controls Training How to Report Possible Violations Contacts Forms Institutional Information Princeton ERA Log in Search Search Research and Project Administration ORPA Has A New Home We have moved to our new home at 619 Alexander Road, Suite 102 (on the corner of Canal Point Boulevard) on November 18th. Our email addresses and phone numbers remain the same. You can continue to expect the high level of support from your partners in the Office of the Dean for Research as we transition to our new office. We welcome you to drop by in person in December or beyond to see us and our new digs! News New Research.gov Proposal Preparation Functionality and NSF-PAR Enhancements May 10, 2022 Beginning in January 2023, all new proposals must be prepared and submitted in Research.gov or Grants.gov. FastLane will no longer be a preparation and submission option. The National Science Foundation strongly urges proposers to prepare and submit all eligible proposals in Research.gov now, to support a smooth transition from… New NSF PAPPG Includes the Mandated Use of SciENcv May 10, 2022 The NSF released its draft PAPPG for public comment in mid-April (effective January 2023). One of the changes to be aware of is the mandate of the use of SciENcv in NSF proposals. The specific language includes: Page 38… DOE Offers Supplemental Funding to Support Students and Scientists from Ukraine April 6, 2022 On April 4, 2022, J. Stephen Binkley, Acting Director, Office of Science at the U.S. Department of Energy, released a Dear Colleague letter announcing the availability of supplemental funding to support the hosting of students and scientists impacted by the war in Ukraine. The… View All News Sponsored Research Annual Report The University Research Board (URB) Annual Report of Research catalogues the diverse portfolio of sponsored research at Princeton. We invite you to review the details in this report which highlights funding from an expansive range of external sponsors. The tables below are a snapshot of proposals submitted and awards received by month, representing the success of the research enterprise. What We Do As part of Princeton University’s Office of the Dean for Research, the Office of Research and Project Administration (ORPA) serves as a go-to resource for all things related to sponsored research funding. We help make research at Princeton happen, offering professional assistance across fields and throughout the sponsored research lifecycle, from proposal preparation to award management and close-out. Quick Links ORPA Departmental Contacts Institutional Information (Facts and Figures) F & A Rate Agreement FDP Prior Approval Matrix Princeton Research Funding Gateway Uniform Guidance Information Disclosure Integrity & Inappropriate Foreign Influence Sponsored Research Dashboard Sponsored Research Annual Report Princeton University is actively monitoring coronavirus (COVID-19) and the evolving guidance from government and health authorities. It has developed the Research Operations Guidance webpage as a resource for the University research community. Additionally, ORPA has compiled a list of Frequently Asked Questions related to sponsored programs. Trainings and Events No upcoming events found. View All Events FY21 Proposals FY21 Awards Footer Office of Research and Project Administration 619 Alexander Road - Suite 102 Princeton, NJ 08540-6000 Phone: 609-258-3091 Fax: 609-258-1159 Email: awards@princeton.edu Website Feedback Subscribe to ORPANews Footer menu Office of the Dean for Research Corporate Engagement and Foundation Relations Laboratory Animal Resources Princeton Entrepreneurship Council Research Integrity and Assurance Research and Project Administration Technology Licensing Sponsored Research Accounting Forms Institutional Information Policies and Procedures GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation) Privacy Notice Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University