Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Search About Student Life OSA Sponsored Conferences Student Organizations Student Council Perks Housing International Travel International Students Events Commencement for the Class of 2022 Commencement Celebration for Classes of 2020 and 2021 Orientation Diversity and Inclusion HGSE Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Belonging Outcomes Diversity Initiatives Students of Color International Students LGBTQIA Students First Generation and Low Income Student Community (FLIC) Undocumented/DACAmented Student Supports Support Services Academic Coaching Accommodations and Accessibility Work Accountability Groups Sexual Harassment and Other Sexual Misconduct HOME / EVENTS / COMMENCEMENT FOR THE CLASS OF 2022 / Celebration Dates and Descriptions Monday, May 23 University AAPI/APIDA (Asian American Pacific Islander/Asian Pacific Islander Desi American) Affinity Celebration 7 - 9 p.m. Tercentenary Theatre Tuesday, May 24 University NextGen (FGLI+) Graduation 9:30 - 11:30 a.m. Memorial Church HGSE International Student Reception 11:30 a.m. - 1 p.m. Gutman Conference Center University Lavender (LGBTQ+) Graduation 1 - 3 p.m. Harvard Divinity School University Black Graduation 3:30 - 5:30 p.m. Sanders Theater University Latinx Graduation 7 - 9 p.m. Sanders Theater Wednesday, May 25 Ed.D./Ph.D. Robing Ceremony 9 - 11 a.m Askwith Hall Click here to view this ceremony remotely via Zoom Passcode: 609624 This ceremony will feature faculty advisors providing remarks about each individual graduating student. Graduating Doctoral Student Brunch 11 a.m. - 12:30 p.m. Radcliffe Yard An opportunity for all graduating doctoral students (Ed.D., Ph.D., and Ed.L.D.) to celebrate their accomplishments with friends and family. Ed.L.D. Graduation Celebration 12:30 - 2:30 p.m. Askwith Hall Click here to view this ceremony remotely via Zoom Passcode: 983505 This ceremony will feature remarks about each graduating students experience within the Ed.L.D. Program. Certificate of Advanced Study (CAS) Cording Ceremony 1 - 3 p.m. Gutman Library First Floor Reading Area Graduates of the Certificate of Advanced Study Program are individually recognized. Graduates are invited to bring friends and family. HGSE Convocation 3:30 - 5:00 p.m. Radcliffe Yard Dean Bridget Long welcomes all graduates and guests and introduces the afternoon's speakers. Remarks are provided by the HGSE Student Speaker, the HGSE Faculty Speaker, and the HGSE Invited Guest Speaker, Juliana Uturbey. Recipients of the HGSE Intellectual Contribution Awards are recognized along with the Commencement Marshals, and the recipient of the Phyllis Strimling Award. The Class Gift and Morningstar Family Teaching Award will be presented. All HGSE graduates and invited guests are welcome to attend. HGSE Block Party 5:00 - 7:00 p.m. Appian Way An HGSE community celebration featuring music, food, and more! All HGSE graduates are welcome to invite family members and guests. Thursday, May 26 University Morning Exercises 9:45 a.m. - 12:30 p.m. ET Tercentenary Theater, Harvard Yard *This is a ticketed event* The deans of each school introduce their graduates as a class and President Bacow confers degrees upon the class as a whole. *Please note: graduates will not be awarded their diplomas here. Exercises include the traditional commencement speeches and orations. Harvard University honorary degrees are awarded. This event will include remarks from the principal speaker, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern of New Zealand. HGSE Presentation of Diplomas and Certificates 1:00 - 3:30 p.m. ET Radcliffe Yard *This is a ticketed event* HGSE diplomas and certificates are awarded to all graduates (both doctoral and masters) on stage in Radcliffe Yard. Dean Long will speak; graduates will be individually presented with degrees and will walk across the stage. Native American and Indigenous Graduation 5:00 p.m. ET Sheraton Commander Hotel Events Commencement for the Class of 2022 Celebration Dates and Descriptions Regalia Tickets Speech Contests Student Awards Deadlines Inviting Friends and Family Commencement Celebration for Classes of 2020 and 2021 Copyright © 2014 The President and Fellows of Harvard College HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers | Trademark Notice | Digital Accessibility Policy Digital Accessibility Policy Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement