Skip to main content Jump to main navigation Search content University of Pennsylvania | Penn University Life Search query Search Menu Search VPUL Home Activities Fraternity and Sorority Life Naval ROTC Office of Student Affairs Platt Student Performing Arts House VPUL Events Calendar Cultural Centers Greenfield Intercultural Center La Casa Latina LGBTC Center Makuu The Black Cultural Center Pan-Asian American Community House Penn Women Center Student Supports Career Services First Generation Low Income Program Penn Violence Prevention Student Affairs Leadership Team Student Intervention Services Weingarten Learning Resource Center Student Disabilities Services Office of Learning Resources Tutoring Center About Leadership Team Give to University Life Strategic Priorities VPUL Facilities at Perelman Quadrangle VPUL Technology Services Student Organizations PennClubs Database Starting a Club Clubs & Organizations Penn Student Government Programs Pre-Orientation Programs Family Weekend Ivy Day Honor Awards Leadership Training Resources Reserving Locust Walk Space? Financial Services Center Group Websites and Email Open Expression Hazing Education and Resources Policies University Policies Covid-19 Impact & FAQs Frequently Asked Questions Event Registration FAQ Banking Guidelines for Student Groups Student Brand Guidelines About Home PennQuest PennQuest pennacle pennarts penncorp penngeneq penngreen pennquest (Must have your PennKey to submit an application. PennKeys are provided to you once you confirm your Penn attendence. Learn more about PennKeys here.) PennQuest is an outdoor orientation program being offered to 120 first-year students entering the University of Pennsylvania, sponsored by the Office of the Platt Student Performing Arts House, with the support from the Undergraduate Assembly. The goals of the program are: to foster positive relationships with other students, to develop personal skills and self-confidence to meet the challenges of a college career and other life experiences, and to develop an appreciation for our natural environment. PennQuest is a four-day outdoor experience at a base camp before leaving for backpacking on the Appalachian Trail. First-year students will be divided into groups with each group led by two team leaders who are upper-class students. Participants sleep in tents on the trail for two nights. Tents are provided. Backpacks and sleeping bags are required for each participant and can be rented from PennQuest if needed. Selection Process: Each year, we receive more applications for the program than there are spaces available. Participants will be selected based upon a careful review of the applications. Each application is reviewed and rated by the staff and student leaders of the program and a consensus is reached. Those invited to participate will need to promptly complete registration forms and submit payment. Students may apply to other pre-orientation programs as well and then decide which program to attend based upon their selection status. Applications are due by June 20th 11:59pm ET. Be on the watch for email updates! Cost of Program: Each participant is required to pay a program fee of $395. Financial assistance is available to anyone who receives any aid to come to Penn. Please check the bottom of the application to be considered. If you have questions, please contact Laurie McCall at LMCCALL@UPENN.EDU. Schedule: Applications are due by June 20th 11:59pm ET. Be on the watch for email updates! Notifications will be sent in the evening on July 6th. All participants will be assigned an early move in. Saturday, August 20th 8am – 6pm – Move-in Saturday, August 20th @7:30pm – Introduction to PennQuest and Trip Overview Sunday, August 21st @8:30am – Depart for the Poconos Monday, August 22nd – Wednesday, August 24th – Backpacking on the Appalachian Trail Wednesday, August 24th – Arrival back at Penn approximately 4pm-6pm. Packing List Note: PLEASE try to bring as few cotton items as possible. Synthetic materials (like polypropylene, capilene, and fleece**) dry much faster and keep your body much warmer than cotton — very valuable traits in the event of rain. Things to wear: 4 pairs of wool socks 1 pair of hiking shoes (boots, trail runners, or stury running shoes) 1 pair of camp shoes (sneakers, sandals, or slip-ons) 4 pairs of underwear 1 pair of long underwear 1 pair of shorts 1 pair of long pants 1 long-sleeved base layer 2 short-sleeved shirts 1 warm outer layer 1 waterproof rain jacket 1 warm hat Sunscreen * Avoid cotton and linen fabrics – wicking is the best Things you don’t wear, but need to have: 1 internal or external frame backpack – at least 50 liters (available to rent) 1 sleeping bag rated to 40F or lower (available to rent) 1 sleeping pad 3 32oz water bottles (or equivalent water capacity) 1 flashlight or headlamp with fresh batteries 1 eating bowl with utensils 1 toothbrush and tube of toothpaste 2 large trash bags Any required medication Optional, but recommended: Sunglasses, cap and/or bandana Insect repellent Camera Extra snacks (plenty will be provided, but a personal snack bar or two can’t hurt) Things you shouldn’t bring: Phone, computer, or other electronics Soap, cosmetics, or deordorant Alcohol, drugs, or tobacco products Tips and Tricks: Backpacks – at least 50 liters or 3000 cubic inches Hiking shoes – break them in before the trip to avoid blisters * We may be able to rent a backpack and/or sleeping bag for you at a small fee. ** If you don’t recognize these terms, ask anyone who is familiar with backpacking. Application Primary Footer Athletics Diversity Health & Wellness Libraries Online Learning Penn Global Resources University Life Calendar Student Jobs Help Contact Us Maps Parking University of Pennsylvania Address Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-6081 Legal Copyright Disclaimer Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Skip to content Open toolbar Accessibility Tools Increase Text Decrease Text Grayscale High Contrast Negative Contrast Light Background Links Underline Readable Font Reset