Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Tuition and Fees Tuition and Fees Information Frequently Asked Questions Paying Your Bill Cashier's Office Online Payments Third Party Payments Monthly Payment Plan Former Students with Past Due Balances Refunds Refunds Enroll in Direct Deposit Check Distribution Tax Information 1098-T Form Tuition and Fees Paying Your Bill Refunds Tax Information Search Tuition and Fees Tuition and Fees Information Frequently Asked Questions Paying Your Bill Cashier's Office Online Payments Third Party Payments Monthly Payment Plan Former Students with Past Due Balances Refunds Refunds Enroll in Direct Deposit Check Distribution Tax Information 1098-T Form NEED HELP? 1 Help With ... 2 Submit Case 3 Contact Us NEED HELP? 1 Help With ... 2 Submit Case 3 Contact Us MAY 12 2022 Summer Semester Bill Due Date MAY 12 2022 Summer Semester Bill Due Date The Office of Student Accounts processes all financial information of a student's account during their enrollment at the University of Miami. We are responsible for billing university tuition and fees, collecting and processing payments, issuing student refunds, and distributing student educational tax data. Student Accounts Checklist Set up Proxy/Delegate Access For anyone other than yourself to receive notifications, view your student account and make payments, they must be set up as proxy/delegate in CaneLink. Financial Aid Review your account transactions and your anticipated financial aid. Check your To Do List on the Student Center tab in CaneLink to ensure you have completed all your requirements. Health Insurance Waiver View important information on health insurance waiver eligibility and requirements. Paying Your Student Account Bill Explore all the payment options offered by the University. Signup for Direct Deposit Enroll in direct deposit to receive your student accounts refunds. Sponsored Student Information Review this page if your tuition and/or fees will be paid by a qualified third party sponsor. Florida Prepaid Program Find out how to use your Florida Prepaid College Programs at the University. Billing Notifications Billing notifications are sent only if you have charges due. Log into your account to view your balance and account activity. Frequently Asked Questions See our FAQs for answers to some of our most commonly asked questions. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Office of Student Accounts 1307 Stanford Drive Student Services Bldg., Rm 125 Coral Gables, FL 33146 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices