Georgia Tech OSCAR OIT Service Status Registration/SIS Secure Access Login Schedule of Classes Course Details Transfer Equivalencies Curriculum Georgia Tech Catalog Course Evaluations Services Order a Transcript Identity Passport gtID# BuzzPort BuzzCard Learning Canvas Calendars Academic Calendar Five-Term Tentative Institute Calendar Final Exam Matrices Campus Calendar Links Registrar's Office Academic Calendar Registration Bursar's Office Financial Aid International Education Undergrad. Admission Graduate Studies Student Life Housing Library Bookstore Colleges Colleges: Business Computing Design Engineering Liberal Arts Sciences Instructional Sites: Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Office 365 Outlook Word Excel PowerPoint OneNote Help Contact the Registrar's Office Contact the Bursar's Office Contact the Enterprise Service Desk Did you know? OSCAR is an acronym for "Online Student Computer Assisted Registration." Web Access System Registration/SIS Secure Access Login Schedule of Classes Course Details Transfer Equivalencies Policies, Curriculum, and Services Georgia Tech Catalog Course Evaluations Order a Transcript Identity Management Passport gtID# BuzzPort BuzzCard Learning Management System Canvas Announcements Calendars Need Help? Announcements Calendars Academic Calendar The standard Academic Calendar consists of a Fall Semester, a Spring Semester, and an accelerated Summer Session. Academic Calendar Five-Term Tentative Institute Calendar Dates on the tentative five-term school calendar may be subject to change without notice. Five-Term Tentative Institute Calendar Final Exam Matrices See the matrix that determines the schedule of final examinations for a given academic term. Final Exam Matrices Campus Calendar The Campus Calendar features the comprehensive set of dates and events across a wide range of categories. Campus Calendar Need Help? Contact the Registrar's Office The Registrar's Office maintains and protects the official academic record for every student at Georgia Tech. Registrar's Office Contact the Enterprise Service Desk The Enterprise Service Desk provides assistance for those using Georgia Tech's computing resources. Enterprise Service Desk Contact the Bursar's Office The Bursar's Office manages the billing and payment processes for Georgia Tech student accounts. Bursar's Office Helpful Links Registrar's Office Academic Calendar Registration Bursar's Office Financial Aid International Education Undergraduate Admission Graduate Studies Student Life Housing Library Bookstore Colleges & Instructional Sites College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Office 365 Outlook Word Excel PowerPoint OneNote Please bookmark this page only. Do not bookmark any pages beyond this point. URLs for subsequent pages are subject to change without notice. Notwithstanding any language to the contrary, nothing contained herein constitutes nor is intended to constitute an offer, inducement, promise, or contract of any kind. The data contained herein is for informational purposes only and is not represented to be error free. Any links to non-Georgia Tech information are provided as a courtesy. They are not intended to nor do they constitute an endorsement by the Georgia Institute of Technology of the linked materials. Last modified April 23, 2021 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Accessibility Accountablility Accreditation Employment © Georgia Institute of Technology