Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Remember... it is okay to not be okay. Mental Health Resources at Stanford Stanford Office of Student Engagement Search this site Submit Search Menu Home About OSE Communications Events Plan an Event Planning Calendar Book a Space Event Planning Guidelines Academic Schedule Advertising and Publicity Audience at Events Benefit Fundraisers Camps Campus Disruptions Contracts Entrance Requirements Filming/Live-Streaming Food and Alcohol Fronting International Visitors Noise Engaging Companies Overnight Guests Political Activities Religious Activities Safety Security Ticketing Stanford Eventbrite Waivers Youth Programs Get Money Free or Affordable Resources On-Campus Funding Sources Primary, Secondary & Tertiary Sources of On-Campus Funding The Solidarity Fund The Stanford Fund Partnership Program The Stanford Fund Partnership Program Criteria The Stanford Fund Partnership Program Application Process The Stanford Fund Partnership Program FAQ Off-Campus Fundraising Guidelines What Can You Fund? Submit Work Orders Upcoming Events CardinalEngage Stanford Events Calendar Get Involved with OSE Class Presidents Fraternity & Sorority Life Public List of Student Organizations Start a New Student Organization Application Process & Additional Information Alternatives to Starting a Group Criteria for Approval Dormant Status and Renewal Student Engagement Fair VSO Leaders Annual Registration Elections and Transitions Dormant Status and Renewal OSE Policies Core 10 Student Org Policies Advisors Guiding Principles & Best Practices News Upcoming Events Main content start The Farm is a very special place indeed with connections occurring every day across our communities. We want our students to flourish and to find their space. Find out about upcoming events hosted through CardinalEngage and Stanford Events to see how you can expand your experience. CardinalEngage CardinalEngage is Stanford's platform for student organizations and campus engagement. Here you can learn more about student groups as well as access a calendar of upcoming events occurring within the neighborhoods and beyond. Note: Requires Stanford credentials to access. Learn More Stanford Events The Stanford Events Calendar reflects events occurring across the Farm and open to the university community. Here you can view upcoming events as well as those that are trending. This is a great place to learn about things to do on campus. Below you can see the next 7 days of students events. If you are interested in learning more about what is happening on campus, visit the Stanford Events calendar. Embed Code Recent Event Photos Embed Code Stanford Office of Student Engagement Web Login Address Old Union, Suite 206 520 Lasuen Mall Stanford, CA 94305 United States studentengagement@stanford.edu Campus Map Contact Us Phone: 650-723-2445 Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top