Skip to content Safety, Health, Environmental Services Main Menu Home Safety, Health & Environmental Services OSHA 21(d) Consultation Program Georgia Environmental Compliance Assistance (GECAP) Program Request Consultation Assistance Training & Events Safety and Health Training Courses Professional Master’s in Occupational Safety and Health (Online) Safety and Health Webinars and No-Cost Training Team Request Consultation Assistance Resources Read Our Blog Sign up for the Safety Newsletter Written Program Templates Training Materials Machine Guarding Pandemic Illness Preparedness Hazard Communication in Food Industry Temporary Worker Additional Information Search Search for: Search Frontpage The Georgia Tech OSHA Consultation Program is operational and is conducting safety and health visits, both virtually and on-site. If you would like assistance, please click the gold button on the left side below and complete our online request form. Feel free to contact us at 770-378-0721 or pschlumper@gatech.edu if you have questions. For more information on the Georgia Tech OSHA Consultation Program and what services we provide, download this flyer. What’s New OSHA’s FY21 Most Frequently Cited Serious Violations slide decks for Construction, General Industry, and Maritime (.zip) Guidance on Preparing Workplaces for COVID-19 (OSHA 3990-30 2020) Steps Construction Employers and Workers Should Take in Response to the Coronavirus (COVID-19) Checklist for Healthcare Facilities: Strategies for Optimizing the Supply of N95 Respirators during the COVID-19 Response Georgia Manufacturing Extension Partnership’s (GaMEP) Coronavirus Resources Webinar recording: Engineered Stone: Fabrication and Silicosis, 18 October 2019. Occupational Safety & Health Consultation The OSHA 21(d) Consultation Program provides a free, confidential, on-site consultation service for small companies (fewer than 500 employees) in Georgia that need assistance in occupational safety and health. Employers have the option to choose several different types of assistance. For further information about the OSHA 21(d) Consultation Program, contact Paul Schlumper at 404-894-4148 or by email at paul.schlumper@innovate.gatech.edu. Complete the ONLINE REQUEST FORM for Consultation Service Consultative assistance is free and at no cost to your company. Consultation services are completely confidential. The Consultation Program will not fine your company in any way. Our consultation staff will come to you and perform an on-site inspection. The Georgia Tech OSHA Training Institute Education Center The Georgia Tech OSHA Training Institute Education Center offers safety and health courses in more than 20 topics throughout Region IV, an area covering Florida, Georgia, Alabama, South Carolina, North Carolina, Mississippi, Tennessee, and Kentucky. For further information about the OSHA Training Institute Education Center, contact Hilarie Warren at 404-894-4151‬ or by email at hilarie.warren@innovate.gatech.edu Contract Course Training Request If you would like to request on-site contract training, please download the form available through the links below and return the form as an e-mail attachment to Dana Atkinson at dana.atkinson@innovate.gatech.edu. On-site training form Georgia Environmental Compliance Assistance Program (GECAP) GECAP is a non-regulatory program offering free and confidential environmental compliance assistance to Georgia businesses. GECAP provides environmentally-related technical assistance targeted to small and mid-sized companies in a manner that is accessible, useful, and understandable by “translating” regulations, being a source for environmental information, and providing an evaluation of a facility’s environmental compliance status. For more information please visit GECAP.INFO. Contact the Institute Directory Offices Campus Map Apply Support / Give Log in Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404-894-2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology