Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation The Office of Student Integrity About Mission Staff Helpful Links Honor Advisory Council (HAC) Contact Us Strategic Plan Policies Student Conduct Sexual Misconduct Policy Additional Policies Process Academic Misconduct Process Non-Academic Misconduct Process Sanctions Appeal Process For Students AlcoholEdu for Sanctions Choices The Honor Code HAC Ethics Seminars Honor Advisory Council Student Conduct Panels Title IX VOICE For Faculty Expectations of Faculty Preventing Misconduct Faculty Conference Resolution Reporting a Case Syllabus Checklist FAQs (Frequently Asked Questions) Resources Background Checks Annual Report of Statistics Hazing Conduct History Student Organization Conduct History Incident Referral Translate Search Search form Enter your keywords Get the latest Covid-19 health information, operational status updates, and campus guidelines. You are here: GT Home Home Process Appeal Process APPEAL PROCEDURES 1. Reasons for Appeal The appeal process is not intended to grant a new hearing at a higher level. An appeal shall be limited to a review of the record of the initial hearing, supporting documents, and the Respondent’s written appeal. The Respondent must explicitly state why he or she believes an appeal is warranted. Appeals will be considered only for the following reasons: a. To determine whether the original hearing was conducted fairly and in conformity with prescribed procedures; b. To determine whether there was sufficient evidence to support the decision; c. To determine whether the Sanctions and Supplementary Requirements imposed were appropriate for the violation for which the Student was found responsible; and/or d. To determine whether new Information, not available at the time of the hearing, is relevant to the final decision. 2. Process If a case is appealed, sanctions are not imposed unless the welfare of a person or the community is threatened. Sanctions will be imposed if an appeal is not filed, the deadline for an appeal passes, or when an appeal decision has been finalized. The appeal must be addressed to the appropriate Appellate Officer and delivered to the Office of Student Integrity within five (5) business days of the delivery of the decision. Appeal decisions will normally be rendered within ten (10) business days either in person, or accordance with the communication guidelines in Section H.2. Extension of these deadlines may be granted for extenuating circumstances. At the discretion of the Appellate Officer, a designee may be selected to determine the outcome of the appeal. For all decisions made by the Office of Student Integrity, the Appellate Officer shall be the Associate Vice President for Student Engagement and Well-Being and Dean of Students. For outcomes where the sanction includes suspension or expulsion, Students may appeal to the Institute President. The President’s designee shall normally be the Vice President for Student Engagement and Well-Being, unless there is a conflict of interest or the Vice President for Student Engagement and Well-Being is otherwise unavailable. The Vice President for Student Engagement and Well-Being's decision will be the final decision of the Institute. 3. Appeal Decisions Decisions of the Appellate Officer go into effect immediately. The Appellate Officer is authorized to take one of the following actions: a. dismiss the appeal for failure to state valid reasons, in accordance with Section H.1. b. find no error and uphold the original decision; c. uphold the original decision, but modify Sanctions and Supplementary Requirements; d. remand the case to a Student Conduct Administrator or Student Conduct Panel; or e. reverse the original decision. 4. Board of Regents The Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia (the "Board") is the final appellate authority for all cases of suspension or expulsion that have been reviewed by the Institute President. Should the Respondent be dissatisfied with the decision of the Institute President, he/she may apply to the Board for a review of the decision. The application for review shall be submitted in writing to the executive secretary of the Board within the period specified by the Board of Regents. Facebook Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Smithgall Student Services (Flag) Building 353 Ferst Drive, Suite 210 Atlanta, GA 30332 404-894-2566 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login