Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation The Office of Student Integrity About Mission Staff Helpful Links Honor Advisory Council (HAC) Contact Us Strategic Plan Policies Student Conduct Sexual Misconduct Policy Additional Policies Process Academic Misconduct Process Non-Academic Misconduct Process Sanctions Appeal Process For Students AlcoholEdu for Sanctions Choices The Honor Code HAC Ethics Seminars Honor Advisory Council Student Conduct Panels Title IX VOICE For Faculty Expectations of Faculty Preventing Misconduct Faculty Conference Resolution Reporting a Case Syllabus Checklist FAQs (Frequently Asked Questions) Resources Background Checks Annual Report of Statistics Hazing Conduct History Student Organization Conduct History Incident Referral Translate Search Search form Enter your keywords Get the latest Covid-19 health information, operational status updates, and campus guidelines. You are here: GT Home Home For Students Student Conduct Panels Undergraduate Judiciary Cabinet (UJC) The UJC is the judicial branch of the undergraduate arm of Tech’s Student Government Association (SGA). The primary purpose of the UJC is to hear cases of non-academic misconduct that involve Institute undergraduates. When an undergraduate student or organization violates the Student Code of Conduct, that violation gets reported to the Office of Student Integrity (OSI). If there is legitimacy to the violation, OSI proceeds forward with an investigation. After the investigation is complete, the student or organization can elect to have his/hers/their case heard by either (1) a representative of OSI, also known as a Student Conduct Administrator, or (2) the Student Conduct Panel (UJC). The panel conducts a hearing, renders a decision, and makes a recommendation to the Associate Dean/Director of Student Integrity. The Director, after reviewing the case, renders a decision of (1) Not Responsible, which closes the case, or 2) Responsible for one or more violations with an appropriate Sanction(s), as warranted. The secondary purpose of the UJC is to interpret any and all SGA policy (Constitution, Bylaws, codes, ethics, etc.) and to determine if any actions by the Executive or Legislative branch are unconstitutional. In addition, the UJC also oversees the SGA election process and conducts hearings on potential election violations. For more information, including recruitment and elections, please visit the Undergraduate SGA page. Graduate Judiciary Cabinet (GJC) The GJC is the judicial branch of the graduate arm of Tech’s Student Government Association (SGA). The GJC is appointed annually and hears cases of alleged violations of non-academic misconduct that involve Institute graduate students. The GJC also rules on issues involving constitutionality within the Graduate Student Senate, and on contested elections. It is composed of five to seven panel members, including the panel chair. Panel members are selected through a process that involves approval and oversight from graduate SGA’s executive and legislative wings. None of the justices may be members of the Senate or officers in the Graduate Student Senate during their terms. For more information, please visit the Graduate SGA page. Student Honor Committee (Honor Committee) The Student Honor Committee is an arm of the Faculty Senate that hears cases of academic misconduct that involve Institute undergraduates and graduates. Cases arrive at the Honor Committee either when the Office of Student Integrity (OSI) representative forwards them or when a student chooses the Honor Committee instead of the OSI representative. Its membership consists of 12 faculty members, six (6) undergraduate students, and three (3) graduate students. When it hears cases, the committee requires four (4) faculty members, as well as two students. If the accused student is an undergraduate, at least one of the two student representatives must be an undergraduate. If the accused is a graduate, the same is true. The Faculty Senate elects representatives to three-year terms. The undergraduate and graduate SGA presidents appoint student representatives to year-long terms, with the approval of the legislative branch. Facebook Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Smithgall Student Services (Flag) Building 353 Ferst Drive, Suite 210 Atlanta, GA 30332 404-894-2566 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login