Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation The Office of Student Integrity About Mission Staff Helpful Links Honor Advisory Council (HAC) Contact Us Strategic Plan Policies Student Conduct Sexual Misconduct Policy Additional Policies Process Academic Misconduct Process Non-Academic Misconduct Process Sanctions Appeal Process For Students AlcoholEdu for Sanctions Choices The Honor Code HAC Ethics Seminars Honor Advisory Council Student Conduct Panels Title IX VOICE For Faculty Expectations of Faculty Preventing Misconduct Faculty Conference Resolution Reporting a Case Syllabus Checklist FAQs (Frequently Asked Questions) Resources Background Checks Annual Report of Statistics Hazing Conduct History Student Organization Conduct History Incident Referral Translate Search Search form Enter your keywords Get the latest Covid-19 health information, operational status updates, and campus guidelines. You are here: GT Home Home For Faculty Tips for Preventing Academic Misconduct It’s important to remember that despite an instructor’s best attempts, students may still choose to violate policy, which is not a reflection on their faculty member. Educating to Reduce Plagiarism Assign narrow and specific research topics. Do not allow last-minute changes of topic. Require that outlines be submitted three to four weeks prior to the deadline and that drafts be submitted with the final paper. Do not assume students know what constitutes plagiarism or proper citation format, and encourage students to utilize campus resources or review this information with them. Require detailed citations, including page numbers. Clearly explain classroom expectations. Encourage students to come to you if they are confused about citation practices. Role model proper citation in lectures, emphasizing it as a sign show respect for other scholars. Talk about academic honesty with your students, and make sure they understand both the reasons and tools for avoiding plagiarism. Educating to Reduce Cheating At the beginning or end of each test, quiz, or exam, ask students to sign the “Challenge Statement” advocated by the Honor Advisory Council: “I commit to uphold the ideals of honor and integrity by refusing to betray the trust bestowed upon me as a member of the Georgia Tech Community.” During the exam, consider asking students to place backpacks, books, notebooks, electronic devices, cell phones, and laptops in another part of the room. Remake exams each semester. Reorder questions; reword questions; and change formats. Students frequently give old exams to friends, which is permitted under the Academic Honor Code. Creating new exams each semester assures that all students have an equal opportunity for success. When possible, use free response and essay questions rather than multiple-choice questions. If relevant, require students display work or proof of how they came to an answer. When giving take-home exams, spend extra time to define clearly what will and will not be acceptable. Make sure students understand your policy on collaboration. Clearly state, both verbally and in writing (on your syllabus preferably), what is and what is not appropriate collaboration in your class, particularly regarding homework assignments, lab work and reports, or other group-oriented projects. Additional "Best Practices" Discuss Academic Honor Code issues in your class. Tell your class what you expect from them in terms of academic performance and what is and is not allowed in your academic environment. Change testing measures in class frequently to prevent students from using previous assignments to gain an unfair advantage. Make copies of any material that is allowed to be submitted for a regrade. Invite the Office of Student Integrity and the Honor Advisory Council to present to classes on academic misconduct and the Honor Code. Utilize TAs when talking about academic integrity with your class. Remind TAs that they are role models to students. New students take what TAs say more seriously than any other group. Help TAs understand that anything they say or do regarding class policy will impact future decisions or opinions. Provide sample/practice or past exams to help students focus their efforts appropriately. Facebook Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Smithgall Student Services (Flag) Building 353 Ferst Drive, Suite 210 Atlanta, GA 30332 404-894-2566 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login