Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation The Office of Student Integrity About Mission Staff Helpful Links Honor Advisory Council (HAC) Contact Us Strategic Plan Policies Student Conduct Sexual Misconduct Policy Additional Policies Process Academic Misconduct Process Non-Academic Misconduct Process Sanctions Appeal Process For Students AlcoholEdu for Sanctions Choices The Honor Code HAC Ethics Seminars Honor Advisory Council Student Conduct Panels Title IX VOICE For Faculty Expectations of Faculty Preventing Misconduct Faculty Conference Resolution Reporting a Case Syllabus Checklist FAQs (Frequently Asked Questions) Resources Background Checks Annual Report of Statistics Hazing Conduct History Student Organization Conduct History Incident Referral Translate Search Search form Enter your keywords Get the latest Covid-19 health information, operational status updates, and campus guidelines. You are here: GT Home Home Resources Background Checks The Office of Student Integrity maintains official student discipline records for the Georgia Institute of Technology. OSI regularly receives internal requests from campus offices, as well as from external sources such as graduate schools, federal agencies, or employers. OSI complies with University System of Georgia and Family Educational Rights & Privacy ACT (FERPA) guidelines in maintaining and reporting out on discipline records. The Georgia Board of Regents requires that all disciplinary records be maintained for five years after graduation or date of last attendance. Additionally, Georgia Tech maintains all suspension and expulsion records permanently. Each time a request is made for a student’s discipline record, the student must approve that request. This often occurs when filling out a form for graduate study, scholarship, leadership opportunities, or jobs whereby the student checks a box that gives that third party permission to check his or her discipline history. The following guidelines from the Code of Conduct govern what level of information will be released when a Background Check is submitted to OSI: A. Academic or non-academic misconduct resulting in expulsion is released to third parties indefinitely. B. Academic misconduct that resulted in suspension is released to third parties for five years after sanction completion. C. Any non-academic misconduct that resulted in suspension where a potential threat to the campus community exists is released to third parties for five years after sanction completion. In instances of suspension where no threat to the community is identified, the suspension is reported until the sanction is complete. D. Any academic or non-academic misconduct that did not result in suspension or expulsion is not released to third parties. E. The Institute requires a specific written request from the student to release the entire disciplinary record to third parties*. *Oftentimes when applying for a security clearance or other opportunities/positions where high level of detail regarding a student’s character and discipline are required, a student will already have given permission to release per the requirements in E above. An example of this is the U.S.A. Standard Form 86 whereby when a student signs he/she gives Georgia Tech permission to release information including but not limited to “academic, residential, achievement, performance, attendance, disciplinary, employment history, criminal history record information and financial and credit information.” In these instances the Institute will comply with this request accordingly and not require an additional specific written request from the student. Facebook Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Smithgall Student Services (Flag) Building 353 Ferst Drive, Suite 210 Atlanta, GA 30332 404-894-2566 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login