Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation The Office of Student Integrity About Mission Staff Helpful Links Honor Advisory Council (HAC) Contact Us Strategic Plan Policies Student Conduct Sexual Misconduct Policy Additional Policies Process Academic Misconduct Process Non-Academic Misconduct Process Sanctions Appeal Process For Students AlcoholEdu for Sanctions Choices The Honor Code HAC Ethics Seminars Honor Advisory Council Student Conduct Panels Title IX VOICE For Faculty Expectations of Faculty Preventing Misconduct Faculty Conference Resolution Reporting a Case Syllabus Checklist FAQs (Frequently Asked Questions) Resources Background Checks Annual Report of Statistics Hazing Conduct History Student Organization Conduct History Incident Referral Translate Search Search form Enter your keywords Get the latest Covid-19 health information, operational status updates, and campus guidelines. You are here: GT Home Home For Students AlcoholEdu for Sanctions AlcoholEdu for Sanctions is an online program to help students evaluate their current choices related to alcohol. It is a science-based course designed to teach students about the effects of alcohol on the body and mind, and assist students in making safer and healthier decisions. If you have been asked to complete this course by the Office of Student Integrity or Department of Housing, please read the following instructions carefully. Always sign in at Georgia Tech's AlcoholEdu for Sanctions portal using your Georgia Tech email adress to sign in (e.g., student@gatech.edu). Complete Part 1of AlcoholEdu for Sanctions by the deadline with a passing score of 75%. After 30-45 days you will receive an invitation to complete Part 2 of AlcoholEdu for Sanctions, which must be completed by the deadline assigned. After completion, send the completion report to your Student Conduct Administator/Hearing Officer. On the dashboard select the grey "Course Progress" button. You can either save the completion report as a PDF and email the reprot to your Student Conduct Administrator/Hearing Officer, or print and bring the report to the Office of Student Integrity. You can review your progress report by going to the portfolio tab in the course. You do not need to provide the feedback report. Other important information: You will need internet access and audio capabilities. To avoid technical difficulties, please use any major web browswer, (e.g. Google Chrome, Firefox, Internet Explorer, etc.) released in the previous two years. You may take the course in multiple sittings. The course may include surveys to help personalize your experience and measure students' attitudes and behaviors. All survey responses are confidential; the Institute will only receive information about the student body as a whole and will never see individual students' answers. Should you experience any problems, technical support is available 24/7 and can be accessed from the "Help" link within the course or by visiting support.everfi.com. As part of your sanction for violating the campus alco hol policy, you have been asked to complete AlcoholEdu® for Sanctions. This online, science-based course i s designed to teach you about the effects of alcohol on the body and mind, and to assist you in making safer and healthier decisions so you can avoid trouble in the future. his online, science-based course i s designed to teach you about the effects of alcohol on the body and mind, and to assist you in making safer and healthier decisions so you can avoid trouble in the future. Facebook Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Smithgall Student Services (Flag) Building 353 Ferst Drive, Suite 210 Atlanta, GA 30332 404-894-2566 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login