Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Cascades » Commencement Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Graduates Ceremony Instructions for Graduates Diplomas Faculty and Staff Guests Accommodations for Disabilities Location and Parking FAQ Distinguished Student Awards Calendar Library Online Services Graduates Ceremony Instructions for Graduates Diplomas Faculty and Staff Guests Accommodations for Disabilities Location and Parking FAQ Distinguished Student Awards Congratulations, Class of 2022 Oregon State University - Cascades 21st Commencement Inaugural On-Campus Ceremony 10 a.m., Sunday, June 12, 2022 Oval Green Graduates RSVP Graduate Info RSVP Diplomas FAQ Get Ready to Graduate You’ve worked hard and it shows. It’s time to celebrate your accomplishment! Check your graduation status on MyDegrees. RSVP by May 29 to participate in Commencement and for tickets for up to six guests. Update your mailing address at my.oregonstate.edu. Got a question? Visit the FAQ. Watch your OSU email leading up to June 12 for updates and tips. Faculty & Staff Guests Parking Commencement Speaker OSU Interim President Becky Johnson led OSU-Cascades from 2009 to 2021. She helped transform it to a four-year university and oversaw the opening of the Bend campus, the first public university campus to open in the state in 50 years. She returns to the place she calls home to deliver the commencement keynote address to the Class of 2022 on June 12. Learn More You + OSU Alumni = Networking, Mentoring, Jobs, Connections and Much More Join the community of Bend Beavs. 4,700 OSU-Cascades alumni Join Bend Beavs on LinkedIn Sign up for news about fellow alumni and your (soon) and growing alma mater You’re nearly an OSU Alum! 205,000 OSU alumni Join the OSU Alumni Association AlumniNetwork(OSU-Cascades)1.png Graduates Faculty and Staff Guests Location and Parking FAQ Distinguished Student Awards Graduates › Printer-friendly version Contact Info OSU-Cascades 1500 SW Chandler Avenue Bend, Oregon 97702 541-322-3100 (Main) Oregon State University (Corvallis) Partner Institution: Central Oregon Community College Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Instagram About Admissions Leadership Employee Directory Employment Campus Expansion Campus Safety Conference Services Facilities Innovation Co-Lab Make A Gift Academics Apply Now Enrollment Services Academic Advising Academic Calendar Schedule of Classes Registration Financial Aid MyOregonState Canvas Library Campus Life Student Success Center Career Center Computer Lab Dining Disability Access Diversity & Inclusion Fitness Center Housing Student Wellness Visit Visit OSU-Cascades About Bend Hours, Maps & Directions Parking Transportation Options Public Art on Campus