Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Cascades » About Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Leadership Directory Campus Expansion Working at OSU Contact Us Calendar Library Online Services Leadership Directory Campus Expansion Working at OSU Contact Us This Is OSU. In Bend. It’s where small classes, a top tier research university, and one of the most dynamic cities in the Pacific Northwest give students the edge they need. This Is OSU. In Bend. It’s where small classes, a top tier research university, and one of the most dynamic cities in the Pacific Northwest give students the edge they need. By the Numbers 1,247 undergraduate and graduate students 1st university campus to be built in Oregon in 50 years 18 students on average per class Growing for Central Oregon and Beyond OSU-Cascades is growing to 3,000 to 5,000 students to meet state education goals. The expanding campus serves students from Central Oregon, Oregon, the U.S. and around the world. When it opened in 2016, the OSU-Cascades campus fulfilled a 30-year quest for higher education in what had been the largest region in the state without a four-year university. Bend and Central Oregon form Oregon’s fastest growing region and one of its most vibrant economies. Yet the region lags behind the rest of Oregon in higher educational attainment. With studies showing that most freshmen who attend public universities do so within 50 miles of home, rural families in the region had been falling behind. As OSU-Cascades expands, it has the capacity to transform students’ lives – including first-generation college students, underserved populations, and adults seeking career advancement. With half the unemployment rate of individuals with only a high school diploma and nearly twice the earning potential, Central Oregonians with a bachelor’s degree have the opportunity to contribute to our region and the greater world. Oregon State University - Cascades is accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities, one of seven regional accrediting bodies recognized by the Council for Higher Education Accreditation. Academics Research Points of Pride Download A Fact Sheet About Our Students 51% Central Oregonians 4,700 degrees awarded since founding in 2001 20% students of color 25% first generation 32% Pell Grant eligible, indicating financial need Making the World Better, That's Their Charge Guaranteed experiential learning opportunities including internships, study abroad, service learning, research, capstone projects and student leadership $3.5 million awarded in scholarships since 2001 through the OSU Foundation How Students Arrive 36% freshmen 47% transfer students 13% graduate students 3% non-degree seeking students 1% international students Teaching and Research Excellence 8 out of 10 recent graduates said their faculty helped them succeed academically, professionally and personally. A low student-to-teacher ratio attracts faculty who excel in classroom instruction and become mentors to students and alumni as they pursue careers. A Campus for Our Future Local and regional support and collaboration are helping shape the physical and academic future of OSU-Cascades. Encompassing a 128-acre campus footprint, a vision to become a model for innovation and sustainability, and a mission to connect with the surrounding community, the university’s award-winning long range development plan reflects a nearly two-year, public planning process. Feedback was gathered across areas important to the future campus including sustainability, community integration, health and wellness, and arts, culture and enrichment, as well as regarding access locations and building placement. Watch us grow Sustainable, Net Zero Goals Sustainability features are embedded in our newest building, Edward J. Ray Hall, slated to open for students in fall 2021. Its design includes solar and geo-exchange power readiness, active and passive energy reduction systems, and gray water storage for potable reuse. Learn more. Majors that Develop In-Demand Employees Our academic programs reflect Central Oregon’s vibrant economy and abundant natural resources. Input from area businesses and industry has helped develop and enhance programs in computer science, energy systems engineering, hospitality management, outdoor products, kinesiology and others. Future fields of study are determined based on student and national employer demand, and match with OSU-Cascades' mission. At full build out, OSU-Cascades will offer as many as 50 undergraduate and graduate degree programs. 95% of recent graduates are employed or in graduate school within 6 months of graduation 93% of recent graduates said OSU-Cascades prepared them for life after college 84% of recent graduates are employed in a field related to their major Economic Impact Central Oregon’s economy is growing fast and diversifying. Employers look to OSU-Cascades to provide skilled workers in growing industries such as high-tech, biosciences, healthcare and outdoor products. According to a study by ECONorthwest, by 2025 OSU-Cascades will contribute: $196.8 million in statewide economic output 2,083 jobs $3.44 million additional annual state income taxes Leadership Directory Campus Expansion Working at OSU Contact Us Leadership › Printer-friendly version Contact Info OSU-Cascades 1500 SW Chandler Avenue Bend, Oregon 97702 541-322-3100 (Main) Oregon State University (Corvallis) Partner Institution: Central Oregon Community College Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Instagram About Admissions Leadership Employee Directory Employment Campus Expansion Campus Safety Conference Services Facilities Innovation Co-Lab Make A Gift Academics Apply Now Enrollment Services Academic Advising Academic Calendar Schedule of Classes Registration Financial Aid MyOregonState Canvas Library Campus Life Student Success Center Career Center Computer Lab Dining Disability Access Diversity & Inclusion Fitness Center Housing Student Wellness Visit Visit OSU-Cascades About Bend Hours, Maps & Directions Parking Transportation Options Public Art on Campus