Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Cascades Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search About Admissions Academics Research Campus Life For the Community Visit Calendar Library Online Services About Admissions Academics Research Campus Life For the Community Visit Campus Life Latest OSU updates, resources and response to COVID-19. See information specific to OSU-Cascades. Our Bend Beavs Community Meet new friends, start a hobby or spend some time just hanging out. There's a lot to discover on campus. The Office of Student Life The Office of Student Life houses Student Government, Student Fee Committee, Student Clubs, Cascades Adventures, Intramurals, and campus-wide programming. Signature events include Welcome Week, Trunk or Treat, MLK Day of Service, Fermentation Education, and the Bend Beavs Variety Show. LEARN MORE housing.jpg Where You'll Live Make yourself at home in our state-of-the-art residence hall. Here, you'll make friends that last a lifetime. Learn More campus.jpg What You'll Do Life outside of class is important. There's a club with your name on it. Our Clubs canoe.jpg We Love Bend Bend is minutes from world-class skiing at Mt. Bachelor, and that’s just the beginning. Explore Bend Set Yourself Up for Success Studying well, choosing a major, tutoring, class schedules, healthy relationships, finding an internship and more — our student success team has the tools to help you. Learn More Explore with Cascades Adventures You can explore all Bend has to offer with Cascades Adventures, our student-led outdoor trips program. Summit the South Sister, camp under the stars or float the Deschutes River with a new group of friends. LEARN MORE Dine at the Beaver Dam OSU-Cascades Beaver Dam dining (inside Obsidian Hall) is a favorite gathering place for students and faculty. Our talented chefs and student staff create and serve daily soups, salads, and specials — from multiple stations — that are nutritious, delicious and largely scratch prepared. The Beaver Dam offers a wide variety of foods to satisfy dietary requirements and requests, and are always open to working one-on-one with students. Learn More Campus Resources Academic Advising Academic Calendar ASCC Bookstore Campus Safety Campus Crime Report - Clery Act Canvas Career Development Center Catalog & Schedules Commencement Computer Lab Counseling Dining Disability Access Services Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Emergency Procedures Financial Aid & Scholarships Go Abroad Health Care and Health Insurance Housing ID Cards Lactation Room MyOregonState OSU Email (ONID) Online Services Parking Recreation Registration Report a Concern Sexual Assault Student Fee Committee Student Life Student Success Center Student Organizations Student Wellness Test Proctoring Services Transportation Options Tuition & Fees Tutoring Veterans Services Contact Info OSU-Cascades 1500 SW Chandler Avenue Bend, Oregon 97702 541-322-3100 (Main) Oregon State University (Corvallis) Partner Institution: Central Oregon Community College Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Instagram About Admissions Leadership Employee Directory Employment Campus Expansion Campus Safety Conference Services Facilities Innovation Co-Lab Make A Gift Academics Apply Now Enrollment Services Academic Advising Academic Calendar Schedule of Classes Registration Financial Aid MyOregonState Canvas Library Campus Life Student Success Center Career Center Computer Lab Dining Disability Access Diversity & Inclusion Fitness Center Housing Student Wellness Visit Visit OSU-Cascades About Bend Hours, Maps & Directions Parking Transportation Options Public Art on Campus