Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Cascades » Transportation Services » Parking Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Parking Fees & Map Visitor and Guest Parking Resident Students Citations & Appeals Parking Closure Notification Parking FAQs Calendar Library Online Services Parking Fees & Map Visitor and Guest Parking Resident Students Citations & Appeals Parking Closure Notification Parking FAQs Virtual Parking Permits Available All vehicles parked on campus must have a valid parking permit associated with your license plate. This includes the Chandler Ave Parking lot and the recently-opened Simpson Ave parking lot. You can now pay for hourly or daily parking in either of our parking lots using a mobile app from Passport. Download the app or pay online at passportparking.com and consider adding $20 to a virtual wallet where you can earn a 10% bonus on funds. Wallet funds are non-refundable. Passport Zones are 97700 (Chandler-Century lot) and 97701 (Simpson Ave). On-campus residents can purchase a term permit, valid only in the Simpson Lot, online at osucascadespermits.cmrpay.com Sustainable Parking Our parking management strategy aims to influence individual travel choices so that, on aggregate, our campus moves in a direction of more sustainable travel. A key aspect of this strategy is to prompt a daily choice. We charge a daily parking fee if you drive alone to campus. However, if you can carpool with a roommate we'll offer free parking. Better yet, take a bike or a bus and we'll offer rewards. Sustainable parking reflects several initiatives: reducing the number of single-occupant vehicle trips to/from campus by encouraging biking, walking, bus, and other sustainable travel options; and, minimizing the number of parking spaces we need on campus to maximize space available for natural landscape and buildings for learning and living. offering on-campus housing for students and (eventually) employees to reduce trips to campus. Permits Parking is a valuable resource that requires maintenance and management. Rather than lump the costs of parking into tuition and other required fees, we only charge for parking if you drive alone and park on campus. This is consistent with other universities and reflects our commitment to a more sustainable future. All vehicles parked on campus must have a valid parking permit associated with your license plate. This includes the Chandler Ave Parking lot and the recently-opened Simpson Ave parking lot. Your vehicle license plate serves as the permit and must be visible at all times; no physical permits are issued. A mobile app is now available at passportparking.com. The app allows you to choose which lot to park in daily, offering flexibility and saving you money. You don't pay to park on days you don't need to come to campus, or when you can bike, walk, or carpool. Chandler-Century Parking Lot This lot offers short-term parking for commuters and visitors. Purchase a permit online (or in the app) at passport.com or enter your license plate number at the kiosk between Tykeson and Obsidian Halls to purchase an hourly ($1/hour) or daily ($4/day) permit. We only offer hourly or daily parking in this lot, consistent with our sustainable parking goals. Simpson Avenue Parking Lot The newest lot is accessed off Simpson Avenue. This lot will primarily serve as daily and long-term parking for those who live on campus or want to save money compared to our Chandler-Century lot. The Simpson Lot (Zone 97701 in the Passport app) is a 5-minute walk north of Ray Hall and we offer monthly ($40) or daily ($2) parking permits in that lot. Signage indicates zone number of each lot. Daily permits are available online or in the Passport app. Monthly or term permits for this lot are available at osucascadespermits.cmrpay.com Graduate & Research Center Parking permits are not required at the Graduate & Research Center at 650 SW Columbia St. While we would like to take a more active role in managing parking at the GRC, we share the lot with neighbors and do not have an effective way to institute or enforce a parking fee. University Standard 07-025 governs the use of vehicles, the use of non-motorized transportation, and parking, on Oregon State University (“university”) property. Please note that during snow events, the City of Bend may declare a "snow emergency" and restrict parking adjacent to the campus on Chandler Avenue. Sign up for email alerts or find more information on the City of Bend website. Visitors Visitor parking is available in the Chandler-Century Lot for $1/hour or $4 per day. Permits are based on your license plate and are available: 1) online at passportparking.com 2) at the kiosk between Tykeson and Obsidian Halls; or 3) in the Passport mobile app. Fees apply Monday through Friday between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. Persons with a valid ADA placard may park in any marked ADA space on campus with their DMV-issued ADA placard and a valid OSU-Cascades parking permit. ADA permits can be purchased at the kiosk or in the Passport app at our lowest rate of $1/hr and maximum of $2/day - Choose Zone 97701 regardless of where you park on campus. VISITOR PARKING OPTIONS Guests and Groups Please coordinate with your group host (an OSU-Cascades employee) to arrange group parking in advance of your visit; your license plate number will be required for the permit. If you do not have an OSU-Cascades contact, please contact Parking Services. Commuter Parking If you plan to drive alone to campus, you can purchase: Daily parking permit for $2 (Simpson Avenue Lot) and $4 (Chandler-Century Lot) per day. Pay in the app, online at passportparking.com, or at the kiosk between Tykeson and Obsidian Halls. 30-day permit for the Simpson Lot for $40 at osucascadespermits.cmrpay.com In support or our sustainable transportation goals, we offer free carpool parking - learn more. Daily parking offers you the most flexibility; you don’t pay for days that you do not park on campus. When you drive alone to campus, choose between convenient parking in the Chandler-Century lot or a short walk to discounted parking in the Simpson Lot. Commuters with a valid DMV-issued ADA placard can park in any ADA spaces in either lot for our lowest daily rate ($2/day). Pay for your parking in the Passport App and choose Zone 97701 to pay for any ADA space on campus, regardless of the lot. On-Campus Residents Resident permits are valid only in the Simpson Avenue lot, a short walk north of Ray Hall. See Parking Map. Overnight parking in the Chandler-Century lot (after 5 p.m. and before 8 a.m.) is allowed for term permit holders. Winter or Spring Term permits for the Simpson Avenue lot are available online at osucascadespermits.cmrpay.com Residents may purchase daily parking in the Chandler-Century Lot through Passport or at the kiosk. Simpson Parking Lot Aerial Aerial Photo of New Simpson Avenue Parking Lot and Ray Hall - Summer 2021 University Standard 07-025 governs the use of vehicles, the use of non-motorized transportation, and parking, on Oregon State University (“university”) property. Towing services provided by Bar Towing, 160 SE Logsden St., Bend, OR. 541-318-4280 Parking Fees & Map Visitor and Guest Parking Resident Students Citations & Appeals Parking Closure Notification Parking FAQs Parking Fees & Map › Printer-friendly version Contact Info OSU-Cascades 1500 SW Chandler Avenue Bend, Oregon 97702 541-322-3100 (Main) Oregon State University (Corvallis) Partner Institution: Central Oregon Community College Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Instagram About Admissions Leadership Employee Directory Employment Campus Expansion Campus Safety Conference Services Facilities Innovation Co-Lab Make A Gift Academics Apply Now Enrollment Services Academic Advising Academic Calendar Schedule of Classes Registration Financial Aid MyOregonState Canvas Library Campus Life Student Success Center Career Center Computer Lab Dining Disability Access Diversity & Inclusion Fitness Center Housing Student Wellness Visit Visit OSU-Cascades About Bend Hours, Maps & Directions Parking Transportation Options Public Art on Campus