Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Cascades » Business Administration Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Degree Requirements Course Listing Learning Goals Career Options Faculty & Staff Calendar Library Online Services Degree Requirements Course Listing Learning Goals Career Options Faculty & Staff Beavers Mean Business OSU-Cascades offers an AACSB-accredited bachelor's degree in business administration. Fulbright Distinguished Julie Elston, a professor of management at OSU-Cascades, has received the Fulbright-Kathryn and Craig Hall Distinguished Chair for Entrepreneurship in Central Europe. Faculty Who Lead OSU-Cascades business instructor Erika McCalpine received one of OSU’s highest honors for diversity, the Frances Dancy Hooks Award. Hospitality Online You can position yourself to be a leader in tomorrow’s guest services industry by enrolling in the hospitality management online degree option. Curriculum Admission Request Info Apply Now About the Degree The business administration degree program at OSU-Cascades offers a student-centered learning environment that provides students with the professional preparation necessary for successful careers in the highly competitive global business environment. This AACSB-accredited program features curriculum designed to provide students with a broad overview of business. Students take multiple upper-division courses in several business disciplines including management and organizational behavior, accounting, finance, marketing, and operations management. The business administration degree program also provides students with an understanding of the entrepreneurial process. Emphasis throughout the curriculum is placed not only upon the concepts and analytical techniques of business decision-making, but also upon the obligations and opportunities of businesses to be socially responsible. Undergraduate Degrees Offered Bachelor of Arts in Business Administration Bachelor of Science in Business Administration Options Business administration students can focus their studies by selecting one of the options listed below: General Business All students in the general business option must take 24 credits of upper-division College of Business courses in addition to the undergraduate business core curriculum. A minimum of 12 credits must be from 400-level courses. The general business option allows students to select courses in their areas of interest from multiple 300-400 level disciplines. Hospitality Management The hospitality management option prepares students for the job opportunities of the future in hotel and resort, food and beverage, travel and tourism and other guest services organizations. Students will develop skills in asset management, environmental scanning and competitive strategies, as well as the ability to forecast and adapt to the forces that drive change in the service industry. Graduates from this option will be well-positioned to become an owner and a leader in guest services innovation, technology, automation, operations and management. International Business The international business option provides students with the skills necessary to succeed in our increasingly global economy. This option is designed to equip students with professional ready skills to meet demands of both private and public businesses which find themselves increasingly faced with international, linguistic and cross-cultural challenges. In combining business, marketing, finance, language and international studies with a study abroad opportunity, students will enter the workforce with exposure to, and knowledge of, the international environment. This unique program of study gives students the exciting opportunity to learn about a foreign culture while earning academic credit by participating in our signature exchange program in Bad Mergentheim, Germany. Degree Requirements Minor With an innovative curriculum taught by dedicated professors, the business minor provides you with a fundamental stepping stone on the road to identifying and commercializing business opportunities in any type of organization. Student Spotlight Turning A Rad Idea into Reality As a dock supervisor and fish cutter at a fishing lodge in Alaska, business student Megan Bolt saw the need for better quality fishing gear for women. So, she set out to start her own company. Raddr's mission is to create rad gear for women in the maritime industry, and also recognize the vital role they play in the fishing community. Megan is working on gear design and prototypes, she placed second in the BendTECH Unconference pitch competition, and won the OSU-Cascades Innovation Co Lab PitchFest. Super rad. Course Listing Career Options Faculty Directory Working Together In Management 364, a computer science major, two energy systems engineering majors, and a business administration major came together to plan and execute a group project: building an augmented reality sandbox that projects a topographic map onto the sand in real time. They had their ups and downs, but in the end — they succeeded. Student Spotlight Rocking It Connor Park is following in his father’s footsteps. He wants to be a dentist, too. But to get there, Connor is blazing his own trail. With science classes behind him, he’s majoring in business so that he can build his future dental practice on a solid foundation. Connor is at the helm of the Rock Climbing Club, our largest student club with more than 120 members. Turns out dental schools look for particular qualities in applicants, like leadership. They also look for activities that demonstrate finger dexterity. Climbing walls and boulders wouldn’t be possible without a good grip. Rock on, Connor. Alumna Spotlight A Business Minor Is Major When it comes to science, Cheyenne Sproat is all business. A fifth generation Central Oregonian, Cheyenne always knew science was in her future, but not exactly how. She became a biology major, tacking on minors in chemistry and business. An internship in the human resources department at Thermo Fisher Scientific in Bend gave her an opportunity to advance the science she loves, by supporting scientists. She worked to get employees information they need, and helped her supervisor manage the hiring and promotion process. The internship stuck, too — before it ended she accepted an offer to join the team full-time. You'll Be In Demand Learn how to be a problem-solver, decision-maker and leader. A business administration degree is the starting point for many careers in business, but we'll help you go a step further. Our degree will prepare you for a career in high-demand job sectors like digital marketing, supply chain, entrepreneurship or management. Sample Courses Managing Ethics and Corporate Social Responsibility Introduction to Entrepreneurship Impact of Culture on Business Managing Individual and Team Performance Marketing Business Internship Microeconomics Employee Recruitment and Selection Business Law International Business Operations Management Consumer Behavior Human Resources Management Where Do Our Graduates Work? Request More Info Loading... Contact Us We're here to help! Future students can connect with an OSU-Cascades admissions advisor for admission and program questions. Degree Requirements Course Listing Learning Goals Career Options Faculty & Staff Degree Requirements › Printer-friendly version Is OSU-Cascades A Fit for You? Only 5 questions to get your score. Take the Quiz Contact Info OSU-Cascades 1500 SW Chandler Avenue Bend, Oregon 97702 541-322-3100 (Main) Oregon State University (Corvallis) Partner Institution: Central Oregon Community College Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Instagram About Admissions Leadership Employee Directory Employment Campus Expansion Campus Safety Conference Services Facilities Innovation Co-Lab Make A Gift Academics Apply Now Enrollment Services Academic Advising Academic Calendar Schedule of Classes Registration Financial Aid MyOregonState Canvas Library Campus Life Student Success Center Career Center Computer Lab Dining Disability Access Diversity & Inclusion Fitness Center Housing Student Wellness Visit Visit OSU-Cascades About Bend Hours, Maps & Directions Parking Transportation Options Public Art on Campus