Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Cascades » Make A Gift Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Choose Your Gift Stories Contact Us Calendar Library Online Services Choose Your Gift Stories Contact Us Your Support Their Future Give to student scholarships, faculty researchers, or support a research lab. Your Support. Their Future. Give to student scholarships, faculty researchers, or support a research lab. Together, We Can Make An Impact OSU-Cascades in Bend is building on Oregon State’s tradition of academic excellence, with an edge that’s all our own. Nearly 1,400 students are enrolled at OSU-Cascades, and 60% of them are from Central Oregon. Our students are challenged to go beyond the expected, discover what’s possible, and make the world better. Support Our Work Edward J. Ray Hall Is Open Thank you, donors. You made our newest building, Edward J. Ray Hall, a reality for students, faculty and researchers. View Opening Ceremony Photos joel-gochez-web.jpg Student Scholarships Joel Gochez earned a scholarship his freshman year that let him focus on school instead of work and loans.  Learn More lab-3-col.png The American Conversation The Laboratory for The American Conversation seeks to find new ways forward on divisive issues. Learn More emergency-fund.jpg Student Emergency Fund OSU-Cascades has set aside funding to assist OSU-Cascades students who are experiencing unexpected financial hardship that interferes with academic progress. Make A Gift OSU-Cascades Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Lab Within a year of the lab's opening in 2020, the City of Bend, City of Redmond, East Cascades Works, G5, Mosaic Medical, Sisters School District and other organizations have stepped up to participate in the lab’s training to advance social equity and inclusion within their teams. Help support this important work. Support the DEI Lab (Select "OSU-Cascades Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Fund" from the drop-down menu) Plan Your Gift In addition to gifts of cash, donors can design a personal giving plan that combines the right asset with the right gift vehicle to meet their giving needs. Planned gifts include bequests, trusts, gift annuities, and other gift vehicles and can be funded with many different types of assets, including securities, real estate, CDs, and retirement assets. Contact Our Gift Planning Office Choose Your Gift Stories Contact Us Choose Your Gift › Printer-friendly version Contact Info OSU-Cascades 1500 SW Chandler Avenue Bend, Oregon 97702 541-322-3100 (Main) Oregon State University (Corvallis) Partner Institution: Central Oregon Community College Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Instagram About Admissions Leadership Employee Directory Employment Campus Expansion Campus Safety Conference Services Facilities Innovation Co-Lab Make A Gift Academics Apply Now Enrollment Services Academic Advising Academic Calendar Schedule of Classes Registration Financial Aid MyOregonState Canvas Library Campus Life Student Success Center Career Center Computer Lab Dining Disability Access Diversity & Inclusion Fitness Center Housing Student Wellness Visit Visit OSU-Cascades About Bend Hours, Maps & Directions Parking Transportation Options Public Art on Campus