Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Cascades » Computer Science Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Degree Requirements Learning Goals Current Students Course Listing Schedule of Classes Career Options Faculty & Staff Calendar Library Online Services Degree Requirements Learning Goals Current Students Course Listing Schedule of Classes Career Options Faculty & Staff Hit the Ground Coding Earn a bachelor of science degree in computer science with an applied option in software engineering or software entrepreneurship. Curriculum Admission Request Info Apply Now Open Source Projects Work with students across disciplines to develop apps Real World Experience Internships start your first year In Demand 100% job placement for computer science graduates Work for A Start-Up In web-based start-up class, you'll break into teams, choose your own start-up idea, talk to customers, design and code. Bring your own chair! About the Degree Some of the most exciting and promising areas of computer science lie in the ability to extract insight out of extremely large sets of data and deliver those insights to businesses and consumers in real time over web and mobile applications. You will develop the multi-disciplinary skill set required to solve these and many other problems as you take courses in algorithm development, machine learning and data analysis, database design, web and mobile application development, UX design, and entrepreneurship. This program will provide you with a solid foundation in computer science and prepare you to join one of the fastest moving and exciting areas of technology. Undergraduate Degree Offered Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Applied Options: Software Engineering Software Entrepreneurship Degree Requirements Minor The program also offers a minor in computer science. Course Listing Career Options Faculty Directory Faculty Spotlight Computer Science Is for Everyone Today, computer science is for everyone, thanks to people like instructor Jill Hubbard. Jill’s passion for sharing the power of computing extends beyond the school year and into the summer. That’s when she and her Computer Science for Oregon partners put their $1 million National Science Foundation grant to use, helping K-12 teachers from around Oregon find creative ways to explore computing with their own students. Student Spotlight Ready for Work, Thanks to Internship Thought summer life for college students is all about sunbathing, barbeques and binge-watching Netflix? Not so much. Just ask senior Hanna Bennett, who spent three months on a software engineering team with tech company CBT Nuggets. Sample Courses Data Structures Analysis of Algorithms Mobile Software Development Computer Architecture & Assembly Language Operating Systems Software Engineering Cloud Application Development Network Security Web Development Programming Language Fundamentals Social and Ethical Issues in CS Where Do Our Computer Science Graduates Work? Request More Info Loading... Contact Us We're here to help! Future students can connect with an OSU-Cascades admissions advisor for admission and program questions. Degree Requirements Learning Goals Current Students Career Options Faculty & Staff Degree Requirements › Printer-friendly version Is OSU-Cascades A Fit for You? Only 5 questions to get your score. Take the Quiz Contact Info OSU-Cascades 1500 SW Chandler Avenue Bend, Oregon 97702 541-322-3100 (Main) Oregon State University (Corvallis) Partner Institution: Central Oregon Community College Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Instagram About Admissions Leadership Employee Directory Employment Campus Expansion Campus Safety Conference Services Facilities Innovation Co-Lab Make A Gift Academics Apply Now Enrollment Services Academic Advising Academic Calendar Schedule of Classes Registration Financial Aid MyOregonState Canvas Library Campus Life Student Success Center Career Center Computer Lab Dining Disability Access Diversity & Inclusion Fitness Center Housing Student Wellness Visit Visit OSU-Cascades About Bend Hours, Maps & Directions Parking Transportation Options Public Art on Campus