Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Cascades » Energy Systems Engineering Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Degree Requirements Current Students ESE Course Listing Schedule of Classes Energy Systems Lab Career Options Faculty & Staff Directory Calendar Library Online Services Degree Requirements Current Students ESE Course Listing Schedule of Classes Energy Systems Lab Career Options Faculty & Staff Directory An Innovative Degree Program Our energy systems engineering degree is one of only six of its kind in the U.S. Curriculum Admission Request Info Apply Now About the Degree We are OSU's campus in Bend. That means we bring the excellence of OSU's College of Engineering to our energy systems engineering program — including world-class professors and the quality of education that only OSU delivers. What is Energy Systems Engineering? The bachelor of science in energy systems engineering combines engineering fundamentals with energy-focused technical courses and business management classes. This multidisciplinary curriculum provides students with a strong foundation in the core principles of mechanical, electrical and industrial engineering. Courses in energy consumption, distribution, storage, conversion, policy, and business management help prepare students for rewarding technical careers in the broad energy field. 95% Since 2012, our graduates have seen 95% job placement Intern Take advantage of the MECOP partnership between Oregon's university engineering programs and industry Research Join a research team in our world-class Energy Systems Lab or Water and Energy Technologies Lab What You Can Expect With an average of 18 students per class, we get to know you — by name. You can expect: Personal relationships with professors as part of a small classroom setting Hands-on work using state-of-the art equipment and simulators in seventeen different courses Real-world applications from faculty with 50 years combined industry experience Exposure to industry-standard engineering software and programming languages To help solve a problem for an industry sponsor in Capstone Design Undergraduate research Internship opportunities Course Listing Career Options Faculty Directory Assistant professor Bahman Abbasi is leading a $2 million research program to look at how to turn salt water into drinking water using solar energy. villaverde-3-col.jpg Gertrude Villaverde, ESE ’19, is one of the first OSU-Cascades admitted students to graduate with the Honors Baccalaureate. aqi-3col.jpg Creating an air quality monitor prototype was an ideal capstone project for energy systems engineering seniors. You'll be Job Ready Industry Spotlight: Element 1 Fuel for the Future See what happens when industry partners with OSU-Cascades' energy systems engineers: clean fuel cell power technology built into a passenger vehicle. Energy systems engineers design devices, processes and systems used to convert, distribute and store energy. It is a broad field with many opportunities. Our alumni are working at many different companies and in a variety of roles including: Project engineer at Deschutes Brewery Design engineer at BasX Power systems engineer at Eaton Power engineer at Pacific Power Production manager at EarthCruiser Manufacturing engineer at Bend Research, Inc Mechanical engineer at OnBoard Dynamics Only in Bend The energy systems engineering program is only offered at OSU-Cascades. ABET Accreditation The energy systems engineering program is ABET accredited. This accreditation is retroactive to the first energy systems engineering graduate in Fall 2012. Request More Info Loading... Contact Us We're here to help! Future students can connect with an OSU-Cascades admissions advisor for admission and program questions. Degree Requirements Current Students Energy Systems Lab Career Options Faculty & Staff Directory Degree Requirements › Printer-friendly version Is OSU-Cascades A Fit for You? Only 5 questions to get your score. Take the Quiz Contact Info OSU-Cascades 1500 SW Chandler Avenue Bend, Oregon 97702 541-322-3100 (Main) Oregon State University (Corvallis) Partner Institution: Central Oregon Community College Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Instagram About Admissions Leadership Employee Directory Employment Campus Expansion Campus Safety Conference Services Facilities Innovation Co-Lab Make A Gift Academics Apply Now Enrollment Services Academic Advising Academic Calendar Schedule of Classes Registration Financial Aid MyOregonState Canvas Library Campus Life Student Success Center Career Center Computer Lab Dining Disability Access Diversity & Inclusion Fitness Center Housing Student Wellness Visit Visit OSU-Cascades About Bend Hours, Maps & Directions Parking Transportation Options Public Art on Campus