Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Cascades » Tourism, Recreation and Adventure Leadership Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Degree Requirements Course Listing Learning Goals Internship and Practicum Certification Community Partners Partnership in Southeast Asia Career Options Faculty and Staff Calendar Library Online Services Degree Requirements Course Listing Learning Goals Internship and Practicum Certification Community Partners Partnership in Southeast Asia Career Options Faculty and Staff Find Yourself Out There OSU-Cascades is a leader in outdoor adventure and tourism education. Curriculum Admission Request Info Apply Now About the Degree In the tourism, recreation and adventure leadership program, we develop leaders, facilitators, and managers of outdoor adventure, recreation and tourism experiences who have internationally-recognized knowledge and skills. We'll teach you to be an effective decision-maker and to provide safe experiences in complex and dynamic environments. The TRAL program at OSU-Cascades is a leader in outdoor adventure and tourism education. We are known for a quality, challenging, academically rigorous, and applicable four-year degree program that helps students gain competency in the outdoor adventure, recreation and tourism sectors. We attract high-quality students from local, regional, national, and international locations, based on our reputation as a leading program in the West. Our students embrace the challenge of sustainability in all that they do. Undergraduate Degree Offered Bachelor of Science in Tourism, Recreation, and Adventure Leadership Degree Requirements Minor Students may elect to earn the Tourism, Recreation, and Adventure Leadership minor. This minor provides basic knowledge about recreation adventure tourism planning and adventure leadership. Course Listing Career Options Faculty Directory Our Extended Classroom Is Bend, Oregon Bend is the perfect place to study tourism, recreation and adventure leadership. Many TRAL courses include field components, from half-day field trips to multi-week outings. Complement your program with participation in Cascades Adventures, our student-led outdoor trips program. You are minutes from: Downhill skiing and snowboarding at Mt. Bachelor Backcountry and cross-country skiing at an extensive sno-park system Rock climbing at world famous Smith Rock State Park Mountain biking and road biking that is rated as some of the best in the nation Fly-fishing on some of the most pristine rivers in the lower 48 Kayaking and white-water rafting on world class rivers Options of Study Students earn a bachelor of science degree from OSU in tourism recreation, adventure leadership with one of the following options: Adventure Leadership Education (ALE) Choose this option if you love to learn, study and work outside. Rivers, mountains and trails will be your classroom as you learn how to educate others about the outdoors and guide them through life-changing outdoor experiences. After graduating, you'll be prepared to work as a guide, interpreter or start your own outdoor-focused business. Nature, Eco and Adventure Tourism (NEAT) Learn how to use business and natural resources skills to operate tourism companies specializing in creating outdoor experiences for members of the public. Student Spotlight Listen to Your Own Soundtrack What should you major in? “Listen to your passion. Go do what you love.” That’s the advice of junior and student leader Gabe McFarlane. Gabe’s passion for sharing the outdoors is unstoppable. He switched majors from a computer science major to tourism, recreation and adventure leadership. Gabe coached and led our first rock climbing sport team into competition this year. Read more. Go International United World College of Southeast Asia The TRAL program partners with the United World College of Southeast Asia (UWCSEA) in Singapore to provide research and internship opportunities for TRAL students. UWCSEA is participating in a seven-year study to evaluate the outdoor education program's impact on overall student learning and development. The study is being conducted by OSU-Cascades faculty researchers Dr. Michael Gassner and Dr. Christopher Wolsko. Read Dr. Michael Gassner’s initial reflections on the study, and what Gassner and Wolsko wrote about the impact of outdoor experiences on overall human health and well-being. Go International Costa Rica: An Immersion in Culture and Nature In this hybrid course, you'll learn about tropical ecology and conservation, develop backcountry adventure skills and experience the culture of Costa Rica while backpacking between working family farms, traveling by raft down the Rio Savegre, and exploring the national parks of the southern coast. The online course in fall term will introduce you to the history of Costa Rica, tropical ecology, natural resources, and adventure tourism. Then it's off to Costa Rica for ten days in December. Learn more. Sample Courses Sustainable Communities Nature, Eco, and Adventure Tourism Endangered Species Design Management of Outdoor Experience History of Outdoor Adventure Risk Management Outdoor Living Skills and Lab Expedition I & II Intermediate Rock Climbing Intro to Whitewater Kayaking Manage Individual & Team Performance Where Do Our Grads Work? Request More Info Loading... Contact Us We're here to help! Future students can connect with an OSU-Cascades admissions advisor for admission and program questions. Degree Requirements Course Listing Learning Goals Internship and Practicum Certification Partnership in Southeast Asia Career Options Faculty and Staff Degree Requirements › Printer-friendly version Is OSU-Cascades A Fit for You? Only 5 questions to get your score. Take the Quiz Contact Info OSU-Cascades 1500 SW Chandler Avenue Bend, Oregon 97702 541-322-3100 (Main) Oregon State University (Corvallis) Partner Institution: Central Oregon Community College Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Instagram About Admissions Leadership Employee Directory Employment Campus Expansion Campus Safety Conference Services Facilities Innovation Co-Lab Make A Gift Academics Apply Now Enrollment Services Academic Advising Academic Calendar Schedule of Classes Registration Financial Aid MyOregonState Canvas Library Campus Life Student Success Center Career Center Computer Lab Dining Disability Access Diversity & Inclusion Fitness Center Housing Student Wellness Visit Visit OSU-Cascades About Bend Hours, Maps & Directions Parking Transportation Options Public Art on Campus