Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Cascades » Natural Resources Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Degree Requirements Course Listing Learning Goals Internship Career Options HERS Lab Faculty & Staff Calendar Library Online Services Degree Requirements Course Listing Learning Goals Internship Career Options HERS Lab Faculty & Staff America's Natural Resources University When you study natural resources at OSU’s campus in Bend, you join one of the world’s top forestry schools. One of the best colleges offering degrees in natural resources & conservation College Factual OSU's College of Forestry is ranked second in the world CWUR National forests and public lands in Central Oregon form our 2.5 million-acre classroom Curriculum Admission Request Info Apply Now Conservation at 7,800 Feet Whitebark pine trees on top of mountain peaks are critical to our water-challenged region. They harness precious snowpack which creates late-season stream flows. They also create habitats and provide food for wildlife. But increasing numbers of these trees are threatened by fungus, beetles and climate change. Instructor Seth Ganzhorn and student researchers are working with the Forest Service to better understand the genetic identity of whitebark pines. They climb up mountains, collect needles, extract DNA and identify differences between healthy and diseased trees. They hope to use their results to enhance alpine ecosystems. About the Degree OSU’s College of Forestry is internationally recognized for its ground-breaking research and for preparing graduates who can take on the complex challenges that face our natural world. In this interdisciplinary degree, students study science, management and policy topics with expert faculty who have experience in research, public agencies and industry. You’ll study complex interactions that take place in the natural world — and how humans can impact them. Your courses will include ecology, fish and wildlife, watershed management, habitat restoration, environmental ethics and law, sociology, and resource policy. Our graduates are prepared to make the natural world better in careers in resource ecology, land use, water resources, environmental policy, resource technology and natural resource education – or even to apply to graduate school. Get an Edge with Specialized Options Undergraduate Degree Offered Bachelor of Science in Natural Resources Your courses cross a broad spectrum of natural resource areas. By adding an option, you can further increase your understanding. Fish and Wildlife Conservation Individualized Specialty Choose an Ecampus specialty option Degree Requirements Minor Students majoring in other programs at OSU-Cascades can choose to complete the natural resources minor. The minor is intended to provide a broad exposure to the natural resources field. It offers course work that integrates a number of natural resources disciplines. Course Listing Career Options Faculty Directory Student Spotlight This Land Is His Land Now The original plan was to become a chef. In downtime at culinary school though, Nick Maithonis read books about challenges facing our natural lands. Fast forward and this natural resources major has the knowledge to take on any challenge in the natural world. An internship with the Oregon Natural Desert Association opened his eyes to land stewardship. Local nonprofit Think Wild opened the door to managing a five-year restoration research project. And a George and Shirley Ray Endowed scholarship helped make it all possible. American Pika and Northwestern Bat Hub In the Human and Ecosystem Resiliency and Sustainability Lab, you can study how populations of plants and animals are responding to changing environmental conditions. The Lab has established long-term monitoring programs focused on American pika and bat species in the Pacific Northwest. Sample Course Offerings Forest Types of the Northwest Fish and Wildlife Conservation Managing Natural Resources for Future Wildland Plant Identification Desert Watershed Management Sustainable Communities Aquatic Entomology Endangered Species Management of Pacific Salmon Rangeland Management Environmental Politics and Policy Where Do Our Grads Work? Request More Info Loading... Contact Us We're here to help! Future students can connect with an OSU-Cascades admissions advisor for admission and program questions. Degree Requirements Course Listing Learning Goals Internship Career Options HERS Lab Faculty & Staff Degree Requirements › Printer-friendly version Is OSU-Cascades A Fit for You? Only 5 questions to get your score. Take the Quiz Contact Info OSU-Cascades 1500 SW Chandler Avenue Bend, Oregon 97702 541-322-3100 (Main) Oregon State University (Corvallis) Partner Institution: Central Oregon Community College Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Instagram About Admissions Leadership Employee Directory Employment Campus Expansion Campus Safety Conference Services Facilities Innovation Co-Lab Make A Gift Academics Apply Now Enrollment Services Academic Advising Academic Calendar Schedule of Classes Registration Financial Aid MyOregonState Canvas Library Campus Life Student Success Center Career Center Computer Lab Dining Disability Access Diversity & Inclusion Fitness Center Housing Student Wellness Visit Visit OSU-Cascades About Bend Hours, Maps & Directions Parking Transportation Options Public Art on Campus