Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Cascades » Outdoor Products Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Degree Requirements Course Listing Faculty & Staff Internship Program Career Options Calendar Library Online Services Degree Requirements Course Listing Faculty & Staff Internship Program Career Options Your Path Into the Outdoor Industry It starts here, where you'll build skills that balance product, profit, people and our planet. Learn the historical context of the outdoor industry to help shape its future Study in Central Oregon — home to Hydro Flask, Ruffwear, Cairn, Bend Outdoor Worx, and a thriving outdoor products community "An all-around win for the outdoor industry." That's what Geartrade said about the outdoor products degree program at OSU-Cascades. Curriculum Admission Request Info Apply Now We Asked the Experts The outdoor products degree at OSU-Cascades is one of the few of its kind in the country. It was developed with input from more than 30 outdoor organizations including Black Diamond, Columbia, Keen, Nau, The Conservation Alliance, Nike, REI, and Patagonia to understand challenges facing the industry, and skills desired in future employees. About the Degree The Bachelor of Science in Outdoor Products will prepare you for a career in the outdoor industry. Leaders in the industry are looking to hire innovators who champion responsible systems approach to product commercialization with respect for our natural world. In this interdisciplinary degree, you'll study design, engineering, natural resources, outdoor recreation, sustainability, and business with expert faculty who have experience in research, industry and public agencies. You'll study the full life cycle of a product, with courses that span from concept creation and design to commercialization to end-of-life. From resource management to outdoor leadership to sustainability, the program's course of study emphasizes environmental stewardship and corporate responsibility. Practicums, internships and capstone projects are part of the core curriculum. This is where personalization of your degree takes shape. Whether your dream career is in Bend, Bellingham, or Burlington, we'll work together to help coordinate your experiential learning opportunities with local and global outdoor industry partners. Minor Students majoring in other programs at OSU-Cascades can choose to complete the outdoor products minor. Course Listing Faculty & Staff Sample Course Offerings Introduction to the Outdoor Products Industry Experience Outdoor Products – Water, Winter, Land Introduction To Entrepreneurship Design Thinking and Process Innovation Product Ecosystem Connections Outdoor Products Design Outdoor Products Development Outdoor Products Failure Engineering Graphics & 3D Modeling Outdoor Products Branding, Merchandising and Sales Impact, Access and Social Justice Environmental Economics & Policy Introduction to Environmental Science & Sustainability Wilderness & Recreation Resource Management Career Options Job opportunities for graduates of this degree program include: Designer Product Developer Innovation Engineer Product Line Manager Product Category General Manager Merchandising Manager Marketing Manager Supply Chain Manager Technical Sales Representative Buyer Director of Sustainability Entrepreneur/Inventor Request More Info Loading... Contact Us We're here to help! Future students can connect with an OSU-Cascades admissions advisor for admission and program questions. Degree Requirements Course Listing Faculty & Staff Internship Program Career Options Degree Requirements › Printer-friendly version Is OSU-Cascades A Fit for You? Only 5 questions to get your score. Take the Quiz Contact Info OSU-Cascades 1500 SW Chandler Avenue Bend, Oregon 97702 541-322-3100 (Main) Oregon State University (Corvallis) Partner Institution: Central Oregon Community College Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Instagram About Admissions Leadership Employee Directory Employment Campus Expansion Campus Safety Conference Services Facilities Innovation Co-Lab Make A Gift Academics Apply Now Enrollment Services Academic Advising Academic Calendar Schedule of Classes Registration Financial Aid MyOregonState Canvas Library Campus Life Student Success Center Career Center Computer Lab Dining Disability Access Diversity & Inclusion Fitness Center Housing Student Wellness Visit Visit OSU-Cascades About Bend Hours, Maps & Directions Parking Transportation Options Public Art on Campus