Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Cascades » Liberal Studies Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Degree Requirements Creating Your Plan of Study/Theme Schedule of Classes Learning Goals College of Liberal Arts Courses College of Liberal Arts Core Courses Internships Career Options Liberal Studies and Education Faculty & Staff Calendar Library Online Services Degree Requirements Creating Your Plan of Study/Theme Schedule of Classes Learning Goals College of Liberal Arts Courses College of Liberal Arts Core Courses Internships Career Options Liberal Studies and Education Faculty & Staff It’s Your World. Explore it. Understand it. Shape it. Choose from pre-designed themes. Or design a curriculum that will get you where you want to go. See public relations, teaching or law school in your future? Liberal Studies is a great place to start. Stories matter. Top global economists say we need more people who can translate complex information into human stories. Curriculum Admission Request Info Apply Now About the Degree A Strong, Flexible Foundation to Launch From. Our world is increasingly complex. The people who understand and communicate about it best often have the well-rounded education that a liberal studies degree can provide. As a liberal studies major, you’ll design your own program of study choosing from subjects offered in the OSU College of Liberal Arts disciplines – fine arts, humanities and social studies. You’ll choose from classes that broaden and deepen your knowledge in American studies, anthropology, art, English, communication, graphic design, new media communication, political science, psychology, social science sociology and writing. Your custom curriculum will give you critical thinking skills that can help you make a big picture relevant or a small example powerful. The liberal studies major is part of OSU’s well-known School of Writing, Literature and Film. Skills Employers Need. It’s a background that will give you a leg up in your career – whether it’s teaching, public relations, business, or even law. Employers want people who can collaborate, write and speak well. They need individuals like you who can translate our complex world into stories that can move and persuade, and make a positive impact. Undergraduate Degrees Offered Bachelor of Arts in Liberal Studies Bachelor of Science in Liberal Studies Degree Requirements Course Listing Career Options Faculty Directory Student Spotlight Where She Thrives Alexa Tawzer loves writing and reading science fiction and fantasy. But one communications class proved to this Honors College student that what fascinates her is human conversation. So much so that she joined Professor Natalie Dollar’s Community Dialogue project to research how people discuss and debate — and find agreement. It’s been a journey from being homeschooled, to attending community college, to finally landing at OSU-Cascades. Now with a Finley Academic Excellence Scholarship and a passion for how people connect, this Bend Beav’s future is launching. No Two Students Are Alike You’re an individual. As a liberal studies major, you’ll organize your own plan of study around a theme. You can select a pre-designed theme or work with an advisor to choose courses and design a theme to support your personal and career goals. Learn more. Alumnus Spotlight Alum Makes It to BendFilm To become a filmmaker, Eli Pyke knew he needed more than technical knowledge. So he first quit film school. Fast forward 17 years and Eli’s documentary “The Far Green Country” was accepted into the 2018 BendFilm festival. What he needed to really develop his craft, it turns out, was to understand people’s stories, including his own. Meet Eli Sample Courses History of Design Small Group Communication Studies in Nonfiction Introduction to Rhetorical Theory Community Dialogue Peoples of the World-Africa Anthropology 20th Century Europe Modern Political Thought Abnormal Psychology Writing for the Web American Women Writers American Culture and Vietnam Cultural Codes in Communication The American Novel - Beginnings to Chopin Where Do Our Graduates Work? Request More Info Loading... Contact Us We're here to help! Future students can connect with an OSU-Cascades admissions advisor for admission and program questions. Degree Requirements College of Liberal Arts Courses Internships Career Options Faculty & Staff Degree Requirements › Printer-friendly version Is OSU-Cascades A Fit for You? Only 5 questions to get your score. Take the Quiz Contact Info OSU-Cascades 1500 SW Chandler Avenue Bend, Oregon 97702 541-322-3100 (Main) Oregon State University (Corvallis) Partner Institution: Central Oregon Community College Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Instagram About Admissions Leadership Employee Directory Employment Campus Expansion Campus Safety Conference Services Facilities Innovation Co-Lab Make A Gift Academics Apply Now Enrollment Services Academic Advising Academic Calendar Schedule of Classes Registration Financial Aid MyOregonState Canvas Library Campus Life Student Success Center Career Center Computer Lab Dining Disability Access Diversity & Inclusion Fitness Center Housing Student Wellness Visit Visit OSU-Cascades About Bend Hours, Maps & Directions Parking Transportation Options Public Art on Campus