Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Cascades Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search About Admissions Academics Research Campus Life For the Community Visit Calendar Library Online Services About Admissions Academics Research Campus Life For the Community Visit Future Students For You. For the World. For many of you, the dream of going to college includes doing something meaningful with your degree. At OSU-Cascades, you'll gain the knowledge and skills to make our world a better place. for you. for the world. For many of you, the dream of going to college includes doing something meaningful with your degree. At OSU-Cascades, you'll gain the knowledge and skills to make our world a better place. Majors & Minors Office of Admissions Get the OSU-Cascades Edge 95% of graduates are employed or in graduate school within 6 months and ready to make an impact Guaranteed experiential learning opportunities prepare you for real-world problem-solving #1 OSU is #1 for innovation in the Pacific Northwest (U.S. News & World Report) Request Info Apply Now Private College Feel. Public University Cost. You'll have the advantages of a top tier university, a small college feel where professors become mentors, and the value of a public university tuition. Small Classes With Real Mentors Get hands-on learning in our vast natural laboratory of forests, desert and rivers. Develop a new mobile app or solve a real-world energy storage problem. Create and show your art. Test out running shoes in our biomechanics lab. Whatever you want to do, start here. 18 Students on average per class 8 out of 10 recent graduates said their faculty helped them succeed academically, professionally and personally 93% of recent graduates said OSU-Cascades prepared them for life after college This Is Your Place Study Hard and Play Hard Life outside of class is important. It's where you try something you never thought you could do. Plan and lead an outdoor trip. Volunteer at a local shelter. Compete on our rock climbing team. Throw a clay pot. There's a club with your name on it. Visit Us Nothing beats a visit to campus. Take a tour, check out housing and what's on the menu at the Beaver Dam cafe, and meet students and faculty. Schedule a Campus Tour Join us for a Preview Day Talk to an Admissions Advisor Get the latest updates from OSU-Cascades! Request more information here: Loading... Admissions Events . View All Events First-Year or Transfer Student? Find out if OSU-Cascades is a fit for you. Take the Quiz Contact Info OSU-Cascades 1500 SW Chandler Avenue Bend, Oregon 97702 541-322-3100 (Main) Oregon State University (Corvallis) Partner Institution: Central Oregon Community College Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Instagram