Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Cascades Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search About Admissions Academics Research Campus Life For the Community Visit Calendar Library Online Services About Admissions Academics Research Campus Life For the Community Visit News Archive Native American scholar and author Beth Piatote featured in OSU-Cascades annual literary event - May 17, 2022 Beth Piatote, a writer and scholar of Native American and Indigenous literature and law, will read and discuss her recent work on June 6 at the High Desert Museum. The program, titled “Writing West: A Conversation with Two Award-... New college program aims to build child care workforce, pays full tuition - May 04, 2022 A program launched at Oregon State University – Cascades and in partnership with Central Oregon Community College aims to increase the number of child care and early learning workers in Central Oregon. The region was identified as a ‘child care... Dam Proud Day raises over $42,000 in scholarships for OSU-Cascades students - May 02, 2022 Supporters of Oregon State University - Cascades came together April 27, 2022 to raise more than $42,000 for student scholarships during Dam Proud Day, the university’s annual day of giving and engagement. More than 130 community... OSU-Cascades Summer Academy for high school students open for registration - Apr 05, 2022 Registration is open for the Summer Academy at Oregon State University – Cascades, an annual program for high school students that includes classes, outdoor recreation experiences in Central Oregon and an introduction to campus life. ... Nurturing resilience in children and their families topic of Oregon State Science Pub on April 11 - Apr 05, 2022 Oregon State University’s Science Pub on April 11 will focus on how early educators can nurture resilience through daily interactions with children and their families and how community members can further aid those efforts. The virtual... OSU-Cascades Advocacy and Advisory Board to meet April 11 - Apr 01, 2022 The Oregon State University - Cascades Advocacy and Advisory Board will hear reports on enrollment and academics, and a presentation on the creative writing graduate program at its April 11 meeting. The meeting will take place from 2:... Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next › last » Contact Info OSU-Cascades 1500 SW Chandler Avenue Bend, Oregon 97702 541-322-3100 (Main) Oregon State University (Corvallis) Partner Institution: Central Oregon Community College Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Instagram About Admissions Leadership Employee Directory Employment Campus Expansion Campus Safety Conference Services Facilities Innovation Co-Lab Make A Gift Academics Apply Now Enrollment Services Academic Advising Academic Calendar Schedule of Classes Registration Financial Aid MyOregonState Canvas Library Campus Life Student Success Center Career Center Computer Lab Dining Disability Access Diversity & Inclusion Fitness Center Housing Student Wellness Visit Visit OSU-Cascades About Bend Hours, Maps & Directions Parking Transportation Options Public Art on Campus