Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Cascades » Teaching (Undergraduate) Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Degree Requirements Course Listing Professional Teaching Program Career Options Faculty & Staff Calendar Library Online Services Degree Requirements Course Listing Professional Teaching Program Career Options Faculty & Staff The Classroom Is Your Calling Earn a bachelor of science degree in teaching with an elementary education option. Curriculum Admission Request Info Apply Now Classroom Ready Turn your passion for education into a rewarding career with a bachelor's degree in teaching with an elementary education option. You'll gain the skills necessary for a successful career in elementary education. Our teaching program focuses on instructional methods, cutting-edge strategies, child development, emerging technologies, and the multicultural classroom. With a practicum and student teaching field placement, you’ll enter the classroom and practice what you've learned. Emphasis Areas You'll select one of three emphasis areas that are in high demand: English as a Second Language; Special Education; or Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM). You'll complete one course in each of the three emphasis areas as a foundational part of your core coursework and take an additional two courses in one area. The program requirement will result in 9 credits that can support future endorsement completion and/or job placement. Course Listing Faculty Directory Jumpstart a Career in Early Learning + Save Up to $12,000 in Tuition The world needs skilled, compassionate people like you to impact the lives of our youngest children. A new 12-month early childhood career development program will help you: Get up to 45 academic credits toward your degree at no cost. Work part-time with children while taking classes, earning $15/hr. Learn from a faculty mentor. Receive valuable career placement advising for a regional teaching position. Build experience to meet Oregon qualifications to be an early learning child care teacher. Apply now for fall 2022. Student Spotlight Inspiration Can Hit Anytime, Even in Second Grade It’s a wonderful coincidence. The teacher who inspired a seven-year old Josie Thomas to want to be a teacher is now training future teachers at OSU-Cascades, including Josie. A member of the Wasco tribe, Josie wants to one day teach kindergarten in Warm Springs, where her family lives, and give her students the same care and confidence that Rachael Schuetz, now an education leader at OSU-Cascades, gave her. “Mrs. Schuetz showed genuine interest in each student and created a classroom community.” It won’t be long before Josie inspires some of her own students to become teachers, too. Licensure and Accreditation Students who earn a bachelor's degree in teaching with an option in elementary education receive preliminary licensure from the Oregon Teacher Standards and Practices Commission. The program is accredited by the National Council for Accreditation of Teacher Education-Legacy (NCATE). As the State of Oregon adopted the standards of the Council for the Accreditation of Educator Preparation (CAEP) to replace NCATE standards, our next accreditation site visit will be conducted by CAEP in the spring of 2021, one year earlier than our next NCATE site visit would have been. Add A Minor in Early Childhood Development and Education Around the country and here in Oregon, employers in the child care and early learning fields skilled graduates to help them give children a solid start in life. Add an ECDE minor to your teaching degree and you can expand your career opportunities and build stronger communities and families. Professional Program Admitted students begin the program as a pre-teaching major. Pre-teaching includes Baccalaureate Core and pre-teaching course requirements. professional program pre-requisites, major support courses and courses. Students then apply to the Professional Teaching Program and begin courses in fall term of the third year (Year 3). The program completes with student teaching (Year 4) and emphasis area coursework. Professional Teaching Program Request More Info Loading... Contact Us We're here to help! Future students can connect with an OSU-Cascades admissions advisor for admission and program questions. Degree Requirements Course Listing Professional Teaching Program Career Options Faculty & Staff Degree Requirements › Printer-friendly version Contact Info OSU-Cascades 1500 SW Chandler Avenue Bend, Oregon 97702 541-322-3100 (Main) Oregon State University (Corvallis) Partner Institution: Central Oregon Community College Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Instagram About Admissions Leadership Employee Directory Employment Campus Expansion Campus Safety Conference Services Facilities Innovation Co-Lab Make A Gift Academics Apply Now Enrollment Services Academic Advising Academic Calendar Schedule of Classes Registration Financial Aid MyOregonState Canvas Library Campus Life Student Success Center Career Center Computer Lab Dining Disability Access Diversity & Inclusion Fitness Center Housing Student Wellness Visit Visit OSU-Cascades About Bend Hours, Maps & Directions Parking Transportation Options Public Art on Campus