Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Cascades » Engineering Science Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Degree Requirements Current Students Course Listing Schedule of Classes Faculty & Staff Career Options Calendar Library Online Services Degree Requirements Current Students Course Listing Schedule of Classes Faculty & Staff Career Options Today’s Complex Challenges Need people who can work across engineering fields. Only program of its kind offered by a public university on U.S. West Coast 6% employment growth forecast in general engineering You’ll be in demand in fields from healthcare to sustainable energy generation to manufacturing Curriculum Admission Request Info Apply Now Our World Needs Problem Solvers “The world’s most critical challenges are not divided into specialized engineering areas. More and more, we need engineers who can see the big picture, as well as dive into different expertise areas in order to effectively bridge gaps, communicate across teams and creatively solve problems.” – Rebecca Webb, Program Lead, Instructor About the Degree Your Career is the Priority Today’s technological and societal challenges are becoming more complex and multidisciplinary. To address this need, we looked at engineering programs across the country. We asked employers what they look for in future employees. We challenged our engineering faculty to create a curriculum that exceeded their own expectations. Because your future is our biggest priority. The OSU-Cascades engineering science program provides students with a broad foundation in engineering fundamentals. It's designed to prepare you to work across engineering disciplines for companies such as Century West Engineering, Microsemi, and Tribe Pilot, who are looking for engineers with diverse skills. You'll take courses in mechanical, electrical, and materials engineering, as well as computer science, during the first two years. In the third and fourth years, you'll follow your passion by concentrating on engineering science, energy systems, or computer science. Our Bachelor of Science in Engineering Science degree is designed with your career in mind. Degree Requirements Course Listing Faculty Directory Gain Real-Life Experience Before You Graduate The capstone is the hallmark of the OSU engineering experience. The year-long senior course challenges student teams to bring their broad engineering knowledge to the forefront and work with an industry client on a real-world problem. Teams design, build and test a solution with surprising and successful results. Career Options Job opportunities for graduates of this degree program include: Design engineer Test engineer Electro-mechanical engineer Electronics engineer Instrumentation engineer R&D engineer Entrepreneur [Fill in the Blank] engineer Request More Info Loading... Contact Us We're here to help! Future students can connect with an OSU-Cascades admissions advisor for admission and program questions. Degree Requirements Current Students Faculty & Staff Career Options Degree Requirements › Printer-friendly version Is OSU-Cascades A Fit for You? Only 5 questions to get your score. Take the Quiz Contact Info OSU-Cascades 1500 SW Chandler Avenue Bend, Oregon 97702 541-322-3100 (Main) Oregon State University (Corvallis) Partner Institution: Central Oregon Community College Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Instagram About Admissions Leadership Employee Directory Employment Campus Expansion Campus Safety Conference Services Facilities Innovation Co-Lab Make A Gift Academics Apply Now Enrollment Services Academic Advising Academic Calendar Schedule of Classes Registration Financial Aid MyOregonState Canvas Library Campus Life Student Success Center Career Center Computer Lab Dining Disability Access Diversity & Inclusion Fitness Center Housing Student Wellness Visit Visit OSU-Cascades About Bend Hours, Maps & Directions Parking Transportation Options Public Art on Campus