Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Cascades » Transportation Services » Transportation Options Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Biking E-Bikes at OSU-Cascades Transit Walking Incentives Calendar Library Online Services Biking E-Bikes at OSU-Cascades Transit Walking Incentives Supporting Sustainable Travel Gas prices rising again? We're here to help you find ways to leave your car at home and bike, carpool, bus, or roll (scooter/unicycle/OneWheel) to campus. Need a little incentive? Earn parking credits or gift cards when you leave your car at home. Learn More Get Help Parking maps and directions Beyond Bend Want to save money and reduce your impact on the environment? Share rides, bikes and cars! Parking Credits Now Offered as Incentives We will begin offering Passport Parking App credits to be used toward daily permit purchase for those who participate in our Incentive program, Get There. Your first 5 days of commuting to campus by bike/foot/bus earns $10 in parking credit. Free Carpool Parking Sharing a ride with a friend, co-worker, or neighbor can save wear and tear on your vehicle, reduce emissions, cut your gas costs, and we'll give you free VIP parking. To apply for a free carpool parking permit, complete this form and upload with your permit application at osucascadespermits.cmrpay.com. Carpool permits are issued for those who can carpool for the majority of their car trips to campus. Interested in sharing a ride with other students, staff or faculty, but don't know anyone that lives near you? Create an account at Get There. Get There is an easy-to-use carpool matching tool and trip planner that facilitates communication over a secure network. Transit OSU-Cascades and the Associated Students of Cascades Campus (ASCC) provide free bus passes to enrolled students and employees. Your OSU ID card serves as a free bus pass for all Bend routes. Two CET bus routes serve the campus, and the Graduate & Research Center. Rideshare Uber and Lyft provide ride hailing services in Bend and throughout Central Oregon. Bike or Scooter Share We're working together with the City of Bend to launch a new shared mobility option (shared scooters or bikes). Look for more information in the spring of 2022. We recognize that commuting is a personal choice. Commuters are encouraged to assess and select the option(s) that best meet their needs. Information we provide about commute options is provided as a courtesy for those who want to save money, reduce their carbon footprint, or get some exercise during their commute. Biking Transit Walking Incentives Biking › Printer-friendly version Contact Info OSU-Cascades 1500 SW Chandler Avenue Bend, Oregon 97702 541-322-3100 (Main) Oregon State University (Corvallis) Partner Institution: Central Oregon Community College Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Instagram About Admissions Leadership Employee Directory Employment Campus Expansion Campus Safety Conference Services Facilities Innovation Co-Lab Make A Gift Academics Apply Now Enrollment Services Academic Advising Academic Calendar Schedule of Classes Registration Financial Aid MyOregonState Canvas Library Campus Life Student Success Center Career Center Computer Lab Dining Disability Access Diversity & Inclusion Fitness Center Housing Student Wellness Visit Visit OSU-Cascades About Bend Hours, Maps & Directions Parking Transportation Options Public Art on Campus