Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Cascades » Student Success » Advising Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Academics Academic Advisors Academic Calendar Schedule of Classes Registration Change of OSU Campus Calendar Library Online Services Academics Academic Advisors Academic Calendar Schedule of Classes Registration Change of OSU Campus Advisors are available through Zoom or email. In-Person appointments are available each week. Find details at Academic Advisors. Academic advisors assist you in long and short-term academic and career planning. They provide information on curricula, educational and experiential options within your college and the university, schedule planning, and help interpret university and departmental requirements. Advisors are assigned by the major you have declared. Check with the OSU-Cascades Enrollment Services if you are unsure who your major academic advisor is. OSU-Cascades follows the OSU Academic Advising mission, vision, and values. (Please note: If you are interested in applying to OSU-Cascades, please contact an admissions advisor for admission and program questions. New students, including transfer students, begin their academic advising process by registering to attend a required new student orientation where they will meet with an academic advisor.) University Exploratory Studies Program Check out the exploratory student website for information on how to explore and decide on a major at OSU-Cascades. By working in partnership with OSU-Cascades Career Development Center and their advisor, undecided students will explore personal interests, goals, and values, with the goal of selecting a major that incorporates all of these important elements. A list of exploratory classes in OSU-Cascades majors is available to students who are undecided and desire to "test out" different areas. Academics Academic Advisors Academic Calendar Schedule of Classes Registration Change of OSU Campus Academics › Printer-friendly version Announcements Graduation season is coming up! Check out the Commencement page for details. Summer registration opens for all students April 11th. No PIN required. Check out the How to use the MyDegrees Planner video to create your academic plan. Use the Academic Calendar to track Drop and Add deadlines, priority registration. Students are responsible for knowing all OSU deadlines. Registration Tools OSU Bacc Core New Student Advising Resources Popular Links Academic Calendar Academic Standing Information Baccalaureate Core Catalog Change of OSU Campus COCC-DPP Advising COCC Transfer Guides Financial Aid Website Learning Corner: OSU Academic Success Center Registration Registrar Forms New Student Advising Resources Second Language Assessment Transfer Credit Information Contact Info OSU-Cascades 1500 SW Chandler Avenue Bend, Oregon 97702 541-322-3100 (Main) Oregon State University (Corvallis) Partner Institution: Central Oregon Community College Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Instagram About Admissions Leadership Employee Directory Employment Campus Expansion Campus Safety Conference Services Facilities Innovation Co-Lab Make A Gift Academics Apply Now Enrollment Services Academic Advising Academic Calendar Schedule of Classes Registration Financial Aid MyOregonState Canvas Library Campus Life Student Success Center Career Center Computer Lab Dining Disability Access Diversity & Inclusion Fitness Center Housing Student Wellness Visit Visit OSU-Cascades About Bend Hours, Maps & Directions Parking Transportation Options Public Art on Campus