Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Cascades » Office of Admissions Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Apply Now First-Year Students Transfer Students Central Oregon Community College Students International Students Non-Degree Students Postbaccalaureate Students Graduate Students Parents and Family Scholarships & Aid Admissions Advising High School Counselors Honors College About Bend Visit Admitted Students Calendar Library Online Services Apply Now First-Year Students Transfer Students Central Oregon Community College Students International Students Non-Degree Students Postbaccalaureate Students Graduate Students Parents and Family Scholarships & Aid Admissions Advising High School Counselors Honors College About Bend Visit Admitted Students About Bend We love Bend. We think you will, too. Bend and Central Oregon inspire the artist, innovator and outdoorsperson in each of us. This is a great place to get out there. Getting Out There: Downtown Bend Getting Out There: Smith Rock Explore Getting Out There Videos Best Outdoor Town Top Ski Town One of the country's top five ski towns (Travel + Leisure) Top Bike Town #1 mountain biking town in the U.S. (Mountain Bike Action) Top Trail Town #6 best trail running town (Outside) Arts & Entertainment Coffee and Ms. Pac-Man Tessa, TOUR ambassador and art major, recommends: Hanging out at Spoken Moto cafe Delicious hipster coffee, amazing food carts, vintage motorcycles, a cozy aesthetic atmosphere, and an Insta-worthy café. They even have free live music on Thursday and Friday nights. Going old school at Vector Arcade For the young and young at heart, there is a classic arcade in downtown Bend. Be sure to bring your nostalgia! Soaking Pool and Ice Cream Austin, energy systems engineering major, recommends: Movie and soaking pool at McMenamins Old St. Francis A 1936 Catholic schoolhouse renovated into a McMenamins in 2004. It's a hotel with classrooms-turned-lodging rooms, a pub, movie theater, live music and a fantastic soaking pool. Goodies at Goody's Chocolates Homemade ice cream, chocolates and edible raw cookie dough. They use the best flavors and ingredients in Oregon. Try anything made with huckleberry. Visitors Information Visitor Guides Visit Bend Central Oregon Visitors Association Bend Chamber of Commerce Redmond Chamber of Commerce Sisters Chamber of Commerce Central Oregon Exploration Bend Park & Recreation District Travel Oregon, Central Oregon Crater Lake National Park Deschutes & Ochoco National Forest High Desert Museum Hoodoo Ski Area John Day Fossil Beds National Monument Mt. Bachelor Ski & Summer Resort Oregon Hiking Smith Rock State Park The Source Weekly Calendar of Events The Experts Agree The 10 Coolest Places To Go In The Next 10 Years Forbes, 2021 Top 10 Universities for Ski Bums in 2021 College Magazine, 2021 Best Performing Small City Milken Institute, 2020 Bicycle Friendly Community League of American Bicyclists, 2019 Best Small City for Business and Careers Forbes, 2019 The 25 Coolest Film Festivals in the World: BendFilm Festival MovieMaker, 2019 Top Entrepreneurial City in Oregon Cascade Business News, 2017 Best Multi-Sport Town Outside, 2017 One of America’s 20 Best Mountain Bike Towns National Geographic, 2017 One of the 16 Best Places to Live in the U.S. Outside, 2016 One of the top 52 destinations in the world to visit in 2015 Bend listed as #30 New York Times, 2015 One of America’s 10 best destinations for outdoor enthusiasts USA Today, 2015 America's Top Adventure Town Men's Journal, 2015 One of the country's top five ski towns #3 Travel + Leisure, 2015 9 Great American Mountain Biking Trails Outside, 2015 America’s #1 ski town for breweries USA Today, 2014 The world’s best SUP getaway Outside, 2014 One of the nation’s top cycling towns USA Today, 2014 One of 15 U.S. cities with the best restaurant scene Huffington Post, 2013 One of world's top 25 ski towns National Geographic, February 2, 2012 One of the nation's top 5 equestrian communities Equitreking, Oct. 2, 2012 The nation's dog-friendliest town Dog Fancy, 2012 The country’s #1 town for sportsmen Outdoor Life, April 7, 2011 One of the top 10 fly fishing towns in the U.S. Fly Fisherman The best trail running town, #6 Outside, 2010 One of the best fishing towns in America, #8 Field & Stream, 2008 The #1 mountain biking town in the United States Mountain Bike Action ‹ Honors College up Visit › Printer-friendly version Contact Info OSU-Cascades 1500 SW Chandler Avenue Bend, Oregon 97702 541-322-3100 (Main) Oregon State University (Corvallis) Partner Institution: Central Oregon Community College Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Instagram Notice of Availability: In compliance with the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act, Oregon State University publishes Annual Security and Fire Safety Reports for the Corvallis campus, OSU-Cascades campus, Hatfield Marine Science Center, and OSU at EOU. These reports include important safety information, a wide range of current security policies, fire safety practices, helpful university and local resources, crime prevention programs, and crime and fire statistics for the previous three calendar years. Paper copies of these reports will be provided upon request and can also be obtained at 108 Obsidian Hall, 1500 SW Chandler Ave., Bend, OR. If you prefer, you may request a copy by emailing Clery.Comp‌liance@oregonstate.edu. This report is available without charge.