Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Cascades » Kinesiology Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Degree Requirements Course Listing Physical Activity Courses Learning Goals Internships Kinesiology Club Careers Options Faculty & Staff Calendar Library Online Services Degree Requirements Course Listing Physical Activity Courses Learning Goals Internships Kinesiology Club Careers Options Faculty & Staff The Study of Movement In the kinesiology program at OSU-Cascades, you’ll be immersed in the study of physical activity and its effect on human health, disease prevention and quality of life. Curriculum Admission Request Info Apply Now Student Spotlight This Isn't A Solo Climb No one earns a college degree alone. It's a little like rock climbing. You need the right equipment. You have to find a path. You need the endurance, encouragement and valor. This video features Casey Collier ’19, an OSU-Cascades kinesiology student who worked alongside Timothy Burnett, a kinesiology instructor, to study the metabolisms of elite rock climbers. His work will go on to affect their everyday lives and answer questions that research has never been able to solve before. About the Degree Earn a bachelor of science degree in kinesiology. The program coursework focuses on the application of the biological, physical, social and behavioral sciences in the study of physical activity and sport, and their effects on the health, fitness and quality of life of people of all ages and abilities. You can individualize your program of study based on your career goals. The degree is designed to prepare you for employment and graduate school in areas related to kinesiology and exercise, including health professions such as physical therapy, occupational therapy, chiropractic, nutrition and dietetics, physician assistant, athletic training, wellness coaching, education, as well as medicine, public health, and research. Undergraduate Degree Offered Bachelor of Science in Kinesiology Degree Requirements Minor in Exercise Physiology The kinesiology program offers a minor in exercise physiology for non-kinesiology majors. Kinesiology majors may not add the exercise physiology minor. With an emphasis on movement and the functioning of human body due to exercise, the exercise physiology minor is an excellent addition for students interested in incorporating fitness and wellness into their major, or for those who love to exercise and be active and want to understand more about how the body responds. Find the minor requirements here. Course Listing Career Options Faculty Directory Faculty Spotlight Cutting-Edge Research As a kinesiology student, you can intern at the OSU-Cascades Functional Orthopedic Research Center of Excellence (FORCE) Laboratory. The FORCE Lab provides cutting-edge research and intervention strategies for injuries – especially knees, ankles and hips – creating a perfect match with Central Oregon’s population of elite and recreational athletes. Honors College honors-3-col.jpg Casey Collier ’19 is one of the first OSU-Cascades honors college graduates. Internships kine-intern-3-col.jpg The study of human movement is complex, and getting "in it" can help you explore areas that interest you most. Have Fun, Earn Credit pac-3-col.jpg OSU-Cascades offers a unique Physical Activity Course program that partners with fitness facilities located in our community. Sample Courses Sociocultural Dimensions of Physical Activity Biomechanics of Human Movement Exercise Physiology Physical Activity, Aging and Chronic Disease Scientific Inquiry in Kinesiology General Nutrition Motor Behavior Psychology of Sport Anatomical Kinesiology Applied Muscle Physiology Tissue Injury and Repair Where Do Our Graduates Work? Request More Info Loading... Contact Us We're here to help! Future students can connect with an OSU-Cascades admissions advisor for admission and program questions. Degree Requirements Course Listing Learning Goals Internships Kinesiology Club Careers Options Faculty & Staff Degree Requirements › Printer-friendly version Is OSU-Cascades A Fit for You? Only 5 questions to get your score. Take the Quiz Contact Info OSU-Cascades 1500 SW Chandler Avenue Bend, Oregon 97702 541-322-3100 (Main) Oregon State University (Corvallis) Partner Institution: Central Oregon Community College Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Instagram About Admissions Leadership Employee Directory Employment Campus Expansion Campus Safety Conference Services Facilities Innovation Co-Lab Make A Gift Academics Apply Now Enrollment Services Academic Advising Academic Calendar Schedule of Classes Registration Financial Aid MyOregonState Canvas Library Campus Life Student Success Center Career Center Computer Lab Dining Disability Access Diversity & Inclusion Fitness Center Housing Student Wellness Visit Visit OSU-Cascades About Bend Hours, Maps & Directions Parking Transportation Options Public Art on Campus