Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Cascades » Campus Expansion Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Edward J. Ray Hall Student Success Center Net Zero Campus Economic Impact History Innovation District Calendar Library Online Services Edward J. Ray Hall Student Success Center Net Zero Campus Economic Impact History Innovation District Where Students Will Transform Construction of the Student Success Center begins in 2023. Get involved in the planning! Student Success Center Email Newsletter Contact Us Make A Gift A 30-Year Community Vision Takes Shape Over the next decades, OSU-Cascades will expand, creating a 128-acre campus for up to 5,000 students. The transformation of the university properties — a former pumice mine and former Deschutes County demolition landfill — is one of the most innovative university development projects in the country. While expansion will be slow — perhaps one building every two years — our goal is to share the story of the development and the ways we will minimize its impact on our surrounding community. The webcam looks west to the Cascade mountains. To the left is Edward J. Ray Hall, which opened to students in fall 2021. The view encompasses the reclaimed pumice mine, where the bottom was once 100 feet below the surrounding land. During the reclamation work, crews removed fill material in the mine, processed it and replaced it to create a structurally consistent material. Sheer cuts on the sides of the mine were re-sloped to improve access into the campus and provide material to raise the bottom of the mine to the final design elevation — as much as 40 feet in places. Additionally, remediation of the adjacent demolition waste landfill — also owned by the university — yielded clean soil and rock to be used as fill in the pumice mine. View timelapses here. Award-Winning Campus Plan The campus long range development plan earned an award for innovative design from the national Society for College and University Planning. It outlines the transformation of underutilized land into a campus that meets the needs of future generations, emphasizing: Connections to the community Social, economic and triple net zero environmental resiliency Central Oregon’s flora and fauna, and community health Interdisciplinary learning, entrepreneurship and innovation Economic Impact 570x380-rice-bowl.jpg Campus operations and construction — and the economic ripple effect they create — will bring more than $273 million to Oregon in 2034. A Community Campus outdoor-seating.jpg Campus plans include 10 miles of walking and biking trails, an amphitheater, recreation fields, food venues with outdoor seating, an Innovation District and mid-market affordable housing. A Net Zero Campus solar-panels.jpg We envision a campus that pushes the edge of the sustainable built environment frontier and provides students with extraordinary opportunities to shape a thriving community, on and off campus. Using the Landfill to fill the Pumice Mine Engineers from OSU’s renowned College of Engineering contributed to the site remediation plans. By using soil from the landfill to fill the adjoining pumice mine, the number of truckloads of external material will be reduced by an estimated 30,000. The first building on the reclaimed land will focus on STEAM - science, technology, engineering, arts and math. Edward J. Ray Hall Student Success Center Net Zero Campus Economic Impact History Innovation District Edward J. Ray Hall › Printer-friendly version Sign Up for Email News Receive event announcements and news about OSU-Cascades. Sign up Contact Info OSU-Cascades 1500 SW Chandler Avenue Bend, Oregon 97702 541-322-3100 (Main) Oregon State University (Corvallis) Partner Institution: Central Oregon Community College Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Instagram About Admissions Leadership Employee Directory Employment Campus Expansion Campus Safety Conference Services Facilities Innovation Co-Lab Make A Gift Academics Apply Now Enrollment Services Academic Advising Academic Calendar Schedule of Classes Registration Financial Aid MyOregonState Canvas Library Campus Life Student Success Center Career Center Computer Lab Dining Disability Access Diversity & Inclusion Fitness Center Housing Student Wellness Visit Visit OSU-Cascades About Bend Hours, Maps & Directions Parking Transportation Options Public Art on Campus