Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Cascades » COVID-19 Safety & Success Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Students Employees Latest Updates Positive Case Communication COVID-19 Vaccinations and Testing Calendar Library Online Services Students Employees Latest Updates Positive Case Communication COVID-19 Vaccinations and Testing BEAVER PROUD Keep learning, growing and achieving. We're working together toward goals both big and small. Beaver Nation is strong and determined, in Bend and beyond. Learn more Latest Updates Vaccination Program Positive Case Notification Learn and Grow in Person Small class sizes make a difference. It means you’ll be in the classroom. Discovering together. Finding inspiration in new knowledge. Sharing lively discussions. And making connections that will last a lifetime. Meet Your Mentors Our faculty are passionate about teaching, and it shows — more than 8 out of 10 recent graduates said their faculty helped them succeed academically, professionally and personally. Your professors will know you by name and help you reach your goals. It’s time to start new connections, and renew and deepen existing ones. Look Forward to Gathering Our world is becoming safer and healthier, and gatherings with fellow students are growing in size and number, too. We’re looking out for each other and our community, and following all local, state and federal public health recommendations as we interact together again. Learn More Find Hope in the Future You’ve persevered through a challenging time. We offer a variety of resources so you can continue to build your personal resilience and access the support you need to be successful. Better days are ahead, and we can’t wait to share them with you. Learn More Live in a Safer Environment With no more than two students in a room, health and wellness resources, and a professional housing team, we collaborate with students to create a safer and healthier residential community. Learn More It’s Our Turn To Get Vaccinated We can each contribute to a safer and healthier campus community by getting our COVID-19 vaccine and booster. Learn about OSU's Vaccination Program and policy. Students can comply with this policy through the Student Health Services Patient Portal. Learn More Students Employees Latest Updates Positive Case Communication COVID-19 Vaccinations and Testing Students › Printer-friendly version Contact Info OSU-Cascades 1500 SW Chandler Avenue Bend, Oregon 97702 541-322-3100 (Main) Oregon State University (Corvallis) Partner Institution: Central Oregon Community College Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Instagram About Admissions Leadership Employee Directory Employment Campus Expansion Campus Safety Conference Services Facilities Innovation Co-Lab Make A Gift Academics Apply Now Enrollment Services Academic Advising Academic Calendar Schedule of Classes Registration Financial Aid MyOregonState Canvas Library Campus Life Student Success Center Career Center Computer Lab Dining Disability Access Diversity & Inclusion Fitness Center Housing Student Wellness Visit Visit OSU-Cascades About Bend Hours, Maps & Directions Parking Transportation Options Public Art on Campus