Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Cascades » Psychology Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Degree Requirements Course Listing Career Options Faculty & Staff Calendar Library Online Services Degree Requirements Course Listing Career Options Faculty & Staff The Human Mind It's infinitely fascinating. Curriculum Admission Request Info Apply Now Small Classes You'll get to know your classmates and professors. Join a Research Project Learn to think like a scientist. Work side-by-side with faculty as an undergraduate researcher. Internships Apply what you learn in an internship in the local community. Student Spotlight Beyond the Classroom Aubrey Sills is the 2019 distinguished student in psychology for the quality of her achievements and her commitment to her peers, but most importantly, for her passionate pursuit of her interests both inside and outside the classroom. Aubrey participated on the Roots of Resilience research team, which helps early childhood teachers promote resilience in children who have been impacted by trauma. She hopes to continue her interest in research at graduate school. About the Degree When you explore human behavior at OSU-Cascades, the skills you learn open a world of opportunities. Psychology is a diverse field – it’s grounded in scientific research, yet covers a range of topics, from the structure and function of the human brain, to the values and beliefs of different cultures. The skills you will learn will prepare you for a wide variety of careers or even graduate school. And even if you major in another subject, classes in psychology can enhance your understanding and help you in a future career. Undergraduate Degrees Offered Bachelor of Arts in Psychology Bachelor of Science in Psychology Degree Requirements Minor A psychology minor can enhance your major field of study and career path - and give you an added advantage. The minor provides broad exposure to the field of psychology. Learn more. Course Listing Career Options Faculty Directory As a Psychology Major, You Will: Come to understand the complexity of human behavior from a wide variety of perspectives, from the biological and cognitive, to the cultural and sociological. Develop close and supportive bonds with fellow students. Learn from faculty researchers with expertise in fascinating areas such as stereotyping and prejudice. Develop scientific skills like critical thinking, theory development, study design and data analysis. Gain hands on experience by engaging in real world research with faculty. There are even fellowships to support your scholarship efforts. Be able to enhance your education by applying knowledge you gain in the classroom to real world situations in an internship in our surrounding community. One Earth. Two Ways We Look at It. People who are liberal tend to take on environmentally-friendly practices more often, like recycling and saving energy. But conservatives aren’t anti-environmental, says professor Chris Wolsko, a psychology researcher in The Laboratory for the American Conversation. He explains how today’s messages about the environment speak loudly to liberal values, like compassion and justice, but tend to ignore conservative values. His research demonstrated that when themes like loyalty and patriotism are included in messages, conservatives are more likely to protect the earth, too. Student Spotlight Going Out There to Seek Adventure Tayler Deggendorfer does not shy away from adventure. She took on a double degree in psychology and human development & family sciences, and a minor in Spanish. She studied abroad in Florence, Italy her junior year. And when she isn’t busy going to class or studying, she’s putting in the hours at Dutch Bros in Redmond, where she’s found a close group of friends. This fall the adventure continues – Tayler is off to New York City to earn a master’s degree in forensic mental health counseling. Sample Courses General Psychology Social Psychology Abnormal Psychology Psychopharmacology General Biology Advanced Social Research Method Introduction to Statistical Methods Cognition Personality Health Psychology Research Methods in Psychology Special Topic Psychology of Religion Brain and Behavior Psychotherapy Where Do Our Grads Work? Request More Info Loading... Contact Us We're here to help! Future students can connect with an OSU-Cascades admissions advisor for admission and program questions. Degree Requirements Course Listing Career Options Faculty & Staff Degree Requirements › Printer-friendly version Is OSU-Cascades A Fit for You? Only 5 questions to get your score. Take the Quiz Contact Info OSU-Cascades 1500 SW Chandler Avenue Bend, Oregon 97702 541-322-3100 (Main) Oregon State University (Corvallis) Partner Institution: Central Oregon Community College Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Instagram About Admissions Leadership Employee Directory Employment Campus Expansion Campus Safety Conference Services Facilities Innovation Co-Lab Make A Gift Academics Apply Now Enrollment Services Academic Advising Academic Calendar Schedule of Classes Registration Financial Aid MyOregonState Canvas Library Campus Life Student Success Center Career Center Computer Lab Dining Disability Access Diversity & Inclusion Fitness Center Housing Student Wellness Visit Visit OSU-Cascades About Bend Hours, Maps & Directions Parking Transportation Options Public Art on Campus