Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Cascades Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search About Admissions Academics Research Campus Life For the Community Visit Calendar Library Online Services About Admissions Academics Research Campus Life For the Community Visit Out There. At the Edge. OSU in Bend. Push yourself to the edge of what's known. And keep going. Your future is about to begin. Apply now. OUT THERE. AT THE EDGE. OSU IN BEND. Push yourself to the edge of what’s known. And keep going. Your future is about to begin. Apply now. OSU COVID-19 Safety and Success Plan and resources. See information specific to OSU-Cascades. Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni & Friends THIS IS OSU-CASCADES At Oregon State University – Cascades, we're out there at the edge. Of the Deschutes River and the Cascade Range. Of the high desert and the pine forest. And we're inspired by everything around us. You will be, too. Top Tier Academics Discovery Happens at The Edge Get Out There We love it here. We think you will, too. 2022 Commencement Speaker OSU Interim President Becky Johnson led OSU-Cascades from 2009 to 2021. She helped transform it to a four-year university and oversaw the opening of the Bend campus, the first public university campus to open in the state in 50 years. She returns to the place she calls home to deliver the commencement keynote address to the Class of 2022 on June 12. Learn More Apply Now Visit MyOregonState Give We Bend Boundaries to Find Solutions At OSU-Cascades, undergraduate students work alongside faculty researchers and in our laboratories to solve the world's biggest challenges. Learn More Printer-friendly version News Native American scholar and author Beth Piatote featured in OSU-Cascades annual literary event - May 17, 2022 Beth Piatote, a writer and scholar of Native American and Indigenous literature and law, will read and discuss her recent work on June 6 at the High Desert Museum. The program, titled “Writing West: A Conversation with Two Award-... New college program aims to build child care workforce, pays full tuition - May 04, 2022 A program launched at Oregon State University – Cascades and in partnership with Central Oregon Community College aims to increase the number of child care and early learning workers in Central Oregon. The region was identified as a ‘child care... Dam Proud Day raises over $42,000 in scholarships for OSU-Cascades students - May 02, 2022 Supporters of Oregon State University - Cascades came together April 27, 2022 to raise more than $42,000 for student scholarships during Dam Proud Day, the university’s annual day of giving and engagement. More than 130 community... View All News Events Calendar View All Events Contact Info OSU-Cascades 1500 SW Chandler Avenue Bend, Oregon 97702 541-322-3100 (Main) Oregon State University (Corvallis) Partner Institution: Central Oregon Community College Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Instagram About Admissions Leadership Employee Directory Employment Campus Expansion Campus Safety Conference Services Facilities Innovation Co-Lab Make A Gift Academics Apply Now Enrollment Services Academic Advising Academic Calendar Schedule of Classes Registration Financial Aid MyOregonState Canvas Library Campus Life Student Success Center Career Center Computer Lab Dining Disability Access Diversity & Inclusion Fitness Center Housing Student Wellness Visit Visit OSU-Cascades About Bend Hours, Maps & Directions Parking Transportation Options Public Art on Campus