Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Cascades » Arts, Media and Technology Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Degree Requirements Course Listing Learning Goals Career Options Faculty and Staff Calendar Library Online Services Degree Requirements Course Listing Learning Goals Career Options Faculty and Staff Where Art and Tech Meet Earn a bachelor's degree in arts, media and technology and combine traditional studio arts with cutting-edge technical skills. Curriculum Admission Request Info Apply Now About the Degree The arts, media and technology degree prepares you for a career as a creative professional. The program's multidisciplinary curriculum integrates critical, theoretical and historical knowledge of the arts and media with the technical skills required for a career in the visual arts and design fields. As an arts, media and technology student, you’ll invest time in a traditional arts studio, as well as in coursework in graphic design, video production, block coding, digital imaging, gaming and 3D printing. From the fundamentals of creative communication, to color theory, to image output and display, the degree curriculum will give you the expertise and insight you’ll need to create solutions that persuade and move users and viewers. Through creative arts-focused internships in the area, you can apply what you learn in a professional setting. You'll also take courses in entrepreneurship and communication to help you prepare for a career in the contemporary art and design fields. Undergraduate Degrees Bachelor of Arts in Arts, Media and Technology Bachelor of Science in Arts, Media and Technology Degree Requirements Minor The minor in arts, media and technology is designed for students in any major to add to their degree. The program prepares students for a range of professional opportunities or later graduate study in the arts. Course Listing Career Options Faculty Directory Student Spotlight She Puts Design to Work Senior Tessa Moody started as an education major at a college in Montana, but by the end of her freshman year she was researching art programs, and found OSU-Cascades. “I wanted a program that combined studio arts with technology,” she said. As an AMT major she built an installation where she stretched multi-colored strings across a stairwell creating spatial planes that warp and twist, created stop-motion animation videos, and practiced printmaking and 3D printing. Tessa has put her graphic design courses to work as a social media intern for a local resort, in the OSU-Cascades marketing department, and in public relations for both student government and student life. “I try and bring an art lens to marketing," she said. Student Spotlight Out There in His Field Erik Alvstad gained hands-on experience making special effects videos like this one for the OSU-Cascades Admissions Office. “This project gave me real experience I can show to potential employers," said Erik. What it took to make the video: Filming in two locations: Classroom and in front of a green screen at the Bend Rock Gym Masking each frame and assembly using Adobe Premiere and After Effects A leaf blower and loose paper to give a visual cue for the thrust Aputure 300d lighting with softbox for the lighting Climbing harness, rope and friends to hoist the professor Sample Courses New Media Visualization New Media Communications Design and Sustainability Intro to Arts Entrepreneurship New Media Interactive Intro to Visual Arts History of Design Digital Core Studio Video Art Intro to Time-Based Art Directions in Contemporary Art Graphic Design Digital Photography New Media Animation Career Options Job opportunities for graduates of this degree program include: Animator Art Director Artist Cinematographer Creative Director Digital Artist Exhibit Designer Filmmaker Graphic Designer Interior Designer Illustrator Marketing Specialist Typographer Website Designer Request More Info Loading... Contact Us We're here to help! Future students can connect with an OSU-Cascades admissions advisor for admission and program questions. Degree Requirements Course Listing Learning Goals Career Options Faculty and Staff Degree Requirements › Printer-friendly version Is OSU-Cascades A Fit for You? Only 5 questions to get your score. Take the Quiz Contact Info OSU-Cascades 1500 SW Chandler Avenue Bend, Oregon 97702 541-322-3100 (Main) Oregon State University (Corvallis) Partner Institution: Central Oregon Community College Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Instagram About Admissions Leadership Employee Directory Employment Campus Expansion Campus Safety Conference Services Facilities Innovation Co-Lab Make A Gift Academics Apply Now Enrollment Services Academic Advising Academic Calendar Schedule of Classes Registration Financial Aid MyOregonState Canvas Library Campus Life Student Success Center Career Center Computer Lab Dining Disability Access Diversity & Inclusion Fitness Center Housing Student Wellness Visit Visit OSU-Cascades About Bend Hours, Maps & Directions Parking Transportation Options Public Art on Campus