Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Cascades » Visit OSU-Cascades Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Campus Tours Group Visit Preview Days Admitted Student Events Video Tours Admissions Hours, Maps and Directions Calendar Library Online Services Campus Tours Group Visit Preview Days Admitted Student Events Video Tours Admissions Hours, Maps and Directions We're Ready When You Are! There are many ways to check out campus. Sign up for a campus tour! Campus Tours Preview Days Maps and Directions Visit OSU-Cascades In Person You and your guests can plan a personalized campus visit based on your interest. Tour the campus with one of our TOUR Ambassadors, meet with your admissions advisor, or request to meet with a faculty or staff member of your choice. Register for In-Person Campus Tour Visit OSU-Cascades In Your Community Want to learn about OSU-Cascades at a local college fair or high school visit? We may be headed to your area. Find Events Near You Connect With Your Admissions Advisor Connect for a one on one appointment on campus, via Zoom or on the phone. Admissions Advising Attend Transfer Tuesdays at COCC Meet with an OSU-Cascades admissions advisor in person at our office space in Cascades Hall on the COCC campus. Transfer Tuesdays tour-2-600.jpg Instagram Facebook Youtube virtual-tour-600.jpg Video Tours Whether you have two minutes or ten, explore and connect with us on your own time from the device of your choice. Videos include a 1-minute campus tour, residence hall room tours, and our Getting Out There series — where current students share their favorite locations around Central Oregon. Video Tours Group Visits If you are a group and/or school organization, you can schedule a group visit. Welcome Center The Welcome Center is located on the first floor of Tykeson Hall on the OSU-Cascades campus and typically open 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Doors to campus buildings are currently locked, so please ring the door bell on northwest side of building or call 541-322-3100, ext. 1. Directions OSU-Cascades 1500 SW Chandler Avenue Bend, Oregon 97702 Phone: 541-322-3119 Campus Map Parking The most convenient parking for the Welcome Center is the northeast side of the campus lot (near Tykeson Hall-the lighter color building). There is one reserved parking spot for admission visitors. Please park in this spot if available. If the admission visitor spot is occupied, please choose any parking space not marked. The Office of Admissions would love to pay for your campus parking on the day of your tour. If you know the vehicle you will be using to travel to campus, please email the license plate number to bendbeavs@osucascades.edu. If not, please arrive with your license plate information and give to your student TOUR Ambassador. Directions on Google Maps Campus Tours Group Visit Preview Days Admitted Student Events Video Tours Admissions Hours, Maps and Directions Campus Tours › Printer-friendly version Contact Info OSU-Cascades 1500 SW Chandler Avenue Bend, Oregon 97702 541-322-3100 (Main) Oregon State University (Corvallis) Partner Institution: Central Oregon Community College Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Instagram About Admissions Leadership Employee Directory Employment Campus Expansion Campus Safety Conference Services Facilities Innovation Co-Lab Make A Gift Academics Apply Now Enrollment Services Academic Advising Academic Calendar Schedule of Classes Registration Financial Aid MyOregonState Canvas Library Campus Life Student Success Center Career Center Computer Lab Dining Disability Access Diversity & Inclusion Fitness Center Housing Student Wellness Visit Visit OSU-Cascades About Bend Hours, Maps & Directions Parking Transportation Options Public Art on Campus