Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Cascades » Biology Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Degree Requirements Course Listing Learning Goals Transfer Students Research Career Options Faculty & Staff Calendar Library Online Services Degree Requirements Course Listing Learning Goals Transfer Students Research Career Options Faculty & Staff Join the Next Generation of Science Leaders We prepare students to succeed in diverse fields through broad, interdisciplinary training in the life sciences. Curriculum Admission Request Info Apply Now Get Out There in the Field Biology faculty member Matt Orr and student researchers built artificial beaver dams along the Crooked River to help restore stream and plant habitat. The research team measured soil moisture, riparian plant health and water level. About the Degree OSU-Cascades offers a bachelor of science degree in biology. Issues and advances in areas such as biotechnology, environmental science, medicine and other fields continually emphasize the importance of biology and biologists in the future of our country and the world. The biology program prepares students for diverse fields through broad, interdisciplinary training in the life sciences. You'll have access to world-class faculty and undergraduate research opportunities. This major is also ideal for students who are looking to continue from undergraduate into professional/medical programs. Post-baccalaureate students who are interested in biology need to check the Admission Criteria for Post-Bacc Students from OSU's College of Science. Undergraduate Degree Bachelor of Science in Biology Degree Requirements Minor in Biology The minor in biology includes a required introductory biology sequence with a chemistry prerequisite or co-requisite (BI 211, BI 212, BI 213, Principles of Biology), a required course in cell and molecular biology (BI314) and 13 or more credits of upper division courses offered under the elective listed on the curriculum checklist. Course Listing Career Options Faculty Directory Instagram Alumna Spotlight On to Pharmacy School When Maddie Moss ’20 was in high school, she job shadowed a pharmacist in an intensive care unit at a hospital in Portland. That was it for her. She knew what she wanted to do. Now enrolled in the Oregon State University/Oregon Health & Science University Doctor of Pharmacy program – Maddie is on her way. “The one-to-one, personalized education at OSU-Cascades helped me feel so prepared for the pharmacy program,” she said. In addition to earning a Pharm.D. degree, Maddie is dually enrolled in OSU’s Master of Business Administration program. Soon – she’ll have high school students shadowing her. Alumni Spotlight The Chemistry with Thermo Fisher Scientific Is Real Biotech in Bend is growing. It’s an industry that needs interns and skilled employees. Six recent graduates — five of them biology majors — found jobs at Thermo Fisher Scientific’s Bend site, where experts turn insoluble compounds into soluble compounds that can help improve human health. Chris Lawler ’16 and James Taylor ’18 are formulation technicians. James King ’18 is a method development scientist. Nicole Robbins ’18 is a quality control scientist and Cheyenne Sproat ’20 is taking her degree to the people side — she’s a senior human resources coordinator. Alumna Spotlight From Lab Tech to Scientist Originally from Wisconsin, Brittnye Freeberg is the first in her family to attend college. The mother of three was working at a convenience store in Bend and under the stress of the housing crunch when she decided to pursue a bachelor's degree for better job security. At OSU-Cascades, she found her calling in the lab — as a Layman Fellow she examined tent caterpillar plant detoxification and resistance to anesthesia in fruit flies. Brittnye interned as a lab tech with Lonza Pharma and Biotech and after graduation accepted a full-time position at Lonza as a product development scientist. Sample Courses Introduction to Human Anatomy & Physiology Genetics Disease Ecology Molecular Medicine General Biochemistry Organic Chemistry General Physics Aquatic Entomology Ecology Cell and Molecular Biology Environmental Physiology Microbiology Biodiversity: Causes, Consequences, and Conservation Vertebrate Biology Where Do Our Graduates Work? Request More Info Loading... Contact Us We're here to help! Future students can connect with an OSU-Cascades admissions advisor for admission and program questions. Degree Requirements Course Listing Learning Goals Transfer Students Research Career Options Faculty & Staff Degree Requirements › Printer-friendly version Is OSU-Cascades A Fit for You? Only 5 questions to get your score. Take the Quiz Contact Info OSU-Cascades 1500 SW Chandler Avenue Bend, Oregon 97702 541-322-3100 (Main) Oregon State University (Corvallis) Partner Institution: Central Oregon Community College Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Instagram About Admissions Leadership Employee Directory Employment Campus Expansion Campus Safety Conference Services Facilities Innovation Co-Lab Make A Gift Academics Apply Now Enrollment Services Academic Advising Academic Calendar Schedule of Classes Registration Financial Aid MyOregonState Canvas Library Campus Life Student Success Center Career Center Computer Lab Dining Disability Access Diversity & Inclusion Fitness Center Housing Student Wellness Visit Visit OSU-Cascades About Bend Hours, Maps & Directions Parking Transportation Options Public Art on Campus