Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Cascades » Art Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Degree Requirements Course Listing Learning Goals Career Options Faculty & Staff Calendar Library Online Services Degree Requirements Course Listing Learning Goals Career Options Faculty & Staff Art: Studio Arts OSU-Cascades offers a bachelor's degree in art with a studio arts option. Curriculum Admission Request Info Apply Now About the Degree The curriculum is based on building an awareness and understanding of the historical, technical and contemporary aspects of art with a focus on the significance of art in society. The program offers the opportunity for professional artistic development, while incorporating subjects that lead to a liberal education. This major program prepares students for a range of professional opportunities or later graduate study in advertising, fine arts, teaching, graphic arts, digital arts, communications, photography and art history. Undergraduate Degrees Bachelor of Arts in Art (Studio Arts Option) Bachelor of Science in Art (Studio Arts Option) Degree Requirements Course Listing Career Options Faculty Directory Minor in Art Art History Minor The minor in art history is designed for students in any major to add to their degree. The program prepares students for a range of professional opportunities or later graduate study in the arts. Studio Arts Minor The minor in Studio Arts is designed for students in any major to add to their academic program. Studio Arts can be any combination of courses in drawing, painting, printmaking, sculpture, expanded media, photography, and digital studio. Request More Info Loading... Contact Us We're here to help! Future students can connect with an OSU-Cascades admissions advisor for admission and program questions. Degree Requirements Course Listing Learning Goals Career Options Faculty & Staff Degree Requirements › Printer-friendly version Is OSU-Cascades A Fit for You? Only 5 questions to get your score. Take the Quiz Contact Info OSU-Cascades 1500 SW Chandler Avenue Bend, Oregon 97702 541-322-3100 (Main) Oregon State University (Corvallis) Partner Institution: Central Oregon Community College Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Instagram About Admissions Leadership Employee Directory Employment Campus Expansion Campus Safety Conference Services Facilities Innovation Co-Lab Make A Gift Academics Apply Now Enrollment Services Academic Advising Academic Calendar Schedule of Classes Registration Financial Aid MyOregonState Canvas Library Campus Life Student Success Center Career Center Computer Lab Dining Disability Access Diversity & Inclusion Fitness Center Housing Student Wellness Visit Visit OSU-Cascades About Bend Hours, Maps & Directions Parking Transportation Options Public Art on Campus