Menu About Academics Cost & Aid Campus Life Employees Apply Now Call 918-293-4680 or email information@okstate.edu for assistance with enrolling. Financial Aid Office virtual visits are now available. Schedule Virtual Appointment Cost & Financial Aid At Oklahoma State University Institute of Technology, making quality education affordable and accessible is our priority. We firmly believe that tuition should not hinder students from pursuing academic and career success. In support of that goal, we not only offer low tuition to our students but also provide extensive financial aid opportunities to help them pay for college. We understand that each student’s situation is unique; that's why our dedicated financial aid team works diligently to guide you and your family through the process of applying for financial aid. In Response to COVID-19: Important Financial Aid & Forbearance Information On March 27, 2020, the president signed the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act into law, which, among other things, provides broad relief for federal student loan borrowers. Visit the Federal Student Aid website for more information and frequently asked questions. Cowboy CARES Emergency Grant Application & Reporting OSU Institute of Technology offers one of the highest quality technical educations in the region at an extremely affordable price. Cost of Attendance Named the Top Affordable School in Oklahoma, OSU Institute of Technology offers one of the highest quality technical educations in the region at an extremely affordable price. The Estimated Cost Per Trimester at OSUIT is $6,702.75 Estimates $2,886.75 in tuition & fees at $192.45 per credit hour Estimates $3,216 in room & board Estimates $600 for books & supplies The estimated cost per trimester is for a full-time student with 15 credit hours at OSUIT and the figures include tuition, fees, room and board, textbooks, and supplies. The actual cost of attendance may vary depending on one’s situation. Additional fees and materials may be charged or required depending on the course or program. See a complete list of fees and a detailed breakdown of student housing rates and meal plans. To better assist you in calculating your cost of attending OSUIT, we offer a cost calculator for you to estimate your cost per trimester after estimated grant and scholarship aid. Financial Aid & Scholarships OSUIT is dedicated to the recruitment and retention of our students. One of the ways we help and retain students is through financial aid & scholarships. The Office of Financial Aid & Scholarships is here to assist prospective and current students in navigating the options of paying for their college education. Apply for Aid Student financial aid awards depend upon two major factors: financial need and the availability of funds. File your FAFSA with OSUIT School Code - 003172. Types of Aid Qualifying for Aid File Your FAFSA Award Notifications Check for award notices online at my.okstate.edu. Check your account often as scholarships are awarded on a rolling basis. Qualifying for Scholarships Keeping Your Aid Avoid Loan Default Student Employment Studies show that working 10-15 hours a week improves graduation rates. There are many paid job opportunities on and off-campus to help students supplement college costs. You don't have to qualify for Federal Work-Study to get a job! Eligibility Requirements for Financial Aid Most U.S. citizens or U.S. nationals, permanent residents, and other eligible non-citizens enrolled as regular students in a degree program at OSUIT are eligible for federal financial aid. In addition, applicants must hold a High School Diploma, GED, or meet home school requirements. To qualify for federal financial aid, you must demonstrate financial need. Review the detailed eligibility requirements. How to Apply for Financial Aid If you are interested in applying for financial aid, you can start your Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) on studentaid.gov. Oklahoma State University Institute of Technology’s school code is 003172. After the application is completed, OSUIT’s Office of Financial Aid will review your application carefully and notify you if other information is needed, or deliver an award letter. Please note that FAFSA is available on October 1st for students enrolling the following academic year. Starting your application early can increase your chances of accessing the greatest amount of financial aid funds. Learn more about how to file FAFSA. Scholarships Aiming to assist our students in affording their education, OSUIT offers various types of scholarships. Effective Fall 2019, all students classified as domestic out-of-state are eligible for a full waiver of out-of-state fees scholarship. The approximate value of the scholarship is $2,855. Out-of-state students taking 12 or more hours are required to live in the dorms for the duration of their college program(s) unless they meet one of the exceptions listed below at the time the admissions application is submitted: are 21 or older are married have a child are enrolled in 12 or more hours of online classes The out-of-state scholarship will be revoked if the student does not meet one of the exceptions or the student moves off campus before the completion of the degree(s).In-state students, students in foster care, and national guard officers are also eligible for the Tuition Waivers Scholarships which can cover a portion of the tuition charges. In addition to the Tuition Waivers, many other scholarships are available such as OSUIT Foundation Scholarships and Oklahoma's Promise. Learn more about your scholarship options. Paying for Your Education The Bursar's Office handles payment of tuition and fees and all money-related questions. All students have a Bursar account that shows all charges the student is assessed each semester. You can view your current and past bills, make payments, and change bill delivery options on Banner. The OSUIT Bursar's Office is located in the Grady W. Clack Center. Hours of operation are 7:30 am to 4:30 pm. You can contact Bursar’s Office by phone at 918-293-4681 or by email at okm-bursar@okstate.edu. Contact OSUIT Office of Financial Aid & Scholarships If you have more questions about OSUIT’s tuition and financial aid, check our FAQ page. Need help with your application? Stop by the Office of Financial Aid & Scholarships in Grady W. Clack Center between the hours of 7:30 am and 4:30 pm, give us a call at 918-293-4684, or email osuitfinancialaid@okstate.edu. You can also schedule a virtual appointment to talk to our team. We are excited to support your journey of achieving your life goals at OSU Institute of Technology! Request Info Visit Campus Apply Now Custom Training Give to OSUIT Oklahoma's Only University of Applied Technology Oklahoma State University Institute of Technology is a recognized leader in applied technology education and is known for world-class teaching facilities, partnerships with industry, and a nearly 100 percent career placement rate. Main Campus: 1801 E 4th Street Okmulgee, OK 74447 +1 800 722 4471 information@okstate.edu Directions Stillwater | Tulsa | Oklahoma City Accessibility | Safety | Legal & Trademarks | HEA Student Consumer | Ethics Point | Student Training | Jobs | Privacy Policy © - Oklahoma State University Institute of Technology | All Rights Reserved Back to Top ©