Menu About Academics Cost & Aid Campus Life Employees Apply Now Pete's Pantry Student Life Home Covelle Hall Online Wellness Intramural Sports Student Clubs Points Verification Campus Activity Request Student Life Forms Calendar Submission Digital Sign Request Welcome Week Student Government Association National Society of Leadership and Success Service Learning Service Learning Survey Pete's Pantry Contact Student Life Hours (as of March 22) Monday: 10 a.m. - 4 p.m. Tuesday: By appointment only Wednesday: 10 a.m. - 4 p.m. Thursday: 10 a.m. - 4 p.m. Friday: Closed Pete's Pantry, the OSU Institute of Technology's campus food pantry, is helping combat food insecurity for students, in turn promoting student success. The program was established by the OSUIT Service Learning Committee and has been in operation since October 2019. It is available to students enrolled at OSUIT, including concurrent, GED and MPower, Green Country Technology Center and College of the Muscogee Nation. There is no application process for students to take advantage of the pantry, simply show a student ID. There is no limit on items received, and students are welcome to visit as often as needed. Donations Through the partnership with the Community Food Bank of Eastern Oklahoma, Pete's Pantry is able to supplement the pantry stock but is always accepting donations. Monetary donations are also accepted through the OSU Foundation Arts and Sciences Excellence Fund for the OSUIT Pete's Pantry. Pete's Closet We have professional dress clothing all donated by OSUIT employees and students. Students can check out or borrow the nicer items such as suits and professional attire or there is a great selection of nice clothing for students to take and keep Volunteer Opportunities Pete's Pantry provides hands-on leadership experiences for students who are interested in volunteering. Any student or employee may sign up. Opportunities include organizing and stocking the pantry, unloading pallets of food, checking donation expiration dates, helping sustain a clean and organized environment, cleaning the pantry location and serving students who visit. Pete's Pantry is located in the Noble Center for Advancing Technology, Suite 100. It is open Mondays from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., Tuesday by appointment only, Wednesday from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. and Thursday from 10 a.m. - 4 p.m. For more information about Pete's Pantry, donations or volunteer opportunities, please contact co-chairs of the Service Learning Committee, Beth Rogers at beth.a.rogers@okstate.edu or Angie Asmussen at angie.asmussen@okstate.edu. Request Info Visit Campus Apply Now Custom Training Give to OSUIT Oklahoma's Only University of Applied Technology Oklahoma State University Institute of Technology is a recognized leader in applied technology education and is known for world-class teaching facilities, partnerships with industry, and a nearly 100 percent career placement rate. Main Campus: 1801 E 4th Street Okmulgee, OK 74447 +1 800 722 4471 information@okstate.edu Directions Stillwater | Tulsa | Oklahoma City Accessibility | Safety | Legal & Trademarks | HEA Student Consumer | Ethics Point | Student Training | Jobs | Privacy Policy © - Oklahoma State University Institute of Technology | All Rights Reserved Back to Top ©