Menu About Academics Cost & Aid Campus Life Employees Apply Now Campus Map The approximately 240-acre campus in Okmulgee is just 40 miles south of Tulsa in east central Oklahoma. Your browser does not support iframes. View Full Screen Map Directions From Tulsa: Head south on US-75 toward Glenpool and Okmulgee. From OKC: Head east on Interstate 40 and take the exit for US-75 north in Henryetta. From Fort Smith, Ark: Head west on Interstate 40 and take the exit for US-75 north in Henryetta. For detailed map directions, use your favorite map service or search us on Google Maps. OSU Institute of Technology 1801 East 4th Street Okmulgee, OK 74447 Printable Campus Map This map shows an overhead, aerial view of the campus and allows users to view building names by category. Viewing the map requires Adobe Reader. Schedule a Tour Prospective students can sign up for a campus tour, or learn more about our programs and beautiful campus virtually. You can watch a live program visit, information session or Q&A with current and past students as well as schedule your visit to the OSUIT campus. See the full schedule or make your appointment now. Interactive Map and Self-Guided Tours This responsive, mobile-friendly 3D map provides an aerial view of the campus and allows users to view buildings by category. If you're unable to attend a scheduled tour, we offer a self-guided option that you can complete at your convenience. Request Info Visit Campus Apply Now Custom Training Give to OSUIT Oklahoma's Only University of Applied Technology Oklahoma State University Institute of Technology is a recognized leader in applied technology education and is known for world-class teaching facilities, partnerships with industry, and a nearly 100 percent career placement rate. Main Campus: 1801 E 4th Street Okmulgee, OK 74447 +1 800 722 4471 information@okstate.edu Directions Stillwater | Tulsa | Oklahoma City Accessibility | Safety | Legal & Trademarks | HEA Student Consumer | Ethics Point | Student Training | Jobs | Privacy Policy © - Oklahoma State University Institute of Technology | All Rights Reserved Back to Top ©