Menu About Academics Cost & Aid Campus Life Employees Apply Now Employee Resources Banner Banner is your portal to all things OSUIT! Banner allows you to view your personal information, benefits, leave balances, and payroll information and update your open enrollment options. If you experience issues with your Banner portal, please contact the help desk at helpdesk@okstate.edu or 405-744-HELP (4357). Access Banner Email A variety of clients are available to access your OSUIT employee Outlook 365 mailbox. The Outlook client is available for installation on business workstations. Outlook 365 is available from any web browser. Due to business needs, some individuals may need to delegate email access. Technology Services can assist with these shared calendars, Send on Behalf, or other email settings provided in the email system. Check Your Email O-Key Account All access to OSU System resources requires the use of our identity management system, Orange Key (O-Key). One of O-Key’s core functions is to provide a single, secure user ID and password that can be used to access all university services. After filling out your employment paperwork, you will be eligible for an O-Key account. By activating your account, you can set up your email address and set up your emergency and OSU Directory contact information. Activate Your O-Key Human Resources OSUIT Human Resources works closely with OSU Human Resources to manage hiring, onboarding, employee benefits, leave reports and balances, payroll, and professional development. All OSU employees receive 12 paid holidays per year. View the OSU Holiday Schedule for the next 5 fiscal years. Supervisors may also coordinate with OSUIT Human Resources to request a Work Study position for their department. Review HR Information Faculty Resources Online Classroom The OSU System is now on new learning management system called Canvas. This learning management system allows faculty a place to create online and/or traditional courses. Faculty can track assignments and grades, upload multimedia content and communicate with students via the mobile app. Technology Services Technology Services provides OSUIT’s centralized technology‐support services. The Service Desk is the single point of contact for all requests for technology services. Support is offered by phone at 918‐293‐4700 from 7:30am to 4:30pm Monday through Friday. You can enter a request by sending an email to osuitservicedesk2@okm-kace.osuit.edu or submit a service ticket. For more information on Technology Services refer to the questions in our FAQ or more details about our technology service catalog. Explore Technology Services Physical Plant Physical Plant Services provides support services and facilities development for academic departments, residential halls, student life and the overall campus community. These services assure students, faculty staff have well-maintained and high-quality facilities that allow the OSUIT community to fully utilize the institution. Submit a Physical Plant work order request to start any work request. Learn More about Physical Plant Services Purchasing The Purchasing Office facilitates the procurement of goods and services for the university on a timely and best value basis while providing administrative oversight for all campus purchases. Services provided included OK Corral, Purchase Cards, Travel, Asset Management and Notary. Contact the Purchasing Office Request Info Visit Campus Apply Now Custom Training Give to OSUIT Oklahoma's Only University of Applied Technology Oklahoma State University Institute of Technology is a recognized leader in applied technology education and is known for world-class teaching facilities, partnerships with industry, and a nearly 100 percent career placement rate. Main Campus: 1801 E 4th Street Okmulgee, OK 74447 +1 800 722 4471 information@okstate.edu Directions Stillwater | Tulsa | Oklahoma City Accessibility | Safety | Legal & Trademarks | HEA Student Consumer | Ethics Point | Student Training | Jobs | Privacy Policy © - Oklahoma State University Institute of Technology | All Rights Reserved Back to Top ©