Menu About Academics Cost & Aid Campus Life Employees Apply Now 1 is 2 Many Student Training 1-is-2 Many Home Definitions Know the Facts Student Training On and Off Campus Resources I've been assaulted. What do I do? How can I help someone that has been assaulted? Oklahoma State University Institute of Technology takes acts of sexual violence and sexual harassment seriously. In an effort to comply with the Violence Against Women Act and the Office for Civil Rights federal guidelines, all first semester students are required to complete online training on sexual violence prevention. A hold will be placed on your account, which will affect enrollment for the subsequent semester, until the training has been completed. Training should take around 60 minutes. Complete Training Join OSU Institute of Technology and its effort to maintain a safe environment where all members of the campus community can live, learn and be successful by saying “Not Anymore” to sexual violence. Oklahoma State University Institute of Technology, in compliance with Titles VI and VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Executive Order 11246 as amended, and Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (Higher Education Act), the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, and other federal and state laws and regulations, does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, genetic information, sex, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, disability, or status as a veteran, in any of its policies, practices or procedures. This provision includes, but is not limited to admissions, employment, financial aid and educational services. Any person (student, faculty or staff) who believes that discriminatory practices have been engaged in based on gender may discuss his or her concerns and file informal or formal complaints of possible violations of Title IX with either of OSUIT’s Title IX Coordinators. These Title IX Coordinators are located on the OSUIT campus and may be contacted as follows. Student Title IX Coordinator: Kamie Crawford, Student Life Office, Covelle Hall, Phone: (918) 293-5456 Employee Title IX Coordinator: Paula North, Human Resources Office, Grady W. Clack Center, Phone: (918) 293-5238 504 & ADA Coordinator: Chad Spurlock, Academic Accommodations Office, Learning Resource Center, Phone: (918) 293 4622 You may also file an incident report through our university reporting system - File a Report Request Info Visit Campus Apply Now Custom Training Give to OSUIT Oklahoma's Only University of Applied Technology Oklahoma State University Institute of Technology is a recognized leader in applied technology education and is known for world-class teaching facilities, partnerships with industry, and a nearly 100 percent career placement rate. Main Campus: 1801 E 4th Street Okmulgee, OK 74447 +1 800 722 4471 information@okstate.edu Directions Stillwater | Tulsa | Oklahoma City Accessibility | Safety | Legal & Trademarks | HEA Student Consumer | Ethics Point | Student Training | Jobs | Privacy Policy © - Oklahoma State University Institute of Technology | All Rights Reserved Back to Top ©