Menu About Academics Cost & Aid Campus Life Employees Apply Now Oklahoma's Only University of Applied Technology About OSU Institute of Technology Founded in 1946, Oklahoma State University Institute of Technology is a recognized leader in applied technology education and is known for world-class teaching facilities, partnerships with industry, and a nearly 90 percent career placement rate. OSUIT offers 38 degree programs that are consistent with emerging market trends and prepare students to fill a continued demand for highly qualified industry professionals. Located in Okmulgee, Oklahoma, OSUIT partners with global corporations to develop academic coursework and practical training environments using industry-caliber equipment to create a seamless classroom to career transition. Additionally, our Workforce & Economic Development department fosters relationships with industry partners and assists in the areas of customized training, technology deployment, applied research, strategic planning, best practices and coordination. Administration Dr. Bill R. Path is the fourth president of OSUIT. Under his leadership, OSUIT’s strategic plan is focused on developing and strengthening relationships between industry and academia to prepare a globally competitive workforce. Learn More about Dr. Path In the News The OSUIT newsletter, The Circuit, includes weekly news and feature stories about our students, faculty, staff and alumni. Please subscribe to our newsletter to receive weekly updates about OSUIT in your inbox. You can also read past issues of The Circuit, browse our collection of new stories and photo of the week gallery at the link below. Read More about OSUIT Our Mission OSUIT’s mission is to serve as the lead institution of higher education in Oklahoma and the region providing comprehensive, high-quality, advancing technology programs and services to prepare and sustain a diverse student body as competitive members of a world-class workforce and contributing members of society. Learn more about our goals, values, objectives and philosophy. Why Choose OSU Institute of Technology Earn a Paycheck While Earning a Degree The majority of degree programs require an internship as part of the curriculum. You won’t just gain experience and knowledge while on internship, but will be paid for your time working there as well. Over 90 Percent Job Placement Within six months of graduation, over 90 percent of OSUIT graduates report job placement. Learn from the Experts Our instructors have extensive real-world experience and teach current best practices based on industry standards. Save Big on Tuition At just $5,800, tuition at OSUIT is about half the in-state tuition for most state universities. Get Credit for Prior Learning Transfer your qualified credits or industry experience to accelerate your graduation and save thousands on tuition. Financial Aid Options Student financial aid awards depend upon two factors: financial need and availability of funds. To determine need, applicant financial circumstances are evaluated. Various federal and state-funded financial aid programs are available to students enrolled in a degree program at OSUIT. Accreditation OSU Institute of Technology’s programs of study are approved by the Board of Regents for Oklahoma State University and the A&M Colleges, the Oklahoma State Regents for Higher Education, and the Oklahoma State Accrediting Agency. OSU Institute of Technology, a public state-supported institution, has been accredited by the Higher Learning Commission since 1975. Higher Learning Commission 230 South LaSalle Street, Suite 7-500 Chicago, IL 60604 800-621-7440 About Okmulgee For those seeking a place to thrive and room to grow, the Okmulgee area is in the heart of Oklahoma’s Green Country where doors, minds and futures are wide open. Home to the sovereign nation of the Muscogee (Creek) tribe, Okmulgee is abounding in history and cultural diversity. Okmulgee offers the high quality life-style to be expected in a small town with large city amenities only 35 miles away. Nestled in the mighty oak trees just west of Okmulgee are two beautiful state parks, Okmulgee and Dripping Springs. The east-central Oklahoma landscape provides a backdrop of lush hardwood forests surrounding oxbow lakes, with a meandering river winding through bottomland forests in the Deep Fork National Wildlife Refuge. If you enjoy a life of outdoor recreation, Okmulgee has it. Okmulgee is located in Northeastern Oklahoma, just 35 miles south of Tulsa on US Hwy 75. Marketing & Communications The Office of Marketing & Communications provides promotion and public relations support for the university to build awareness of academic degree programs and achievements of our students, faculty, and staff. They also ensure that the visual identity of OSUIT is used in a consistent manner by maintaining and enforcing the brand identity guidelines. Advertising For advertising opportunities, contact: Allison Redd Communications Coordinator, Marketing & Communications Media Inquiries For media inquiries, contact: Lindsay Lynch Director, Marketing & Communications Open Records For open records requests, contact: Lindsay Lynch Director, Marketing & Communications Institutional Research The Office of Institutional Research seeks to facilitate institutional improvement through internal data management and strategic reporting; assist OSUIT in complying with accountability and other reporting requirements associated with state and federal regulatory agencies and accreditation organizations; assess the effectiveness of OSUIT programs and related functions to determine the extent to which strategic plan goals are being met; and increase availability of data, review processes, evaluation results and surveys via the department website. Learn More About Institutional Research Request Info Visit Campus Apply Now Custom Training Give to OSUIT Oklahoma's Only University of Applied Technology Oklahoma State University Institute of Technology is a recognized leader in applied technology education and is known for world-class teaching facilities, partnerships with industry, and a nearly 100 percent career placement rate. Main Campus: 1801 E 4th Street Okmulgee, OK 74447 +1 800 722 4471 information@okstate.edu Directions Stillwater | Tulsa | Oklahoma City Accessibility | Safety | Legal & Trademarks | HEA Student Consumer | Ethics Point | Student Training | Jobs | Privacy Policy © - Oklahoma State University Institute of Technology | All Rights Reserved Back to Top ©