Menu About Academics Cost & Aid Campus Life Employees Apply Now Coronavirus: What you need to know COVID-19 + OSUIT What you need to know as an OSUIT student or employee At OSU Institute of Technology, your health and safety is a top priority. Working together, we can sustain a positive workplace and learning environment for everyone. To reduce the risk of being infected with COVID-19 variants and possibly spreading it to others, and in keeping with recently updated CDC guidance, OSUIT strongly encourages the use of masks indoors in public, especially in situations in which social distancing is not possible and for activities with close contact with others. Masking is recommended by the CDC even if you are fully vaccinated. You might choose to wear a mask regardless of the level of transmission if you have a weakened immune system or if, because of your age or an underlying medical condition, you are at increased risk for severe disease, or if a member of your household has a weakened immune system, is at increased risk for severe disease, or is unvaccinated. At this time under Oklahoma law (EO 2021-16 and 70 O.S. 1210.189), we are not permitted to require the use of masks on campus. All of us have a role to play in minimizing infection on campus. Let's stop the spread. Stay Safe and Stay True To You at OSUIT. Get Vaccinated Vaccination, including boosters, remains the best tool to prevent the spread of COVID-19 and the threat of serious illness should a breakthrough infection occur. Vaccinations are free and are available at many area pharmacies and health care providers. OSUIT students and employees and community members are encouraged to get vaccinated. What to expect at your vaccine appointment: Isolation/Quarantine Guidelines Isolation Length Masking Testing Other Tested positive, asymptomatic or symptoms resolving within 7 days Isolate 7 days (Days 1-7 from positive test) 10 days from positive test N/A Monitor symptoms 10 days from positive test. If you become symptomatic at any point, isolate for 7 days from positive test. Exposed, *vaccinated None 10 days from date of exposure Test on day 7 if possible Monitor symptoms for 10 days from exposure. If you become symptomatic at any point, get tested. Exposed, *unvaccinated Quarantine for 7 days (Days 1-7 from exposure) 10 days from date of exposure Test on day 7 if possible Monitor symptoms for 10 days from exposure. If you become symptomatic at any point, get tested. *Vaccinated: Vaccinated with initial series AND received booster *Unvaccinated: Not vaccinated OR six months from initial series of Pfizer/Moderna (or two months from J&J) AND no booster Symptoms resolving: Overall symptom improvement AND 24-hours fever free without using fever-reducing medication. Questions? FAQ and Life at OSUIT Are masks required on campus? Since the beginning of the pandemic, OSU Institute of Technology has been committed to following the guidance and directives of the CDC and local and state health officials. In response to CDC guidance released May 13, 2021, and again in consultation with local and state health officials, OSUIT will no longer require the use of facial coverings or social distancing on campus or at any OSUIT sponsored activity. Although mask mandates for campus will no longer be in effect, community members may continue to voluntarily wear masks based on their own needs. The latest guidance from the CDC is a large step towards a return to normal campus operations. These changes are based on current public health advice and are subject to change or modification pending any developments or recommendations from the CDC or Oklahoma State Department of Health. What is the status of campus tours & admission events? Prospective students can sign up for a campus tour, or learn more about our programs and beautiful campus virtually. You can watch a live program visit, information session or Q&A with current and past students as well as schedule your visit to the OSUIT campus. See the full schedule or make your appointment now. Tours can also be viewed on the OSUIT Prospective Student Services YouTube Channel if you do not have social media. Please contact Prospective Student Services at 918-293-5220 or email joshua.childs@okstate.edu if you have any questions. In addition, we are available to answer questions/provide assistance via video calling, phone calls, texting, and emails. Are student club & intramural activities going on as scheduled? Student Life will announce events and activities through their regular communication channels. Are dining options available on campus? The Cowboy Café and C-Store are open with regular service hours. The Tech Room is open on a limited basis for dine-in and curb-side orders. Check the reservations page for dates, times and request forms. The State Room culinary buffet remains closed. Online Learning Resources Canvas Software Downloads Library Resources Tutoring & Office of Academic Accommodations LASSO Tutoring Center Office of Academic Accommodations Health Concerns? Facility sanitation, student wellbeing, and ongoing campus health and safety continue to be priorities at OSUIT. Every decision we make is guided by the priority of the health and wellbeing of our students, faculty and staff. OSUIT will continue to follow the guidelines of state and national health officials. Oklahoma State Department of Health Coronavirus Call Center: 1.877.215.8336 Coronavirus in Oklahoma Vaccine Registration, Information Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Coronavirus (COVID-19) webpage Request Info Visit Campus Apply Now Custom Training Give to OSUIT Oklahoma's Only University of Applied Technology Oklahoma State University Institute of Technology is a recognized leader in applied technology education and is known for world-class teaching facilities, partnerships with industry, and a nearly 100 percent career placement rate. Main Campus: 1801 E 4th Street Okmulgee, OK 74447 +1 800 722 4471 information@okstate.edu Directions Stillwater | Tulsa | Oklahoma City Accessibility | Safety | Legal & Trademarks | HEA Student Consumer | Ethics Point | Student Training | Jobs | Privacy Policy © - Oklahoma State University Institute of Technology | All Rights Reserved Back to Top ©