Menu About Academics Cost & Aid Campus Life Employees Apply Now Workforce & Economic Development Workforce and Economic Development Home »Grants Grants Home Writing Tips Resources Needs & Funding Survey Request Info About WFED Contact WFED »Customized Training Customized Training Home Business & Management Training Culinary Arts Training Construction Technologies Training Energy Technologies Training Engineering Technologies Training Industrial Maintenance Training OSHA Training Quality Assurance Training Request Info About WFED Contact WFED Adult Basic Education Online Campus Request Info About WFED Contact WFED Contact Workforce & Economic Development Phone: 918-293-5160 Fax: 918-293-4633 Email: edtc@okstate.edu The role of WFED is to foster workforce development in the areas of customized training, technology deployment, applied research, strategic planning, best practices and coordination. Employers now realize that learning does create competitive advantage. The priority areas of learning that increase workforce productivity are broad-based technical skills, built-in quality, continuous process improvement and teamwork. Research indicates that training for incumbent workers is growing 10,000 percent faster than academia. Customized training for employers is tied to specific need, emphasizes practicality and measurable results, minimizes intermediaries, and maximizes the productive use of the resulting knowledge. Just-in-time learning is becoming as popular as just-in-time manufacturing. WFED assists with needs assessment, technical assistance and other support services that allow employers to increase their productivity in today’s global economy. Nearly all activities are performed in a just-in-time fashion. Customized learning activities may be conducted on campus, off campus or on location. Request Info Visit Campus Apply Now Custom Training Give to OSUIT Oklahoma's Only University of Applied Technology Oklahoma State University Institute of Technology is a recognized leader in applied technology education and is known for world-class teaching facilities, partnerships with industry, and a nearly 100 percent career placement rate. Main Campus: 1801 E 4th Street Okmulgee, OK 74447 +1 800 722 4471 information@okstate.edu Directions Stillwater | Tulsa | Oklahoma City Accessibility | Safety | Legal & Trademarks | HEA Student Consumer | Ethics Point | Student Training | Jobs | Privacy Policy © - Oklahoma State University Institute of Technology | All Rights Reserved Back to Top ©