Menu About Academics Cost & Aid Campus Life Employees Apply Now Fall 2022 Enrollment Admissions Home Schedule a Virtual Appointment »Paying for College Financial Aid Home Schedule a Virtual Appointment How to Apply for Financial Aid Types of Financial Aid Scholarships File Your FAFSA Keep Your Financial Aid Avoid Loan Default Financial Aid Forms Resources Frequently Asked Questions Coursework toward Program of Study FAQs Work-Study Job Opportunities Contact Financial Aid Academic Programs Admission Requirements International Admissions Concurrent Enrollment Transfer Agreements Transfer Course Lookup Schedule a Campus Visit Campus Life Events & Workshops Frequently Asked Questions Contact Admissions Request Info Loading... Enrollment for OSUIT's Fall 2022 session is now open and classes set to start in September. Get started on your degree plan in one of our 38 programs. No matter where you are on your journey, OSUIT is here to help you along the way. We are working each day to provide a safe learning environment for all students. The OSUIT campus no longer requires masks. However, in keeping with recently updated CDC guidance, OSUIT encourages the use of masks indoors in public, especially in situations in which social distancing is not possible and for activities with close contact with others. Find more information on our COVID-19 Response page. For anticipated instruction method of each course, review the class details section within the class schedule search. View the full academic calendar here. Admissions and Enrollment The enrollment process for all new students starts with the Admissions Office. Our admissions staff will assist you through the process and provide you with initial advisement. You will then work with an academic advisor outlining a plan of study and identifying course requirements for enrollment. Review our admissions checklist. Class Schedule Search If you are a continuing student, be sure to review your academic progress each semester with an advisor from your school or program. If you have questions about enrollment or class schedules, please contact your school. Campus Tours and Live Program Visits Prospective students can sign up for a campus tour, or learn more about our programs and beautiful campus virtually. You can watch a live program visit, information session or Q&A with current and past students as well as schedule your visit to the OSUIT campus. Make your appointment now. Like and Follow the Friends of Pete on Facebook and Instagram to for more information for prospective students. Financial Aid OSUIT offers a variety of financial aid through scholarships, grants, federal loans, and more. Learn more about types of aid, eligibility, how to apply and more through our Office of Financial Aid & Scholarships. Residential Life At OSUIT, the halls are more than just a place to sleep and eat. They are exciting, active campus communities that promote a student’s personal and academic well being. For more information on securing housing for the fall term, contact Residential Life. Bookstore The OSUIT campus bookstore hours are Monday-Friday: 7:30 am - 4:30 pm, closed on Saturday and Sunday. Online Bookstore You may purchase your books online with credit card or your student financial aid at osuitbookstore.okstate.edu . Book charges on Student Financial aid are allowed each semester beginning the Monday following graduation and end two weeks from the day classes begin. Book Reservation Program Students may take advantage of having their textbooks prepackaged and ready for pick-up by participation in the OSUIT Book Reservation Program by filling out the book reservation form. Students may choose to pay by credit card (MasterCard, Visa or Discover) or have their textbooks charged to their Bursar’s account. Information Session Information Upcoming Events 31 Dec Wednesday There are no events available for this feed. 7:00PM Request Info Visit Campus Apply Now Custom Training Give to OSUIT Oklahoma's Only University of Applied Technology Oklahoma State University Institute of Technology is a recognized leader in applied technology education and is known for world-class teaching facilities, partnerships with industry, and a nearly 100 percent career placement rate. Main Campus: 1801 E 4th Street Okmulgee, OK 74447 +1 800 722 4471 information@okstate.edu Directions Stillwater | Tulsa | Oklahoma City Accessibility | Safety | Legal & Trademarks | HEA Student Consumer | Ethics Point | Student Training | Jobs | Privacy Policy © - Oklahoma State University Institute of Technology | All Rights Reserved Back to Top ©