Menu About Academics Cost & Aid Campus Life Employees Apply Now Academic Accommodations Academic Accommodations Home Request for Academic Accommodations Academic Accommodations Handbook Academic Accommodations Policies & Procedures Contact Information Chad Spurlock Director of CRC/ADA 918-293-4622 chad.spurlock@okstate.edu To submit your documentation, you can fax it to 918-293-4853. Accommodation Resources Academic Accommodation Policies Academic Accommodation Handbook Oklahoma ABLE Tech Difference in High School and College Accommodations Campus Safety Information Building Evacuation Plans Service Animals The Office of Academic Accommodations provides assistance to students with disabilities to promote independence and academic progress. Assistance is based on each student’s individual need and is designed to remove barriers that hinder learning, thereby providing an equal opportunity for academic success. Definition of a Disability Physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one or more major life activity Record of such impairment Regarded by others as having such impairment Obtaining Academic Accommodations To initiate services, students must self-identify or disclose a disability to the Director of the Office of Academic Accommodations by completing the following steps: Fill out a Request for Academic Accommodations form, which lists the specific academic accommodations needed. The academic accommodations requested are subject to approval by the Director of the Office of Academic Accommodations. This form must be completed each semester to continue receiving academic accommodations. Provide current documentation (no older than three years) from a qualified professional stating the nature and severity of the disability, diagnostic procedures used, and recommendations for assistance (i.e., high school Individualized Educational Plan "IEP”). Students with learning disabilities or Attention Deficit Disorder need to submit an adult psychoeducational evaluation that includes appropriate testing. Obtain copies of the student's personalized Academic Accommodations Letter, which lists the student's specific academic accommodations. The student should then hand deliver copies of this letter to faculty and/or staff members at the student's own discretion. Oklahoma State University Institute of Technology (OSUIT) is in compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, Title II, and Rehabilitation Act Section 504. The institution is a proactive member of the Oklahoma Association on Higher Education and Disabilities (OK-AHEAD). The privacy of student information is protected by federal law (Buckley Amendment). Only with student permission can the Office of Academic Accommodations communicate, on behalf of the student, with university staff or others outside the OSUIT system. Stillwater Student Disability Services provides the OSUIT campus free access to some assistive technology software. Please visit Student Disability Services or Web Access/AT to view available software programs. For further information, please contact the OSUIT Office of Academic Accommodations by calling (918) 293-4855. Oklahoma State University Institute of Technology does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, disability, or age in its programs and activities. The Following Person(s) has been designated to handle inquiries regarding the non-discrimination policies: Paula North, Title IX Coordinator, paula.north@okstate.edu Grady W. Clack Center, (918) 293-5238, Kamie Crawford, Title IX Coordinator, kamie.crawford@okstate.edu, Covelle Hall, (918)-293-5456, Chad Spurlock, 504 & ADA Coordinator, chad.spurlock@okstate.edu, Learning Resource Center, (918)-293-4622. Staff Rae Ann Warner Tutor - English/OAA Support 918-293-4855 rae_ann.warner@okstate.edu Beth Rogers Social Service Liaison/Deaf Interpreter 918-293-4667 beth.a.rogers@okstate.edu Request Info Visit Campus Apply Now Custom Training Give to OSUIT Oklahoma's Only University of Applied Technology Oklahoma State University Institute of Technology is a recognized leader in applied technology education and is known for world-class teaching facilities, partnerships with industry, and a nearly 100 percent career placement rate. Main Campus: 1801 E 4th Street Okmulgee, OK 74447 +1 800 722 4471 information@okstate.edu Directions Stillwater | Tulsa | Oklahoma City Accessibility | Safety | Legal & Trademarks | HEA Student Consumer | Ethics Point | Student Training | Jobs | Privacy Policy © - Oklahoma State University Institute of Technology | All Rights Reserved Back to Top ©