Menu About Academics Cost & Aid Campus Life Employees Apply Now Office of Military and Veteran Services Military & Veteran Services Home Education Benefits Forms Step-by-Step Guide Financial Assistance »Veterans Appreciation Day Veterans Appreciation Day Home Speakers Parade Entry Form Parade Map Directions Contact Principles of Excellence Contact Military & Veteran Services Veterans Appreciation Day Veteran Advisory Form Military Tuition Assistance Our veterans had their mission - to protect our freedoms. OSUIT has its mission—to provide the training, education, and resources to deploy a workforce-ready, highly marketable veteran with the skills and credentials valued by employers, in the shortest possible time span, by evaluating the military training and experience for college credit, and creating a direct pathway to the veteran’s desired college degree. Oklahoma State University Institute of Technology would like to thank you for serving your country. You have undoubtedly made sacrifices and faced hardships unknown to most students. You have risked everything for your country and few of us will ever understand all that entails. The Office of Military and Veteran Services is committed to providing the best possible services and programs to the Veterans and their dependents who attend Oklahoma State University Institute of Technology. The Office of Military and Veteran Services deals primarily with processing education benefits offered through the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). OSUIT would like to assist you in your transition to campus life; we have many departments and individuals who are particularly interested in helping Veterans adjust to campus life. The Counseling Center is located in the Student Union, Room 142 and can be reached at 918-293-4988 or 918-293-5208. Disability Services for Students is located in the Lasso Center and can be reached at 918-293-4855. Student fees cover these services and we welcome the chance to be of assistance. OSUIT offers a veteran lounge located in the Student Union that is available for use by our veteran students; this could be a great place to meet other veterans on campus. If you have questions or would like additional information, contact Sommer Farrimond, veteran services coordinator, in OSU Institute of Technology’s Office of Military and Veteran Services at 918-293-4972, or by email at vetservices@okstate.edu. Request Info Visit Campus Apply Now Custom Training Give to OSUIT Oklahoma's Only University of Applied Technology Oklahoma State University Institute of Technology is a recognized leader in applied technology education and is known for world-class teaching facilities, partnerships with industry, and a nearly 100 percent career placement rate. Main Campus: 1801 E 4th Street Okmulgee, OK 74447 +1 800 722 4471 information@okstate.edu Directions Stillwater | Tulsa | Oklahoma City Accessibility | Safety | Legal & Trademarks | HEA Student Consumer | Ethics Point | Student Training | Jobs | Privacy Policy © - Oklahoma State University Institute of Technology | All Rights Reserved Back to Top ©