Menu About Academics Cost & Aid Campus Life Employees Apply Now Be true to you. Join the OSUIT family. Campus Life Life at OSUIT is more than just your class schedule. Our Student Life, Residential Life and Dining Services departments collaborate to provide you with a well-rounded college experience that positions you to excel long after graduation. Explore your future here. Student Clubs Approximately 20 organizations on campus give students the opportunity to network and develop leadership skills. Ranging in purpose from academic to service and social organizations, club memberships are open to all students. Join a Student Club Intramural Sports Intramural sports at OSUIT promote friendly, competitive activities and serve as a rally point for socialization, exercise and competition. We serve all students and provide activities in team sports, individual sports, recreation and fitness challenges. Sign Up for Intramurals Upcoming Events 31 May Tuesday OSUIT Summer Olympics Covelle Hall 5:30PM 08 Jun Wednesday Free Massage Day Covelle Hall Auditorium 11:00AM 16 Jun Thursday eSports Tournament eSports Arena 6:00PM 21 Jun Tuesday Intramural Soccer Sports Field 5:30PM 22 Jun Wednesday Free Massage Day Covelle Hall Auditorium 1:30PM 23 Jun Thursday Fitness Challenge Covelle Hall 3:00PM 24 Jun Friday BMI Testing Covelle Hall 8:00AM 11 Jul Monday Intramural Volleyball Covelle Hall 5:30PM Wellness Covelle Hall is the campus wellness center and includes the amenities of a full-service health facility without having to leave campus. Amenities include an indoor basketball court, two racquetball courts, free weight and machine weight workout rooms and sauna. It offers wellness testing, customized workout routines and intramural sports. OSUIT also has nearly 2 miles of campus trails. Our trails feature a series of HealthLine workout stations and a 9 hole Disc Golf course open to all users. Stop by the Covelle Hall front desk to check out a set of discs to play our campus course. Explore Services & Facilities Housing You are about to join more than 800 students living within the six residence halls who call the OSU Institute of Technology campus home. Whether you're single, married or a non-traditional student, we have housing options for you. At OSUIT, the residence halls are more than just a place to sleep and eat. They are exciting, active campus communities that promote a student’s personal and academic well being. Included in housing for on-campus residents is an exclusive OSUIT Movie Channel and streaming movie site. The Wilson Commons student lounge area has places for you to play pool or ping pong, watch television, surf the internet, just hang out with friends and more. Housing & Residential Life On Campus Our on-campus residence halls include shared bedrooms, two bedroom/one bath suites, four bedroom/two bath suites and two bedroom/one bath apartments with a living room and kitchen. Off Campus The Grand Old Post Office Student Housing (GOPO) is a renovated residence hall in downtown Okmulgee. These off-campus apartments are for students who are single and 21+ years old. Student Union Dining The meal plans at OSUIT are very flexible, allowing you to decide where, when and how often you want to eat. Plus, you have several dining options on campus. The Cowboy Cafe, located in the Student Union, offers breakfast, lunch and dinner Monday through Saturday and lunch and dinner on Sunday. You can also dine at the Culinary Arts program Tech Room and State Room when they're serving lunch. Additionally, the convenience store located in the commons area of the Miller-Kamm residence halls provides snacks and meal options. Food & Dining Services Health & Counseling Campus Health Services & Counseling Services are both located in the Student Union. Health Services is free to students, faculty, and staff of OSUIT; however, the payment of any additional costs such as prescription cost and/or lab work cost is the responsibility of the individual. Our physician is available from 12pm - 1pm, Monday through Friday. Counseling Services is free to students and includes personal and/or career counseling. Our counselor is available from 7:30am-4:30pm, Monday through Friday. Library More than the stacks of books, the OSUIT Library offers an online catalog so users can easily browse the collection or search for specific items such as books, journals, research materials and digital media. You’ll also appreciate the convenience of our computer lab with a variety of PCs, Macs and laptops. You can even check out an iPad, headphones or calculator to assist with your studies with our Tech To-Go program. Or use the Library's hoopla app to stream your favorite movies or TV shows or download a new audiobook on your commute to class. Explore the Library The Cowboy Code Regardless of your state or country of origin, we are all united by The Cowboy Code. We end the day knowing we gave it everything we had. We dream only as big as the sky. We know challenges come with pain, but pain will not win. We have a passion to do what's right, even when it's hard. We stand for what matters, even if we stand alone. We finish what we start. Being a Cowboy isn't in our clothes, it's in our character. Student Rights & Responsibilities OSUIT Student Rights & Responsibilities Download a PDF of the current Student Rights and Responsibilities Governing Student Behavior. Viewing this document requires Adobe Reader. Annual Free Speech Report 2021 Annual Free Speech Report Download a PDF of the Board of Regents for the Oklahoma Agricultural and Mechanical Colleges' Expressive Speech Annual Report. Viewing this document requires Adobe Reader. Request Info Visit Campus Apply Now Custom Training Give to OSUIT Oklahoma's Only University of Applied Technology Oklahoma State University Institute of Technology is a recognized leader in applied technology education and is known for world-class teaching facilities, partnerships with industry, and a nearly 100 percent career placement rate. Main Campus: 1801 E 4th Street Okmulgee, OK 74447 +1 800 722 4471 information@okstate.edu Directions Stillwater | Tulsa | Oklahoma City Accessibility | Safety | Legal & Trademarks | HEA Student Consumer | Ethics Point | Student Training | Jobs | Privacy Policy © - Oklahoma State University Institute of Technology | All Rights Reserved Back to Top ©