Skip Navigation Toggle navigation my.OKSTATE Directory Quicklinks Toggle navigation my.OKSTATE Directory Quicklinks Future Students Future Students First Steps First Steps Start Now Apply Campus Tours Concurrent Enrollment Costs of Attendance Enrollment Information Request Recruitment Services Visitor Information Welcome Center Academic Opportunities Academic Opportunities Academic Programs/Degrees Hispanic Student Services International Student Services PTK / The Honors University Resources University Resources Administration Bookstore Campus Life Campus Safety & Security Catalog Class Schedule Consumer Disclosure Information Diversity and Inclusion Food Services (The Hub) Expressive Speech Annual Report my.OKSTATE OSU-OKC At a Glance OSU-OKC Library Student Data Viewbook Student Services Student Services Admissions Assessment and Testing Career Services Center for Social Innovation Concurrent Enrollment Counseling and Support Deaf Student Services Enrollment Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Project SOAR - Student Support Services Recruitment Services Registrar and Records Scholarships Student Disability Services Tuition Assistance for Active Military Veteran Services Wellness Center Current Students Current Students Student Services Student Services Admissions Assessment & Testing Academic Advisement/Enrollment Business Services Campus Safety & Security Career Services Center for Social Innovation Community Service Counseling and Support Deaf Student Services Financial Aid Enrollment Appeals Grade Appeal Form Graduation Hispanic Student Services Net Price Calculator Project REACH Project SOAR/Student Support Services Registrar and Records Scholarships Service Learning/Community Engagement Student Conduct Student Disability Services Student Engagement Student Government Association Student Success and Opportunity Center Tuition Assistance for Active Military Veteran Services Wellness Center Life on Campus Life on Campus Administration Alumni & Friends Campus Life Campus Recreation Community Service/Volunteer Consumer Disclosure Information Diversity and Inclusion Emergency Storm Shelters Event Services Food Services (The Hub) Honors Program OSU-OKC at a Glance OSU-OKC Library Phi Theta Kappa (PTK) Service Learning Student Data Tobacco-Free Campus Wellness Center Campus Online Campus Online Bookstore Canvas (Online Classroom) Catalog Class Schedule Expressive Speech Annual Report my.OKSTATE Social Media Student Email Technology Technology my.OKSTATE Faculty / Staff Faculty / Staff Human Resources Human Resources Benefits Information Diversity and Inclusion Employment Opportunities Holiday Schedule Human Resources my.OKSTATE Online Resources Online Resources Business Services Ethics Point Confidential Reporting EthicsPoint Q&A Full-time and Adjunct Faculty Development my.OKSTATE OSU-OKC Webmail OSU System Directory Online Classroom (Canvas) Registrar and Records Sharepoint Sites Social Media Staff Council Strategic Planning Travel Information Vehicle Request Support Support Budget and Finance Business Cards Envelope Orders Information Technologies Name Badge Order Form Operations OSU-OKC Library Print Services Campus Services Campus Services Building Construction/Maintenance Campus Safety & Security Emergency Storm Shelters Energy Education Food Services (The Hub) Grounds Institutional Effectiveness & Accreditation Marketing & Communications Print and Mail Services Service Learning/Community Engagement Wellness Center Community Outreach Community Outreach Business & Industry Business & Industry Business and Industry Training & Economic Development Event Services Training and Development Center Precision Driving Training Center Precision Driving Training Center Driver Training Motorcycle Training Resources Resources Center for Social Innovation Early Settlement Mediation Services – Oklahoma County Program Project Reach The Hub (Food Service) Talent Search Upward Bound Academics Academics Academic Divisions Academic Divisions Business & Agriculture Health Sciences Human Services Initial College Studies Liberal Arts Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math Degrees and Certificates Degrees and Certificates Program List A-Z All Degree Sheets by Division Bachelor of Technology Programs A.A.S. Program Degree Sheets A.S. Program Degree Sheets Certificate Program Degree Sheets Degrees Available Totally Online Centers Centers OSU-OKC Library Precision Driving Training Student Success and Opportunity Center Resources Resources Academic Calendar Adjunct Faculty Handbook Administration Assessment of Student Learning Bookstore Catalog Class Schedule Faculty Handbook Final Exam Schedule Financial Aid Grade Appeal Form Graduation Institutional Diversity Institutional Effectiveness and Accreditation my.OKSTATE OSU-OKC Library Registrar and Records Scholarships Service Learning/Community Engagement Tuition Assistance for Active Military Viewbook Services Services Academic Affairs Admission Career Technology Outreach Emergency Storm Shelters my.OKSTATE Student Disability Services Veteran Services Apply & Enroll Now Consumer Disclosure Information Student Resources Financial Literacy Important Dates Scholarships Bright Futures Program Types of Assistance Tuition Assistance for Active Military Oklahoma’s Promise FAQ Sheet How to Apply Steps in the Financial Aid Process Eligibility Coursework Required for Your Major FAQs Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy Forms Securely Uploading Documents Refund Information Return to Title IV Policy Direct Loan Information Deferment Forms Code of Conduct - Student Loans Contacts Financial Aid Home Office of Financial Aid & Scholarships Consumer Information The Student Consumer Regulations of the U.S. Department of Education require universities to provide their students access to certain information to which they are entitled as consumers. This publication contains a brief description of various important pieces of information about OSU-OKC, web sites to view this information, and addresses and phone number of the offices from which you may request the information. Additional information about specific programs and services is available from the individual academic colleges and departments. Nondiscrimination Policy Statement: Oklahoma State University-Oklahoma City, in compliance with the Title VI and VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Executive Order 11246 as amended, Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, and other federal laws and regulations, does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, age, sex, color, national origin, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, or veteran status in any of its policies, practices or procedures. This includes but is not limited to admissions, employment, financial aid and educational services. Title IX of the Education Amendments and Oklahoma State University-Oklahoma City policy prohibit discrimination in the provision or services or benefits offered by the university based on gender. Any person (student, faculty or staff) who believes that discriminatory practices have been engaged in based on gender may discuss his or her concerns and file informal or formal complaints of possible violations of Title IX with OSU-OKC's Title IX coordinator: the Director of Human Resources, 900 N. Portland Avenue, Oklahoma State University-OKC, Oklahoma City, OK 73107, (405) 945-3206 or (405) 945-6788. Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA): In carrying out their assigned responsibilities, many offices at OSU-OKC collect and maintain information about students. Although these records belong to the university, both university policy and federal law accord student a number of rights concerning these records. The essence of the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) is to give a student the right to inspect his or her education records and to protect the privacy of these records. Students have the right to inspect, review, and/or request an amendment to these records; consent to disclosures of personally identifiable information in these records; restrict disclosure of information designated as directory information that may be released without consent of the student; and file a complaint with the U.S. Department of Education for alleged failure by OSU-OKC to comply with FERPA requirements. The OSU-OKC FERPA Policy Statement , with information and instructions for students, parents, faculty, and staff, is available on the website of the OSU-OKC Registrar's Office. Information on Student Financial Assistance Overview of Financial Aid Programs: Descriptions of aid programs, including grant funding through the State of Oklahoma and other states. Information about scholarships. Criteria for Selecting Recipients and for Determining Amount of Award: Information on how need is determined and how need-based aid is awarded Eligibility Requirements: In addition to the specific requirements for the various types of aid listed on the overview above, applicants have general eligibility requirements for federal financial aid. Procedures for Applying for Aid: Information on applying for aid Rights and Responsibilities of Aid Recipients: The rights and responsibilities are outlined here. Continued Eligibility for Aid: Information regarding continued eligibility for aid Standards for Satisfactory Academic Progresss: The Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy outlines requirements to maintain eligibility, requirements to regain eligibility, and the appeal process. Methods and Frequency of Disbursements of Aid: Financial aid is disbursed to students in different ways depending on the type of aid and other factors. Financial Aid for Study Abroad: OSU-Oklahoma City does not currently offer Study Abroad programs. Terms and Conditions of Financial Aid Employment: Federal Work-Study employment information Terms of Student Loans: Information about each type of loan, including descriptions, interest rates, loan fees, annual and aggregate limits, the necessity to repay the loan, and possible deferment or cancellation provisions National Student Loan Data System (NSLDS): Information relating to individual federal student and parent loan borrowers will be submitted by OSU-OKC to the National Student Loan Data System (NSLDS) and will be accessible by guaranty agencies, lenders, and institutions determined to be authorized users of the data system. Student Loan Information Published by the U.S. Department of Education: In addition to OSU-OKC-specific information and procedures related to federal student loans, students can find information published by the U.S. Department of Education. Code of Conduct for Student Loans: OSU-OKC adheres to a code of conduct regarding relationships with providers of private educational loans. Identity Theft/Scholarship Fraud/Financial Aid Scams: Information to help student avoid identity theft and scholarship/financial aid fraud. The Exit Counseling Information the Institution Provides and Collects: Students loan borrowers are notified, during the semester in which they have applied for graduation, that they need to complete student loan exit counseling. Federal Direct Subsidized or Unsubsidized Loan borrowers complete exit counseling through the U.S. Dept. of Education. Federal Student Financial Aid Penalties for Drug Law Violations: A conviction for any offense, during the period of enrollment for which the student was receiving Title IV, HEA program funds, under any federal or state law involving the possession or sale of illegal drugs will result in the loss of eligibility for any Title IV, HEA grant, loan, or work-study assistance. Price of Attending OSU-OKC: OSU-OKC tuition and fee charges, including estimated costs of attendance, are provided by the OSU-OKC Business Services office. Refund Policy and Withdrawal Procedures: The OSU-OKC Refund of Tuition/Fees Policy and the procedures for withdrawing from the University are provided by the OSU-OKC Registrar. Student Loan Default Rates: A 3-year cohort default rate is the percentage of a school's borrowers who enter repayment on certain Federal Family Education Loan (FFEL) Program or William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan (Direct Loan) Program loans during a particular federal fiscal year (FY), October 1 to September 30, and default or meet other specified conditions prior to the end of the second following fiscal year. The U.S. Department of Education releases official cohort default rates once per year. Information about OSU-OKC's most recent 3-year cohort default rate is available from the U.S. Department of Education at the College Navigator site listing for Oklahoma State University-Oklahoma City. Repayment Policy: The federal government mandates that students who withdraw from all classes may only keep the financial aid (federal Title IV grant and loan assistance) they have “earned” up to the time of withdrawal. Funds that were disbursed in excess of the earned amount must be returned by OSU-OKC and/or the student to the federal government. OSU-OKC Return to Title IV (Repayment) Policy Institutional Information Descriptions of Academic Programs, Degree Offerings, Instructional Facilities and Labs and Instructional Personnel: Information on OSU-OKC's academic programs, degree offerings, instructional, laboratory, and other physical plant facilities that relate to the academic program, and faculty and other instructional personnel facilities are available from the various departments and colleges and from the online OSU-OKC Catalog in the Registrar’s Office. You can also find detailed information regarding programs in each academic college. Facilities and Services for Disabled Students: Student Disability Services is committed to providing a community that ensures full participation for students. SDS provides assistance to students that will facilitate their independence and academic progress. For information on facilities and services for disabled students, contact OSU-OKC Student Disability Services, 900 N. Portland Ave., Oklahoma City, OK 73107, Tel: (405) 945-3385. Accreditation Information: OSU-OKC is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission (HLC), which may be reached at 230 S. LaSalle Street, Suite 7-500, Chicago, IL 60604-1413, phone (800) 621-7440. Details of accreditation by academic program can be found in the OSU-OKC Catalog, and on the OSU-OKC Accreditation site Copyright Infringement Policies: The unauthorized distribution of copyrighted materials, including unauthorized peer-to-peer file sharing, may subject students to civil and criminal liabilities. You can find information about OSU-OKC's polices on the use of copyright material, including peer-to-peer file sharing. Information and resources to ensure the security of data is available from the OSU-OKC IT Information Security Office. Voter Registration: The Oklahoma State Election Board provides voter information. Nonresident students may find voter information about their specific states through the U.S. Election Assistance Commission. Teacher Preparation Program Report: OSU-Oklahoma City does not offer a Teacher Preparation Program; no reporting is required. Transfer Credit Policies: Transfer information and policies related to transfer of credit earned at another institution is available at the Oklahoma State Regents for Higher Education website, and in the OSU-OKC Catalog. Textbook Information: To the maximum extent practicable, the institution must disclose on its internet course schedule used for preregistration and registration purposes, the International Standard Book Number (ISBN) and retail price information of required and recommended textbooks and supplemental materials for each course listed. To access this information at OSU-OKC, go to the OSU-OKC Course Schedule main page and click on the term’s Course Sections by Date, Time, and Subject link. Search by term and course for textbook information. Student Body Diversity: For information about the diversity of the OSU-OKC student body, see the OSU-OKC Student Analysis Report. Employment of Graduates: Information on types of employment obtained by graduates of OSU-OKC's degree programs is available from the Office of Institutional Effectiveness and Accreditation. Types of Graduate and Professional Education in Which the Institution’s Graduates Enroll: Available information about the types of graduate work and professional schools in which OSU-OKC Bachelor of Technology graduates enroll is available from the Public Safety Management Department, 3501 W. Reno, Room 201J, Oklahoma City, OK 73107. Retention Rates and Completion/Graduation Rates: Retention and graduation rates are available from the OSU-OKC Office of Institutional Research and Information Management. Retention and Graduation Rates for Student Athletes: N/A - OSU-OKC does not have athletic programs. Athletic Program Participation and Financial Support: N/A - OSU-OKC does not have athletic programs. Health and Safety Campus Security Report and Crime Statistics: The federal Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act requires colleges and universities to provide information on security policies and procedures and specific statistics for criminal incidents, arrests, and disciplinary referrals to students and employees, and to make the information available to prospective students and employees upon request. The Annual OSU-OKC Campus Safety Report includes detailed information on emergency services, safety tips, University policies and state laws, and additional support services, confidential crime reporting, and timely warning reports. The report also includes crime statistics for the most recent three calendar years. Information for Crime Victims About Disciplinary Proceedings: Victims are entitled to know about the results of proceedings involving alleged crimes of violence or non-forcible sex offenses when they request this information in writing from the University, as defined by the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act. Related policies and procedures can be found in the OSU-OKC Student Code of Conduct. Fire Safety Report and Fire Log: Institutions are required to keep a fire log that states the nature of the fire, date, time, and general location of each fire in on-campus student housing facilities. OSU-OKC complies with this rule by including all fire-related incidents in the Annual OSU-OKC Campus Safety Report. Emergency Response and Evacuation Procedures: In the event of a campus emergency, OSU-OKC may use a variety of tools to communicate to the campus and the public. Information about emergency response and evacuation procedures is available from the OSU-OKC Safety and Security website. Drug and Alcohol Abuse Prevention Program: The Code of Student Conduct covers the policy for all students and employees regarding the Drug-Free School and Communities Act. The document includes a description of standards of conduct, legal sanctions, health risks, and resources for treatment, rehabilitation or re-entry. Vaccination Policy: Information about OSU-OKC's immunization policy, required form, and immunization facts is available at the OSU-OKC Admissions office, 900 N. Portland Ave., Oklahoma City, OK 73107. Professional License Disclosures: OSU-OKC is required to disclose whether programs, which customarily lead to licensure, either: Meets Licensure Requirements, Does Not Meet Licensure Requirements, or Has Not Been Determined to Meet Licensure Requirements for each state. Identified programs meeting this requirement can be found here. If you have questions regarding any program not listed in the Professional License Disclosures, please contact the Division within which the program resides. Contact Information OSU-OKC Admissions Student Center, 1st floor Tel: (405) 945-3224 Web: Admissions Email: okc.admissions@okstate.edu Information for individual academic divisions can be found at: Academics OSU-OKC Financial Aid and Scholarships Student Center, 1st floor Tel: (405) 945-8646 Web: Financial Aid Email: okc.finaid@okstate.edu Oklahoma State University — OKC OSU Campuses OSU Campuses Stillwater Tulsa Center for Health Sciences Oklahoma City Institute of Technology Resources Resources Alumni & Friends Campus Safety & Security Diversity EEO Statement Employment News & Information OSU-OKC Bookstore OSU-OKC Library OSU System Directory Report Problem Policies Policies Accessibility Ethics Point Expressive Speech Annual Report Notice of Nondiscrimination Trademarks Terms of Service Campus Map © - Oklahoma State University — Oklahoma City | All Rights Reserved | 900 N. Portland Avenue, Oklahoma City, OK 73107 | 405.947.4421 | 1.800.560.4099