Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Online Main Menu In this section About OSU Online Programs & Certificates UndergraduateDegrees GraduateDegrees GraduateCertificates Tuition & Fees Request More Info Home Regulations and Complaints Distance Education Regulations and Complaints Distance Education It is the intention of Oklahoma State University to comply with all federal and state guidelines related to authorization of distance education. OSU is a member of the National Council for State Authorization Reciprocity Agreements (NC-SARA) and complies with all NC-SARA regulations. OSU’s Mission Building on its land-grant heritage, Oklahoma State University promotes learning, advances knowledge, enriches lives, and stimulates economic development through teaching, research, extension, outreach and creative activities. OSU’s three pillars: Through Instruction, OSU provides the highest quality education in a variety of different majors using the latest teaching methods. Through research, OSU is creating the next generation of scientists, thinkers and scholars through its tradition of research excellence. OSU’s Cooperative Extension connects people across the nation and world with the latest research and practical solutions. We want to provide the best possible educational experience for our students. This extends to all OSU students regardless of their location. Online Education Complaint Process If you have an unresolved issue with the university or program in which you are enrolled, we are here to help you work towards a satisfactory conclusion. For all University distance education students, we ask that any problem or complaint first be addressed directly with the program in which you are enrolled. Please contact your academic advisor, program coordinator, department head, or your college's dean's office to determine appropriate steps for resolving your issue. Each program or college may have a different process for reporting problems or lodging complaints; therefore, they are the best first step for gaining an answer or seeking correction. If a student is unable to resolve their concern directly through the program or college in which they are enrolled, they are welcome to direct the matter as outlined below:Students enrolled in one of OSU’s 100% online degree programs should contact the OSU Stillwater Associate Provost at 405-744-1000 or email OSUonline@okstate.edu. Grade Appeals Procedures for Grade Appeals are found on the Division of Academic Affairs website, https://academicaffairs.okstate.edu/content/grade-appeals-board-policies-procedures. The deadline for filing a grade appeal is no later than four (4) months after the date grades are officially due in the Registrar’s Office, or six (6) weeks after the student begins a new semester, whichever comes first. Grade Appeal Process 1. Student obtains and completes an appeal form 2. Student submits the form to the Coordinator of the Appeals Board 3. Appeals Board schedules hearing for both student and instructor 4. Appeals Board makes decision Discrimination Concerns Any individual who believes he/she may have experienced gender discrimination, including sexual harassment, or who believes that he/she has observed such actions taking place, may receive information and assistance regarding the University's policies and responsive processes from any of the following offices: 1. Director of Affirmative Action / Title IX Coordinator 408 Whitehurst Hall 405-744-5371 2. Student Conduct Officer 326 Student Union Building 405-744-5470 3. Vice President of Student Affairs 201 Whitehurst Hall 405-744-5328 4. System Senior Vice President 101D Whitehurst Hall 405-744-5627 If an apparent conflict of interest prevents use of the assistance of the above offices, the person complaining of gender discrimination, sexual harassment, or sexual assault may request assistance directly from the Office of the President, 107 Whitehurst Hall (405-744-6384). From OSU Policy 1-0702 regarding Gender Discrimination/Sexual Harassment and Title IX Grievance Procedure. State Agency and Regional Accreditor Should a student feel their issue remains unresolved after completing the University process outlined above, they may contact one of the state agencies charged with institutional quality assurance. Oklahoma State University is governed at the state level by the Oklahoma State Regents for Higher Education and regionally accredited by the Higher Learning Commission. Oklahoma State Regents for Higher Education 655 Research Parkway, Suite 200 Oklahoma City, OK 73104 (405) 225-9100 Online process for resolving complaints NC-SARA’s Student Complaints page: https://nc-sara.org/student-complaints. Higher Learning Commission 230 South LaSalle Street, Suite 7-500 Chicago, IL 60604 1-800-621-7440 complaints@hlcommission.org Oklahoma Portal Entity Contacts Kyle Foster Assistant Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs Oklahoma State Regents for Higher Education 655 Research Parkway, Suite 200 P.O. Box 108850 Oklahoma City, OK 73101-8850 405.225.9163 kfoster@osrhe.edu Elizabeth Walker Staff Assistant III Oklahoma State Regents for Higher Education 655 Research Parkway, Suite 200 P.O. Box 108850 Oklahoma City, OK 73101-8850 405.225.9154 lwalker@osrhe.edu State Website http://www.okhighered.org/admin-fac/sara/ Home Back To Top Back To Top OSU Online Administered by theInstitute for Teaching & Learning Excellence Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 (405) 744-1000 | Contact Us Follow US NewsEventsSocial Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat Oklahoma State University Campus & Parking MapsAll OSU InstitutionsCareers @ OSUHire OSU Grads© Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks MENUCLOSE ©