Skip to main content Menu Search Books Main navigation Home Books Resources About Blog Header Search and Cart Support Us Explore books by subject: Oregon Indigenous Studies Environmental Studies More+ American West Art, Architecture, and Design Autobiography and Memoir Distributed Titles Environmental Studies Ethnic Studies Food & Drink Forestry & Agriculture History & Biography Indigenous Studies Literature Natural History Natural Resource Management Nature Oregon Pacific Northwest Pacific Rim Politics & Policy Travel & Recreation Women's & Gender Studies Explore Books by Subject American West Art, Architecture, and Design Autobiography and Memoir Distributed Titles Environmental Studies Ethnic Studies Food & Drink Forestry & Agriculture History & Biography Indigenous Studies Literature Natural History Natural Resource Management Nature Oregon Pacific Northwest Pacific Rim Politics & Policy Travel & Recreation Women's & Gender Studies Our Spring 2022 Catalog Is Now Available More More More More More Why I Wrote This Is Not For You: An Essay by Richard Brown This is Not For You: An Activist’s Journey of Resistance and Resilience is the memoir of activist and photographer Richard Brown, an… More On the Blog with Author Cate Doucette Catherine Doucette is a backcountry skier, horseback rider, and mountaineer—roles that have resulted in adventures where she is often the only… More Cris Harris reads I Have Not Loved You With My Whole Heart Cris Harris reads an excerpt from his memoir. It is a memoir of trauma, healing, faith, and violence. At its center is the author’s father, the… More Canyon, Mountain, Cloud: Absence and Longing in American Parks What do we seek and what do we find when we visit parks and protected areas? What does it mean to become so deeply attached to a beautiful, wild… More Building a Whale & a Story: An Interview with Peter Wayne Moe Can we ever know whales? Or is the human relationship with whales essentially one of distance, of not knowing? More The Last Layer of the Ocean: Kayaking through Love and Loss on Alaska's Wild Coast A memoir of navigating both marriage and the stormy Alaskan sea. A woman learns to paddle a small boat and to find her voice in a stark and… More Kathleen Dean Moore on a new strategy for reclaiming the future More Home of the OSU Press Offices OSU Press staff are all working remotely due to the COVID-19 pandemic. We miss our offices at the Valley Library and look forward to returning… Since 1961 OSU Press Celebrates 60 Years Antiracist Resources Want to make a difference, but don't know where to start? Here are some anti-racist resources that center BIPOC voices More PreviousNext Pause animation Play animation Spotlight Calling All Authors Interested in publishing your book? We publish compelling, well-written, well-researched books of integrity. Visit our resources page to find out how to submit your book today. See Author Resources Mark Your Calendars Marina Richie, author of Halcyon Journey: In Search of the Belted Kingfisher, will give a virtual talk about her book for Oregon Wild. Watch this page for registration details. Wednesday, June 1st, 6:00 pm - 7:00 pm See Upcoming Events Contact Us Orders & Customer Service 1-800-621-2736 Offices 121 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 541-737-3166 Books Books Authors Series Forthcoming Catalog Resources For Authors For Booksellers For Educators For Media Rights & Permissions Event Calendar About About Contact Us Mission & History Publishing Partners Awards Internship Copyright © 2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer