Home Page Visit Us About Contact Us Current Events Research Resources Contact Form Back Instructions for Online Sessions Hours & Locations On-Campus Services Events Back Mission Meet the Team Staff Demographics Client & Session Demographics Back Donate Careers Back Back Inquiry Groups Research Back Blog Classroom Presentation Requests Flyers Workshops Home Page Visit Us Instructions for Online Sessions Hours & Locations On-Campus Services Events About Mission Meet the Team Staff Demographics Client & Session Demographics Contact Us Donate Careers Current Events Research Inquiry Groups Research Resources Blog Classroom Presentation Requests Flyers Workshops Contact Form Click Here to make an Appointment What We Do We help you understand and practice many strategies effective writers use—from brainstorming to drafting to editing techniques. Whom We Serve The Oklahoma State Writing Center is here to serve the OSU community. We aim to develop effective communications regardless of skill level and background. *This is a reminder to all faculty members and clients of the OSU Writing Center that we are a safe space where we respect others’ pronouns. We feel that respecting people's pronouns, as well as identifying your own, is important. We also want to emphasize the importance of being mindful of our language and to continue being respectful for the diverse group of consultants, clients, and writers in the WC in terms of race, gender identity, pronouns, cultural backgrounds, sexuality, disabilities, and class. Inclusion, equity, and accessibility The Oklahoma State University Writing Center demonstrates our commitment to equity, inclusion, and accessibility by acknowledging the ways that our institutions (academic and otherwise) have excluded, neglected, and marginalized many community members based on race, religion, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, immigration status, national origin, language, ethnicity, sex, ability status, socioeconomic status, age, body type, and other aspects of identity, and by seeking to understand and resist those failures both obvious and covert. Because systems of oppression often operate invisibly or under the surface, we seek not only to address intentional forms of oppression, but also to identify and resist the ways that oppression is facilitated and perpetuated through negligence. The writers we work with and the tutors and staff we employ have diverse bodies, experiences, needs, and ways of learning, and because we believe in the power of language to shape our world, we reject rhetoric that denigrates others based on any identity category. We seek to critique and counteract both individual and structural oppression in order to create a safer, more just university by educating ourselves about systems of oppression and marginalization, fostering conversation and community learning around those topics, developing professional and academic practices that respond to the needs of historically marginalized communities and individuals, and holding ourselves accountable to the ongoing process of learning and becoming more equitable, inclusive, and accessible. The writing center intends to reflect these values by ensuring that our learning environment is accessible to writers with diverse needs and preferences, and more information about our spaces is available here. In Person Sessions: Student Union M-F 9:30am-5:30pm Edmon Low Library Multimodal Studios WR 1:30pm-4:30pm Scott Hall 427 WR 12:30pm-4:30pm Architecture Library TR 1:00-3:00pm Graduate Writing Center (GAB101) T 3:00pm-6:00pm Online Synchronous Sessions: Meet with a tutor via webcam in real time Receive feedback during 1 hour session through conversation with tutor Asynchronous Sessions No real time meeting with tutor; submit paper electronically through online scheduler Receive personal feedback within 48 hours of appointment slot Feedback is delivered through comments and advice letter written by tutor Despite the asynchronous format, tutors are only available during their work hours. Contact The WC When: You don’t receive asynchronous feedback after 48 hours. Have trouble understanding asynchronous feedback. Miss your session. Are unable to log into the WC website for an online session. Cannot access asynchronous feedback. Need to book a session. Need extra assistance with a paper. Classroom Presentation Request Form: Please fill out this form if you are a staff or faculty member wanting a WC Tutor to come to your class and explain our services! Classroom Presentation Link Workshop request Form: Please fill out this form if you are a staff or faculty member wanting a WC tutor to come present a special topic to your class! We will create a workshop on this topic for you. Workshop Request Link Additional resources Mission Statement Community Engagement Research Classroom Presentations Events schedule a session Scheduler Instructions Services Contact contact (405) 744-6671 Student Union, Room 440 writingcenter@okstate.edu Writing Center Jobs