Search Search for: Disclosure Form About Team Members By the Numbers Invented at Duke Pipeline COVID-19 News, Events, & Funding News Events & Funding Opportunities Resources Subscribe for Opportunities Contact Main Navigation Faculty & Innovators Industry & Investors Students New Ventures Digital Innovations Faculty & Innovators Industry & Investors Students New Ventures Digital Innovations Disclosure Form About Team Members By the Numbers Invented at Duke Pipeline COVID-19 News, Events, & Funding News Events & Funding Opportunities Resources Subscribe for Opportunities Contact Duke Innovations: OTC 2021 Annual Report “We are proud of the successes our licensees and startups achieved last year in getting products into the marketplace and creating successful partnerships.” – Robin Rasor, Associate VP for Translation and Commercialization Learn More OTC – Hybrid Office OTC is implementing a hybrid work environment. You can visit our office or contact us by email or phone. To ensure the health and safety of our staff and customers, OTC staff will be working remotely during the COVID-19 crisis. You can still file an Invention Disclosure Form (IDF) and contact us by email, phone, or Zoom. Please be safe! Get in Touch From Idea to Industry The Office for Translation and Commercialization (OTC) is the research commercialization arm of Duke University. Take the first step Road mapCreated with Sketch.Revenue received from licensing is distributed to inventors, the inventors’ primary department, and Duke University for investment in future research .We market and license the technology to an existing business, or assist you in creating a new entity as a licensee (a “start-up”).We work with you to identify resources for you or third parties to continue development of your invention to de-risk it further for commercialization. In consultation with you, we determine the best method for protecting your invention, usually via patent or copyright protection.We assess your invention using criteria including patentability, stage of development, and marketability.Submit your invention using a Disclosure Form (see above for link) or contact us for a pre-disclosure meeting.Where it all begins: the raw material behind your potential ideas and inventions. From Idea to Industry The Office for Translation and Commercialization (OTC) is the research commercialization arm of Duke University. Take the first step From Idea to Industry The Office for Translation and Commercialization (OTC) is the research commercialization arm of Duke University. Take the first step Have an invention? Tell us about it! Please note that public disclosures such as conference abstracts and publications may preclude our ability to protect your invention. Be sure to inform OTC of any imminent or prior disclosures! Complete Disclosure Form Faculty & Innovators Start here Industry & Investors START HERE Resources START HERE Duke Startups View All Forewarned Solar Unsoiled Tune Therapeutics Versametrics Warden Bio HealthForceRx (SBV HF) Splendo Health Mente 374Water Chymia Forewarned Inc. is a C-corporation headquartered in Chapel Hill, NC. The company was founded in 2021 by a team of IT professionals from Duke University’s Office of Information Technology, who bring a deep technical background of networking and enterprise security expertise and a shared vision for creating a safer online environment using […] More > Solar Unsoiled is an interactive, data-driven platform to optimize global solar energy production. The company is maximizing solar energy profit and reducing financial risk using predictive models to mitigate the impact of energy losses due to dust and air pollution. Solar Unsoiled targets optimization surrounding the issue of detrimental soiling losses. More > Tune Therapeutics is pioneering the creation of epi-therapeutic medicines. The vast majority of human disease is governed by the epigenome, the subtle machinery that controls the volume of gene expression in cells. Traditional genetic medicines have long focused on protein-coding gene sequences, which constitute only 2% of the human genome. By exploring the other […] More > Versametrics was established in 2020 based on research performed at Duke University. When performing measurements of electronic devices using traditional instruments such as source-measurement units (SMUs) and micromanipulator probe stations, several problems arose, such as the inability to perform long term tests on costly shared equipment, laborious probe placement when testing a large […] More > Warden Bio is developing novel AAV-mediated gene therapies for glycogen storage disorders (GSDs). The GSD gene therapy is based on research led by the lab of Dr. Priya Kishnani, Chen Family Distinguished Professor & Division Chief for Medical Genetics at Duke University, in close collaboration with Dr. Aravind Asokan, Professor & […] More > HealthForceRx (SBV HF ) is commercializing innovation developed by the Duke Heart Center. The startup, incubated by Smashing Boxes Ventures, will further develop a health care workforce management system that uses predictive analytics with integrated HR/payroll data, historical trends, and market statistics. More > Splendo Health is a Dutch digital health startup resulted from a collaboration among Duke University, Erasmus University, Radboud University, and Splendo Consulting. The company has developed SplendoFit, a comprehensive digital platform with sensors and electronic health records integration for remote healthcare monitoring, communication, and perioperative intervention. The platform allows medical professionals in any […] More > Mente is developing a surgical instruments tracking system for the operating room which creates dependable, real-time data streams with predictive analytics to transform operating room resource management. Predictive Technology Developed at Duke Promises to Reduce Inefficiencies in Surgery More > 374Water, Inc. is a social impact, cleantech company, which offers an innovative technology that enables a circular economy and creation of a world without waste. The company’s mission is to preserve a clean and healthy environment that sustains life. It applies cutting-edge science and engineering to recover resources from the wastes our society […] More > Chymia was formed in February 2021. The company aims to create spin-out companies that will commercialize therapeutics and biomarkers for neuropsychiatric disorders and diseases. atai Life Sciences Announces the Launch of PsyProtix, to Develop a Precision Psychiatry Approach for Treatment-Resistant Depression (TRD) More > Impact By The Numbers $300M Invested in Duke Startups in 2021 1,200 Active Invention Disclosures 182 Startups Created to Date Recent News Food Sustainability in Focus May 31, 2022 Next Event Equalize 2022 Pitch Competition June, 30 2022 Need help? FAQs, helpful links & documents EXPLORE OUR RESOURCES Looking for someone? Meet our team. ENGAGE WITH US 2812 Erwin Road, Suite 406, Durham, NC 27705 (919) 681-7167 Duke.edu Contact Search Search for: Search Search for: 2812 Erwin Road, Suite 406 Durham, NC 27705 T: (919) 681-7167 Duke.edu|Contact