Skip to main content Technologies News Events Contact Us Twitter Facebook Linked In Toggle Navigation Faculty & Inventors Advancing Your Research Protecting Intellectual Property Commercializing Technologies Resources Featured Links: Experts in Residence (XIRs) Entrepreneurs in Residence ROI and MTA Forms Policies & Procedures Industry & Investors Research Collaborations Licensing Opportunities Startup Formation Startup Opportunities Accelerators Blavatnik Biomedical Accelerator Physical Sciences & Engineering Accelerator Entrepreneurs in Residence Impact Harvard Startups Productivity Highlights About OTD Our Team Our Values Employment Fellowships X Contact Us Faculty & Inventors Advancing Your Research Protecting Intellectual Property Commercializing Technologies Resources Industry & Investors Research Collaborations Licensing Opportunities Startup Formation Startup Opportunities Accelerators Blavatnik Biomedical Accelerator Physical Sciences & Engineering Accelerator Entrepreneurs in Residence Impact Harvard Startups Productivity Highlights About OTD Our Team Our Values Employment Fellowships News Events Technologies Contact Us Office & Staff Availability + Harvard University has taken steps to limit the spread of COVID-19. At present, the OTD team is following a hybrid work model. Please contact us directly via Our Team, or reach out to otd@harvard.edu or (617) 495-3067 to be directed to the appropriate person. We look forward to speaking with you. Cambridge Boston (HMS) OTD in Cambridge Harvard Square Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center, Suite 727E 1350 Massachusetts Avenue Cambridge, MA 02138 Telephone: (617) 495-3067 Facsimile: (617) 495-9568 E-mail: otd@harvard.edu Note: Visitors should report to the security desk in the Smith Campus Center for access to the elevators. Once on the seventh floor, exit the elevator and follow the hall to the right. We're at the end of the hall. Contact Individual Staff Resources for your visit to Harvard Square: Harvard University Campus map Public Transportation - Harvard Accommodations Transportation and Parking OTD in Boston Longwood Medical Area Harvard Medical School Gordon Hall Suite 414 25 Shattuck Street Boston, MA 02115 USA Telephone: (617) 432-0920 Facsimile: (617) 432-2788 E-mail: hms_otd@harvard.edu Note: A Harvard ID is needed to enter the building from the Quad side. Visitors should enter via the doors on Shattuck Street to check in at the security booth. Resources for your visit to HMS: Harvard Medical School Campus map Longwood Medical Area map Public Transportation - Longwood Medical Area Parking at HMS Faculty & Inventors Industry & Investors Accelerators Impact About OTD Our Team (617) 495-3067 News Contact Us twitter facebook linkedin ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved. Terms of Use Privacy Accessibility Sitemap Harvard University Office of the Provost