Skip to main content Make an appointment Find a doctor Donate LOG IN/OUT UW home UW Medicine UW directory UW medhub Make an appointment Find a doctor Donate LOG IN/OUT Patient Care Education Research Faculty About Search When it comes to your care, trust our doctors. Patient Care We partner with our patients to provide high-quality, state of the art care for all otolaryngology disorders. Read more Education We train future leaders in otolaryngology through our residency program, clinical and research fellowships, and medical student teaching. Read more Research Our research helps advance the treatment of a wide range of disorders affecting the organs of communication. Read more Mission, Vision, Values in Action These are the core principles which inform and guide all our activities. Read more HOW CAN WE HELP YOU? Find answers to some frequently asked questions below Novel coronavirus & COVID-19: facts and resources Please visit https://www.washington.edu/coronavirus/ I am getting a lot of strep throats. When should I consider having my tonsils removed? If you have had multiple episodes of tonsillitis that have been documented by your primary care provider in the past several years, tonsillectomy may be indicated. Guidelines include seven episodes of tonsillitis over the past year, five episodes over each of the past two years, or three episodes over each of the past three years. I am concerned about my hearing and I think I need a hearing test. How do I make an appointment? If you are a new patient please call (206) 598-4022 and ask to make an appointment for a hearing test. If you are an establish patient and have been seen in our clinic about your hearing before please call (206) 598-7528. Note: If you experience a sudden change in your hearing time can be of the essence, if any necessary medical treatment is to work. Please contact your physician right away and ask to have your hearing assessment as soon as possible. What is sleep apnea? Obstructive sleep apnea is a disorder where a person chokes temporarily but repeatedly during sleep. Sometimes these choking episodes can by severe and appear life-threatening to an observer. Often there is loud snoring between the choking episodes. What treatments are there for snoring? Snoring treatment is aimed at reversing factors that induce or worsen snoring, like sleep position, nasal congestion, and use of sedatives. When it persists, then procedures to stiffen the tissues in the throat can help reduce snoring. First is it important to rule out obstructive sleep apnea. Click here to view our welcome video Our Faculty Neal D. Futran, M.D., D.M.D. Allison T. Wanamaker Professor and Endowed Chair View the entire team Patient Care Specialties Conditions & Treatments Find a Doctor Clinical Sites FAQ Education Residency Fellowships Clerkship Alumni Remote Learning Mentor & Trainee Resources FAQ Research Programs Research Resources Faculty Divisions Adult Otolaryngology-HNS Pediatric Otolaryngology-HNS RESEARCH VESTIBULAR DIAGNOSTICS AND AUDIOLOGY About the Department Contact Us Newsletter Archive Mission, Vision, Values in Action Department of Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery OUR CLINIC IS LOCATED AT: UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON MEDICAL CENTER 1959 NE PACIFIC STREET, 3rd FLOOR, NE 300 SEATTLE, WA 98195 PHONE: (206) 598-4022, Option 8 FAX: (206) 598-6611 Facebook Twitter Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington