Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Apply Harvard College Harvard College Admissions Registrar Search HOME Academics Academic Integrity at Harvard College College Curriculum General Education Divisional Distribution Quantitative Reasoning with Data Expository Writing Language Requirement Advanced Standing Concurrent Masters Independent Study Placement Exams Awards, Prizes, and Events Co-Curriculars Faculty-Student Engagement Classroom to Table Internship and Career Planning Research and Fellowships Study Abroad Summer 2022 Funding Policy Additional Resources Support Resources For Faculty & Staff Teaching Resources for Faculty Academic Continuity - Spring 2022 Academic Policy & Handbooks for Faculty and Students Instructional Support Communications and Resources Section Allocation Tool Trainings and Meetings for Administrative Staff Calendar Instructional Lunch Fund Contact Course Innovation Funds Derek Bok Center for Teaching and Learning PIFIE Start of Term Information Resources for Concentrations About the OUE People Affiliated Offices Contact Welcome to the Office of Undergraduate Education Spring 2022 Faculty Resources COVID Updates for faculty and instructors. Find answers to questions and resources related to being back on campus. Simultaneous Course Enrollment New Policy going into effect fall 2021. (FAS Voted March 2020) College Events Calendar: Visit the calendar for academic, academic support, and social events throughout the year. Additional Resources Course innovation funds: Information about the proposal process and deadline for projects in pedagogy, course design, and undergraduate education. Course Preview Period and Course Registration: Information on the FAS Registrar's Office website for Harvard College students regarding course preview period and course registration. View the Course Preview Period Guide. Academic Calendar: View the 2021-22 academic calendar for Harvard College. Our Path Forward: Academic Year resources for undergraduates. Includes information about: technology, academics, residential life, community engagement, and more. Return to Campus Tips and Resources: Tips from HUIT to make sure your technology is all set up for your return to campus. Maintaining Academic Continuity: Bok Center advice for faculty on navigating academic continuity Office of Undergraduate Education Harvard College University Hall North Cambridge, MA 02138 Phone: 617-495-0450 Email: oue@fas.harvard.edu Admissions Questions? Contact Harvard College Admissions at: https://college.harvard.edu/contact-us Quick Links Harvard College Admissions Academic Calendar College Events Calendar FAS Registrar's Office Early Shopping Week Dean of Students Office Program in General Education Student Handbook Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement