Skip to main content The Statewides: Our Impact Keywords Search Sidebar Menu Our Mission Our Impact Sustainable Food, Forests, and Fisheries Natural Resources Stewardship Community Resilience Our Funding Our Impact. Our Future. The Statewide Public Service Programs — OSU Extension Service, Oregon Agricultural Experiment Station, and the Oregon Forest Research Laboratory — partner with communities across the state to tackle complex problems that require Oregon State University's world-leading expertise. With an established and trusted presence in every county, we are the only mechanism for statewide community-centric engagement that provides access to research, expertise, and relationships essential for Oregon’s social, economic, and environmental needs. The fundamental principles on which OSU was founded 150 years ago – learning, discovery and engagement – are woven into the fabric of our Statewides. We’re known and trusted in our communities. We’re experts you can rely on, but we’re also your friends and neighbors. We’re down at the coffee shop, swapping stories about crop yields. We’re in the school, teaching children about the benefits of nutrition and exercise. We’re out among the trees, determined to ensure the health of our valuable forests. We are trusted. We are everywhere. We are Oregon. View our impacts in Oregon counties View our impacts in Oregon legislative districts Agricultural Experiment Station The Oregon Agricultural Experiment Station focuses the power of science to support over 220 Oregon crops and commodities and help address Oregon’s critical issues across landscapes, oceans, and food systems. Extension Service The Oregon State University Extension Service provides practical, research-based information and engages learners, partners, and volunteers in communities across Oregon to meet local challenges and help every Oregonian thrive. Forest Research Laboratory The Forest Research Laboratory conducts research on innovative approaches for managing forest resources to enhance lives and improve the health of Oregon’s lands, businesses, and vital ecosystems. Addressing Oregon's Critical Needs Sustainable agricultural, food, and natural resource production Finding solutions to challenges that threaten our agricultural, forest and food systems Natural resources science and stewardship Maintaining and sustaining our valuable working landscapes Community health and resilience Investing in our communities to create a vibrant future for all Out there: Serving Oregon With agricultural research stations, research forests and Extension offices located across Oregon’s diverse landscapes and communities, we learn with and from those who are most impacted by Oregon’s most pressing issues. With an established and trusted presence in all 36 Oregon counties and the Confederated Tribes of Warm Springs Reservation, the Statewides Public Service Programs are building bridges among our state’s communities around shared goals and values that result in real solutions. View our impacts in Oregon counties View our impacts in Oregon legislative districts View a larger version of this map (PDF) » Contact Us Report a website issue Copyright © 2022 Oregon State University Web Disclaimer/Privacy Equal Opportunity/Accessibility External Menu Log In