More details Skip to main content Dartmouth Home Search Index Dartmouth College Dartmouth Outdoors Home Dartmouth Outing Club Outdoor Programs Office Services Places and Activities First Year Trips Search this Site Services Moosilauke Ravine Lodge DOC and OPO Cabins Second College Grant Dartmouth XC Ski Center Dartmouth Skiway Challenge Courses Climbing Gym Dartmouth Outdoor Rentals Reserve a cabin | Stay at Moosilauke | Join the club | Rent Gear/Ski | Support the DOC Home > Services > Moosilauke Ravine Lodge More Information Directions Basic Info Reservations Reservations for Exclusive Use Accommodations Jobs at the Ravine Lodge Research and Academics at Moosilauke Contact In-Season Call between April and November (603) 764-5858 Please call between 11 AM and 5 PM Physical Address: 1 Ravine Lodge Rd., Woodstock, NH 03262 Mailing Address: MRL, PO Box 9, Hanover, NH 03755 Moosilauke.Ravine.Lodge@dartmouth.edu Off-Season Call between December and April (603) 646-6543 PO Box 9, Hanover, NH 03755 <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> Moosilauke Ravine Lodge on Facebook Last Updated: 5/9/22 The ravine lodge has reopened to the public for the 2022 season. For Spring 2022, overnights and meals are free to undergraduate students making individual reservations. The Gorge Brook, Carriage Road, and Ridge Trails are currently open, and are accessible from Ravine Road. Hikers who are not staying at the Lodge must park before the fork in the road, on the downhill shoulder. No parking is ever permitted in the turnaround. The winter gate parking area is for head in, angled parking only. Improperly parked cars may be ticketed. We kindly request that hikers be courteous to the trails, remembering to keep off the fragile alpine vegetation, carry out all trash, and practice good social distancing. Rustic Mountain Accommodations The original Moosilauke Ravine Lodge was raised up in the late 1930s to serve some of the nation’s earliest competitive skiing. Today the Lodge provides a destination for the area and the entire Dartmouth community and the Upper Valley. The Lodge is normally open to the public for rooms and meals for the spring, summer, and fall seasons. Coming to the Lodge - Reservations are required for dinner and overnight. Call (603) 764-5858 to make your reservation while we are in season. You must make your reservation no later than the night before the start of your stay. Please call between the hours of 11:00 AM and 5:00 PM. - Dinner is at 6:30 PM and is served family style. Please let us know if you have any dietary restrictions when you call to make your reservation. - A full hot breakfast is served family style at 7:30 AM on Saturday and Sunday mornings. A lighter, hikers breakfast buffet is available 7:00AM - 9:00AM on weekdays. Again, please let us know if you have any dietary restrictions when you call to make your reservation. - Payment in full is required when making your reservation. Please click here for pricing information. - The Lodge is about an hour from Hanover. Here's how you get there. Guests are welcome to park along the access road, including after the fork in the road. We also have step-free parking/drop-off available via the lower access road as marked by signs. - We are also offering students free van rides from campus on most nights. Please call for specific van availability on a given date and to reserve a seat in a van. - The Lodge is closed on Mondays and Tuesdays in the Spring. Hearty Meals The Lodge’s friendly and hard-working crew of students and recent alums serves up hot breakfasts and multi-course dinners from the Lodge’s cookbook, family-style in the Lodge’s main room. Dinners consist of a home baked loaf of bread, fresh green salad, hearty soup, main and side dish, and, of course, a dessert. Be sure to let us know if you have any dietary restrictions when you call to make your reservation, and yes, the lodge DOES serve meat! You are welcome to bring your own beverages, but please remember that the College has a no hard policy. Rustic Lodging The Lodge’s guest rooms and the outlying bunkhouses can sleep groups from two to fourteen. It is recommended that guests bring a sleeping bag for overnight stays. Pillows, pillowcases, and woolen blankets are provided, while sleeping bags and linens are available for rent from the front desk. Showers and toilets are in the main building. All of the bunkhouses, with the exception of '74, are heated by wood stoves and have a set of composting toilets nearby. There is NO CAMPING allowed on land maintained by Dartmouth College (land within the dotted boundary on this map). Please note that there is also NO CAMPING allowed on Ravine Road. Setting The Lodge is a wonderful place to bring budding outdoor enthusiasts on their first adventures — with the promise of a hot shower, a hearty meal, and a cozy bed at day’s end. Over thirty miles of hiking trails connect the Lodge to Mount Moosilauke’s summit and trailheads, ranging from easy woods-walks to boulder-clambering ascents. For those interested in volunteer trail maintenance, with prior approval a one-night stay at the Lodge is rewarded for every day of trail work. Here's a map of the trails on Moosilauke. Retreats Because of its size, location and services, groups use the Lodge for retreats and conferences. The main room and the conference spaces are available for reservation by student and alum groups for getaways and reunions, as well as for academic classes, offices retreats, lectures, and other programs. Lodge crew may also be able to provide meals and snack breaks for groups if requested in advance. Programming Many weekend evenings see special events hosted at the Lodge, including music, storytelling, workshops, dances, or presentations. Check here for information on 2022 programming. The Bring Your Professor To Lodge Dinner program is a perfect way to enjoy Moosilauke, get to know your professors better, and share this place with them. This program is available any night we have space, Sunday-Thursday. Dinner is on us, transportation is up to you, but be sure to ask about van availability! To keep groups intimate, up to three students can join one professor for dinner. Please call (603)764-5858 for more information or to make reservations at least a day in advance. You can check our availability here and request a voucher from the undergraduate dean's office here. Please bring your voucher with you on the night of your reservation. There's no better study break! This program is sponsored by the Undergraduate Dean's Office. Reunions at the Lodge During Reunions, we encourage members of each class to make individual reservations in advance for the night before the official on-campus reunion date. We do not take exclusive or large group reservations during this period so that all the classes have the opportunity to come enjoy the Lodge during Reunions! We do not organize class hikes, but can provide bagged lunches for groups if we are notified at least a week in advance. We also do not have any specific programming during Reunions, but are happy to provide maps for hiking or our self-guided tour of the Lodge. The following dates will be held for reunion classes until mid April. On April 15th, any spaces still available will be released to the public for reservations. June 9th: '72s June 12th: '62s, '70s, '71s June 15th: '76s, '77s, '78s, '92s, '97s (WAITLIST ONLY AS OF 3/7/22) Welcome All! During normal operations, the Lodge isn’t just for the Dartmouth community — local residents, hikers, and visitors to the area are all welcome to stay for a night, a week, or just come up for dinner! The Lodge is a great place to just get away and put your feet up. We hope you’ll come stay with us as soon as you’re able! Keep in Touch Keep track of happenings at the Lodge on our Facebook page. Follow us on Twitter @Famous4FineFood and Instagram @moosilaukeravinelodge for real time updates from the mountain! Original Ravine Lodge 3D Tour Students and faculty created this 3D tour of the original Ravine Lodge before it was decommissioned. Oral History Project Two members of the class of 2016 created an Oral History project to honor Moosilauke and the Ravine Lodge. Please visit and contribute your stories of life and adventure at Moosilauke. Contact Us Top of page | Privacy | Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Last Updated: 5/9/22