Skip to main content Skip to content Outdoor Action Leadership Starts Here Toggle navigation Sign Up How to Sign Up for OA Activities Login to Tripstore Activities Wintersession Backpacking & Hiking Biking Canoeing & Kayaking Climbing Community Service First Aid & CPR Films & Speakers Peak Potential Princeton Climbing Team Orientation OA Orientation Home Page A Day on OA Equipment List for Frosh Trip Leader Application OA Check-in Sunday night OA Weekly Activity & Meal Details Support Team & Command Center Application Leadership Leader Training Leader Training Home Page Becoming an OA Leader Training Schedule FAQ Leadership & Group Dynamics Training Leave No Trace Training Managing Safety Training Technical Skills Training Leaders Leader Home Page Leaders - Expand your Skills How do I Lead a Trip? Advanced Leader Training Trip Becoming a Leader Trainer Becoming an LNT Instructor Becoming a Technical Skills Trainer Leader Prizes Parent Information Frosh Trip Coordinator Jobs Alumni Alumni Home Page Give to OA How to Support OA Alumni Day Reunions Leader Prizes OA Reports Alumni Directory Alumni News: Notes from the Trailhead TigerTrails Alumni Newsletter Alumni Trips Josh Miner '43 Award Josh Miner '43 Leadership Fund Resources OA Staff Places to Go Photos Videos Sustainability Search form Search Home Activities OA Climbing OA Climbing Spring 2022 at the OA Climbing Wall The Outdoor Action Climbing Wall is an indoor rock climbing & bouldering facility, 32 feet high and 66 feet across with 14 belay stations. It incorporates the latest in climbing wall technology with both vertical and overhanging sections as well as a roof and three artificial cracks. Climbers of all abilities are welcome. Experienced instructors will be on hand to teach skills and assist in solving particular climbing routes. OA will provides all equipment including climbing harness and climbing. The Climbing Wall is open throughout the academic year except during breaks, reading period and final exams. Supervision and coaching provided by OA Climbing Wall Staff. Climbing is FREE for Princeton University students, faculty and staff. Never Climbed Before? No experience necessary! We'll teach you! Wall Access Eligibility Only individuals who are in compliance with the University's asymptomatic testing protocol are allowed to climb. This includes undergraduate & graduate students, faculty, and staff. If your spouse is also in the asymptomatic testing protocol and has a PU photo ID, they are eligible to climb with prior approval. To request approval, please email OA Director Rick Curtis. Princeton University TigerCard/Prox required when accessing the Wall. OA Climbing Wall Open Hours Open Hours - anyone can climb for FREE thanks to a grant from the TigerWell fund. Mondays 4:30 - 6:30 Tuesdays 8:00 - 10:00 PM Wednesdays 8:00 - 10:00 PM Thursdays 10:00 - Midnight Fridays 4:30 - 6:30 PM Saturdays 1:00 - 3:00 PM - NEW Sundays 3:00 - 5:00 PM - NEW Learn to Belay Classes - FREE You must take a Belay Class and pass a separate Belay Test in order to belay at the OA Climbing Wall. Sign up at My.Princeton.edu Sundays 4:00 - 5:00 PM Mondays 5:30 - 6:30 PM What's Indoor Climbing All About? Rock Climbing Resources Hanging Out - The Outdoor Action Climbing Wall - Princeton Alumni Weekly, November 8, 2000 Using the OA Climbing Wall OA Guide to Belaying History of the OA Climbing Wall The Joe Palmer '84 Memorial Fund - help support the OA Climbing Program Supporting the Climbing Wall - learn how you can help OA raise funds to endow the Climbing Program at Princeton Local Climbing Areas Ralph Stover State Park, PA Allamuchy State Park, NJ Delaware Water Gap, NJ & PA The Gunks, NY Topics: Climbing About Us Outdoor Action is Princeton University's outdoor education and leadership development program. For over 45 years OA has served Princeton through the annual Frosh Trip outdoor orientation program for incoming first-year students, through the Leader Training program which trains current students to be leaders and role models to incoming students on the Frosh Trip, and alumni through on-campus events and outdoor-based adventure travel trips. Contact Us Outdoor Action Program 350 Alexander Street Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 609-258-6230 Contact Us © 2015 The Trustees of Princeton University, Outdoor Action Program | Leader Communities