More details Skip to main content Dartmouth Home Search Index Dartmouth College Dartmouth Outdoors Home Dartmouth Outing Club Outdoor Programs Office Services Places and Activities First Year Trips Search this Site Services Moosilauke Ravine Lodge DOC and OPO Cabins Second College Grant Dartmouth XC Ski Center Dartmouth Skiway Challenge Courses Climbing Gym Dartmouth Outdoor Rentals Reserve a cabin | Stay at Moosilauke | Join the club | Rent Gear/Ski | Support the DOC Home > Services > Climbing Gym "Keep your eyes open, take risks, and whenever possible, don’t do things the way everyone else does." — Jonathan Belden Daniels '86 the Dartmouth Climbing Gym is open for 22S! The Jonathan Belden Daniels ’86 Memorial Climbing Gym and the Charles W. (Chuck) Drake ’90 and Josh Hane ’89 Leadership and Training Center The Climbing Gym was opened to the public on October 10, 1994, the culmination of a decade-long effort by members of the Dartmouth Mountaineering Club and the Outdoor Programs Office to bring a world-class indoor climbing facility to Dartmouth. Many students, faculty and alumnae/i participated in the design and construction of the gym. The gym is a twenty-three foot tall bouldering cave where climbers of every skill level can practice their skills. Monitors from the DMC assist climbers and ensure safe climbing techniques. The Leadership and Training Center was opened in 2002. The Center adds lead climbing and belay stances for anchoring and rappelling to the gym’s offerings, as well as equipment for strength training and a library of periodicals and instructional videos. Spring Hours Monday - Friday : 8am - 11am, 4pm - 10pm Sat/Sun : 4pm - 10pm Signup for a gym slot by going to Trailhead. No walk-ins allowed. Groupme for last minute open slots found here. Prices Free to all Dartmouth Community Members (Faculty, Students, & Staff). Unfortunately, no non-Dartmouth Community members allowed at this time. Safety To ensure the safety of every climber, monitors are always on hand to assist and help practicing climbers. Monitors are experienced, highly-trained climbers who are well-acquainted with proper safety techniques. They inspect holds, ropes and anchors. They check belayers’ credentials, supervise climbing activity and assure compliance to climbing rules. Monitors remain on-site during the climbing hours and secure the area when they leave. There can be no climbing unless the monitors are on-site. Users of the climbing gym are expected to follow the rules and heed the instructions of the monitors. Violators of the posted climbing rules will be fined $50. Rules violations can also result in further action as set forth in the Dartmouth College Student Handbook. Safety Rules and Regulations 22S Climbing Gym Policies Climbing is limited to eight climbers at any one time. All gym sessions will be signed up for through Trailhead. All members must fill out a waiver before coming to the gym for the first time. Remember, if you feel sick or have any symptoms, please stay home and rest. No personal belongings may be stored in the gym. Gym slots will be 1.5 hours long and people may sign up for maximum of 1 slot per day and no more than 3 in a week. No climbing in the gym outside of these hours unless approved by the Outdoor Programs Office. The gym will be liquid chalk only. Climbers must be belayed with an appropriate belay device. All belayers must pass a belay proficiency test. This test will be conducted by the Outdoor Programs Office. Climbs must be visually inspected by the climber before climbing. No solo climbing. Bouldering, with spotters, is permitted on the first ten feet of the climbing wall. Landing areas must remain clear of obstacles. Loose holds should be reported to the monitors on duty. Safety belay anchors will be inspected regularly. Location The climbing gym is located in the basement of Maxwell Dormitory. For a detailed map, click HERE Contact Us Top of page | Privacy | Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Last Updated: 4/1/22