More details Skip to main content Dartmouth Home Search Index Dartmouth College Dartmouth Outdoors Home Dartmouth Outing Club Outdoor Programs Office Services Places and Activities First Year Trips Search this Site About DOC History of DOC DOC Clubs Organization Leadership Development Policies Membership Funding & Grants Merchandise Additional Online Resources Get Involved More Trailhead (trips signup site) Woodsmoke Rust Memorial DOC Library Annual Reports DOC Photos and Slideshows Connect with DOC Find us on Facebook Instragram Join our Mailing list Come Visit! Reserve a cabin | Stay at Moosilauke | Join the club | Rent Gear/Ski | Support the DOC Home > About the DOC The Dartmouth Outing Club is the oldest and largest collegiate outing club in the country. Anyone — member or not — may stay at our cabins, go on our trips, rent our gear, and take our classes. About the Dartmouth Outing Club The Dartmouth Outing Club (DOC) was originally formed in 1909 to “stimulate interest in out-of-door winter sports”, and quickly grew to encompass the College’s year-round out-of-doors recreation. The club has undergone constant evolution over the course of its 100+-year history to meet the ever-changing needs of its members. Today the club has over 1,500 student members (about a quarter of the College’s student population), and about as many non-student members, making it (to our knowledge) the largest collegiate outing club in the nation (as well as the first). The DOC organizes trips in the out-of-doors, provides outdoor leader and medical/safety education, maintains over fifty miles of the Appalachian National Scenic Trail, and is the first introduction to the College for most of the incoming students. The DOC also plays an active role in stewardship of the environment through the Organic Farm Club and its close relationship with Sustainable Dartmouth. Due to its size, the Dartmouth Outing Club is organized as an umbrella organization for about a dozen member clubs, which each specialize in an aspect of outdoor recreation. Membership in the DOC is open to all members of the Dartmouth community, and to others who share common interests, so get involved! The formal constitution of the DOC can be viewed here. Contact Us Top of page | Privacy | Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Last Updated: 1/31/20