More details Skip to main content Dartmouth Home Search Index Dartmouth College Dartmouth Outdoors Home Dartmouth Outing Club Outdoor Programs Office Services Places and Activities First Year Trips Search this Site Places Mt. Moosilauke Second College Grant Ropes Course Climbing Gym Organic Farm Skiway Oak Hill More Natural Areas More Facilities Activities Backcountry Skiing Climbing Fishing Hiking Mountain Biking Road Biking Paddling Nordic Skiing Gear What to bring Where to get it Outdoor rentals Reserve a cabin | Stay at Moosilauke | Join the club | Rent Gear/Ski | Support the DOC Home > Activities > Natural Areas > Mt. Moosilauke More information Moosilauke Ravine Lodge Summer dayhikes Winter hiking Weather on Moosilauke Moosilauke has been the spiritual home of Dartmouth’s out-of-doors for over one hundred years. Through the generosity of numerous individuals, most notably Pennington Haile ’24, the College owns 4,600 acres on this 4,802 foot peak (about a third of the mountain above 2000 feet). It is the tenth highest peak in the state, with a summit many claim has the best view in the White Mountains. The vast majority of Dartmouth students are introduced to the College through DOC First-Year Trips culminating at the Moosilauke Ravine Lodge halfway up the mountain’s southern side. With steadily expanding interest in DOC cabins and summer programs at the Ravine Lodge, it is not surprising that Moosilauke has become a big part of Dartmouth’s culture. Yet few people really take advantage of all that there is to experience at Moosilauke. The possibilities at Moosilauke are almost limitless. Whether it be afternoon strolls to your favorite spot, bushwhacking up ravines, winter overnights, or Lodge square dancing, your hours at this special place will be remembered forever. As Otto Schniebs, legendary Dartmouth Skiing Coach and Moosilauke trailbuilder, once said, “Ach, it is not a schport — it is a vay of life.” Overview of Attractions The Summit: 360 degree view, 100 acres of alpine tundra, ruins of Summit Camp and two Summit Cabins. Beaver Brook Cascades: Some of the finest cascades in the region. South Peak: Less frequented than the main summit, great views of Warren NH nearly 4000 feet below. Jobildunc Ravine: Spectacular glacial cirque. Difficult bushwhack access to base, good views of headwalls from Gorge Brook, Upper Beaver Brook, and particularly from viewpoint on Al Merrill Ski Loop. Little Tunnel Ravine: Another glacial cirque; northeast of the Benton Trail. Numerous cascades and good views into ravine from Benton Trail. Ravine Lodge area: Unique, historic log building. The above are the obvious high points, but they are only a beginning to the adventures possible. Within this thirty square mile mountain region are miles of idyllic streams, old logging roads, rock slides, subsidiary summits, and intriguing woods to explore. Subject to your route-finding and map-reading ability, the possibilities are endless. Contact Us Top of page | Privacy | Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Last Updated: 4/14/14