Skip to main content Skip to content Outdoor Action Leadership Starts Here Toggle navigation Sign Up How to Sign Up for OA Activities Login to Tripstore Activities Wintersession Backpacking & Hiking Biking Canoeing & Kayaking Climbing Community Service First Aid & CPR Films & Speakers Peak Potential Princeton Climbing Team Orientation OA Orientation Home Page A Day on OA Equipment List for Frosh Trip Leader Application OA Check-in Sunday night OA Weekly Activity & Meal Details Support Team & Command Center Application Leadership Leader Training Leader Training Home Page Becoming an OA Leader Training Schedule FAQ Leadership & Group Dynamics Training Leave No Trace Training Managing Safety Training Technical Skills Training Leaders Leader Home Page Leaders - Expand your Skills How do I Lead a Trip? Advanced Leader Training Trip Becoming a Leader Trainer Becoming an LNT Instructor Becoming a Technical Skills Trainer Leader Prizes Parent Information Frosh Trip Coordinator Jobs Alumni Alumni Home Page Give to OA How to Support OA Alumni Day Reunions Leader Prizes OA Reports Alumni Directory Alumni News: Notes from the Trailhead TigerTrails Alumni Newsletter Alumni Trips Josh Miner '43 Award Josh Miner '43 Leadership Fund Resources OA Staff Places to Go Photos Videos Sustainability Search form Search OA Reunions Activities Friday, May 20 Foundations of Effective Leadership 3:30 - 4:30 p.m. Julis Romo Rabinowitz Building, Bowl A17 Princeton graduates serve in countless leadership positions around the world from entrepreneurs to teachers, directors to parents. Understanding the traits and behaviors that make leaders effective is critical for any organization, and applies to students on campus and alumni in the world at large. Join us for a panel that brings together experts on leadership and Outdoor Action alumni from academics, business, government, the non-profit sector and current OA student leaders to explore what makes leaders effective and how to enhance your own leadership. Outdoor Action Alumni & Friends Reception 4:30 - 6:00 p.m. Julis Romo Rabinowitz Building 117 Forum Catch up with old friends from more than forty-eight years of OA and learn about the new OA+ programs during the academic year and how OA is bouncing back from the pandemic. OA director Rick Curtis ’79 and Program Coordinator Caroline S. Perkins ’14 will be there to give you the latest news. Sunday, May 22 Outdoor Action Leaders & Friends of OA Breakfast Reception 9:00 a.m. - 11:30 a.m. Chancellor Green Rotunda Outdoor Action Leaders and Friends from all classes are invited to join us for our annual breakfast reunion event. Come meet with old friends and learn about the new OA+ programs during the academic year and how OA is bouncing back from the pandemic. Outdoor Action Program. Continental breakfast will be served. More Information Welcome Class of 2026! Outdoor Action is part of the Small-group Experience element of Orientation We are so excited that you’ll be participating in the Outdoor Action (OA) Program for your small-group orientation experience. The Outdoor Action Program has been welcoming incoming students to Princeton through small-group adventures since 1974. To help you prepare for the unique adventure you will have during the next four years, we have developed a special virtual program for this year that combines getting to know your new classmates, learning about Princeton from your upperclass OA Leaders, and experiencing a bit of ‘virtual adventure.’ Find out more Leadership Starts Here! The Outdoor Action Leader Training Program is focused on developing leadership in every student regardless your level of previous leadership or outdoor experience. If you want to take the next step in becoming a more effective leader, sign up for Leader Training over Fall Break, Wintersession, Spring Break or spread out during the spring semester. The Leader Training Program is free to all students. All students are encouraged to participate in OA Leader Training, whether or not you want to lead OA trips. We are looking for dedicated students who want to intentionally develop their leadership skills to be leaders at Princeton and beyond. In OA we don't just talk about leadership, we place you in real situations where you get to practice leadership and receive feedback that will help you be a better leader. Leadership Skills you'll develop include: Judgement & Decision Making Giving & Receiving Feedback Bystander Intervention Skills Creating effective learning sequences Learning how to challenge yourself and others Explore Princeton Outdoors! OA Local Hikes Series: The Institute Woods The Institute Woods is 500 acres of woodlands, trails and open space just 1.5 miles from campus, on the other side of the golf course. It is a spectacular place to go immerse yourself in nature within walking distance of campus.We'll go over how to get there, the layout of trails & how to navigate them using your phone, some of the amazing wildlife and trees that are there, and give you the maps you'll need to run your own easy hike. A typical walk will take about 3 hours and cover about 5 miles. Come learn about this great resource you can access anytime. Register for the Zoom presentation All About Outdoor Action Outdoor Action (OA) is Princeton's outdoor education and leadership program. Each fall OA provides a multi-day outdoor orientation experience for the incoming first-year class. During the academic year, OA offers trips and events open to the entire Princeton University community through activities like hiking, backpacking, canoeing, and rock climbing as well as speakers and films, instructional classes on outdoor skills, and leadership development workshops. OA also runs the Outdoor Action Climbing Wall, an indoor rock climbing gym and training facility. OA provides open hours for climbing when classes are in session as well as instructional classes for beginners. OA trips and activities are led by students who have completed the OA Leader Training program, a comprehensive leadership development program that will teach you how to effectively manage any group or team and teach you all the outdoor skills you need to know to be comfortable in the outdoors. OA Leader Training is open to all members of the Princeton community and is free for undergraduate and graduate students. The OA Leader community is the largest leadership program on campus and welcomes everyone interested in developing leadership skills to serve others. No prior outdoor experience is required to participate in the OA Leader Training program or any OA activity. We can provide you with the knowledge and the equipment to explore and enjoy the outdoors. OA also operates an outdoor equipment rental facility if you want to rent equipment for going on your own trips. Become part of the Largest Leadership Organization on Campus Outdoor Action Leader Training is starting up for the spring. We are the largest leadership training program on campus and the experience that you get leading for OA is invaluable. We are looking for the most diverse group of students to become the next generation of OA Leaders. You don't need to have any previous experience in the outdoors or even to have gone on the OA Frosh Trip. We can teach you everything you need to know to be an effective leader both on campus and in the outdoors. Learn More About Us Outdoor Action is Princeton University's outdoor education and leadership development program. For over 45 years OA has served Princeton through the annual Frosh Trip outdoor orientation program for incoming first-year students, through the Leader Training program which trains current students to be leaders and role models to incoming students on the Frosh Trip, and alumni through on-campus events and outdoor-based adventure travel trips. Contact Us Outdoor Action Program 350 Alexander Street Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 609-258-6230 Contact Us © 2015 The Trustees of Princeton University, Outdoor Action Program | Leader Communities Log in