More details Skip to main content Dartmouth Home Search Index Dartmouth College Dartmouth Outdoors Home Dartmouth Outing Club Outdoor Programs Office Services Places and Activities First Year Trips Search this Site First-Year Trips For Current Students First-Year Trip Leader and Crew Application and Information Connect with First-Year Trips Contact us Reserve a cabin | Stay at Moosilauke | Join the club | Rent Gear/Ski | Support the DOC Home > First-Year Trips Looking for registration information about First-Year Trips 2022? You're ahead of the game! Keep an eye out for information regarding First-Year Trips in late June. As always, reach out to First-Year.Trips@dartmouth.edu with any questions. Mission Statement First-Year Trips is a transition-to-Dartmouth program that supports incoming students by providing an engaging and fun space where they can develop a sense of belonging to Dartmouth and its surrounding areas through a small-group, inclusive, and accessible overnight, outdoor experience. We center incoming students’ experiences and provide them with layers of peer support and the opportunity to build lasting and intentional connections within the Dartmouth community. Trips also creates an environment for peer leaders to both reflect on their time at Dartmouth and play a meaningful role in introducing Dartmouth to others. About the program First-Year Trips provides you a unique opportunity to spend a few days bonding with other incoming students in the beautiful area surrounding your new home. Each Trip is led by two current Dartmouth students who are excited to welcome you. Trips allows you to mark your transition to Dartmouth by connecting with your peers, while beginning to find your own sense of place here. Commitment to Accessibility All incoming students are eligible and encouraged to participate in First-Year Trips, regardless of ability or outdoors experience! We will work with you to find a Trip which fits your comfort level, abilities, and interests, even if you're participating in another pre-orientation program, or are a transfer or exchange student. We firmly believe that there there are no wrong ways and many right ways to interact with the outdoors. We want to enable you to connect to your peers in nature in the way that feels best to you. Our Trip types are built to be accessible to a wide variety of needs. In addition, we work closely with many other offices and programs at Dartmouth, including the Student Accessibility Services, Office of Visa and Immigration Services (OVIS), and Financial Aid. If you are concerned about your ability to participate for any reason, please reach out to New Student Orientation and we'll work with you and campus partners to address concerns or barriers to your participation. Financially, there is a fee associated with First-Year Trips. However, we work closely with Dartmouth's Financial Aid office to automatically adjust this fee with in line with the aid you recieve from the college. If you have concerns about financial accessiblity, please reach out to us. What to expect on your Trip During New Student Orientation, Trips will leave campus to spend a few days with each other around an activity or theme – called your Trip Type. There are many types of Trips, designed to appeal to the interests, backgrounds and experiences of anyone! While we’re still finalizing our exact Trips for this year, here’s a sample: Example Trip Types Canoeing Canoeing Trips take place on gorgeous, flat-water rivers led by experienced leaders. Canoes, life jackets/personal flotation devices (PFDs), and paddles will be provided. Expect up to four hours of upper-body exertion as you paddle down the rivers. You will be expected to bring your packs/duffel bags on the canoe with you.You should be comfortable in and around water, and will complete a water comfort assessment in Hanover before your Trip. You will be staying under tarps or in tents in campsites without formal toilet facilities. Nature Exploration and Ecology The purpose of the Nature Exploration and Ecology Trip is to observe and familiarize yourself with the natural spaces of New England. The first part of this Trip is largely unstructured, with space and time for relaxing in the outdoors or in your cabin. The second part of this trip is partially led by a Dartmouth professor and/or grad student – you will observe and participate in ecological field research projects at the Hubbard Brook Experimental Forest. No experience with ecology is required, but expect to spend time outside, walking on gravel paths for up to 2.5 miles a day and engaging with the outdoors. You will sleep in a furnished cabin with access to bathrooms and electricity. Hiking (moderately strenuous) These Hiking Trips are a moderate Hiking Trip option. These trips hike from campsite to campsite, carrying their things in backpacks. Each day involves between 5-10 miles of hiking, which takes about 6 hours, not including breaks. These hikes are on moderate to mixed terrain with elevation gains between 500-2000ft per day. Absolutely no hiking experience is necessary, but you should feel comfortable with moderate to strenuous physical activity as the terrain is somewhat rugged and you will be carrying a backpack. You will be spending the nights in campsites under tarps or in tents without formal bathroom facilities, or in lean-to-style trail shelters with outhouse bathroom facilities Cabin Camping and Cooking Cabin Camping and Cooking offers the opportunity to experience beautiful New England nature in a relaxed setting while trying out your skills in the kitchen. This Trip involves access to a large kitchen and the ability to work together with others on your Trip to plan and create meals and recipes. You will carry a pack or duffel bag while hiking a relatively short distance (about 10 minutes) to your cabin. Cabin camping is a great introduction to the outdoors surrounding Dartmouth, and these trips are enjoyable regardless of your desire for outdoor experience. Any day hikes are optional, and these Trips can be as relaxing or physically active as you like. You will be staying in bunkhouse-style accommodations with access to electricity and running water. Just can't wait? Neither can we! Literally so many students and collaborators from all over the college are working extremely hard, prepping to make First-Year Trips 2022 the best it can be. Please feel free to say hi to us in the meantime, through email, on Facebook or Instagram. We love you already, '26s! Contact Us Top of page | Privacy | Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Last Updated: 5/19/22