Center for the Outdoor Recreation Economy Home Research Programs FORE101 Ski Lift Training Outdoor Industry Leadership Certificate About Us Resources Blog Donate Now WORK THE OUTDOORS CONNECTING THE OUTDOOR RECREATION ECONOMY TO ITS POTENTIAL 3,856 Members WEDA is comprised of Extension Directors and Representatives 17 states and territories WEDA is represented throughout the continental US and beyond 96 Years The Western Extension Directors was created in 1924, making it 96 years old. A new kind of industry partnership Oregon State University's Center for the Outdoor Recreation Economy emerged from extensive conversations with industry leaders. These industry partners described a growing skills gap and challenges in recruiting and retaining a truly diverse, equitable and inclusive workforce. Through research, partnerships and industry-informed technical skills and leadership training programs, we’re dedicated to meeting these needs and connecting the outdoor recreation economy to its full economic, social and environmental potential. Understanding the outdoor recreation economy An unrecognized powerhouse In terms of its contribution to the GDP, the outdoor recreation industry rivals high-profile sectors like mining, agriculture and big pharma. Grounded in local communities With outdoor businesses in communities of every size and region, outdoor recreation economy contributes to the quality of life for rural and urban communities. Supporting a small business renaissance At a time when business consolidation is increasing inequality in the United States, the outdoor recreation economy is an engine for small business growth. 2.1% the outdoor industry's direct contribution to the national GDP (Source: U.S. Dept. of Commerce, BEA) $788 BILLION Annual consumer spending (Source: US Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) 5.2 MILLION jobs generated by the outdoor recreation sector (Source: USDA Office of Rural Development) 60% rate by which revenue growth exceeded the national average (Source: U.S. Dept. of Commerce, BEA) Economic benefits are just the beginning A thriving outdoor recreation industry makes the outdoors more accessible and inviting. That's a win for everyone. Developmental Health When children connect with the natural world: Their health improves; they do better in school; they develop social and emotional resilience. Source Lifelong Wellbeing Spending time outdoors improves the health of both children and adults. It also leads to more exercise, improved concentration, and better health. Source Community Resilience Regular, equitable access to open, natural spaces improves community cohesion, reduces crime and results in increased civic participation. Source Environment Connection Outdoor recreation connects us to place and increases our knowledge of and support for conservation and environmental engagement. Source There's work to be done The outdoor recreation economy has the potential to be an even greater driver of positive economic, social and environmental change. Here’s the to-do list. Make outdoor recreation accessible to all, regardless of background or ability by understanding and removing barriers to full participation. Create a pipeline of highly skilled workers from all backgrounds, foster clear pathways for inclusive career advancement and cultivate culturally literate, equitable standards and practice at all levels. Establish standards around core competencies to raise performance industry-wide, to support opportunities for skilled workers, and to empower employers to recruit from outside of existing networks. Develop and deliver 21st century workforce and professional development training that leverages the full possibilities of existing and emerging technology to create inviting, accessible and highly effective learning experiences for all. Explore our research and programmatic priorities to learn more about how we are working to help advance this bold agenda. Who We Are The Center for the Outdoor Recreation Economy is dedicated to advancing research and curriculum development, technical skills training and leadership programming for the U.S. outdoor industry. Learn more about our team. Follow us on LinkedIn. Contact Us We'd love to hear from you. Contact us at outdooreconomy [at] oregonstate [dot] edu. © Oregon State University | All Rights Reserved