Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Engineering Outreach Programs Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Programs Faculty Columbia Students K-12 Students and Educators News & Announcements About Us SHAPE ENG: Engineering the Next Generation Inside Engineering Engineering Speaks HK Maker Lab NSF COSMOS-NewLAW Research Experiences and Mentoring and Teaching Materials Research Science and Engineering Center (MRSEC) Columbia's FIRST Robotics Team Columbia University Competitions in Math The Youth Sports Lab Robogals Engineers Without Borders Columbia Space Initiative National Society of Black Engineers Society of Hispanic Pre-Professional Engineers Society of Women Engineers Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (CU SIAM) Sci-Inspire SciRISE - Scientific Research by International Students at ELLIS Other STEM Programs at Columbia Girls Who Code Columbia Engineering Outreach Programs You are here: Home Programs Engineering the Next Generation (ENG) Engineering the Next Generation (ENG) Applications are now CLOSED for Summer 2022! Please email [email protected] with any questions. Image Carousel with 5 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: Engineering the Next Generation student researchers presenting their work at the final presentations. Slide 2: Engineering the Next Generation student researchers presenting their work at the final presentations. Slide 3: Engineering the Next Generation student participant presenting her research. Photo Credit: Tim Lee Slide 4: Engineering the Next Generation student participants presenting their poster. Photo Credit: Tim Lee Slide 5: Engineering the Next Generation student participant presenting their research. Photo Credit: Tim Lee Engineering the Next Generation student researchers presenting their work at the final presentations. Engineering the Next Generation student researchers presenting their work at the final presentations. Engineering the Next Generation student participant presenting her research. Photo Credit: Tim Lee Engineering the Next Generation student participants presenting their poster. Photo Credit: Tim Lee Engineering the Next Generation student participant presenting their research. Photo Credit: Tim Lee Previous Next For six weeks, students work with Columbia Engineering researchers and participate in programming to develop their academic and professional skills. Students gain practical research experience, collaborate with research faculty, staff, and students, practice new skills, and take part in multi-level mentorship. Virtual program components include experience in working on genuine engineering research projects, research skills and college prep workshops, science communications workshops, and additional supplemental seminars and opportunities. Students are provided with a stipend to support them over the summer. We encourage all rising seniors (current 11th graders) with an interest in engineering and research to apply. Note: As of now, we plan for ENG to offer in-person programming but will default to a virtual hybrid model as necessary due to COVID-19. Admitted students must follow Columbia University's public health protocols, which include vaccination against COVID-19, masking, and distancing where appropriate. Expand all Collapse all Get Involved Columbia Students & Faculty The ENG program is a great opportunity for members of the Columbia Engineering community to connect with high school students. Undergraduate summer researchers can be involved in college preparation workshops Graduate students can serve as mentors for ENG students Postdocs can teach research skills seminars and contribute to career planning workshops Faculty host ENG students in their labs If you would like to participate next summer, please email fill out this form: https://seas.co1.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_6th34Wq5iss5P94 Past ENG Cohorts In 2020, ENG transitioned to an online format due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Our students focused on doing computational research with their labs and mentors. In addition, the program included daily research skills and science communications workshops, which culminated in multiple projects. These results are displayed on each of the students' personal websites. To learn more about the 2020 ENG cohort and their projects, click here! Dr. Kristen Myers (Myers Soft Tissues Lab, Department of Mechanical Engineering) talks about being a mentor in the summer program along with two high school student researchers. (646) 745-8422 [email protected] Phone (646) 745-8422 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close