Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Engineering Outreach Programs Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Programs Faculty Columbia Students K-12 Students and Educators News & Announcements About Us SHAPE ENG: Engineering the Next Generation Inside Engineering Engineering Speaks HK Maker Lab NSF COSMOS-NewLAW Research Experiences and Mentoring and Teaching Materials Research Science and Engineering Center (MRSEC) Columbia's FIRST Robotics Team Columbia University Competitions in Math The Youth Sports Lab Robogals Engineers Without Borders Columbia Space Initiative National Society of Black Engineers Society of Hispanic Pre-Professional Engineers Society of Women Engineers Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (CU SIAM) Sci-Inspire SciRISE - Scientific Research by International Students at ELLIS Other STEM Programs at Columbia Girls Who Code Columbia Engineering Outreach Programs You are here: Home Programs Engineering Speaks Engineering Speaks Engineering Speaks connects Columbia Engineering students and researchers with K-12 students in New York City. Engineers visit NYC classrooms to lead students in a hands-on and engaging lesson and demonstration. After the session, students will be able to envision themselves as engineers and scientists. The programs will shed a light on how engineering is part of our everyday lives and how students can make an impact in the world through engineering. Overall, our sessions are designed to show students that engineering and science are fun and exciting. The Outreach Office is excited to announce we are relaunching the Engineering Speaks program in January 2022! If you are a Columbia Engineering educator (faculty, post-doc, PhD student), and are interested in being matched with a local school to lead a fun and engaging STEM lesson of your choosing, use the form below to submit your idea for a lesson. Submissions for spring participation are still being accepted. For the 2021-2022 school year, participants can opt for an in-person learning experience or a virtual learning experience. Expand all Collapse all Get Involved K-12 Students and Educators Educators interested in scheduling a specific Engineering Speaks session should reach out to us! We'd love to coordinate with you to arrange a session for you and your students. Feel free to also email us with information regarding your request. Columbia Students & Faculty We welcome faculty, post-docs, graduate, and PhD students with an interest in STEM outreach to join Engineering Speaks. Please use this form to submit your ideas. If you have any questions, feel free to reach out to [email protected] Professor and former NASA Astronaut Mike Massimino speaking with students from ELLIS Preparatory Academy. Contact Us: Questions? Reach out to us! (646) 745-8422 [email protected] Phone (646) 745-8422 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close