Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Engineering Outreach Programs Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Programs Faculty Columbia Students K-12 Students and Educators News & Announcements About Us SHAPE ENG: Engineering the Next Generation Inside Engineering Engineering Speaks HK Maker Lab NSF COSMOS-NewLAW Research Experiences and Mentoring and Teaching Materials Research Science and Engineering Center (MRSEC) Columbia's FIRST Robotics Team Columbia University Competitions in Math The Youth Sports Lab Robogals Engineers Without Borders Columbia Space Initiative National Society of Black Engineers Society of Hispanic Pre-Professional Engineers Society of Women Engineers Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (CU SIAM) Sci-Inspire SciRISE - Scientific Research by International Students at ELLIS Other STEM Programs at Columbia Girls Who Code Columbia Engineering Outreach Programs You are here: Home Columbia Students Sci-Inspire Sci-Inspire Sci-Inspire Members at the student activities fair. Photo Credit: Outreach Programs Staff Sci-Inspire works with Columbia Engineering to connect volunteers with local K-12 schools. This school-based program supports STEM education and collaborates with other student groups on campus to train volunteers for educational and outreach activities, as well as to screen (fingerprint) them in compliance with the NYC DoE. The online platform empowers educators to specify individual STEM needs and to access the many talents of Columbia Engineering students. Sci-Inspire cultivates an active and vibrant STEM outreach community and aims to boost science attitudes and aptitudes in young learners. Columbia undergrad and grad students can volunteer by registering online through Sci-Inspire and attending trainings and screenings. Expand all Collapse all Get Involved K-12 Students and Educators Interested in having your school host volunteers? Already partner with Outreach Programs? Create a Sci-Inspire profile here to create a profile and list volunteer opportunities at your school. If you have not yet worked with Sci-Inspire and Outreach Programs email [email protected] to become a partner school. Columbia Students Columbia undergraduates and graduate students can volunteer at local K-12 schools. To volunteer register online through Sci-Inspire. Once you are registered a Sci-Inspire e-board member will contact you regarding trainings and screenings. To get involved in the e-board, contact [email protected]. Columbia Faculty Columbia Faculty can also volunteer at local K-12 schools. To volunteer register online through Sci-Inspire. Once you are registered a Sci-Inspire e-board member will contact you regarding trainings and screenings. Sci-Inspire Sci-Inspire Website Sci-Inspire Facebook Register for Sci-Inspire [email protected] Phone (646) 745-8422 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close