Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Engineering Outreach Programs Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Programs Faculty Columbia Students K-12 Students and Educators News & Announcements About Us SHAPE ENG: Engineering the Next Generation Inside Engineering Engineering Speaks HK Maker Lab NSF COSMOS-NewLAW Research Experiences and Mentoring and Teaching Materials Research Science and Engineering Center (MRSEC) Columbia's FIRST Robotics Team Columbia University Competitions in Math The Youth Sports Lab Robogals Engineers Without Borders Columbia Space Initiative National Society of Black Engineers Society of Hispanic Pre-Professional Engineers Society of Women Engineers Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (CU SIAM) Sci-Inspire SciRISE - Scientific Research by International Students at ELLIS Other STEM Programs at Columbia Girls Who Code Columbia Engineering Outreach Programs You are here: Home Columbia Students Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (CU SIAM) Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (CU SIAM) Coding Bootcamp class. Photo Credit: SIAM member CU SIAM is Columbia’s chapter of an international community of over 14000 members and 500 institutions for industrial and applied math. The national SIAM organization exists to promote interaction between mathematics and other scientific and technological communities. On campus they are involved in a range of student fun activities, including Latex tutorials, peer advising, and company visits. This year they are organizing a five-session Coding Bootcamp focused on introducing local high school students to Python and mathematical modeling. CU SIAM is responsible for hosting the Columbia chapter of the MMATHS competition. MMATHS is a team-based math competition for high school students held on April 13th, 2019. More registration information can be found here. Outreach Events: Volunteering at the National Math Festival On-campus Coding Bootcamp Expand all Collapse all Get Involved K-12 Students and Educators To partner with SIAM please email [email protected] and [email protected] Columbia Students Currently CU SIAM is looking for Columbia students willing to teach 30min-1 hour long sessions to high school participants as well as anyone who is interested in joining! Email [email protected] and check out their website for more information. Columbia Faculty Faculty can serve as advisers to the group. If interested email [email protected] CU SIAM Website CU SIAM Coding Bootcamp Information [email protected] Phone (646) 745-8422 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close