Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Engineering Outreach Programs Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Programs Faculty Columbia Students K-12 Students and Educators News & Announcements About Us SHAPE ENG: Engineering the Next Generation Inside Engineering Engineering Speaks HK Maker Lab NSF COSMOS-NewLAW Research Experiences and Mentoring and Teaching Materials Research Science and Engineering Center (MRSEC) Columbia's FIRST Robotics Team Columbia University Competitions in Math The Youth Sports Lab Robogals Engineers Without Borders Columbia Space Initiative National Society of Black Engineers Society of Hispanic Pre-Professional Engineers Society of Women Engineers Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (CU SIAM) Sci-Inspire SciRISE - Scientific Research by International Students at ELLIS Other STEM Programs at Columbia Girls Who Code Columbia Engineering Outreach Programs You are here: Home Columbia Students Society of Women Engineers Society of Women Engineers Image Carousel with 2 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: SWE Group Photo, credit: CU SWE Website Slide 2: SWE Annual EEE Event SWE Group Photo, credit: CU SWE Website SWE Annual EEE Event Previous Next SWE’s mission is to stimulate women to achieve full potential in careers as engineers and leaders, expand the image of the engineering profession as a positive force in improving the quality of life, and demonstrate the value of diversity. For more than six decades, SWE has given women engineers a unique place and voice within the engineering industry. The organization is centered around a passion for the members' success and continues to evolve with the challenges and opportunities reflected in today's exciting engineering and technology specialties. Outreach Events: Partnerships with ThinkSTEAM Engineering Exploration Experience (EEE). Expand all Collapse all Get Involved K-12 Students and Educators To partner with SWE please contact [email protected]. Columbia Students Columbia Engineering undergraduate students participate in outreach activities as well as professional development programs. To get more information send SWE an email with your inquiry and name to [email protected]. Columbia Faculty Faculty adviser is James Teherani. If interested email [email protected]. or [email protected] Society of Women Engineers Columbia SWE Website Columbia SWE Facebook Columbia SWE Instagram [email protected] Phone (646) 745-8422 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close