Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Engineering Outreach Programs Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Programs Faculty Columbia Students K-12 Students and Educators News & Announcements About Us SHAPE ENG: Engineering the Next Generation Inside Engineering Engineering Speaks HK Maker Lab NSF COSMOS-NewLAW Research Experiences and Mentoring and Teaching Materials Research Science and Engineering Center (MRSEC) Columbia's FIRST Robotics Team Columbia University Competitions in Math The Youth Sports Lab Robogals Engineers Without Borders Columbia Space Initiative National Society of Black Engineers Society of Hispanic Pre-Professional Engineers Society of Women Engineers Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (CU SIAM) Sci-Inspire SciRISE - Scientific Research by International Students at ELLIS Other STEM Programs at Columbia Girls Who Code Columbia Engineering Outreach Programs You are here: Home Programs SHAPE FAQs FAQs Expand all Collapse all Apply Who can participate in this program? How do I apply? The Summer 2022 application is available now. Students apply through the Columbia University Graduate Engineering platform. Can a parent fill out the application? No, all applications must be completed by the student. Do you have tips on writing the application essays? Pay close attention to what the question asks. Please answer all essay questions on the application. Have a teacher or counselor proofread your essay for errors. Do you have tips for the recommendation? For the letter, ask either your science or math teacher at least three weeks in advance. Provide teachers with a resume and grades, too. Can I submit my application before my letter of recommendation and transcript are submitted, and when do my teachers and counselors need to submit these documents? Yes. Please extend requests to your providers and submit as soon as you are ready. We will allow a grace period of one week after the deadline to receive supporting documents for each application. During rolling admissions, please ask your providers to upload supporting documents as soon as possible. We cannot review your application until it is complete. Will there be a wait-list? There may be a wait-list. We will notify applicants of their status as soon as possible. When will I find out whether I was accepted? Admissions decisions will be sent out in early May. Is there an application fee? All applicants that meet the March 11, 2022 priority/scholarship deadline will have their application fee waived. After this date, there will be rolling admissions based on availability and all applicants will be required to pay a $50 application fee. Expand all Collapse all Tuition How do I pay the deposit and tuition? You will pay the deposit and tuition online. All information on payments will be provided after admission. Do you offer scholarships? Yes, we offer need-based scholarships that cover the total cost of the program. For more information on how to apply, please visit our tuition and fees page. Will the scholarship cover travel costs? No, students must provide their own transportation to and from Columbia. What happens if I accept the scholarship and cannot attend? Please be certain that you are able to attend before accepting the scholarship. We strive to give as many full, need-based scholarships as possible. If you accept a spot, and do not use it, we will not have the chance to offer it to another candidate. We take this process seriously and ask that our applicants do the same. Will I be able to get the deposit back? The deposit will act as the first payment toward tuition. The remaining tuition balance will be due at a later date indicated in the admissions letter. The deposit is non-refundable. How do you keep track of payments? All students paying tuition are required to pay their bill within the deadlines provided by program staff. Please refer to our Financial Responsibility Policy for more details. The university’s office of financial services tracks all student accounts and payments. Expand all Collapse all Courses and Programs What is the difference between sessions, courses and electives? Sessions are three weeks long. Courses are engineering classes taught by faculty. Electives are skill-building seminars taught undergraduates and professional staff. During each session, students will choose one course and one elective. Can I take more than one course? Students may only take one course during each session, but may apply to attend both 3-week sessions allowing them to attend more than one course. Students should indicate their preference for both sessions on the application. If taking courses during both sessions, students will pay for both 3-week sessions. Can I take any elective? Yes, students may choose any available elective, regardless of which course they are taking. Students will be enrolled in this elective for the full three weeks. We encourage students to interact and collaborate on projects during electives time. How many students are admitted to the program? We admit students based on availability in each course. Will I live on campus? No, all students are expected to commute to the Columbia campus daily (This does not apply to the 2020 and 2021 virtual program). What will the meal plan cover? The meal plan covers lunch every day (This does not apply to the 2020 and 2021 virtual program). What if I have to miss some days of SHAPE? We ask students to take program attendance seriously. However, if you are unable to attend during one or more days of the program, please let us know as soon as possible. Keep in mind that we cannot prorate or discount tuition or offer special materials for covering what you miss, and you will likely be working on a team. What if I start the program, and want to leave? If you accept your offer, and start SHAPE but change your mind about attending, you have 2 full days to leave without penalty. If you withdraw after 5:00pm on the second day of the program, you are responsible for the full tuition. If you have a concern during the first 2 days, please come talk to us - we are here to help and support our students! Personal emergencies will be handled on a case-by-case basis. We know that things happen, and we will be sensitive to specific circumstances as they arise. Will I meet college students and learn about being a student at Columbia? Yes, Columbia students will be assisting with the entire program. Will this program help get me into college at Columbia? Not necessarily. Although we recommend that applicants, whenever possible, spend some time on campus before applying, applicants who have attended a program on the Columbia campus are not given automatic preference in the admissions process. Contact Us [email protected] (646) 745-8422 Sign up for our mailing list Apply SHAPE consists of two, three-week summer sessions. Students may apply for one or both sessions. Applications for SHAPE 2022 will open in February. Phone (646) 745-8422 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close