Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Engineering Outreach Programs Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Programs Faculty Columbia Students K-12 Students and Educators News & Announcements About Us SHAPE ENG: Engineering the Next Generation Inside Engineering Engineering Speaks HK Maker Lab NSF COSMOS-NewLAW Research Experiences and Mentoring and Teaching Materials Research Science and Engineering Center (MRSEC) Columbia's FIRST Robotics Team Columbia University Competitions in Math The Youth Sports Lab Robogals Engineers Without Borders Columbia Space Initiative National Society of Black Engineers Society of Hispanic Pre-Professional Engineers Society of Women Engineers Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (CU SIAM) Sci-Inspire SciRISE - Scientific Research by International Students at ELLIS Other STEM Programs at Columbia Girls Who Code Columbia Engineering Outreach Programs You are here: Home Programs SHAPE Tuition and Fees Tuition and Fees Fee Course Tuition Cost $4,000 Fee Materials Cost $100 Fee Activity Fee Cost $50 Fee Lab Fee Cost $120 Fee Total Cost $4270 Fee Cost Expand all Collapse all Need-Based Scholarships How to Apply SHAPE has a limited number of need-based scholarships, which cover the full cost of the tuition and fees. To be considered for a scholarship we ask parents and students to complete and submit the following documents and SHAPE application (including the requests for transcripts and letters of recommendation) before 11:59 PM on priority deadline (March 11, 2022). To apply, indicate interest on the program application and complete the SHAPE scholarship application form. This includes basic questions and will also allow applicants to upload the following supplemental documents, which are required. Please be sure to sign and upload all documents before submitting your scholarship application. Individual recent pay stubs for parent(s). Indicate if weekly, bi-weekly or monthly pay period. Family Income and Expense Worksheet Parent Non Tax-Filer Certification Form (this is only applicable if not filing a tax return) Unfortunately, late scholarship applications will not be considered. SHAPE will notify scholarship applicants in writing via email after a decision is made. Eligibility Verify financial need Meet program requirements Deadline to Apply The priority and scholarship deadline is March 11, 2022. Scholarship Acceptance Policy Please be certain that you are able to attend before accepting the scholarship. We strive to give as many full scholarships as possible. If you accept a spot, and do not use it, we may not have the chance to offer it to another candidate. If you have a concern please come talk to us - we are here to help and support our students! If you are unable to attend during one or more days of the program, please let us know as soon as possible. Keep in mind that you will likely be working on a team. Personal emergencies will be handled on a case-by-case basis. We know that things happen, and we will be sensitive to specific circumstances as they arise. Deposit Accepted applicants (excluding scholarship recipients) must submit a non refundable deposit ($1,000), credited towards tuition, when they enroll. If a student withdraws from the program the deposit will not be refunded. Payments Upon registration, SHAPE students will receive a Parent Financial Agreement (more information below), and an invoice for the remaining balance, along with options on how to pay. Please pay this balance by the start of the program if possible, or follow the university guidelines below (soon to be updated for 2022 specific dates). Please note that until you receive a financial email from Columbia University (this is different from the SHAPE email with an invoice), you have not entered an official billing cycle. The "Email Date" noted here corresponds to that email. We know this is a bit confusing, so please reach out to [email protected] if you have questions! Financial Responsibility Policy We require parents to take responsibility for student tuition, which follows a university-wide policy for students that are minors. An agreement will be provided to SHAPE students for their parents to sign and return. The current version of the form can be viewed here. Withdrawal Policy Please be certain that you are able to attend before accepting your offer. If you do accept your offer, and start SHAPE but change your mind about attending, you have two days to leave without penalty. If you withdraw after 5:00pm on the second day of the program, you are responsible for the full tuition. If you have a concern please come talk to us - we are here to help and support our students! Personal emergencies will be handled on a case-by-case basis. We know that things happen, and we will be sensitive to specific circumstances as they arise. We ask students to take program attendance seriously. However, if you are unable to attend during one or more days of the program, please let us know as soon as possible. Keep in mind that we cannot prorate or discount tuition or offer special materials for covering what you miss, and you will likely be working on a team. Contact Us [email protected] (646) 745-8422 Sign up for our mailing list Apply SHAPE consists of two, three-week summer sessions. Students may apply for one or both sessions. Applications for SHAPE 2022 will open in February. Phone (646) 745-8422 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close