Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Engineering Outreach Programs Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Programs Faculty Columbia Students K-12 Students and Educators News & Announcements About Us SHAPE ENG: Engineering the Next Generation Inside Engineering Engineering Speaks HK Maker Lab NSF COSMOS-NewLAW Research Experiences and Mentoring and Teaching Materials Research Science and Engineering Center (MRSEC) Columbia's FIRST Robotics Team Columbia University Competitions in Math The Youth Sports Lab Robogals Engineers Without Borders Columbia Space Initiative National Society of Black Engineers Society of Hispanic Pre-Professional Engineers Society of Women Engineers Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (CU SIAM) Sci-Inspire SciRISE - Scientific Research by International Students at ELLIS Other STEM Programs at Columbia Girls Who Code Columbia Engineering Outreach Programs You are here: Home Columbia Students Robogals Robogals Robogals. Photo Credit: Outreach Programs Staff Robogals teaches design and programming with Boe Bots and Lego robots. It is a chapter of the international non-profit organization and aims to get more girls between the ages of 9 and 16 interested in science, engineering, and technology. The program’s long-term goal is to increase female enrollment in computer science, engineering, and technology courses at universities. It is based at local partner schools and operates during after-school time, weekday afternoons between 3pm-5pm. Expand all Collapse all Get Involved K-12 Students and Educators Interested in having Robogals at your school? Email: [email protected] for more information. Columbia Students Columbia undergraduate and graduate students teach the sessions. Also, Undergraduate students can join the student executive board. For more information or to get involved email: [email protected] Columbia Faculty Faculty can serve as advisers to the group. If interested email: [email protected] for more information. Robogals Columbia Robogals Facebook Columbia Robogals Instagram [email protected] Phone (646) 745-8422 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close