Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Engineering Outreach Programs Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Programs Faculty Columbia Students K-12 Students and Educators News & Announcements About Us SHAPE ENG: Engineering the Next Generation Inside Engineering Engineering Speaks HK Maker Lab NSF COSMOS-NewLAW Research Experiences and Mentoring and Teaching Materials Research Science and Engineering Center (MRSEC) Columbia's FIRST Robotics Team Columbia University Competitions in Math The Youth Sports Lab Robogals Engineers Without Borders Columbia Space Initiative National Society of Black Engineers Society of Hispanic Pre-Professional Engineers Society of Women Engineers Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (CU SIAM) Sci-Inspire SciRISE - Scientific Research by International Students at ELLIS Other STEM Programs at Columbia Girls Who Code Columbia Engineering Outreach Programs You are here: Home Columbia Students Engineers Without Borders Engineers Without Borders Image Carousel with 2 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: An Engineers Without Borders student conducts a presentation. Photo Credit: Outreach Programs Staff Slide 2: Ghana Program. Photo Credit: Engineers Without Borders Staff An Engineers Without Borders student conducts a presentation. Photo Credit: Outreach Programs Staff Ghana Program. Photo Credit: Engineers Without Borders Staff Previous Next The Columbia University Chapter of Engineers Without Borders USA supports international community-driven development programs by collaborating with local partners to design and implement sustainable engineering projects, while creating transformative experiences and responsible leaders. In this way, the program seeks to empower communities to meet their basic human needs and help solve the world’s most pressing challenges in places that would often be overlooked by large scale philanthropic efforts. Our projects in Ghana, Morocco, and Uganda have positively impacted over 10,000 individuals! The Ghana program, which started in 2004, is currently focused on water supply, filtration, and distribution in the community of Amanfrom. The Morocco program, which began in 2011, built the world's first high-density polymer suspension bridge, and is now focused on a water supply pipeline in the communities of Izgouaren and Ilgiloda. The Uganda program, established in 2008, is focused on installing solar micro-grids to improve education, medical treatment, and economic opportunity. Each project designs solutions tailored specifically to the needs of our partner communities. You can get involved with CU-EWB by joining one of our three projects! Our undergrad students have opportunities for both local outreach to K-12 schools, and international outreach on assessment, implementation and monitoring trips. Outreach Events: Participation in on-campus outreach events In-school presentations Expand all Collapse all Get Involved K-12 Students and Educators Engineers Without Borders offers in-school presentations to local schools regarding their experiences as engineers in the global community. To have EWB present at your school email [email protected]. Columbia Students Columbia undergraduate students participate in outreach activities as well as participate in engineering projects to help underserved communities worldwide. To get involved in the club visit their website and email [email protected] Columbia Faculty Faculty can serve as advisers to the group. If interested email [email protected] Engineers without borders CU EWB Website CU EWB Facebook CU EWB LinkedIn Group CU EWB GitHub [email protected] Phone (646) 745-8422 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close