Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Engineering Outreach Programs Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Programs Faculty Columbia Students K-12 Students and Educators News & Announcements About Us SHAPE ENG: Engineering the Next Generation Inside Engineering Engineering Speaks HK Maker Lab NSF COSMOS-NewLAW Research Experiences and Mentoring and Teaching Materials Research Science and Engineering Center (MRSEC) Columbia's FIRST Robotics Team Columbia University Competitions in Math The Youth Sports Lab Robogals Engineers Without Borders Columbia Space Initiative National Society of Black Engineers Society of Hispanic Pre-Professional Engineers Society of Women Engineers Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (CU SIAM) Sci-Inspire SciRISE - Scientific Research by International Students at ELLIS Other STEM Programs at Columbia Girls Who Code Columbia Engineering Outreach Programs You are here: Home Columbia Students Society of Hispanic Pre-Professional Engineers Society of Hispanic Pre-Professional Engineers CU SHPE members along with middle and high school students at the March 2018 HISPA Conference. Photo by CU SHPE staff SHPE's vision is a world where Hispanics are highly valued and influential as the leading innovators, scientists, mathematicians and engineers. SHPE changes lives by empowering the Hispanic community to realize its fullest potential and to impact the world through STEM awareness, access, support and development. Outreach activities include in-school presentations, junior chapters, and tutoring. Outreach Events: In-school presentations Fall HISPA Youth conference SHPE Noche de Ciencas. Expand all Collapse all Get Involved K-12 Students and Educators Interested in having SHPE present at your school or getting involved in their on campus programs? Email [email protected] for more information. Columbia Students Columbia Engineering undergraduate students participate in outreach activities as well as professional development programs. To get involved email [email protected] Sign up for their newsletter! Columbia Faculty Faculty can serve as advisers to the group. If interested email [email protected] Society of Hispanic Engineers CU SHPE Website CU SHPE Facebook [email protected] Phone (646) 745-8422 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close