Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Engineering Outreach Programs Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Programs Faculty Columbia Students K-12 Students and Educators News & Announcements About Us SHAPE ENG: Engineering the Next Generation Inside Engineering Engineering Speaks HK Maker Lab NSF COSMOS-NewLAW Research Experiences and Mentoring and Teaching Materials Research Science and Engineering Center (MRSEC) Columbia's FIRST Robotics Team Columbia University Competitions in Math The Youth Sports Lab Robogals Engineers Without Borders Columbia Space Initiative National Society of Black Engineers Society of Hispanic Pre-Professional Engineers Society of Women Engineers Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (CU SIAM) Sci-Inspire SciRISE - Scientific Research by International Students at ELLIS Other STEM Programs at Columbia Girls Who Code Columbia Engineering Outreach Programs You are here: Home Columbia Students Columbia Students Sci-Inspire Volunteer Training Session. Photo Credit: Tomi Akingbola Expand all Collapse all EEU (Education Experience for Undergraduates) Application Inspire High School Students This Summer The Summer High School Academic Program for Engineers (SHAPE) is looking for undergraduate students to mentor, lead, and advise high school students this summer. This paid opportunity features an opportunity to assist SEAS faculty in instruction and aid participants in learning subjects such as computer science, and robotics. The expected commitment for the SHAPE program and training is 7 weeks. Learn more and apply here! Engineering the Next Generation (E.N.G.) is a selective program that runs for six weeks over the summer and includes both lab work and supplemental programming to develop high school students’ academic and professional skills. Students gain practical research experience, exposure to lab culture, new skills, and multi-level mentorship. Undergraduate summer researchers contribute to college and career preparation workshops. The application date is TBD! Engineering Speaks is a program where Columbia faculty and students visit local schools and share their “life story” and explain their personal path, including passions, education, current work, etc. If you would like to participate in Engineering Speaks, please email [email protected] Inside Engineering is a program where school groups are invited to visit Columbia labs and Columbia faculty and students show K-12 students lab equipment, workspaces, and engineers working on high-level problems. If you would like to participate in Inside Engineering, please email [email protected] Expand all Collapse all Research Experience for Undergraduates (REU) A Great Educational Experience Research Experience for Undergraduates (REU) is a joint Materials Research Center program at Columbia University and City College of NY (CCNY) that supports outstanding undergraduates as Summer Research Fellows each year. During the program, all REU students will also be involved in workshops, visits to local industry, recreational activities, a symposium of presentations by students, and other activities. It will include training in: laboratory practices and safety; shared materials characterization tools; and scientific writing/presentations. Students attend a weekly research seminar series by Columbia, CCNY and ASRC faculty, and present results at a daylong symposium at the end of the program. The application date is TBD! The Outreach Programs Office supports Columbia students who volunteer their time, passion, and content knowledge to inspire young STEM learners in the local neighborhood. We train undergraduate and graduate students to be effective communicators, mentors, and educators. We also advise student groups with outreach and education as their core mission; we connect groups with local schools and educators; and we provide physical and financial support for existing groups’ outreach activities and events. To engage busy Columbia students, Outreach Programs offers one-time events for those not able to make a regular commitment, as well as ongoing programming for those who want to develop a stronger bond with young students. To learn more about the outreach programs and get involved, visit our program page. Expand all Collapse all Volunteer Development Volunteer Training Sessions Training Sessions Teaching Strategies Part 1: General Teaching and Tutoring Approaches Training Sessions Teaching Strategies Part 2: Co-Teaching Strategies & Best Practices Training Sessions Class Part 1: Classroom Management Strategies Training Sessions Class Part 2: Making Class Fun - Creating a Solid Lesson/Workshop activity Training Sessions Science Communication (MRSEC) Training Sessions Service Learning Identity Workshop (Office of Multicultural Affairs) Training Sessions Managing a Classroom Training Sessions Working with Diverse Students Training Sessions STEM Communication Training Sessions Team Teaching Mentoring Workshops Through a process-based approach, participants will explore an intellectual framework for research mentoring, have opportunities for reflection on mentoring skills, and a forum to solve mentoring dilemmas and share strategies for success. The research mentor training workshop may include the following competencies: Maintaining effective communication Establishing expectations Assessing understanding Addressing equity and inclusion Promoting professional development Fostering independence Protection of Minors The Protection of Minors training is an online module provided by Columbia University Human Resources that all CU affiliates must complete if they are interacting with children under the age of 18. All volunteers working in an Engineering Outreach program or student group need to complete this training before engaging with children. Protection of Minors certifications last for 2 years from the date of completion. PoM trainings can be done in-person with the Engineering Outreach office and usually take about 30 minutes to complete. The Engineering Outreach office can schedule group and individual trainings throughout the year. Email [email protected] to schedule a time to complete the training. Fingerprinting Volunteers who are entering K-12 schools on a regular basis (attending a school at least three times in a year) need to go through an additional layer of clearance before engaging in service. Regular school-based volunteers must complete fingerprinting with the NYC Department of Education. Fingerprint clearance remains valid indefinitely and only needs to be completed once. Outreach Programs arranges an on-campus fingerprinting session at least once a year. 646-745-8422 [email protected] Related Content Columbia Space Initiative Society of Women Engineers National Society of Black Engineers Society of Hispanic Engineers Engineers Without Borders Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics Phone (646) 745-8422 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close