Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Engineering Outreach Programs Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Programs Faculty Columbia Students K-12 Students and Educators News & Announcements About Us SHAPE ENG: Engineering the Next Generation Inside Engineering Engineering Speaks HK Maker Lab NSF COSMOS-NewLAW Research Experiences and Mentoring and Teaching Materials Research Science and Engineering Center (MRSEC) Columbia's FIRST Robotics Team Columbia University Competitions in Math The Youth Sports Lab Robogals Engineers Without Borders Columbia Space Initiative National Society of Black Engineers Society of Hispanic Pre-Professional Engineers Society of Women Engineers Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (CU SIAM) Sci-Inspire SciRISE - Scientific Research by International Students at ELLIS Other STEM Programs at Columbia Girls Who Code Columbia Engineering Outreach Programs You are here: Home Programs SHAPE Apply Apply SHAPE consists of two, three-week summer sessions. Students may attend one or both sessions. Applications for Summer 2022 are open now! The priority deadline is March 11th, 2022 at 11:59 PM. After that admissions will be made on a rolling basis based on availability. We use the Columbia Graduate Engineering application system - if you see a Graduate Engineering header while looking for the application, don't worry! You are probably in the right place. If you are unsure, just ask by emailing [email protected]. While you are filling out the application, please reference the "SHAPE Application Instructions" page. There are details here that will help you work through the other sections. If you are asked to fill out any information that does not apply to you (for example, you do not have a GPA), please estimate to the best of your ability. If you are unsure or want to clarify please email [email protected]. Expand all Collapse all Application Requirements General Information Student and parent/guardian personal information Preferences for SHAPE session and course Essays Respond to all essay questions Minimum 250 words, 500 words maximum Essay prompts are provided in the online application Uploaded Documents Copy of most recent high school transcript (submitted by teacher or counselor) Letter of recommendation (submitted by a math or science teacher) Resume (submitted by applicant) Deadlines Complete and submit the SHAPE application (including requests for transcripts and letters of recommendation, as well as the scholarship application if necessary) before 11:59 PM on the priority deadline (March 11th, 2022). Rolling admissions if availability allows. Please extend requests to your providers and submit your application as soon as you are ready. We will allow a grace period of one week after the deadline to receive supporting documents for each application. During rolling admissions, please ask your providers to upload supporting documents as soon as possible. We cannot review your application until it is complete. Contact Us [email protected] (646) 745-8422 Sign up for our mailing list Apply SHAPE consists of two, three-week summer sessions. Students may apply for one or both sessions. Applications for SHAPE 2022 will open in February. Phone (646) 745-8422 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close