Skip Navigation OU Homepage Search OU OU Social Media The University of Oklahoma Community Services Health and Human Services American Indian Institute Center For Public Management National Resource Center For Youth Services Southwest Prevention Center IPBHC Conference Public and Community Services Public Service Institute KGOU Medieval Fair Educational Services PreK-12 Education Center For Early Childhood Professional Development EDUTAS Early Learning Quick Assessments (ELQA) Instructional Coaching Innovations Reading Program Continuing and Higher Education Center For Institutional Data Exchange and Analysis International Adult and Continuing Education Hall of Fame Technology Bootcamps Social Justice Southwest Center for Human Relations Studies NCORE Conference Research and Evaluation E-TEAM Consortium for Student Retention Data Exchange Training and Development Professional Development Executive Training and Team Quest National Center for Disability Education and Training Who We Are Our Values Belinda Biscoe Outreach History Products and Business Services ELQA ConferencePros Forum Conference Services Registration and Records Conferences and Events NCORE Aii Conference ConferencePros Prevention and Healthcare National Symposium on Student Retention Forum Conference Services Medieval Fair 2022 Contact Us News WE ARE OU OUTREACH OU OUTREACH - YOUR FUTURE IS OUR FUTURE University of Oklahoma Outreach is a lifelong learning organization dedicated to helping individuals, businesses, groups, and communities transform themselves through knowledge. Continue to keep up-to-date on campus covid-19 protocols and developments at OU Together. NEW PROGRAM UNIVERSITY PARTNERSHIP FILLS SKILL GAP IN CYBERSECURITY, CODING The bioscience, aviation, aerospace and energy industries have a large presence in Oklahoma, causing highly sensitive information to exchange hands every day and creating a need for highly skilled cybersecurity and coding professionals. The University of Oklahoma, in partnership with Fullstack Academy, is working to fill the state’s skills gap in these areas through a series of online bootcamps offered through OU Outreach/College of Continuing Education. Learn More ADULT EDUCATION RESEARCH CONFERENCE - June 10 - 12, 2022 - Hybrid -- Norman, OK and Virtual Formats The Adult Education Research Conference (AERC) is an annual North American conference that provides a forum for adult education researchers to share their experiences and the results of their studies with students, other researchers, and practitioners from around the world. In a sense, the AERC is also a retreat for members of the adult education community; an informal, collegial gathering where all are encouraged to enter into lively debate over the future direction of research in adult education. facebook.com/adult.edu.research.conference The 2022 Annual Adult Education Research Conference will be in Norman, OK, June 10-12, 2022. This conference will be offered in a hybrid format, with the option to attend the conference in-person or virtually. The conference site is the OU Outreach/College of Continuing Education Thurman J. White Forum Building. If you have any questions about the conference, please send a message to infoaerc@psu.edu. Public and Community Services Research and organizational planning, professional development, leadership training, and conference and event support. Continuing and Higher Education Diverse programs to help create healthy, engaging, and inclusive communities. K-12 Education Services Services for Pre-K - 12 and higher/continuing education to improve systems, support educators, and help learners achieve goals. Southwest Prevention Center The Southwest Prevention Center is a catalyst for positive social change committed to preventing alcohol, tobacco, and other drug abuse and related high-risk behaviors. American Indian Institute Providing service to and collaboration with American Indian, Alaska Native, and First Nations communities. Southwest Center for Human Relations Studies A university-based human relations and social justice organization that serves as a catalyst for promoting equality and human rights. Public Service Institute The Public Service Institute helps manage critical change for schools, churches, worship centers, public service and social organizations, government organizations, and communities. NCORE The NCORE® conference series constitutes the leading and most comprehensive national forum on issues of race and ethnicity in American higher education. KGOU OU's public radio station informs people about today's interesting topics and news that affect their daily lives. OU OUTREACH ResourcesAccessibility Sustainability HIPAA OU Job Search Useful LinksPolicies Legal Notices Copyright Resources And Offices Contact Us UNIVERSITY OF OKLAHOMA COLLEGE OF CONTINUING EDUCATION 1700 ASP AVENUE NORMAN, OKLAHOMA 73072 PHONE: (405) 325-4414 EMAIL: lhayes@ou.edu 2018 © All Rights Reserved. Facebook LinkenIn