Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Engineering Outreach Programs Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Programs Faculty Columbia Students K-12 Students and Educators News & Announcements About Us SHAPE ENG: Engineering the Next Generation Inside Engineering Engineering Speaks HK Maker Lab NSF COSMOS-NewLAW Research Experiences and Mentoring and Teaching Materials Research Science and Engineering Center (MRSEC) Columbia's FIRST Robotics Team Columbia University Competitions in Math The Youth Sports Lab Robogals Engineers Without Borders Columbia Space Initiative National Society of Black Engineers Society of Hispanic Pre-Professional Engineers Society of Women Engineers Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (CU SIAM) Sci-Inspire SciRISE - Scientific Research by International Students at ELLIS Other STEM Programs at Columbia Girls Who Code Columbia Engineering Outreach Programs You are here: Home About Us Image Carousel with 4 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: about us Slide 2: about us Slide 3: about us Slide 4: about us Previous Next About Us Our Vision The Columbia Engineering Outreach team envisions a world where all students can see a place for themselves in STEM. Whether as researchers, professors, or engineers, we believe that every student should have access to enriching learning experiences that help them achieve their goals. To accomplish this, we support Columbia students and faculty in connecting directly with the community through K-12 programs. Through existing and emerging initiatives, we increase access to STEM education at all levels. In addition to our community outreach programs, we assist faculty and researchers with strengthening the broader impact of their work through the support of NSF and other private partners. We also foster relationships with colleges and universities across the country, to provide students from historically underrepresented backgrounds with research and mentorship opportunities. Through these partnerships, we are able to supplement the education they receive from their home institution and increase their exposure to STEM career pathways. Through this work, we bridge the divide between the community, Columbia Engineering, and the STEM industry at large. Expand all Collapse all Staff Outreach Director Kristian Breton Kristian joined the Outreach team in July 2021. His career in education started when we worked in East Harlem to match mentors with students in the community. While there he launched the FIRST Robotics team #1880. Since then he has worked in a variety of roles for NYC’s Department of Youth and Community Development, The New York Academy of Sciences, and The School of The New York Times. A throughline in these roles has been a commitment to providing high-quality programming to students from a wide range of backgrounds with a goal of young people seeing the many STEM pathways they can pursue. Kristian is excited about leveraging the resources of Columbia to benefit students, faculty, and researchers across disciplines. He traces his passion for STEM back to his time at Space Camp as a 6th grader. Outreach Program Specialists Analiese Barnes-Classen Analiese is an Outreach Program Specialist at SEAS. She was born and raised in Roxbury and relocated to Crown Heights in 2020. Prior to joining Columbia, she managed arts education programs at the Museum of Fine Arts Boston. Before that role, she worked in development and programming at various nonprofits in the Boston area, as well as the Center for Urban Pedagogy in New York. She holds a BA from Providence College in Public and Community Service Studies. She is a former member of the Boston SPARK Council and is in the 2021 class of the Institute for Nonprofit Practice Community Fellows. She is passionate about creating equitable and sustainable partnerships between the community and large institutions like Columbia. Cassandra joined the SEAS Outreach team as a Program Specialist after graduating from Northeastern University. In her five years in Boston, Cassandra worked as a Service-Learning Student Leader helping faculty integrate service into their curriculum and connected students to the community. Cassandra realized her passion for STEM education after interning at Vertex Pharmaceuticals, teaching Boston Public Schools high school students basic STEM tenets. Hearing their “oos” and “aahs” led her to pursue STEM outreach full-time. Cassandra holds a Bachelor of Science in Biology and Political Science. When not pouring into the minds of future scientists, Cassandra enjoys reading books and baking for her roommates and coworkers. 646-745-8422 [email protected] Phone (646) 745-8422 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close