Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Engineering Outreach Programs Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Programs Faculty Columbia Students K-12 Students and Educators News & Announcements About Us SHAPE ENG: Engineering the Next Generation Inside Engineering Engineering Speaks HK Maker Lab NSF COSMOS-NewLAW Research Experiences and Mentoring and Teaching Materials Research Science and Engineering Center (MRSEC) Columbia's FIRST Robotics Team Columbia University Competitions in Math The Youth Sports Lab Robogals Engineers Without Borders Columbia Space Initiative National Society of Black Engineers Society of Hispanic Pre-Professional Engineers Society of Women Engineers Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (CU SIAM) Sci-Inspire SciRISE - Scientific Research by International Students at ELLIS Other STEM Programs at Columbia Girls Who Code Columbia Engineering Outreach Programs You are here: Home Columbia Students SciRISE - Scientific Research by International Students at ELLIS SciRISE - Scientific Research by International Students at ELLIS Image Carousel with 2 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: classroom photo Slide 2: building a project Previous Next SciRISE is a student group where CU student participants mentor high school students from ELLIS Preparatory Academy who recently immigrated from countries all over Africa, Latin America, the Middle East, and Southeast Asia on independent scientific research projects! Mentors would attend a minimum of one mentoring session per month. ELLIS Preparatory Academy is a resource-strapped high school in the Bronx for English learners who recently immigrated from countries all over Africa, Latin America, Southeast Asia, and the Middle East. There are no lab rooms in the school, but its students are eager to learn and engage in scientific research! ELLIS Science Club, primarily run by Columbia students, provides high school students with the opportunity to pursue yearlong independent research projects in topics ranging from computer science to water chemistry to microbiology with additional opportunities for lab tours at Columbia or guest workshops. Columbia science and engineering students serve as mentors to help guide the student projects and teach experimental skills, data analysis, and presentation of scientific work as they develop meaningful mentoring relationships with the students. Expand all Collapse all Get Involved 2019-2020 Academic Year Hours We have sessions every week Wed. 2-3:30p pm @ ELLIS (30 min on 1 train) and Fri. 3-4:30 pm @ Columbia). For those interested, please email us at [email protected]. [email protected] Phone (646) 745-8422 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close