Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Engineering Outreach Programs Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Programs Faculty Columbia Students K-12 Students and Educators News & Announcements About Us SHAPE ENG: Engineering the Next Generation Inside Engineering Engineering Speaks HK Maker Lab NSF COSMOS-NewLAW Research Experiences and Mentoring and Teaching Materials Research Science and Engineering Center (MRSEC) Columbia's FIRST Robotics Team Columbia University Competitions in Math The Youth Sports Lab Robogals Engineers Without Borders Columbia Space Initiative National Society of Black Engineers Society of Hispanic Pre-Professional Engineers Society of Women Engineers Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (CU SIAM) Sci-Inspire SciRISE - Scientific Research by International Students at ELLIS Other STEM Programs at Columbia Girls Who Code Columbia Engineering Outreach Programs You are here: Home Programs Columbia's FIRST Robotics Team Columbia's FIRST Robotics Team Columbia's 2 Train Robotics team with their robot. Photo Credit: Outreach Programs Staff The team comes from two local high schools: Columbia Secondary School and Morris High School. They meet about twice a week after school on campus and more frequently leading up to the competition each spring. Undergraduates work with students to design and build a robot then to compete in local, regional, and national tournaments. Volunteer mentors from industry also lend their time and talents to guide each team. Columbia Engineering hosts the 2 Train Robotics team for the high school robotics competition., The international organization’s acronym FIRST is For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technology. Expand all Collapse all Get Involved K-12 Students and Educators Looking for Columbia students to mentor a FIRST team at your school? Email [email protected]. Columbia Students CU undergraduate and graduate students mentor and advise the high school students through the build and competition process. Email [email protected] for information on becoming a mentor. Columbia Faculty Faculty can serve as advisers to the FIRST robotics student group. Email [email protected] for more information. Columbia FIRST Robotics FRC Team 395 - 2 Train Website Follow Team 395 on Twitter! [email protected] Phone (646) 745-8422 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close