Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Engineering Outreach Programs Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Programs Faculty Columbia Students K-12 Students and Educators News & Announcements About Us SHAPE ENG: Engineering the Next Generation Inside Engineering Engineering Speaks HK Maker Lab NSF COSMOS-NewLAW Research Experiences and Mentoring and Teaching Materials Research Science and Engineering Center (MRSEC) Columbia's FIRST Robotics Team Columbia University Competitions in Math The Youth Sports Lab Robogals Engineers Without Borders Columbia Space Initiative National Society of Black Engineers Society of Hispanic Pre-Professional Engineers Society of Women Engineers Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (CU SIAM) Sci-Inspire SciRISE - Scientific Research by International Students at ELLIS Other STEM Programs at Columbia Girls Who Code Columbia Engineering Outreach Programs You are here: Home Programs Materials Research Science and Engineering Center Materials Research Science and Engineering Center Photo by Diana Hernandez Materials Research Science and Engineering Center Columbia hosts an NSF MRSEC, called the Center for Precision Assembly of Superstratic and Superatomic Solids, which is a partnership with City College of New York, as well as academic, industry, and international collaborators. Faculty from materials science, chemistry, physics, mechanical engineering, and electrical engineering, form two interdisciplinary research groups and focus on two-dimensional atomic sheets and zero-dimensional molecular clusters. Outreach and education is critical to the center and it seeks to provide graduate and postgraduate training in research and other professional skills, to guide hands-on instruction in materials science, to support local students and teachers, and to encourage student research at all levels. ELEMENTARY Integrated Project Week. Photo Credit: IPW Staff Integrated Project Week This four-day materials science education project is for K-8 school students and occurs every spring. Demonstration on combustion. Photo Credit: Outreach Programs Staff March Materials Madness This day of science activities for 5th-7th graders focuses on physics and chemistry demonstrations. Hands-on experiment. Photo Credit: Outreach Programs Staff PhD for a Day Students visit the Columbia University campus, where CU students provide lab training and lead experiments. SECONDARY Science Honors Program (SHP). Photo Credit: Columbia University Department of Chemistry Staff Science Honors Program This Saturday program is designed for high school students who have a strong interest in science and mathematics. Research of Syringe Pump for Scanning Bubble Microscopy. Photo Credit: Jeremy Heyman Engineering the Next Generation This research opportunity for highly motivated under-represented high school students runs for six weeks over the summer. Science demonstration about adaptability. Photo Credit: Outreach Programs Staff STEM Academy This intensive academic program provides tutoring, faculty lectures, and student panels and runs during school breaks. TEACHERS Columbia-Cornell STEM Teacher Workshop. Photo Credit: Outreach Programs Staff STEM Teacher Workshop The day of workshops with Columbia and Cornell aligns various science topics with Next Generation Science Standards. Research Experiences for Teachers. Photo Credit: Outreach Programs Staff Research Experiences for Teachers Columbia's RET offers training in emerging technology, includes a summer program and support throughout the academic year. Photo by STEMteachersNYC Staff STEMteachersNYC This professional development series cultivates excellence in STEM teaching and promotes deep understanding for students. Community College, Undergraduate & Graduate A student holds up an arduino used in his final presentation of research. Photo Credit: Tim Lee LaGuardia Community College Research Program LGCC students can enroll in a research course and continue with hands-on lab experience at Columbia over the summer. REU Program. Photo Credit: Outreach Programs Staff Research Experience for Undergraduates This REU allows undergraduate students to conduct research with Columbia faculty members in New York City over the summer. Building and Teaching a solid lesson. Photo Credit: Outreach Programs Staff Training Workshops Professional development topics include best practices and practical applications in science communication and research mentoring. Phone (646) 745-8422 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close