Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Engineering Outreach Programs Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Programs Faculty Columbia Students K-12 Students and Educators News & Announcements About Us SHAPE ENG: Engineering the Next Generation Inside Engineering Engineering Speaks HK Maker Lab NSF COSMOS-NewLAW Research Experiences and Mentoring and Teaching Materials Research Science and Engineering Center (MRSEC) Columbia's FIRST Robotics Team Columbia University Competitions in Math The Youth Sports Lab Robogals Engineers Without Borders Columbia Space Initiative National Society of Black Engineers Society of Hispanic Pre-Professional Engineers Society of Women Engineers Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (CU SIAM) Sci-Inspire SciRISE - Scientific Research by International Students at ELLIS Other STEM Programs at Columbia Girls Who Code Columbia Engineering Outreach Programs You are here: Home Columbia Students Columbia Space Initiative Columbia Space Initiative Columbia Space Initiative members conduct a demo. Photo Credit: Columbia Space Initiative CSI’s mission is to promote interest in space news, the space industry, and the impact of space on a social level. Various teams that participate in a Micro-gravity NASA competition, outreach, high-altitude balloon engineering, and rocket engineering. Outreach Events: Participation in Kid's Week Space presentations in K-12 schools CU Splash Sophie Gerson Healthy Youth CSI podcast: This is Rocket Science Expand all Collapse all Get Involved K-12 Students and Educators Columbia Space Initiative offers in-school presentations to local schools regarding their experiences as engineers in the global community. To have CSI present at your school email [email protected]. Columbia Students Columbia undergraduate and graduate students participate in teams focusing on different topics regarding space-based programming. To join the club email [email protected] Sign up for their newsletter here. Columbia Faculty Faculty can serve as advisers to the group. If interested email [email protected] Our Columbia Space Initiative is launching a science experiment aboard the International Space Station next month. Selected as 1 of 5 experiments by NASA’s “Student Payload Opportunity With Citizen Science” program, the group has designed an experiment to study bacterial resistance under microgravity conditions. And freeze the state of its DNA before it enters our atmosphere. Bacteria on the ISS? Yes, the ISS is a hermetically sealed closed system, subjected to microgravity. And that’s considered an “extreme environment” where microbes survive and thrive. There are plenty of stowaways. The group will then work with STEM groups to study the result and ultimately come up with better antibiotics. Here’s our introduction to the mission. In upcoming segments we share more on the team and the technology. Columbia Space Initiative Columbia Space Initiative Website Columbia Space Initiative Facebook Columbia Space Initiative Instagram [email protected] Phone (646) 745-8422 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close