Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Engineering Outreach Programs Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Programs Faculty Columbia Students K-12 Students and Educators News & Announcements About Us SHAPE ENG: Engineering the Next Generation Inside Engineering Engineering Speaks HK Maker Lab NSF COSMOS-NewLAW Research Experiences and Mentoring and Teaching Materials Research Science and Engineering Center (MRSEC) Columbia's FIRST Robotics Team Columbia University Competitions in Math The Youth Sports Lab Robogals Engineers Without Borders Columbia Space Initiative National Society of Black Engineers Society of Hispanic Pre-Professional Engineers Society of Women Engineers Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (CU SIAM) Sci-Inspire SciRISE - Scientific Research by International Students at ELLIS Other STEM Programs at Columbia Girls Who Code Columbia Engineering Outreach Programs You are here: Home All Programs All Programs Professor Dan Esposito presents his research to local middle school students for SHPE's Fall HISPA Youth conference. Photo Credit: Outreach Programs Staff Open Summer Programs SHAPE. Photo Credit: Timothy Lee SHAPE A selective summer program for rising high school sophomores, juniors, and seniors interested in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM). The Youth Sports Lab The Youth Sports Lab The Youth Sports Lab (YSL) is a summer program intended to engage local middle school students in sports medicine, engineering, and science. Columbia University AI4ALL AI4ALL Columbia University AI4ALL is a three-week summer program that provides students with interdisciplinary exposure to the field of Artificial Intelligence. Research-driven Programs Inside Engineering Program. Photo Credit: Outreach Programs Staff Inside Engineering Inside Engineering invites school groups into Columbia Engineering labs to show students what engineering looks like in practice. Engineering the Next Generation E.N.G. is a paid 6-week summer research program at Columbia Engineering for academically competitive and highly motivated rising New York City high school seniors (i.e. current juniors). Engineering Speaks. Photo Credit: Outreach Programs Staff Engineering Speaks Engineering Speaks gives engineers from Columbia the opportunity to present directly to students in local schools. Center grants COSMOS Research Experience for Teachers. Photo credit: Outreach programs staff NSF-Platforms for Advanced Wireless Research: COSMOS COSMOS offers an intense summer training program for teachers, who learn about advanced wireless technology with help from researchers at Columbia University and NYU. Hands-on MRSEC's activities. Photo Credit: Outreach Programs Staff NSF-Materials Research Science and Engineering Center: PAS3 The Center for Precision Assembly of Superstratic and Superatomic Solids offer students research training and experience in addition to supporting local educational opportunities. Student-driven Programs FIRST Robotics FIRST Robotics Columbia Engineering is home to the 2 Train Robotics team for the local, regional, and national high school robotics competitions and also hosts the annual Kickoff event marking the start of the competition. The international organization’s acronym FIRST is For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technology. Girls Who Code Girls Who Code The Girls Who Code club at Columbia runs classes during the school year. This national organization is dedicated to closing the gender gap in the technology and engineering sectors. For more information about the club visit the GWC website. Sci-Inspire Sci-Inspire Sci-Inspire connects volunteers from Columbia with local K-12 schools and educators. This school-based program supports STEM education and collaborates with other student groups on campus to train and screen (fingerprint) volunteers for educational and outreach activities. Robogals Robogals Robogals teaches design and programming with Lego robots. It is a chapter of the international non-profit organization and aims to get more girls between the ages of 9 and 16 interested in science, engineering, and technology. Columbia University Competitions in Math Columbia University Competitions in Math CUCM hosts on-campus tournaments in upper-level mathematics for high school students; regional and national competitions engage students across the country each semester. Event-driven Activities Columbia Space Initiative CSI’s outreach activities include participation in Kid's Week, space presentations in K-12 schools, and CU Splash. Society of Women Engineers SWE’s outreach activities include the annual Engineering Exploration Experience (EEE) event for high school students and one-time events for example with ThinkSTEAM. Society of Hispanic Engineers SHPE's outreach activities include in-school presentations, the Fall HISPA Youth conference, and SHPE Noche de Ciencas. National Society of Black Engineers NSBE's outreach activities include school presentations through “A Walk for Education,” junior chapters at local schools, and a pre-college program. Engineers Without Borders EWB's outreach activities include in-school presentations and conference-style events for local and regional students. Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics CU SIAM's outreach activities include volunteering at the National Math Festival and an on-campus Coding Bootcamp funded by Google igniteCS. Faculty Initiatives Prof. Aaron Kyle The HK Maker Lab partners with Dr. Aaron Kyle to run an intensive six-week summer program for underserved high school students. Prof. Tal Danino The Danino Lab offers creative outreach programs including bacteria video games and visual arts made from bacteria. Prof. Shree Nayar BigShot is a project that uses a highly interactive digital camera to engage young minds in science and engineering. Other STEM Programs at Columbia Phone (646) 745-8422 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close