Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Engineering Outreach Programs Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Programs Faculty Columbia Students K-12 Students and Educators News & Announcements About Us SHAPE ENG: Engineering the Next Generation Inside Engineering Engineering Speaks HK Maker Lab NSF COSMOS-NewLAW Research Experiences and Mentoring and Teaching Materials Research Science and Engineering Center (MRSEC) Columbia's FIRST Robotics Team Columbia University Competitions in Math The Youth Sports Lab Robogals Engineers Without Borders Columbia Space Initiative National Society of Black Engineers Society of Hispanic Pre-Professional Engineers Society of Women Engineers Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (CU SIAM) Sci-Inspire SciRISE - Scientific Research by International Students at ELLIS Other STEM Programs at Columbia Girls Who Code Columbia Engineering Outreach Programs Home 2019 From the Morningside campus on New York’s Upper West Side, Columbia Engineering Outreach Programs shares the best of STEM education resources with New York City students. Get Involved There are countless opportunities and programs available depending on what you are looking for and who you are. We offer resources for K-12 students, K-12 teachers, parents of K-12 students, Columbia University Students, and Columbia University Faculty (I am...). We also offer the following opportunities: jobs, summer programs, lab/school visits, volunteering opportunities, and broader impacts for grants (I am looking for...). I am... I am looking for.. Featured Program: SHAPE asterisk icon About SHAPE Our goal is to equip today’s young scholars with the necessary skills to become tomorrow’s engineering leaders. clipboard icon Application & Eligibility SHAPE is for current high school students, who are expected to excel academically and to have demonstrated STEM interest. institution icon Courses and Programs SHAPE will offer courses, electives, and college preparation workshops envelope icon Interest Form Please join our email list to be notified when the next application cycle opens. question-circle icon FAQs Frequently asked questions on application, courses, programs, and tuition. Get Involved institution icon Faculty We collaborate with faculty who are developing research proposals, especially National Science Foundation applications mortar-board icon Columbia Students We support Columbia students who volunteer their time, passion, and content knowledge to inspire young STEM learners in the local neighborhood. briefcase icon K-12 Students and Educators We connect local K-12 students and educators with the world-class STEM resources at Columbia Engineering. Google Map Location Phone (646) 745-8422 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close