Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Engineering Outreach Programs Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Programs Faculty Columbia Students K-12 Students and Educators News & Announcements About Us SHAPE ENG: Engineering the Next Generation Inside Engineering Engineering Speaks HK Maker Lab NSF COSMOS-NewLAW Research Experiences and Mentoring and Teaching Materials Research Science and Engineering Center (MRSEC) Columbia's FIRST Robotics Team Columbia University Competitions in Math The Youth Sports Lab Robogals Engineers Without Borders Columbia Space Initiative National Society of Black Engineers Society of Hispanic Pre-Professional Engineers Society of Women Engineers Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (CU SIAM) Sci-Inspire SciRISE - Scientific Research by International Students at ELLIS Other STEM Programs at Columbia Girls Who Code Columbia Engineering Outreach Programs You are here: Home Programs Summer Program for NYC STEM Teachers: 2022 NSF COSMOS-NewLAW Research Experiences and Mentoring and Teaching Summer Program for NYC STEM Teachers: 2022 NSF COSMOS-NewLAW Research Experiences and Mentoring and Teaching APPLY HERE until May 22, 2022 (Rolling admissions after this date)! Please email [email protected] with any questions. The NSF COSMOS-NewLAW Research Experiences and Mentoring and Teaching (RET/REM) is an intense summer program for teachers who learn the basics of wireless technology and how to enhance the teaching material for their students using the predesigned online lessons/labs. The teachers are mentored by NYU and Columbia University researchers and by the teachers who participated in the program in the prior years. Since Fall 2018, participating teachers have incorporated the science, math, and computer science lab experiments developed through this program within their classrooms, giving students hands-on experience with the next wave of mobile technology. The program runs from July 5 to July 22 and teachers will be paid $4,000 for their time during the summer plus school year classroom activities. Expand all Collapse all Goals of the Summer RET Program Over the period of 3 summer weeks, the teachers will: Get training in the fundamentals of wireless communications. Learn about experiential COSMOS web-based lessons/labs created for teaching 6-12 students about STEM topics from the NYC STEM curriculum. Learn how to use the lessons/labs in their 6-12 classrooms. Get research and mentoring experience by interacting with the COSMOS research team and with other 6-12 teachers participating in the program Summer activities are followed up by teachers using the lessons/labs in their 6-12 classrooms during the following academic year. Summer Activities The teachers will learn about basic principles of wireless communications, including topics such as radio propagation and networking. This will be done using the web-based lessons/labs that were designed by 6-12 teachers who attended the program in prior years. The lessons are built to support NYC 6-12 curricula, on STEM subjects such as math, physics, biology, and other live sciences, computer science, communications, and similar. The teachers will learn how to use the lessons/labs and how to support their own 6-12 students in running the online labs during the academic year. The instructional material for teachers consists of lesson plans, slides, videos, and running the online labs. The teachers will be mentored by graduate students from research laboratories at the universities and by teachers who attended the program in prior years who developed the 6-12 lessons. Teacher Eligibility Teachers MUST be math or science certified. Teachers must be U.S. citizens or Permanent Residents. Must teach at a public middle or high school located in an NYC borough. Must have at least three years of full-time teaching experience in science, math, or pre-engineering disciplines. Must receive endorsement by the school administration. Teacher Responsibilities: Attend all program activities Complete assigned research and curriculum project, final presentation, and report Participate in academic year activities, such as presentations, meetings, and conferences Implement a COSMOS lesson within classroom with students during academic year Submit program assessment Application Requirements Completed application form Two (2) reference letters from your school administration, submitted here Current resume (submitted via email) Completed essay questions Additional Information COSMOS Educational Toolkit - A great resource for free lessons, labs, and curriculum materials for math, science, and computer science classrooms -- created from previous years' COSMOS RET cohorts. COSMOS: A New Generation of Wireless Technologies - A video introduction to the research on wireless technologies. COSMOS Testbed Main Website - Main website for the COSMOS project. The COSMOS project is aimed at design, development, and deployment of a city-scale advanced wireless testbed in order to support real-world experimentation on next-generation wireless technologies and applications. COSMOS: Learning from the next generation wireless network Expand all Collapse all COSMOS in the News 2021 COSMOS-NewLAW Summer Program Teachers Receive Awards from National Science Foundation (March 11, 2021) COSMOS-NewLAW RET/REM program kicks off its fourth-year summer session (July 6, 2021) 2020 COSMOS Education Toolkit is on the Shortlist For the 2020 GLOMO Awards in MWC Barcelona 2020: The COSMOS Education Toolkit is on the shortlist for the 2020 GLOMOAwards in MWC Barcelona 2020, under the YoMo STEAM Activity for Young People category. (January 31, 2020) Six Teachers Presented in the AAAS/NSF Emerging Researchers National Conference: Teachers from the joint NSF EFRI NewLAW and PAWR COSMOS Research Experience and Mentoring (REM) summer program attended and presented at the annual Emerging Researchers National Conference (ERN). (February 9, 2020) A Paper About the Teacher’s Program Will Be Presented in ASEE’s Virtual Conference: A paper [1] summarizing the outcomes of the joint COSMOS and EFRI NewLAW summer program for teachers was accepted to American Society for Engineering Education (ASEE) Virtual Conference. (May 11, 2020) COSMOS-NewLAW RET/REM Summer Program Went Virtual for Summer 2020: Featuring an overview of the 2020 COSMOS-NewLAW REM cohort. (August 5, 2020) A Paper About the COSMOS Education Toolkit Appeared in ACM SIGCOMM Computer Communication Review, October 2020: A new publication about the COSMOS Educational Toolkit has been published with a public review in the ACM SIGCOMM Computer Communication Review, Oct. 2020 issue. (October 25, 2020) 2019 The Verizon Foundation names 5G EdTech Challenge winners and awards a total of $1M to bring classroom solutions to life: The Verizon Foundation commits to be the first to introduce 5G technology to schools across the U.S. in 2019. From AR and VR experiences to machine learning, AI, and mixed reality, projects were chosen for their ability to solve for student engagement, teacher preparedness, and special needs support. (February 7, 2019 - on Verizon Corporate) 5G in 3D: Immersive COSMOS Education Toolkit Wins Verizon EdTech Challenge: Up to 100 times faster than current wireless networks, 5G is being touted as the future of entertainment and telemedicine. But how might it begin to transform education? For a glimpse of what’s next, look no further than an immersive new educational toolkit in development from NYU and Columbia Engineering researchers with public school teachers throughout New York City. (February 8, 2019 - on Columbia Engineering) Racing Huawei to 5G | Plugged In with Greta Van Susteren: Dr. Gil Zussman is featured on Voice of America (VOA) News, talking about the COSMOS project and bringing 5G technology to Harlem. (April 3, 2019 - on Voice of America News) With 5G on the Horizon, Researchers Build Experimental Network in Harlem: Fifth generation mobile networks, better known as “5G,” promise ultra-fast connections and more reliability. But getting these networks up and running won’t happen overnight, and only a handful of U.S. cities have initial access. New York City is building an experimental network that tests the limits of 5G and beyond. (April 22, 2019 - on Voice of America News) FCC Announces COSMOS As One of the Two First Innovation Zones in the Nation: The Federal Communications Commission today announced the creation of its first two Innovation Zones, in New York City and Salt Lake City. These Innovation Zones will be city-scale testbeds for advanced wireless communications and network research, including 5G networks. (September 20, 2019 - on SmartCitiesDive) AT&T, NYU Tandon, Columbia Host 5G Showcase for NYC Teachers, Students: AT&T engineers and researchers from Rutgers University, Columbia University, and New York University (NYU) Tandon School of Engineering, three of the universities building one of the country’s first and largest real-world testbeds of advanced wireless communications, hosted New York City teachers and their students for a 5G technology showcase. (December 17, 2019) 2018 Powering advances in wireless connectivity for the future: NSF joins leading networking companies and associations to support wireless research platforms in Salt Lake City and New York City (April 9, 2018 - on The National Science Foundation, News Release 18-025) National Science Foundation Awards Consortium in New York City $22.5 Million to Build Nation’s First City-Based Wireless Testbed: Harlem-based platform will accelerate the launch of new wireless technologies that will advance internet connectivity speeds and be a proving ground for next generation applications and technologies (April 10, 2018 - on NYC Mayor's Office of the Chief Technology Officer) NSF Announces New York City as Testbed for New Wave of Mobile Technology: Rutgers, Columbia, and NYU to Lead Research Aimed at Pushing Limits of Wireless-Networking (April 10, 2018 - on Columbia Engineering) National Science Foundation Announces West Harlem as Wireless Testbed (Spring/Summer 2018 - on The Columbia Newsletter) PAWR for the COSMOS: Faculty Receive NSF Grant to Study the Wireless Frontier: Interview with Profs. Zussman, Kostic, Krishnasmamy, and Schulzrinne on the COSMOS testbed (May 15, 2018 - on Electrical Engineering at Columbia University) Passing the Torch of Knowledge in Wireless Technology: Columbia and NYU COSMOS Researchers Work with 10 Teachers on Designing Lab Experiments (October 10, 2018 - on The Data Science Institute at Columbia University) COSMOS Project Website COSMOS Outreach & Education (212) 853-2407 [email protected] Phone (646) 745-8422 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close