Pace Center for Civic Engagement Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Main Menu Menu About Submenu Strategic Plan History Get Involved Submenu Pace Center Programs Submenu Breakout Princeton Civic Leadership Council Community Action Community House High Meadows Fellowship Program John C. Bogle '51 Fellows in Civic Service Princeton Advocacy & Activism Student Organizations Princeton Internships in Civic Service Princeton RISE Projects for Peace Service Focus Student Volunteers Council Trenton Arts at Princeton Voting and Active Citizenship Service Awards and Prizes Connect Submenu Staff Student Boards Community Partners in Residence Partner with Pace Submenu Partnership Principles Recruiting Student Volunteers Co-Sponsorship Community Partners Meet Trenton Learn Submenu Learning Outcomes Partnership Principles Trainings & Workshops Courses Field Guide to Service Events Submenu Monthly Calendar Month of Service Submenu About Just Food Community Guide Summer Service Orientation Involvement Fest News & Media Submenu News Media Log in Search Search Pace Center for Civic Engagement Two Seniors Receive Glickman Prize On Class Day, two Princeton University seniors — Bethwel Kiplimo of Solai, Kenya and Grace Simmons of Blackwood, New Jersey — were honored with the Priscilla Glickman ’92 Memorial Prize for their commitment to service and civic engagement. Read More about Two Seniors Receive Glickman Prize We help undergraduate and graduate students make meaningful connections through learning, experience, and reflection in service and civic engagement. Get Involved Service and civic engagement are a central part of the Princeton University student experience. Discover how you can respond to the needs of the world in responsible ways. Advocacy & Activism Advocate for social justice and build community around issues. Volunteering Engage regularly and support the local community. Student Leadership Take an active role in your education to support others in service. Internships & Fellowships Connect service to your academic and career paths. Quote I am grateful that Princeton is creating more opportunities and spaces for students to work alongside communities and fight for racial justice, while also learning about themselves and the world in the process. - Natalie Tung ’18 co-founder and executive director of HomeWorks Trenton Learning in Service Engaging in service means we are perpetual learners. Discover what motivates you, why service is needed in communities, and how to be well-prepared. Explore workshops, guides, and other tools to build skills and knowledge. Explore All Resources News Reflections for Your Summer Internship Where are you? Who are you? What do you want? Princeton alumna Rachel Kasdin, of the Class of 2020, shares reflective words of wisdom to help Princeton University students about to embark on summer service internships prepare for their upcoming experiences in communities around the world. John C Bogle 51 Fellows Civic Service Princeton Internships Civic Service Princeton RISE Projects for Peace Service Focus View All College Packs Project The John H. Pace, Jr. '39 Center for Civic Engagement, Princeton University Athletics, and the Office of Community & Regional Affairs are partnering with the Smith Family Foundation, a… Projects for Peace Projects for Peace Two Princeton University undergraduate students have been selected to receive $10,000 Projects for Peace grants to fund initiatives this summer. Sophomore Chioma Ugwonali will be returning to her home… Community House John C Bogle 51 Fellows Civic Service Princeton Internships Civic Service Princeton RISE Service Focus Summer Jobs with the Pace Center The John H. Pace, Jr. '39 Center for Civic Engagement is looking for Princeton University undergraduate and graduate students to work with us over the summer in a number of roles. Applications must be made through Student Employment. Service Focus Tiny Farm, Big Impact How does urban agriculture seek to answer challenges for urban communities? This year, the Service Focus environmental sustainability cohort sought to answer these questions as they engaged with environmental initiatives, worked with community gardens, and learned about agricultural practices. Events No content available to show. View All Partner with Pace Center Service is about building relationships with others rooted in empathy, humility, and respect. We collaborate with people, communities, and organizations on and off Princeton University’s campus. Learn how you can partner with us. Learn More @pace_princeton Follow us on Instagram Footer 201 Frist Campus Center Princeton, NJ 08544 58 Prospect Avenue, Third Floor pace@princeton.edu 609.258.7260 Follow us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University