Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Robert C. Williams Museum of Papermaking Main Navigation Home Visit Visit About the Museum Legacy of Dard Hunter Upcoming Upcoming Programs Upcoming Events Exhibits Fiber + Pulp Radical Generosity Permanent Collections Upcoming Exhibits Online Exhibits Artifact of the Month NAHP Mail Art Learn Guided Tours K-12 School Groups Family College Adult Scouts Instructors Resources Teacher's Handbook History of Papermaking Lecture Recordings Paper Play Fast Film Fest Coloring Pages People of Paper Additional Reading Contact Open Search Search Search Nov 30, 2021 — Atlanta, GA Dard Hunter’s 138th birthday is Monday, November 29. Born in 1883, he saw massive changes in communication, transportation, and everyday life during his lifetime. He also developed a passion for learning all he could about hand papermaking, which culminated in 20 books and a museum featuring examples of the craft he studied for so long. Known today as the Robert C. Williams Museum of Papermaking, the museum holds a collection of approximately 100,000 artifacts and 7,000 books on the subject of papermaking. Museum staff provide in person programs for all ages, and in the last two years virtual programs have been developed to introduce people wherever they are into the amazing world of paper. Exhibits explore elements of paper- as historical object, artistic material, or scientific experiment. Consider making a donation to the museum this year on Giving Tuesday. Your generous support allows us to provide free or low cost experiences, care for the historic collection, or to put on an exhibit. Donations to the Robert C. Williams Museum of Papermaking Support Fund are tax deductible, and a wonderful way to show your support for the museum. https://mygeorgiatech.gatech.edu/giving/papermaking-museum Contact Virginia Howell, Director 404-894-5726 virginia.howell@rbi.gatech.edu Email virginia.howell@rbi.gatech.edu Related links Donate here Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN