Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Robert C. Williams Museum of Papermaking Main Navigation Home Visit Visit About the Museum Legacy of Dard Hunter Upcoming Upcoming Programs Upcoming Events Exhibits Fiber + Pulp Radical Generosity Permanent Collections Upcoming Exhibits Online Exhibits Artifact of the Month NAHP Mail Art Learn Guided Tours K-12 School Groups Family College Adult Scouts Instructors Resources Teacher's Handbook History of Papermaking Lecture Recordings Paper Play Fast Film Fest Coloring Pages People of Paper Additional Reading Contact Open Search Search Search Recommended Reading Blank Space (Medium) (text and background only visible when logged in) Bark Paper Research list compiled by Lisa Miles - www.dutchesspress.com Bell, Lillian. Papyrus, Tapa, Amate & Rice Paper: Papermaking in Africa, the Pacific, Latin America & Southeast Asia. McMinnville, OR.: Liliaceae Press, 1983. Print. Coe, Michael D, and Justin Kerr. The Art of the Maya Scribe. New York: Harry N. Abrams, 1998. Print. Christensen, Bodil, & Samuel Martí. Witchcraft and Pre-Columbian Paper = Brujerías y Papel Precolombino. 1979. Print. Hunter, Dard. Primitive Papermaking: An Account of a Mexican Sojourn and of a Voyage to the Pacific Islands in Search of Information, Implements, and Specimens Relating to the Making & Decorating of Bark-Paper. Chillicothe, Ohio: Mountain House Press, 1927. Print. López Binnqüist, Citlalli. The Endurance of Mexican Amate Paper: Exploring Additional Dimensions to the Sustainable Development Concept. University of Twente. 2003. http://www.itc.nl/library/Papers_2003/phd_theses/lopez_binnquist.pdf Shimura, Asao. Amate, Mexican Bark Paper. Tokyo: Bunseido Press, 1978. Print. Von Hagen, Victor Wolfgang. The Aztec and Maya Papermakers. New York: J.J. Augustin, 1944. Print. Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN