Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Robert C. Williams Museum of Papermaking Main Navigation Home Visit Visit About the Museum Legacy of Dard Hunter Upcoming Upcoming Programs Upcoming Events Exhibits Fiber + Pulp Radical Generosity Permanent Collections Upcoming Exhibits Online Exhibits Artifact of the Month NAHP Mail Art Learn Guided Tours K-12 School Groups Family College Adult Scouts Instructors Resources Teacher's Handbook History of Papermaking Lecture Recordings Paper Play Fast Film Fest Coloring Pages People of Paper Additional Reading Contact Open Search Search Search Nancy Jacobi Topics: Washi Paper Visit the Japanese Paper Place's Website Nancy Jacobi is the founder of The Japanese Paper Place in Toronto, a business which she began 40… Learn More Lisa Miles Topics: Papermaking, Printmaking, Book Binding, Natural Dyes Visit Lisa Miles's Website Lisa Miles is a hand papermaker, book artist, and educator, who creates one-of-a-kind paperworks and limited edition artist books under the imprint Dutchess Press. Originally from New England,… Learn More Cynthia Lollis Topics: Papermaking, Printmaking, Bookbinding Visit Cynthia Lollis's Website Cynthia Lollis is a professor of printmaking and book arts in Atlanta. Many of her artists’ books and prints are collaborations with German artist, Daniela Deeg, under the name ETC Press.… Learn More Anne Elser Topics: Calligraphy and Bookbinding Visit Anne Elser's Website Earning a BFA in 1991 in painting from the Cleveland Institute of Art and graduate studies in Graphic Design at The Portfolio Center, Anne Elser began her artistic career in 1997 as a painter,… Learn More Sanaz Haghani Topics: Paper installations, papermaking, printmaking, paper sculpture Website Sanaz Haghani is an up and coming paper artist, printmaker and adjunct instructor at Rowan-Cabarrus Community College. She received her BA in graphic design from Sooreh University in Iran and, a… Learn More Lauren Faulkenberry Topics: Book Arts Lauren Faulkenberry's Website Lauren Faulkenberry is a book artist, printmaker, and novelist. Her love of storytelling drives her work, which ranges from limited edition letterpress books to sculptural books and children's… Learn More Miriam Graham Topics: Cardmaking, Paper Beads, quilling Website Miriam Graham is a Custom Picture Framer, scrapbooker, & cardmaker. For the past 8 years she has specialized in shadow boxes and cutting multi-window mats at Final Touch Frame Shop in… Learn More Marcia Watt Topics: Marbling, Origami, Papermaking, Calligraphy Growing up in Los Angeles, California, Marcia Watt’s family’s idea of fun was to spend hours at used bookstores, and so began her love affair with paper and books. At Reed College she studied… Learn More Jerushia Graham Topics: paper cuts, printmaking, pulp painting, homeschool workshops Jerushia's Website Jerushia Graham is an Atlanta-based artist who exhibits both nationally and internationally. She earned an MFA in Book Arts/Printmaking from the University of the Arts in Philadelphia, and teaches… Learn More Steve Miller Topics: Book Arts, papermaking, printmaking Steve Miller's Website Steve Miller is a professor in the School of Library and Information Studies at the University of Alabama. He is the coordinator of the MFA in the Book Arts Program. Steve Miller founded Red… Learn More The Mobile Mill Topics: Papermaking Website The Mobile Mill is a traveling ‘pop-up’ paper studio that actively challenges traditional notions of art practice, craft culture and education by broadening preconceived notions of where art can… Learn More Ashley Schick Topics: Book Arts, papermaking, printmaking Ashley Schick's Website Ashley L. Schick makes works on paper and artists’ books. Schick completed her undergraduate degree at the University of Florida and earned her MFA in Printmaking from SCAD-Atlanta. While at SCAD… Learn More Atlanta Printmakers Studio Topics: Atlanta Printmakers Studio Atlanta Printmakers Studio is a non-profit community printmaking studio located in the historic West End neighborhood just minutes from downtown Atlanta, Georgia. Founded in 2005 to promote the… Learn More Chad Heyward Topics: Website Chad Hayward is an interdisciplinary artist that uses a wide range of materials and methodologies. He has a primary focus in drawing and painting, often using pulp imaging to create handmade paper… Learn More Allen Spetnagel Topics: Website Allen Spetnagel self-publishes original mini-comics and ‘zines, creates pen-and-ink cartoon drawings, and paints with acrylic on paper and canvas. Learn More Museum Staff Topics: Website Museum staff at the Robert C. Williams Museum of Papermaking teach a vareity of classes and lead experiences in paper and book arts. Learn More Preksha Khare Topics: Paper Craft Craftworm Creations Preksha Khare is a paper artist specializing in giant paper flowers. She started flower making as a hobby and her first project was a backdrop for her daugher’s first birthday. Since then her… Learn More Robert Thompson Topics: locally sourced fiber, collage, natural dyes Website ROBERT THOMPSON - ARTIST STATEMENT My paper tells the story – the story of place. Each piece of paper I make can be traced to a particular farm or famer’s market or to my own yard. For me, the… Learn More Ann Frellsen Topics: Bookmaking, Book Repair, Preservation Website Ann is a book and paper conservator with a passion for making books (and teaching how-to). As former Collections Conservator for the Emory Univ. Libraries, she learned to create and repair a… Learn More Akbar Imhotep Topics: Storytelling Akbar Imhotep Akbar Imhotep (Ock-Bar M-Hoe-Tep), a 2012 Governor’s Arts & Humanities Awardee, has been a professional storyteller since 1985 and has performed throughout Metro-Atlanta and the Southeast. For… Learn More Doug Baulos and Jacob Phillips Topics: Natural plant dyes Doug Baulos Doug Baulos Douglas Pierre Baulos was born in Springfield, Illinois. In 1990, he received a Bachelor of Fine Arts from the University of Alabama at Birmingham. In 1993, he received a Master of… Learn More Andrew Huot Topics: Bookmaking Andrew's Website Andrew Huot is a book artist and bookbinder in Atlanta, where he operates Big River Bindery, a shop for bookmaking and letterpress printing, book repair, and design. His artwork uses the book form… Learn More Renee Pearson Topics: Website Renee Pearson is a graphic designer, digital illustrator, book artist and paper crafter. In addition to writing two best-selling books on digital scrapbooking, Renee has served as Contributing… Learn More Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN