Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Robert C. Williams Museum of Papermaking Main Navigation Home Visit Visit About the Museum Legacy of Dard Hunter Upcoming Upcoming Programs Upcoming Events Exhibits Fiber + Pulp Radical Generosity Permanent Collections Upcoming Exhibits Online Exhibits Artifact of the Month NAHP Mail Art Learn Guided Tours K-12 School Groups Family College Adult Scouts Instructors Resources Teacher's Handbook History of Papermaking Lecture Recordings Paper Play Fast Film Fest Coloring Pages People of Paper Additional Reading Contact Open Search Search Search The Robert C. Williams Museum of Papermaking's mission is to collect, preserve, increase, and disseminate knowledge about papermaking - past, present and future. Blank Space (Large) (text and background only visible when logged in) Dard Hunter, Paper Museum Founder Introduction The Robert C. Williams Museum of Papermaking melds art, history, technology and industry from historical and global perspectives. Museum visitors follow the path of paper from the earliest examples of writing materials, to the Chinese discovery of how to make paper, to the paper mills of Europe, and the high-tech machinery of today’s modern paper industry. The Robert C. Williams Museum of Papermaking's mission is to collect, preserve, increase, and disseminate knowledge about papermaking - past, present and future. The museum cares for the most comprehensive collection of paper and paper-related artifacts in the world, comprised of over 100,000 artifacts including manuscripts, rare books, prints, hand and industrial papermaking tools and equipment, and crafted and manufactured objects, as well as paper samples. The museum was first established in 1939 at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology by renowned paper historian Dard Hunter. In 1954, its founder relocated the museum to the Institute of Paper Chemistry in Appleton, Wisconsin, where it remained until 1989. At that time, the Institute of Paper Chemistry and museum moved to Atlanta, and the Institute was renamed the Institute of Paper Science and Technology (IPST). The museum became the Robert C. Williams American Museum of Papermaking in 1996 when the James River Corporation established an endowment in honor of its founder. In 2003, IPST merged with the Georgia Institute of Technology, and the museum became part of the larger organization. Today, the museum is part of the Renewable Bioproducts Institute, an Interdisciplinary Research Institute at Georgia Tech. Permanent exhibitions trace the development of papermaking. Temporary exhibitions feature additional artifacts from the collections, artwork by leading contemporary paper artists, and national traveling exhibits. The Paper Museum offers a variety of programs for audiences ranging from lectures for the general public to field trips for schools to hands-on workshops for all ages. Fee-based, hands-on workshops meeting Georgia Tech’s COVID-19 guidelines are offered in-person, and virtual programs are available as well. Blank Space (Medium) (text and background only visible when logged in) Programming The museum provides tour options for varying audiences, including Pre-K-12 students, scouts, college students, and adults. The museum also offers fee-based hands-on workshops and artists’ lectures on a variety of topics for artists, educators, and the general public. School programs are age-appropriate and linked to Georgia Performance Standards. Tours and programs can be modified to meet the needs of specific classes. Blank Space (X-Large) (text and background only visible when logged in) Exhibits The museum hosts both permanent exhibitions and changing galleries. The permanent exhibits trace the fascinating history of papermaking from its earliest antecedents through the advanced technology of today. There is also an exhibit that outlines the life works of Dard Hunter, the museum's founder as well as galleries whose exhibits change covering topics as varied as art, history, and science. Blank Space (X-Large) (text and background only visible when logged in) Contact Us Send mail to: Robert C. Williams Museum of Papermaking Renewable Bioproducts Institute Mail code 0620, Georgia Tech Atlanta, GA 30332-0620 NOTE: Please use zip code 30318 if sending via courier service (FedEx, UPS, etc) Fax: 404-894-4778 Renewable Bioproducts Institute Main Line: 404-894-5700 Museum Director Virginia Howell Phone: 404-894-5726 Email: virginia.howell@rbi.gatech.edu Museum Coordinator Jerushia Graham Phone: 404-894-7821 Email: jerushia@gatech.edu Education Curator Anna Doll Phone: 404-894-7840 Email: anna.doll@rbi.gatech.edu Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN