Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Robert C. Williams Museum of Papermaking Main Navigation Home Visit Visit About the Museum Legacy of Dard Hunter Upcoming Upcoming Programs Upcoming Events Exhibits Fiber + Pulp Radical Generosity Permanent Collections Upcoming Exhibits Online Exhibits Artifact of the Month NAHP Mail Art Learn Guided Tours K-12 School Groups Family College Adult Scouts Instructors Resources Teacher's Handbook History of Papermaking Lecture Recordings Paper Play Fast Film Fest Coloring Pages People of Paper Additional Reading Contact Open Search Search Search Current Exhibit Upcoming Exhibits Online Exhibits Wild/Life: Guild of Bookworkers September 17 - December 3, 2021 This exhibition features approximately 50 works by members of the Guild of Book Workers, an book artists organization that promotes interest in and awareness of the tradition of the book and paper arts by maintaining high standards of workmanship, hosting educational opportunities, and sponsoring exhibits. Blank Space (Medium) (text and background only visible when logged in) Kintetic Joy: Basic Principals of Paper Engineering Virtual Exhibit Engineers study how forces act upon materials and structures to design machines that take into account how potential forces could be applied. Paper engineers design structures and mechanisms out of paper to solve real-world challenges. Paper engineers develop designs for pop-up books, packaging, art, furniture, and much more. Kinetic Joy: Basic Principles of Paper Engineering explores the concepts behind the designs that bring paper to life and enable movement. Blank Space (Medium) (text and background only visible when logged in) Ruminate May 6 - August 6, 2021 Ruminate features pulp paintings by Lea Basile-Lazarus, Chad Hayward, and Andrea Peterson. Three artists experiencing and ruminating on their surroundings, utilizing pigmented paper pulp as medium. This thought-provoking exhibit invites viewers to explore the idea of situation, region, and circumstance through the distinct lenses of each artist. This grouping of works cover a unique range of impassioned and tangible conditions of place. All of the works utilize pigmented paper pulp to create imagery. A variety of pulped plant fibers create the works, including cotton rag, flax, abaca, phragmites, and millet straw. Each artist approaches the medium with their own way of working, allowing the viewer to see a wide range of mark-making with the unique material of paper pulp. Blank Space (Medium) (text and background only visible when logged in) Records of Life: The Notebooks of Harrison Elliott February 26 - April 16, 2021 Records of Life explores the ways people organize and make sense of their thoughts, experiences, and life. Using the written records of Harrison Elliott, a paper historian active in the first half of the 20th century, this exhibit dives into the methods people use to make information useful to themselves and to others. In addition to pieces from Harrison Elliott's collection, the exhibit includes logbooks from the Institute of Paper Chemistry, contemporary bullet journals used by Georgia Tech students, and more. Blank Space (Medium) (text and background only visible when logged in) 7th National Collegiate Paper Art Triennial September - November 2020 The Triennial celebrates its 20th anniversary, since its first opening reception in December, 1999 at the Robert C. Williams Museum of Papermaking in Atlanta, GA. It was imagined in a conversation between Lynn Sures and Cindy Bowden, as a show highlighting the work done by college students in the field of papermaking. Blank Space (Medium) (text and background only visible when logged in) Blank Space (Medium) (text and background only visible when logged in) Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN