Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Robert C. Williams Museum of Papermaking Main Navigation Home Visit Visit About the Museum Legacy of Dard Hunter Upcoming Upcoming Programs Upcoming Events Exhibits Fiber + Pulp Radical Generosity Permanent Collections Upcoming Exhibits Online Exhibits Artifact of the Month NAHP Mail Art Learn Guided Tours K-12 School Groups Family College Adult Scouts Instructors Resources Teacher's Handbook History of Papermaking Lecture Recordings Paper Play Fast Film Fest Coloring Pages People of Paper Additional Reading Contact Open Search Search Search Feb 02, 2022 — Atlanta, GA It's that time of year! Fast Film Fest 2022 is here. We have partnered again with ASIFA-South and the Georgia Tech Library to bring you an amazing line up of virtual programming. We kick off the festival with the announcement of the 2022 theme: Press Start. The Paper Museum and our partners hope the theme inspires an unlimited number of ideas and you'll be moved to submit an entry of your own. All skill levels welcome. Lean into the fun and explore the many online resources, virtual talks, and workshops Fast Film Fest has to offer. https://paper.gatech.edu/fast-film-fest Submissions are due by midnight, Friday, February 18, 2022. For information on how to submit, please see: https://paper.gatech.edu/submission-guidelines Related Programs: Bringing Inanimate 3-D Objects to Life (Virtual Program) Wednesday, February 2, 2022, 7:00-8:00pm EST Speaker: Jerushia Graham Fee: Free Event Link: https://primetime.bluejeans.com/a2m/live-event/bqjqguwj Eventbrite Link: https://www.eventbrite.com/e/bringing-inanimate-3-d-objects-to-life-tickets-247389086417 Animation and puppetry exist in the realm of bringing inanimate objects to life. Join Jerushia Graham from the Robert C. Williams Museum of Papermaking as she explores the ins and outs of performance with 3-D objects for animation. iMovie Basics Virtual Program Thursday, February 3, 2022, 4:00-5:30pm EST Speaker: Alison Valk Fee: Free Event Link: https://primetime.bluejeans.com/a2m/live-event/bduzxgju Eventbrite Link: https://www.eventbrite.com/e/imovie-basics-tickets-259737922117 Alison Valk, Instructional Coordinator and Multimedia Librarian for Georgia Tech Library, provides instruction on the basics of using iMovie to transform photos or video into stop motion movies with interesting effects. Virtual Talk: Career in Animation: Ask Me Anything with Vinod Krishnan Wednesday, February 9, 8:00-9:00pm EST Speaker: Vinod Krishnan Fee: Free Event Link: https://primetime.bluejeans.com/a2m/live-event/hsxtthuc Eventbrite: https://www.eventbrite.com/e/career-in-animation-ask-me-anything-with-vinod-krishnan-tickets-247392015177 Wondering about your animation career path? Come get some insight from multi-talented artist Vinod Krishnan, technical animation director at Disney who chased his dreams from Bahrain all the way to LA. Vinod has worked on a variety of projects from Avengers: Endgame, the Owl House, Disney's Amphibia, The Venture Bros, Rick and Morty, Black-ish, Grace and Frankie and is also active as a Wacom Artist Representative, Studio committee member at SIGGRAPH, as well as a part of ASIFA-South's business department committee member. Virtual Program: Fast Film Fest 2022 Screening Friday, March 4, 8:00-9:00pm EST Fee: Free Event Link: https://primetime.bluejeans.com/a2m/live-event/rzdjgrpx Eventbrite: https://www.eventbrite.com/e/virtual-juried-screening-fast-film-fest-tickets-250189271847 Fast Film Fest 2022 is the fourth year of the stop motion animation festival sponsored by the Robert C. Williams Museum of Papermaking in partnership with ASIFA-South and the GA Tech Libraries. People of all ages and skills were invited to create films that are 5 minutes or less in length and that address the theme, Press Start. Check out the juried selected submissions, meet our jurors, and cast your vote for People's Choice during the Fast Film Fest 2022 Screening. Did you miss a program? Check out the Museum’s YouTube channel for recordings of this year’s programs and plenty of how-to tutorials to create your own animations! Contact Jerushia Graham jerushia.graham@rbi.gatech.edu 404.894.7821 Email jerushia.graham@rbi.gatech.edu Related links Fast Film Fest Robert C. Williams Museum of Papermakign Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN