Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Robert C. Williams Museum of Papermaking Main Navigation Home Visit Visit About the Museum Legacy of Dard Hunter Upcoming Upcoming Programs Upcoming Events Exhibits Fiber + Pulp Radical Generosity Permanent Collections Upcoming Exhibits Online Exhibits Artifact of the Month NAHP Mail Art Learn Guided Tours K-12 School Groups Family College Adult Scouts Instructors Resources Teacher's Handbook History of Papermaking Lecture Recordings Paper Play Fast Film Fest Coloring Pages People of Paper Additional Reading Contact Open Search Search Search Current Exhibit Upcoming Exhibits Online Exhibits History of Paper The museum's permanent exhibition traces the fascinating history of papermaking from its earliest antecedents through the advanced techology of today-- from ancient Sumerian cuneiform tablets and Egyptian papyrus scrolls to the watermarked papers of Italy to the high-tech machinery of the modern paper industry. Blank Space (Medium) (text and background only visible when logged in) George Mead Education Gallery "From Hand to Machine: The Evolution of Papermaking", is featured in the George W. Mead Paper Education Center. The exhibit details the evolution of science and technology in papermaking, showcasing artifacts from the 1300s to paper made in space aboard the space shuttle Columbia. Blank Space (Medium) (text and background only visible when logged in) Dard Hunter: Collector, Scholar & Artist Museum founder Dard Hunter traveled around the world investigating and documenting hand papermaking techniques and traditions. The results of his travels were distilled into books which introduced audiences to the world of paper. This gallery provides a biography of the man whose collection is the foundation of the museum. Blank Space (Medium) (text and background only visible when logged in) Artifact of the Month A series featuring an artifact from the Paper Museum's extensive collection. Each month highlights a different artifact to provide the opportunity to learn more about our collection and the variety of items collected. View the Artifact of the Month listing Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN