Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Robert C. Williams Museum of Papermaking Main Navigation Home Visit Visit About the Museum Legacy of Dard Hunter Upcoming Upcoming Programs Upcoming Events Exhibits Fiber + Pulp Radical Generosity Permanent Collections Upcoming Exhibits Online Exhibits Artifact of the Month NAHP Mail Art Learn Guided Tours K-12 School Groups Family College Adult Scouts Instructors Resources Teacher's Handbook History of Papermaking Lecture Recordings Paper Play Fast Film Fest Coloring Pages People of Paper Additional Reading Contact Open Search Search Search Current Exhibit Upcoming Exhibits Online Exhibits Blank Space (Medium) (text and background only visible when logged in) A Community of Artists: African American Works on Paper from the Cochran Collection August 5 - December 2, 2022 A Community of Artists: African American Works on Paper from the Cochran Collection showcases fifty 20th century artists. These works on paper illuminate the ways in which artists’ work and lives were in communication with one another and the larger art world. This exhibit includes the works of Ron Adams, Jim Alexander, Emma Amos, Benny Andrews, Radcliff Bailey, Trena Banks, Romare Bearden, Camille Billops, Robert Blackburn, Betty Blayton, Chakaia Booker, Moe Brooker, Vivian E. Browne, Beverly Buchanan, Elizabeth Catlett, Barbara Chase-Riboud, Sonya Clark, Kevin Cole, Eldzier Cortor, Allan Rohan Crite, Tina Dunkley, Allan Edmunds, Reginald Adolphus Gammon, Sam Gilliam, Trenton Doyle Hancock, Leon Hicks, Robin Holder, Curlee Raven Holton, Albert Huie, Margo Humphrey, Wilmer Angier Jennings, Ronald Joseph, Jacob Lawerence, Norma Morgan, Adrian Piper, Faith Ringgold, Aminah Brenda Lynn Robinson, Alison Saar, Bettye Saar, John T. Scott, Lorna Simpson, Lou Stovall, Alma Thomas, Mildred Thompson, Dox Thrash, Martin Puryear, James Van der Zee, James Lesesne Wells, Charles White, and Hale Woodruff. Blank Space (Medium) (text and background only visible when logged in) Boxers I & 2, Gretchen Schermerhorn, Screenprint on indigo dipped abaca/cotton handmade paper, 15" x 11"  When Print Meets Paper January 16 - May 12, 2023 Paper has always been an integral component to the printed word and image, but in recent years it has come into its own as an expressive artistic medium. This exhibit curated by Georgia Deal highlights the intersection of print and paper in the works of Melissa Harshman, Kelly Taylor Mitchell, Marilyn Propp, Gretchen Schermerhorn and Georgia Deal. Each artist approaches this “marriage” of paper and print in unique ways, some coming from the language of print and others from a primary focus and love of hand papermaking. Each artist agrees that the inherent properties of both print and handmade paper compliment and give voice to their ideas and concerns. Historically there is a "cross-pollination" (Gosin & Takahashi) between papermaking and printmaking that explores social, political and narrative themes. It is through this lens that we find commonality connecting the work of the featured artists. Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN