Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Robert C. Williams Museum of Papermaking Main Navigation Home Visit Visit About the Museum Legacy of Dard Hunter Upcoming Upcoming Programs Upcoming Events Exhibits Fiber + Pulp Radical Generosity Permanent Collections Upcoming Exhibits Online Exhibits Artifact of the Month NAHP Mail Art Learn Guided Tours K-12 School Groups Family College Adult Scouts Instructors Resources Teacher's Handbook History of Papermaking Lecture Recordings Paper Play Fast Film Fest Coloring Pages People of Paper Additional Reading Contact Open Search Search Search What is Fast Film Fest? Original animated films 5 seconds to 5 minutes long Made from paper (because we're the paper museum) Free to participate (no prior experience necessary) Shared with the world via Youtube 2022 Entries 2021 Entries 2020 Entries 2018 Entries Blank Space (Medium) (text and background only visible when logged in) Why Animation? Animation is... Engaging Memorable Affordable & Accessible Skill building A creative outlet Getting Started Basic Supplies: Assorted Colored Paper & Magazines Scissors BluTack Tablet, Camera, or Phone Stop Motion App (i.e. Stop Motion Studio, Pic Pac, Life Lapse, etc.) 2-3 Clamp Lights Tripod with Tablet or Phone Mount Remote Camera Shutter Tweezers (optional) 14"x18" Sheet of Glass or Plexi (optional) GA Tech participants may check out equipment from the library via: https://www.library.gatech.edu/gadgets Equipment may be borrowed for 48 hours at a time and may be rechecked if another person hasn’t reserved the equipment. Fast Film Fest has collected stop motion tutorials and placed them in the Paper Animation Film Fest Youtube Playlist to help you get started. Audio is not required but if you're interested in adding sound or music to your videos, Audacity, Free Music Archive, and GarageBand are helpful resources. How to Participate Check the guidelines for the theme (it changes each year) Access the how-to and inspiration resources on the Paper Animation Film Fest Youtube Channel Make a short animation (no longer than 5 minutes) Fill out the submission form and submit Fill out the release form and submit Share your film to the Fast Film Fest Playlist on Youtube (You will receive an access code to the playlist within 24 hours of submitting your release form) Invite friends to watch party screening and award ceremony Vote for the People's Choice Award Do it all again next year! Send all questions and inquiries to: paperanimationfilmfest@gmail.com Blank Space (X-Large) (text and background only visible when logged in) Partners Fast Film Fast Film Fest 2022 How to - Fast Film Fest Submission Guidelines Recordings Winners Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN