Toggle navigation Information for: Alumni Prospective Students Current Students Search Population Aging Research Center Home About Us About Us Current Initiatives Contact PARC People People PARC Associates PARC Research Affiliates Staff Past NIA Trainees Spotlight Research Research Signature Themes Research Projects Research Networks Current Initiatives Working Papers Newsletters Services Services Administrative Services Library & Information Services Demography Library Catalog Computing Data Resource Links PSC Conference Room and Collaboration Space News & Events News & Events Colloquium Calendar Events News Funding Calls for Papers Employment Conferences & Workshops NIH Research & Funding Pilot Awards Pilot Awards Quartet Pilot Project Competition Training Training Pre-doctoral Training Program at PARC Graduate Group in Demography Past NIA Trainees Allied Centers Allied Centers Centers at Penn NIA Aging Centers Website Population Aging Research Center The Research Themes of PARC reflect the interests and expertise of our research associates: Health Care and Long-Term Care in Older Adults, Cognition and Alzheimer's Disease and Related Dementia (ADRD), Health Disparities in Aging, Early Life-Conditions and Older Adult Health, Behavior and Well-Being, and Global Aging and Health. Read More » Health Care and Long-Term Care in Older Adults Health Care and Long-Term Care in Older Adults, Investigates the strain that aging societies place on the health care system, both acute care and long-term services and support (LTSS), how to best meet the needs of older and disabled adults, and how to measure and finance the medical burden of aging societies. More » Cognition and Alzheimer's Disease and Related Dementia (ADRD) Cognition and Alzheimer's Disease and Related Dementia (ADRD) examines the precursors of cognitive decline and the effects of cognitive decline, including ADRD, on patients, caregivers, and health care systems, both domestically and around the globe. More » Health Disparities in Aging Health Disparities in Aging includes the analyses of socioeconomic, racial/ethnic, nativity, geographic, and gender inequalities in health and mortality, including period/cohort risks and their underlying social/biological causes. The study of Health Disparities in Aging has been a core area of study at PARC from Year 1. More » Early-Life Conditions and Older Adult Health, Behavior and Well-Being Early Life-Conditions and Older Adult Health, Behavior and Well-Being includes the exploration of early developmental circumstances that may be crucial for shaping how we age, including nutrition, infectious disease, social support, education, and gene-environment interactions prenatally and during childhood. More » Global Aging and Health Global Health and Aging focuses on studies of sociocultural, economic, and environmental circumstances impacting the well-being of older individuals around the world, and analyses of physical, mental and cognitive aging trajectories in diverse and understudied populations across a wide spectrum of socioeconomic development. More » Learn about our new partner, the Philadelphia Federal Statistical Research Data Center » Population Studies Center: In the News NEW POPULATION CENTER WORKING PAPER (PSC/PARC) New Population Center Working Paper (PSC/PARC): Gonalons-Pons, Pilar 2022. "Paid Family Leave and the Gender Division of Paid and Unpaid Work." University of Pennsylvania Population Center Working Paper (PSC/PARC), 2022-73. --May 25, 2022 Read more » NEW POPULATION CENTER WORKING PAPER (PSC/PARC) New Population Center Working Paper (PSC/PARC): Amin, Vikesh, Jere Behrman, Jason Fletcher, Carlos Flores, Alfonso Flores-Lagunes, and Hans-Peter Kohler. 2022. "Does Schooling Improve Cognitive Abilities at Older Ages: Causal Evidence from Nonparametric Bounds." University of Pennsylvania Population Center Working Paper (PSC/PARC), 2022-92. --May 20, 2022 Read more » NEW POPULATION CENTER WORKING PAPER (PSC/PARC) New Population Center Working Paper (PSC/PARC): Grant, Monica and Hans-Peter Kohler. 2022. "Marriage Change and Fertility Decline in sub-Saharan Africa, 1991-2019." University of Pennsylvania Population Center Working Paper (PSC/PARC), 2022-91. --May 16, 2022 Read more » More news » Want to learn about our PhD programs? Demography PhD Sociology PhD Publications PSC/PARC Research Associates are highly productive and very active in their respective fields. Database The Publications Database includes articles, books, chapters, reports, and published working papers. Working Papers The Population Center Working Papers series contains papers by researchers at the PSC/PARC. Selected Posters A selection of posters presented at the Population Association of America. Penn @ PAA Every year researchers at the PSC present at the Annual Meeting of the Population Association of America. Spotlight Atheendar Venkataramani – PSC & PARC Research Associate The Spotlight Series has now expanded to audio! Each Spotlight shows the breadth and scope of research interests and expertise at the Population Studies Center and the Population Aging Research Center at Penn. In the coming year we’ll be posting Spotlights about new researchers, global projects and more. Today’s Spotlight features Dr. Atheendar Venkataramani. He is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Medical Ethics and Health Policy at the Perelman School of Medicine. Dr. Read More » @PennPARC on Twitter More » Working Papers Does Schooling Improve Cognitive Abilities at Older Ages: Causal Evidence from Nonparametric Bounds Marriage Change and Fertility Decline in sub-Saharan Africa, 1991-2019 PSC/PARC Papers » Publications » Conferences 2022 Add Health Users Conference July 11, 2022 - July 14, 2022 Chapel Hill, North Carolina The 2nd European Conference on Aging & Gerontology (EGen2022) July 14, 2022 - July 17, 2022 London, United Kingdom Conferences & Workshops » Calls for … There are no items at this time. NIH News Notice of Intent to Publish a Funding Opportunity Announcement for Cancer Prevention-Interception Targeted Agent Discovery Program (CAP-IT) Data and Resource Coordination Center (DRCC) (U24 Clinical Trial Not Allowed) Notice of Intent to Publish a Funding Opportunity Announcement for Cancer Prevention-Interception Targeted Agent Discovery Program (CAP-IT) Centers (U54 Clinical Trial Not Allowed) More » Quartet Pilot Project Competition Request for Proposals: 2021-2022 Quartet Pilot Research Project Competition Proposals are due on Monday, March 22, 2021 The Annual Quartet award competition is jointly sponsored by the PSC, the Population Aging Research Center, Boettner Center for Pension Retirement Research, and LDI Center for Health Incentives and Behavioral Economics. The competition promotes high quality and innovative research in demography, economics, and related social and behavioral sciences. Quartet awards are funded for one year (or less) in duration and are selected through competitive peer review. Click here to download the application materials and to read the RFP Guidelines. Click here to read about former and currently funded projects. More About Us The Population Aging Research Center (PARC) at the University of Pennsylvania has over 25 years of experience of creating the right setting for interdisciplinary research on the demography and economics of aging, including a focus on diverse and often underrepresented populations domestically and globally. The Population Aging Research Center (PARC) was established in 1994 with a grant from the National Institute on Aging. PARC sponsors an annual pilot proposal competition, a weekly seminar series in conjunction with the Population Studies Center, the Penn Population Studies Colloquium and an online working paper series, the Population Center Working Papers (PSC/PARC). The overall research themes of PARC reflect the interests and expertise of our research associates. These include: Health Care and Long-Term Care in Older Adults, Cognition and Alzheimer's Disease and Related Dementia (ADRD), Health Disparities in Aging, Early Life-Conditions and Older Adult Health, Behavior and Well-Being, and Global Aging and Health. Quick Links IRB & Human Subjects NIH Public Access Policy PSC Library Catalog Sociology Department Economics Department DONATE TO THE PSC Request Services Reserve the PSC Conference Room and/or Collaboration Space Submit a Working Paper/Brief Submit News & Events About Us The Population Aging Research Center (PARC) at the University of Pennsylvania has over 25 years of experience of creating the right setting for interdisciplinary research on the demography and economics of aging, including a focus on diverse and often underrepresented populations domestically and globally. The Population Aging Research Center (PARC) was established in 1994 with a grant from the National Institute on Aging. PARC sponsors an annual pilot proposal competition, a weekly seminar series in conjunction with the Population Studies Center, the Penn Population Studies Colloquium and an online working paper series, the Population Center Working Papers (PSC/PARC). The overall research themes of PARC reflect the interests and expertise of our research associates. These include: Health Care and Long-Term Care in Older Adults, Cognition and Alzheimer's Disease and Related Dementia (ADRD), Health Disparities in Aging, Early Life-Conditions and Older Adult Health, Behavior and Well-Being, and Global Aging and Health. Contact Tel: 215-898-6441 Fax: 215-898-2124 239 McNeil Building 3718 Locust Walk Philadelphia, PA 19104-6298 [Map & Directions] Contact Us twitter.com/pennparc facebook.com/pennpsc PARC Directory Penn A-Z - Penn Calendar © 2022 The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania Population Aging Research Center