Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Family Weekend Search this site Submit Search Menu Home Welcome Livestream Schedule Virtual Programs Conversation with the President and Provost Livestream Virtual Special Topic Discussions Virtual Faculty Lectures Explore More Family Weekend Campus Map Community Centers and FLI Office ResX Neighborhoods University Resources Self-Guided Tours and Virtual Experiences The Arts at Stanford Stanford Athletics Parent Resources Student Stories and Performances Plan Your Visit Accessibility FAQ Main content start Stanford Family Weekend 2022 Virtual Days: Thursday, February 24 & Friday, February 25 Visit the Campus: Saturday, February 26 See the Weekend Schedule View the preliminary schedule for Family Weekend 2022. This year’s programs will be virtual on Thursday, February 24 and Friday, February 25. Additional information will be added as virtual programs and participants are confirmed, so we encourage you to visit this site periodically for future updates. If you have registered to visit the campus on Saturday, February 26, additional updates will be added to this site to help you plan your visit. See the schedule Thursday, February 24, and Friday, February 25, 2022 Virtual Family Weekend Programs Join Stanford President Marc Tessier-Lavigne and Provost Persis Drell on Thursday, February 24th for a welcome to Family Weekend and virtual town-hall style Q&A. The virtual programs on Friday, February 25th will include faculty lectures and special topic panel discussions. There will also be pre-recorded content for you to explore including community center virtual open houses, virtual exhibitions, virtual experiences, virtual tours and more. Saturday, February 26, 2022 Visit the Stanford Campus We invite you to come spend time with your student and explore the Stanford campus on Saturday, February 26th (prior registration required). While there will be no formal programming, there will be opportunities for you to experience the campus with your student in different ways. Some options may include: Self-guided tours, brunch at a residential dining hall, exploring campus destinations, arts, and more. There is always plenty to do on campus and we hope to see you there. Thursday, February 24, 2022 from 2:00 - 3:00 p.m. PDT Welcome and Conversation with the President and Provost Join Stanford President Marc Tessier-Lavigne and Provost Persis Drell for a virtual town-hall style discussion to provide updates and answer your questions. See the event details Explore More Stanford has many interesting places and unique experiences to explore, both virtually and in-person. Visit iconic campus destinations, immerse yourself in the arts at Stanford, get connected with important university resources, cheer on the Cardinal with Stanford Athletics, and check out other events happening throughout the weekend. There's lots of ways to experience Stanford during Family Weekend, whether you'll be joining us online and/or on the Farm! Explore more Stanford Family Weekend Web Login Address Office of Special Events & Protocol 425 Santa Teresa St Stanford, CA 94305 United States OSEP Website Stanford Facebook Twitter Stanford Instagram Youtube Contact Us Frequently Asked Questions familyweekend@stanford.edu (650) 736-9018 Quick Links Parent and Family Engagement Stanford Families Stanford Parents' Club Student Affairs Undergraduate Education Campus/COVID Related Announcements Health Alerts Info for Students Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top