Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Open Mobile Navigation Baylor Parent Engagement About Us Our Staff Get Connected Frequently Asked Questions Parent Portal Parent Giving Parent Events Parents in Prayer Care Packaging Parties Summer Send Off Parties Parents, Alumni and Friends Baylor Alumni Connect Baylor Alumni Groups Baylor Alumni Programs Prospective Parents Home Molly Ferguson (’82, Baylor Parent of ’08, ’17) Senior Director, Parent Engagement Favorite Bible Verse: May the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace as you trust in him, s0 that you may overflow with hope by the power of the Holy Spirit. (Romans 15:13, NIV) Favorite thing about Baylor: It’s the traditions for me; Homecoming, Sing, the Bonfire, the Baylor Line, Pigskin, Independence, Sic ‘Em, Mass Meeting, the Bear Habitat, the Eternal Flame, Line Jerseys, Slime Caps…everything that passes the Baylor spirit down through the generations. From my grandparents to my parents to me to my children and hopefully to my grandchildren. Favorite thing about Waco: Location, Location, Location – you can’t beat living in central Texas, with access to several major cities, in a town that has retained its small community feel even while experiencing phenomenal growth. I don’t remember a time in my life when I wasn’t a Baylor Bear. Our family is deeply connected to this institution, beginning with my grandparents who graduated in the early 1900s and my parents who graduated in the late 1940s. I learned to do a Sic ‘Em while sitting on my grandfather’s lap - he in a full three piece suit and tie, at Floyd Casey Stadium. When the time came to make my own college decision, I toyed with the idea of attending another large institution south of Waco on I35, but knew that my heart was already attached to this place, and I felt an undeniable calling to this campus. I met my husband here and we moved away after his law school graduation to begin our lives and start a family. We were fortunate to have two of our own children graduate from Baylor as well. (Two left the fold but that is a story for another time!) Thirty-five years after walking across the stage to receive my Baylor diploma, my husband and I returned to Waco, and I returned to campus to accept what would become the most remarkable job I’ve ever had. God has consistently called me to this place and in each season of my life He has blessed me through my relationship with Baylor. This campus is part of my life story, a generational time capsule of sorts. Every inch of campus holds a memory of the past and a promise of the future. But what is even more remarkable is that many of you, arriving on campus with your students for your first time ever, feel this way too. Baylor captivates all of us and pulls us into relationship. And this is why my job is so incredible: I get to build on that momentum and find ways to bring parents into a philanthropic relationship with this institution to support our mission, our students and ultimately our impact in the world for Christ. Incredible! To read more blog posts like this, sign up for the Parent Portal. Molly_Ferguson@baylor.edu (254) 709-3161 Baylor Parent Engagement (254) 710-8510 BaylorParents@baylor.edu Home About Us Back Our Staff Get Connected Frequently Asked Questions Parent Portal Parent Giving Parent Events Back Parents in Prayer Care Packaging Parties Summer Send Off Parties Parents, Alumni and Friends Back Baylor Alumni Connect Baylor Alumni Groups Baylor Alumni Programs Prospective Parents General Information Academics & Research Administration Admissions Gateways for ... About Baylor Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate News Pro Futuris Search Social Media Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Accessibility Anonymous Reporting Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Digital Privacy Legal Disclosures Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678