Skip to content Families Stanford University Menu Search form Search term Home FAQ Get Involved How Do I Pay? Stay Informed Tips Vital Info Latest News Vital Information Students and parents get a chance to catch up at lunch in Lagunita Dining Commons during Family Weekend. Learn more about… Living at Stanford: Wondering what to bring or what the weather is like? How do students get around? Academics: How can parents and guardians help students succeed academically at Stanford? Pertinent policies: Stanford’s Fundamental Standard and Honor Code are just two of many policies that apply to students. Health Care: Visit the Vaden Health Center website. Safety at Stanford The Stanford University Department of Public Safety provides law enforcement, security, safety, crime prevention and emergency services 24 hours a day on the campus. All Stanford police officers are deputy sheriffs of Santa Clara County and exercise full law-enforcement powers to make arrests, enforce all applicable federal, state and local laws, and provide any other law enforcement services required. Each year, Stanford publishes and distributes a booklet in compliance with the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act. The information in this booklet includes campus security programs, recommended personal safety practices, the authority of the university police and campus crime statistics for the most recent three-year period. Parents and guardians can obtain a copy online or by calling (650) 723-9633, e-mailing publicsafety@lists.stanford.edu, or writing the Stanford Department of Public Safety, 711 Serra Street, Stanford, CA 94305-7240, Attn: Crime Stats. Emergencies at Stanford Stanford’s emergency management program has been in place for many years. The emergency plan has evolved from one primarily focused on earthquake preparation and response to include an “all-hazards” approach to emergency planning. As part of the program, which is a continuing process of planning, implementation, evaluation and revision, Stanford conducts exercises for different types of emergencies. Officers in the Department of Public Safety, who have full police powers, also drill frequently in preparation for emergencies. Stanford’s emergency website can be implemented immediately. That page will be the university’s primary method of updating information for all of its various communities, including parents and guardians. The university has the capacity to send out voice mails, mass e-mails and text notifications to students and employees through the AlertSU system. The AlertSU system includes a series of sirens throughout campus that can be activated in case of emergency. They are tested throughout the school year. Stanford + Parents/Guardians The student is at the center — and is the focus — of this important partnership. Our Policy Prospective Parents Parents' Helpline mykidis@stanford.edu 650-725-0649 In an Emergency emergency.stanford.edu 650-725-5555 844-ALERTSU (844-253-7878) Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.