Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Parent and Family Programs Main navigation Home About About Us From the Director Parent Assistant Leaders Sponsorship Staff Family Weekend Hotel Information Family Weekend Sibs Day Sibs Day Registration Photo Album Grandparents Day Grandparents Day Photo Gallery Get Involved Ambassadors Parents Association Parents Giving Volunteer Resources Events FAQs GT H.U.B. Link Directory Sibling Syllabus Supporting Your Student Tech Tales Coloring Book VIP Discount Program Stay Connected Ambassadors & Advisory Board ParentNews Stay Connected Virtual Workshops GT: Utility Links Contact Us Make a Gift Open Search Search Search Welcome! Welcome! Hello Georgia Tech Parents and Family Members! Thank you for visiting the Georgia Tech Parent & Family Programs website. We hope that you find the information on this site helpful in supporting your Georgia Tech student. Our mission is to equip parents and families with the information and resources they need to support their students as well as to provide opportunities for parents and families to stay connected and involved in their student's educational experience. We encourage you to learn more about campus life by reading our ParentNews as a means of staying informed of resources and opportunities that are available to your Georgia Tech student. This monthly e-newsletter includes items that every Georgia Tech parent and family member should know, upcoming events, student perspectives, and other opportunities for parents to get involved. If you are not receiving this newsletter, please sign-up at the Stay Connected webpage. This will also ensure that you receive other timely notifications from Parent & Family Programs throughout your student's career at Georgia Tech. Most importantly, please do not hesitate to contact us should you have any questions while your student is at Georgia Tech. Parent & Family Programs welcomes your comments and suggestions - please let us know how we are meeting your needs. We are here to support you as you support your students throughout their Georgia Tech experience! Go Jackets! Laci Weeden Director, Parent & Family Programs Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN