Skip to main content Enrollment Management and Services Parents and Families Services Menu Close About Our Team Parent Ally Blog Ways to Connect Support Academic Journey Conversation Calendar Pack Family Regions Programs Family Ambassador Program Parent Ally Program Parent Pride Points VIP Discount Program Events First in the Pack Parents and Families Weekend Spring Fling Dining, Lodging and Parking Resources Academic and Financial Resources Campus Directory Campus Services Community Expectations Learn the Lingo Life at NC State Safety and Emergency Preparedness Wellness and Inclusion Give Now About About Our Team Parent Ally Blog Ways to Connect Support Support Academic Journey Conversation Calendar Pack Family Regions Programs Programs Family Ambassador Program Parent Ally Program Parent Pride Points VIP Discount Program Events Events First in the Pack Parents and Families Weekend Spring Fling Dining, Lodging and Parking Resources Resources Academic and Financial Resources Campus Directory Campus Services Community Expectations Learn the Lingo Life at NC State Safety and Emergency Preparedness Wellness and Inclusion Give Now Spring Fling 2022 Thank you to everyone who attended! We look forward to seeing you in the fall. GO PACK! Coronavirus Updates NC State continues to monitor and respond to the coronavirus outbreak. Get the latest ACADEMIC CALENDAR All Events Jun 03 Friday Drop/ Revision Deadline: Summer I 5-Week Session Jun 08 Wednesday Last Day of Classes: Maymester 3-Week Session Jun 10 Friday Grades Due by 5 p.m. Ways to Connect We view the relationship we have with our student’s parents and families as a partnership. Learn more These next four years will be, without a doubt, a life-changing experience for you and your student. So, fellow Pack Parents — sit back, take a deep breath and enjoy the ride! Success is on the horizon. Michelle Marquinez Proud Pack Parent of Two PARENT ALLY BLOG College Morning Routine Mornings can look different every day in college, as some days classes may begin at 8:30 and on other days students may not have class at all. Students chose to start their days in unique ways, as something different works for everyone, but here are some ways students can choose to begin their day! Working… Senior Spotlight: Jenny From the moment I moved into Bragaw Residence Hall my freshman year, I knew I was meant to be a part of the Wolfpack. I grew up a NC State fan, with my mom being an alumna. I have always loved hearing my mom’s college stories, but it wasn’t until I became a student that I… Parent Ally Reflection: My First Semester in the Program Where did the time go? As I sit here writing this reflection of my first semester as a Parent Ally, I am taken back at the thought that it has only been a few months since I joined the Office of Parents and Families Services. From the very beginning, I was warmly welcomed by the… Enrollment Management and Services Home 1210 Varsity Drive Raleigh, NC 27695 ncstateparents@ncsu.edu 919.515.2441 Campus Map Academic Calendar Accessibility Copyright Emergency Information Free Speech Jobs Libraries MyPack Portal Policies Privacy Strategic Plan Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.