Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Parent and Family Programs Main navigation Home About About Us From the Director Parent Assistant Leaders Sponsorship Staff Family Weekend Hotel Information Family Weekend Sibs Day Sibs Day Registration Photo Album Grandparents Day Grandparents Day Photo Gallery Get Involved Ambassadors Parents Association Parents Giving Volunteer Resources Events FAQs GT H.U.B. Link Directory Sibling Syllabus Supporting Your Student Tech Tales Coloring Book VIP Discount Program Stay Connected Ambassadors & Advisory Board ParentNews Stay Connected Virtual Workshops GT: Utility Links Contact Us Make a Gift Open Search Search Search Sponsorship Opportunities Parent and Family Programs at Georgia Institute of Technology invites local and out of state businesses to advertise to Georgia Tech parents and families. Sponsorship enables your company to gain valuable exposure, establish loyal consumers and ultimately build a relationship with our community. Parents of Georgia Tech students are a strong consumer audience. Families contact our office for a variety of needs and questions throughout the year. Some questions we typically receive are: What should I send my student for their birthday? Where can they store their items over the summer? What restaurants and hotels do you recommend when we come to visit? Is there a local floral shop or bakery that delivers Our mission is to equip Georgia Tech parents and families with the information and resources they need to support their students as well as to provide them with opportunities to stay connected and involved in their student's educational experience. Listed below are several ways to show your support for the Yellow Jackets while introducing your products and services to our 38,000 parents and family members of our 15,000 undergraduate students. Some sponsorship opportunities offer exposure throughout the year while others are more short-term, event-specific sponsorship opportunities. Start your sponsorship Long Term Sponsorship We have three sponsorship options: Platinum Partner: With a contribution of $10,000 Very Important Parent (VIP) Discount Program 2022—2023 Parent and Family Calendar More Information Short Term Sponsorship We offer you the opportunity to sponsor our yearly events: Family Weekend - Fall 2022 Sibs Day 2023 More Information VIP Partners Hotels Restaurants Entretainment Services For questions, contact Tyler Barker at tyler.barker@studentlife.gatech.edu. Note: Sponsorship does not indicate endorsement by Georgia Institute of Technology. Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN