Skip to main content Get Involved Family Weekends Family Leadership and Fundraising Committee Share Your Professional Expertise Events and Activities Watch the Webinars Giving Parents and Grandparents Fund Parents and Grandparents Fund Impact Societies and Recognition Family Fellows Society How to Give Meet the Team News Make a Gift News Speaking of Dartmouth, April 2022 Dartmouth is giving Samson Occom's papers back to the Mohegan Tribe. Read about this and more in the April issue of Speaking of Dartmouth. Read more Speaking of Dartmouth, March 2022 COVID-19 policies are relaxed for spring term. Read about this and more in the March issue of Speaking of Dartmouth. Read more Speaking of Dartmouth, February 2022 Dartmouth sends eight athletes to the Beijing Olympics. Read about this and more in the February issue of Speaking of Dartmouth. Read more Speaking of Dartmouth, January 2022 Dartmouth adopts need-blind international admissions. Read about this and more in the January issue of Speaking of Dartmouth. Read more Speaking of Dartmouth, December 2021 Dartmouth News reflects on the highlights of 2021. Read about this and more in the December issue of Speaking of Dartmouth. Read more Speaking of Dartmouth, November 2021 The Dartmouth community celebrates homecoming. Read about this and more in the November issue of Speaking of Dartmouth. Read more Speaking of Dartmouth, October 2021 The Dartmouth community celebrates homecoming. Read about this and more in the October issue of Speaking of Dartmouth. Read more Speaking of Dartmouth, September 2021 President Hanlon welcomes students back to campus. Read about this and more in the September issue of Speaking of Dartmouth. Read more Speaking of Dartmouth, August 2021 A conversation with Interim Provost David Kotz ’86 about masks, housing, and trips. Read about this and more in the August issue of Speaking of Dartmouth. Read more Speaking of Dartmouth, July 2021 Dartmouth athletes compete in rowing, rugby, equestrian and basketball at the Tokyo Olympics. Read about this and more in the July issue of Speaking of Dartmouth. Read more Pagination Page 1 Next page ›› Contact Family Giving and Engagement Dartmouth College 6066 Development Office Hanover, NH 03755-4400 (603) 646-2166 dartmouth.families@dartmouth.edu Resources MyDartmouth - Families Resources by Class Year Dartmouth Alumni Magazine Dartmouth News Dartmouth College Social facebook instagram twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Dartmouth College All rights reserved