Skip to main content Search for: Ex: How do I apply to Providence College? Menu Apply Visit Give Coronavirus Information & Updates Parents & Families Alumni Media MY-PC Events About Admission Undergraduate Continuing Education Graduate Programs Academics Catholic & Dominican Diversity Student Life Athletics Close menu Parents & Families Welcome to the Providence College family! We know that family support is an integral part of a student’s success. Information on this website is designed to keep you informed about Providence College and the college experience. I hope that it will serve as an on-going resource to help guide your student during the next four years. Best Regards, Jacqueline Kiernan MacKay Director of Parent Programs parents@providence.edu 401-865-1550 A Prayer for Parents and Guardians Almighty and all-loving God, you have given me this wonderful and treasured child who is now growing into maturity. Guide us both as our lives are transformed. Give me patience and compassion as my child grows in new ways and new directions. Help me not to be anxious or afraid. Give my child strength and protection as new challenges, enticements, and struggles surface as they do around all college students. Help my child to know your grace and your truth. Fill my child’s life with deep friendships and connections during these college years in order to form memories that will be cherished and life-stories that my family’s children will laugh at one day. Send me your Spirit that I may know your love and support as I discern my new role in my child’s life. Help me to see your Providence in this time of momentous and exciting transition. Parent Program Resources Mission Statement & Program Goals Getting Ready for College Parent Bookshelf Parent & Family Handbook Key Contacts Language Bank Confidentiality of Records: A Guide for Parents Academic Integrity and Your Student Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) Talking to Your Student About Campus Safety Talking to Your Student About Alcohol E-Communications Parent Program At-A-Glance Parent Program Wallet Contacts Ask a Question Additional Parent Resources Academics Academic Calendar Bursar’s Office Center for Career Education & Professional Development Center for Global Education Chaplain’s Office College Events Registrar’s Office Financial Aid Office of Academic Services Office of Public Safety Office of Residence Life Student Life Important Dates & Announcements HOMECOMING Alumni & Family Weekend October 1-3, 2021 Español Preparándose para la universidad Programa para padres en Providence College See Also Homecoming Weekend Commencement Parent Giving Inclement Weather Information College News Contact Us Office of Parent ProgramsHarkins 213 Phone: 401.865.1550 parents@providence.edu 1 Cunningham Square Providence, RI 02918 USA Tel: +1.401.865.1000 Contact PC Support PC Emergency Information Student Consumer Information Academics Majors, Minors, Programs Academic Calendar Library People & Places Offices & Services Directory People Directory Maps & Directions Visit Facts & Info Fast Facts Jobs Mass Schedule Annual Security Report Title IX & Sexual Harassment Copyright ©2022. Providence College Terms of Use | Privacy Policy If you are having trouble viewing or accessing these web pages, please email our Web Accessibility Coordinator Page maintained by: PC Web Services | About This Site