Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Open Mobile Navigation Baylor Parent Engagement About Us Our Staff Get Connected Frequently Asked Questions Parent Portal Parent Giving Parent Events Parents in Prayer Care Packaging Parties Summer Send Off Parties Parents, Alumni and Friends Baylor Alumni Connect Baylor Alumni Groups Baylor Alumni Programs Prospective Parents Baylor Parent Engagement About Us Our Staff Get Connected Frequently Asked Questions About Us The Parent Engagement Office exists to help you and your student navigate a successful and fruitful journey at Baylor. We value the critical role you play in your son’s or daughter’s life and look forward to partnering with you over the next four years. Whether we answer a simple question, provide resources to pass on to your student, or connect you to one of our many avenues of involvement, we are here for you! Stay Informed Our goal is to inform, connect and engage Baylor University parents. The steps below will help guide you and answer important questions related to your student's Baylor experience. Step 1: Sign up for the Parent Portal Access important alerts, receive personalized newsletters and stay up-to-date with significant campus happenings through the Parent Portal. Step 2: Connect with us on Social Media The Baylor Parent social media pages are a great place for Baylor parents to connect, provide support, and have discussions. Connect with us: @baylorparents on Facebook, Instagram, LinkedIn, and Twitter. Step 3: Reach out to the Parent Engagement Team The Parent Engagement team is here to act as your on-campus liaison to all things Baylor! When you have questions, you can contact us at (254) 710-8510, email us at BaylorParents@baylor.edu, or contact our staff directly. Click here to Meet Our Staff. Baylor Parent Engagement (254) 710-8510 BaylorParents@baylor.edu Baylor Parent Engagement About Us About Us Back Our Staff Get Connected Frequently Asked Questions Parent Portal Parent Giving Parent Events Back Parents in Prayer Care Packaging Parties Summer Send Off Parties Parents, Alumni and Friends Back Baylor Alumni Connect Baylor Alumni Groups Baylor Alumni Programs Prospective Parents General Information Academics & Research Administration Admissions Gateways for ... About Baylor Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate News Pro Futuris Search Social Media Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Accessibility Anonymous Reporting Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Digital Privacy Legal Disclosures Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678