Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Parent and Family Programs Main navigation Home About About Us From the Director Parent Assistant Leaders Sponsorship Staff Family Weekend Hotel Information Family Weekend Sibs Day Sibs Day Registration Photo Album Grandparents Day Grandparents Day Photo Gallery Get Involved Ambassadors Parents Association Parents Giving Volunteer Resources Events FAQs GT H.U.B. Link Directory Sibling Syllabus Supporting Your Student Tech Tales Coloring Book VIP Discount Program Stay Connected Ambassadors & Advisory Board ParentNews Stay Connected Virtual Workshops GT: Utility Links Contact Us Make a Gift Open Search Search Search Family Weekend Save the Date! Family Weekend 2022 September 16-18, 2022 Family Weekend at Georgia Tech is a special time to connect with your student, learn more about campus life, and create special memories! Please visit this page again this Summer for more details and registration. Parent and Family Programs collaborates with numerous campus partners and local vendors every fall to welcome our families back to campus for a special weekend. Activities include an Institute update with President Cabrera, stimulating presentations by faculty and staff, College and School receptions, Family Fun Night, Family Weekend Tailgate, a football game, student performances, activities with the Campus Recreation Center, campus tours, community service, and more! Family Weekend at Georgia Tech is the perfect time to visit your student, learn more about campus life, and create special memories! It is intentionally scheduled for the end of sixth week of classes and typically past the first round of exams for students - a good time for families to visit their students and shower them with extra support and love! Families are able to create their own schedule from the list of events and activities based on availability, interests, and your budget. Family Weekend will be back Fall 2022. Until then enjoy a selection of photos on our Facebook page and a video from the October 2021 edition. 2021 Recap If you have any questions please visit our Events FAQs page or contact us. Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN