Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Parent and Family Programs Main navigation Home About About Us From the Director Parent Assistant Leaders Sponsorship Staff Family Weekend Hotel Information Family Weekend Sibs Day Sibs Day Registration Photo Album Grandparents Day Grandparents Day Photo Gallery Get Involved Ambassadors Parents Association Parents Giving Volunteer Resources Events FAQs GT H.U.B. Link Directory Sibling Syllabus Supporting Your Student Tech Tales Coloring Book VIP Discount Program Stay Connected Ambassadors & Advisory Board ParentNews Stay Connected Virtual Workshops GT: Utility Links Contact Us Make a Gift Open Search Search Search Parent Assistant Leaders (PALs) The Parent Assistant Leaders (PALs) serve a key role in the facilitation of ongoing programmatic efforts by Parent and Family Programs and as a resource to the Division of Student Life. This leadership position assists current and prospective parents and family members as they become part of the Yellow Jacket Family. PALs receive opportunities to build their leadership skills, to work with other student leaders and professionals from across campus, to learn more about themselves personally and develop professionally, all while getting some great perks that come along with this unique job. Meet the Current Pal's Apply Here Today! Goals To communicate the mission of the Parent and Family Programs: parents and family members as partners in their student’s education To inform parents and family members about academic requirements, policies, procedures, programs and services that Georgia Tech offers to students To inform parents about the programs and services the Institute offers specifically for parents and families To familiarize parents with appropriate faculty and staff from whom they may seek assistance To give parents a taste of student life by providing opportunities To promote and encourage use of additional programs and services offered by the Parent and Family Programs (i.e. Family Weekend, Sibs Day, and Grandparents and Friends Day). Requirements Currently enrolled Georgia Tech undergraduate student Minimum of 12 credit hours completed by start of 2022 Spring semester Good academic standing Good judicial/conduct standing Serve as an ambassador for Georgia Tech with the Parent and Family Programs and the Division of Student Life for specific Tech events throughout the academic year Work at least 60 hours with Parent and Family Programs during the academic year specifically pertaining to Family Weekend, Sibs Day, Grandparents and Friends Day Preferred Skills Strong communication skills Experience with public speaking Previous experience working with teams Able to speak a second language Responsibilities Serve as an ambassador for the Parent and Family Programs and a representative of Georgia Tech Serve as a knowledgeable resource to parents and students Participate in programs and events for parents, families, and students as needed by the Parent and Family Programs and the Division of Student Engagement and Well-Being Staff other special programs hosted by the Parent and Family Programs, such as Family Weekend, Sibs Day, and Grandparents and Friends Day Assist with campus wide events as needed, such as First Day of Class Pics and Commencement Work an estimated 20 office hours in the Parent and Family Programs Office during the academic year Other duties as assigned Compensation $10 per hour at all trainings/events. Meals while working are also included. Hours Average of 60 hours a year with the opportunity to work more. Benefits Gain valuable leadership, team-building, and organizational skills while giving back to the Institute Represent Georgia Tech to thousands of parents and family members Receive letters of recommendation for future opportunities Application Timeline and Process Submit your application by 11:45 PM, Monday, March 17, 2022. Candidates will be notified via email if they have been chosen to be interviewed. Interviews will be held the week of March 28, 2022. All interviewed applicants will be notified if they were chosen for the position. Georgia Tech is an equal opportunity employer and will not discriminate against any employee or applicant on the basis of age, color, disability, gender, national origin, race, religion, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any classification protected by federal, state, or local law. Please contact us if you have any questions. Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN