Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Parent and Family Programs Main navigation Home About About Us From the Director Parent Assistant Leaders Sponsorship Staff Family Weekend Hotel Information Family Weekend Sibs Day Sibs Day Registration Photo Album Grandparents Day Grandparents Day Photo Gallery Get Involved Ambassadors Parents Association Parents Giving Volunteer Resources Events FAQs GT H.U.B. Link Directory Sibling Syllabus Supporting Your Student Tech Tales Coloring Book VIP Discount Program Stay Connected Ambassadors & Advisory Board ParentNews Stay Connected Virtual Workshops GT: Utility Links Contact Us Make a Gift Open Search Search Search Events FAQs Family Weekend In 2021 Family Weekend celebrated is 33rd anniversary! The Parent and Family Programs signature event is the perfect time to visit your Georgia Tech student, learn more about campus life, and create special memories. It is intentionally scheduled for the end of sixth week of classes and typically past the first round of exams for students, a good time for families to visit their students and shower them with extra support and love. When is the next Family Weekend? Fall 2022 (TBD) When can I register? Registration will open closer to the date. How do I know I successfully completed the registration process? Upon completing the registration process, you will receive a confirmation email. You will receive a second confirmation email a week prior that will include more information about the day. Tickets for events will be included in a registration packet distributed upon arrival at check in. If you don't receive this email please contact us. Who can come to the event? GT students, siblings, family members, friends, and parents are invited to participate. We only require that at least one Georgia Tech student attends and serves as a host to the participant(s). Do I need to complete a liability form? Yes, each participant, including the Georgia Tech student and any participating parents, is required to have completed liability and image release forms in order to join us for the events of the day. Please print and bring signed your releases on the day of the event. Parental/guardian Request to Participate Release and Waiver Agreement (Under 18) Waiver of Liability, Assumption of Risk and Indemnity Agreement (Over 18) Image License & Release Form for GT Activity Do I have to register my student(s) for Family Weekend? Yes! A Georgia Tech student registration is required in order for your family to attend Family Weekend. We have planned these sessions and events to be for your entire family, and this is a great time for your family to connect with your Georgia Tech student. We encourage you to ask your student(s) about any conflicting exams, papers or other events that may conflict before making travel plans. Where is the event held at Georgia Tech? The activities will be in a few locations around campus throughout the day. Please check the schedule as we get closer to the date of the event. Parking/Transportation More information closer to the event's date. Are overnight accommodations available? Accommodations on campus are not provided, but we will have a discounted hotel rate for families joining us (TBD). How much does Family Weekend cost? The registration fee is (TBD) per family member/friend and per GT student. Is there a refund policy? Georgia Tech is proud to have you join us on our campus for this amazing event. With so many activities we have to offer, we are not able to offer refunds for cancellations Additional Questions? If you have any additional questions, comments or concerns, please feel free to contact us at parents@gatech.edu or at 404-385-1396. Grandparents & Friends Day Offered by Parent and Family Programs the event encourages Georgia Tech students to invite grandparents, family members, and friends to campus for the day. Guests arrive on campus a Saturday morning for tours of campus and Atlanta, a luncheon with a guest speaker, and a GT baseball game. Family members will learn more about life on campus and will create special memories with their GT student. When is the next Grandparents & Friends Day? Spring 2023. When can I register? Registration will open January 2022. How do I know I successfully completed the registration process? Upon completing the registration process, you will receive a confirmation email. You will receive a second confirmation email a week prior that will include more information about the day. Tickets for events will be included in a registration packet distributed upon arrival at check in. If you don't receive this email please contact us. Who can come to the event? GT students, grandparents, family members, and friends are invited to participate. We only require that at least one Georgia Tech student attends and serves as a host to the participant(s). Does a GT student have to attend? Yes, a Georgia Tech student has to register, pay, and attend in order for their guest to attend. Is transportation provided throughout the day for those with limited mobility? Yes, we have buses available for the Atlanta Bus Tour, Campus Tour, and to assist families to designated locations. A limited amount of golf carts will also be available (with student drivers) to assist throughout the day. Where is the event held at Georgia Tech? The activities will be in a few locations around campus throughout the day. Please check the schedule as we get closer to the date of the event. May I get directions to Georgia Tech? We will provide comprehensive directions to Tech with our registration confirmation. Where do I check-in? Check in will take place in the Smithgall Student Services building, located next to the Student Center, at 353 Ferst Drive, Atlanta, Georgia 30332 Do I need to complete a liability form? Yes, each participant, including the Georgia Tech student and any participating parents, is required to have completed liability and image license forms in order to join us for the events of the day. Please print and bring signed your releases on the day of the event. Parental/guardian Request to Participate Release and Waiver Agreement (Under 18) Waiver of Liability, Assumption of Risk and Indemnity Agreement (Over 18) Image License & Release Form for GT Activity Are overnight accommodations available? Accommodations on campus are not provided, but we will have a discounted hotel rate for families joining us (TBD). Is there a cost for Grandparents & Friends Day? The registration fee is (TBD) per family member/friend and per GT student. The fee covers tours, lunch, GT baseball tickets, a clear tote for the baseball game, and other costs involved in the day. Is there a refund policy? Georgia Tech is proud to have you join us on our campus for this amazing event. With so many activities we have to offer, we are not able to offer refunds for cancellations Additional Questions? If you have any additional questions, comments or concerns, please feel free to contact us at parents@gatech.edu or at 404-385-1396. Sibs Day Sibs Day is a fun-filled day sponsored by Parent & Family Programs. Georgia Tech students may host brothers, sisters, nieces, nephews, cousins, and/or family friends (ages 7-18)! Guests arrive on campus a Saturday morning for a full day of activities. They learn more about campus life at Tech and create special memories with their GT student. When is the next Sibs Day? Saturday, March 5, 2022 When can I register? Registration will open December 1, 2021. Please note that we typically sell out, so you are encouraged to register early. How do I know I successfully completed the registration process? Upon completing the registration process, you will receive a confirmation email. You will receive a second confirmation email a week prior that will include more information about the day. Tickets for events will be included in a registration packet distributed upon arrival at check in. If you don't receive this email please contact us. Who can come to the event? GT students, siblings, family members, friends, and parents are invited to participate. We only require that at least one Georgia Tech student attends and serves as a host to the participant(s). Do I have to bring a sibling? No, you do not have to bring a sibling to join in the fun of Sibs Day. You may invite a niece, nephew, cousin or family friend to join you! Can parents come to Sibs Day? Absolutely! We will be happy to have you. Please note the registration fee is per person for family/guest. Can you suggest some things for parents to do in Atlanta that weekend? Yes, we are putting together a list of activities and local attractions for parents and guardians to check out while their kids are on campus that weekend and will have it available at check-in. Does a GT student have to attend? Yes, a Georgia Tech student has to register, pay, and attend in order for their guest to attend. Where is the event held at Georgia Tech? The activities will be in a few locations around campus throughout the day. Please check the schedule as we get closer to the date of the event. May I get directions to Georgia Tech? We will provide comprehensive directions to Tech with our registration confirmation. Where do I check-in? Check in will take place in the Smithgall Student Services building, located next to the Student Center, at 353 Ferst Drive, Atlanta, Georgia 30332 Do I need to complete a liability form? Yes, each participant, including the Georgia Tech student and any participating parents, is required to have completed liability and image license forms in order to join us for the events of the day. Please print and bring signed your releases on the day of the event. Also, a liability waiver is required granting permission for a child/minor to participate in the activities of Sibs Day. Parental/guardian Request to Participate Release and Waiver Agreement (Under 18) Waiver of Liability, Assumption of Risk and Indemnity Agreement (Over 18) Image License & Release Form for GT Activity Are overnight accommodations available? Accommodations on campus are not provided, but we will have a discounted hotel rate for families joining us (TBD). Is there a cost for Sibs Day? The registration fee is (TBD) per participant and covers two meals, educational and fun activities, a ticket to the Georgia Tech Men’s Basketball game, a Sibs Day long sleeve shirt and a sling bag. Is there a refund policy? Georgia Tech is proud to have you join us on our campus for this amazing event. With so many activities we have to offer, we are not able to offer refunds for cancellations Additional Questions? If you have any additional questions, comments or concerns, please feel free to contact us at parents@gatech.edu or at 404-385-1396. Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN