retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs MENU Header Menu Google Translate/En Español Texas Parents Search Search Resources for Families For Prospective Families For Transfer Families For Incoming Freshman Families For All Undergraduate Families Safety & Security Family Orientation Family Orientation Schedule Family Orientation FAQs Accommodations Register for Family Orientation Family Weekend Contact Us Home A Longhorn Family in front of Gregory Gym at Family Orientation 2016. As the parent/family of a current or prospective Longhorn, you play an important role in your student’s success. Your student will turn to you for advice, reassurance and direction throughout the college journey and one of the best ways to prepare for those moments is to learn about all that is available to your student on the Forty Acres. But, where should you start? As one of the biggest and best universities in the country, the University of Texas at Austin offers an incredible diversity of experiences, opportunities and resources for your student. There is a lot to know, and regardless of where your student is in his or her journey, we know you have questions. We have designed this website to be a starting place for you to find answers. The resources listed throughout this site are not exhaustive, but they are ones that parents most often seek. If you don’t find what you are looking for here, please know that the Texas Parents office is in place to help you help your student. With full-time staff members dedicated to helping parents and families, we can connect you with the resources that you need. If you don’t know whom to call, call Texas Parents. Resources For Prospective Families Learn more Resources For Incoming Freshman Families Learn more Resources For Transfer Families Learn more Resources For All Undergraduate Families Learn more Welcome Class of 2026! Registration for Family Orientation is now open. Click below for more information. Family Orientation This site is managed by Texas Parents, a department in the Division of Student Affairs that serves all students’ families who need assistance navigating university resources. The Texas Parents Association, the university’s official association of parents and families, provides benefits to members to support and promote student success. Footer menu Texas Parents Association Division of Student Affairs The University of Texas at Austin UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022