Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Open Mobile Navigation Baylor Parent Engagement About Us Our Staff Get Connected Frequently Asked Questions Parent Portal Parent Giving Parent Events Parents in Prayer Care Packaging Parties Summer Send Off Parties Parents, Alumni and Friends Baylor Alumni Connect Baylor Alumni Groups Baylor Alumni Programs Prospective Parents Parent Giving Baylor Parent Engagement Parent Giving Baylor has a rich tradition of philanthropy among its parents – a tradition that benefits our students through scholarships, faculty positions, and campus programs that are the result of that giving. As a top-tier research University, Baylor is uniquely positioned to discover solutions to the significant challenges facing our world today by using teaching and research viewed through a Christian lens and fueled by a desire to serve others. I would love to talk to you further about your philanthropic goals and share how you can come alongside Baylor in this work. Molly Ferguson (254) 709-3161 Molly_Ferguson@baylor.edu Annual Gifts Gift Amount: $5-$4,999 Annually Impact: Annual gifts to the Baylor Parent Fund support programming in Student Life, Student Success and University Libraries. Make a gift to the Baylor Parent Fund Here. Leadership Annual Gifts Gift Amount: $5,000-$9,999 Annually Impact: Leadership level annual gifts can be applied to support Excellence Funds across campus that enhance campus programming or academic units. Major Gifts Gift Amount: $10,000+ Annually for 5 years Impact: Named Endowed Funds - permanent funds that can be established to support scholarships, programs, and faculty chairs. Capital Improvements – expendable funds that support facility growth and renovation and may include naming opportunities. Baylor Parent Engagement (254) 710-8510 BaylorParents@baylor.edu Baylor Parent Engagement Parent Giving About Us Back Our Staff Get Connected Frequently Asked Questions Parent Portal Parent Giving Parent Events Back Parents in Prayer Care Packaging Parties Summer Send Off Parties Parents, Alumni and Friends Back Baylor Alumni Connect Baylor Alumni Groups Baylor Alumni Programs Prospective Parents General Information Academics & Research Administration Admissions Gateways for ... About Baylor Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate News Pro Futuris Search Social Media Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Accessibility Anonymous Reporting Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Digital Privacy Legal Disclosures Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678