Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Parent and Family Programs Main navigation Home About About Us From the Director Parent Assistant Leaders Sponsorship Staff Family Weekend Hotel Information Family Weekend Sibs Day Sibs Day Registration Photo Album Grandparents Day Grandparents Day Photo Gallery Get Involved Ambassadors Parents Association Parents Giving Volunteer Resources Events FAQs GT H.U.B. Link Directory Sibling Syllabus Supporting Your Student Tech Tales Coloring Book VIP Discount Program Stay Connected Ambassadors & Advisory Board ParentNews Stay Connected Virtual Workshops GT: Utility Links Contact Us Make a Gift Open Search Search Search Staff Laci Weeden, M.S. Director, Parent and Family Programs Contact Form View Bio Laci Weeden, M.S. Laci Weeden serves as the Director of Parent & Family Programs. She graduated from Appalachian State University with a Bachelor of Arts in Psychology. She then went on to earn her Master’s degree at Indiana State University in Higher Education Administration with an emphasis in Counseling. She has over 23 years of experience in higher education and served on the National Board of Directors for six years with AHEPPP: Family Engagement in Higher Education. Before becoming a Yellow Jacket at Georgia Tech, Laci served as the Director of Parent & Family Programs at UC San Diego and the Assistant Director of the Parents & Families Services at North Carolina State University. Prior to working with parents, she served as the Assistant Director of the North Carolina State Women's Center and Assistant Director of Housing at North Carolina State University. She also worked at UNC Charlotte and the University of Akron with Housing and Residence Life. In her current role, Laci is working on increasing the visibility for Parent & Family Programs. She is collaborating with various campus partners to enhance Family Weekend and Sibs Day. She created a new student leadership position – Parent Assistant Leaders (PALs) - to allow students to get involved and gain valuable leadership skills. Laci also created a new volunteer program called the Parent & Family Ambassador Program, to create more opportunities for parents and families around the world to stay connected to Georgia Tech. Laci has a special passion for work focused on parents and families, first generation students and families, and multicultural education. She also is a parent! Close Tyler Barker, M.Ed. Coordinator, Parent and Family Programs Contact Form View Bio Tyler Barker, M.Ed. Tyler serves as the Coordinator for Parent and Family Programs. He graduated from Valdosta State University with a Bachelor of Fine Arts in Speech Communication: Intercultural Organization Communication emphasis. Tyler then went on to earn his Master's degree at The University of Alabama in Higher Education Administration. He has over 4 years of experience within higher education with experience in Student Government, Greek Life, and Housing and Residential Communities. Prior to working at Georgia Tech, over the past two years Tyler has served as an Graduate Community Director in Housing and Residential Communities at The University of Alabama. In his current role, Tyler will be assisting Laci, Director of Parent & Family Programs, with planning and coordinating of Family Weekend, Sibs Day, Grandparents & Friends Day and all other office operations and communication. Tyler will be directly supervising the Parent Assistant Leaders (PALS), managing social media content, GT H.U.B. and overseeing first generation initiatives for the parents, families, and students. Tyler is dedicated to enhancing the Georgia Tech experience of all parents, families, and students through establishing a sense of belonging within the Institute. Close Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN