Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Open Mobile Navigation Baylor Parent Engagement About Us Our Staff Get Connected Frequently Asked Questions Parent Portal Parent Giving Parent Events Parents in Prayer Care Packaging Parties Summer Send Off Parties Parents, Alumni and Friends Baylor Alumni Connect Baylor Alumni Groups Baylor Alumni Programs Prospective Parents Baylor Parent Engagement About Us Get Connected Our Staff Get Connected Frequently Asked Questions Get Connected As a Baylor Parent, you are now part of the Baylor Family. And just like other families, we have a lot of ways to stay connected. Here's how to make sure you don't miss out on updates (both newsworthy and just plain fun) from Baylor: Connect with us: @baylorparents on Facebook, Instagram, LinkedIn, and Twitter. Double-check that you're following BU on your favorite social media platforms: Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, LinkedIn, Pinterest and YouTube. (And don't forget @BaylorProud on Twitter, too!) Join in the conversation by tagging Baylor in your posts, using common hashtags (click here for a list of popular BU hashtags), and commenting on university posts. Share posts that really resonate with you. It’s the easiest and best thing you can do on social media to let others know about Baylor! Tag your friends in comments on Baylor Facebook and Instagram posts to help them learn about Baylor, too. Sign up to get notifications whenever Baylor posts. (Here are instructions for how to do that on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.) Find even more ways to connect with Baylor (including a directory of official BU accounts) via the university's social media website at baylor.edu/socialmedia. Attend events in your home state, whether they be Parent Events or the Baylor Family Events. There are so many people in your corner! Baylor Parent Engagement (254) 710-8510 BaylorParents@baylor.edu Baylor Parent Engagement About Us Get Connected About Us Back Our Staff Get Connected Frequently Asked Questions Parent Portal Parent Giving Parent Events Back Parents in Prayer Care Packaging Parties Summer Send Off Parties Parents, Alumni and Friends Back Baylor Alumni Connect Baylor Alumni Groups Baylor Alumni Programs Prospective Parents General Information Academics & Research Administration Admissions Gateways for ... About Baylor Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate News Pro Futuris Search Social Media Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Accessibility Anonymous Reporting Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Digital Privacy Legal Disclosures Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678