Skip to content Families Stanford University Menu Search form Search term Home FAQ Get Involved How Do I Pay? Stay Informed Tips Vital Info Latest News Latest News Supporting our diverse students with service excellence: A message from Senior Associate Vice Provost for Residential & Dining Enterprises, and Senior Advisor to the Provost on Equity and Inclusion Shirley Everett April 14, 2022 10:30 am Dear parents and families of Stanford students, Spring is an exciting time of year at Stanford and, now that COVID-19 restrictions have loosened on campus, there are many more opportunities for students to gather with friends to celebrate and support each other and to develop a sense of community and belonging. Residential & Dining Enterprises… Read more Supporting our diverse students with service excellence: A message from Senior Associate Vice Provost for Residential & Dining Enterprises, and Senior Advisor to the Provost on Equity and Inclusion Shirley Everett The exceptional resiliency of Stanford students, instructors: A message from Freeman-Thornton Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education Sarah Church February 17, 2022 10:15 pm Dear parents and families of Stanford students, I’m thrilled to have the opportunity to share a Winter Quarter greeting and update with our parents and families of Stanford undergraduates. As you likely know, Stanford opened the quarter with three weeks of online instruction. This transition to the return of in-person classes that began on Jan.… Read more The exceptional resiliency of Stanford students, instructors: A message from Freeman-Thornton Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education Sarah Church Supporting your student's entire wellbeing: A message from Vice Provost for Student Affairs Susie Brubaker-Cole November 18, 2021 11:19 am Dear parents and families of Stanford students, As we quickly approach the end of a fall quarter that has been both challenging and exhilarating, I wanted to send my gratitude. Thank you for supporting your students through the pandemic, remote learning and our full return to campus this September. While energy and excitement on campus… Read more Supporting your student's entire wellbeing: A message from Vice Provost for Student Affairs Susie Brubaker-Cole More news Stay Informed Reapproaching Stanford Stanford Report Stanford Magazine Parent News Archive See all Vital Information Public Safety Pertinent Policies Vaden Health Center COVID-19 information for parents and guardians See all Events New Student Orientation Family Weekend Commencement See all Get Involved Parents and Family Engagement Parents’ Club See all Parents' Helpline mykidis@stanford.edu 650-725-0649 In an Emergency emergency.stanford.edu 650-725-5555 844-ALERTSU (844-253-7878) Learn more at AlertSU How Do I Pay? Read more about how students pay for Stanford with the assistance of their families and the university. Stanford + Parents/Guardians The student is at the center — and is the focus — of this important partnership. Our Policy Prospective Parents Helpful Sites Visitor Information Academic calendar New Student Information Undergraduate Education Office of Alcohol Policy and Education Bing Overseas Studies Student Financial Services Financial Aid CashCourse for students Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.