Skip to main content University of Wisconsin–Madison UW Crest Parent and Family Program Connecting parents and families to the university Search Menu open menu close Home News Events Expand Collapse Events Overview Badger Family Spring Visit Family Weekend Winter Family Event Ask a Question Resources Expand Collapse Academics Care Packages Financial Frequently Asked Questions Health, Wellness, and Safety Housing Out-of-Classroom Involvement Transportation and Parking Quick Links About Campus Map Español 中文 Congratulations- Commencement Weekend is here! Get all the information to celebrate your #UWGrad on the Commencement website. Looking for the latest? Visit our parent and family news page to stay up-to-date about UW–Madison and supporting your student. Watch New Student Convocation — Friday, 9/3 Welcome to Virtual Family Weekend! Looking for the latest? Visit our parent and family news page to stay up-to-date about UW–Madison and supporting your student. Congratulations graduates and family! Create a video message for your student and the graduating class. It’s Family Weekend! Welcome Badger Families! Send a Tribute to the Class of 2022 As our gift to you (and the graduating class), we invite you to upload a short video message to our Tribute Community Page that honors your graduates. Share one word that represents the class of 2022 and/or one wish you have for them as they move on to the next chapter. Uploading a video is simple and easy. Content will be shared with graduates after the ceremony this weekend. Jennifer Mnookin named chancellor Every incoming University of Wisconsin–Madison leader professes to understand the Wisconsin Idea, the guiding principle that the activities of the university should have a positive and lasting impact on the state and world. Chancellor-designee Jennifer L. Mnookin, who on Monday was named the 30th leader of UW–Madison, grasps it in a deeply personal way. Upcoming changes to campus COVID-19 testing and vaccination With the semester quickly coming to an end, members of the campus community should prepare for several changes to COVID-19 testing and vaccination over the next several weeks. Ask a Question / Haga una Pregunta If you have a question — no matter how big or small — we’ll help find the answer. Use our popular Ask a Question service (Haga una pregunta), give us a call (608-262-3977; toll-free 877-262-3977), or send us an email. We’re here to serve you. Subscribe to the Badger Family e-newsletter Subscribe Proud sponsors Site footer content University logo that links to main university website Campus Resources Academic Calendar Athletics Ticket Office Campus and Visitor Relations Student Affairs Transportation Services University Housing Contact Us Middleton Building Suite 155 1305 Linden Drive Madison, WI 53706 Map map marker Email: parent@uwmad.wisc.edu Phone: 1-877-262-3977 facebook youtube pinterest Feedback, questions or accessibility issues: stephanie.bensongonzales@wisc.edu. This site was built using the UW Theme | Privacy Notice | © 2022 Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System.