Skip to main content Enrollment Management and Services Parents and Families Services Menu Close About Our Team Parent Ally Blog Ways to Connect Support Academic Journey Conversation Calendar Pack Family Regions Programs Family Ambassador Program Parent Ally Program Parent Pride Points VIP Discount Program Events First in the Pack Parents and Families Weekend Spring Fling Dining, Lodging and Parking Resources Academic and Financial Resources Campus Directory Campus Services Community Expectations Learn the Lingo Life at NC State Safety and Emergency Preparedness Wellness and Inclusion Give Now About About Our Team Parent Ally Blog Ways to Connect Support Support Academic Journey Conversation Calendar Pack Family Regions Programs Programs Family Ambassador Program Parent Ally Program Parent Pride Points VIP Discount Program Events Events First in the Pack Parents and Families Weekend Spring Fling Dining, Lodging and Parking Resources Resources Academic and Financial Resources Campus Directory Campus Services Community Expectations Learn the Lingo Life at NC State Safety and Emergency Preparedness Wellness and Inclusion Give Now Supporting Your Student Staying Engaged and Connected Here are some ways to stay engaged and connected with both the university and your students to encourage their success during their time in college. Prospective Families Whether this is your first time going through the college search process or if you have been through this before, the change from high school to college life is a big one. In order to make the transition as stress-free as possible, we have provided some resources to help your family and your student in learning about, applying to and enrolling at NC State. Pre-College Programs Paying for College Planning for College Guide Undergraduate Admissions Visit We’re the largest four-year institution in North Carolina and one of the leading public universities in the United States. Schedule a Visit Admitted Families You’ve been admitted to NC State – now what? Enrolling in college is an exciting step. Once your student has decided to join the Wolfpack, review these resources to assist them in starting their journey. New Student Checklist Family Orientation Applying for University Housing Set Up Your Payment Options University Housing Take a virtual tour of the various housing options on campus and learn more about the different building styles and living spaces. View the Virtual Tour An exterior photo of Turlington residence hall during spring. Photo by Marc Hall First-Year Families For most, the biggest challenge for parents and students is the transition from high school to college. The college transition can change the dynamic for everyone, and while it is an exciting time, it is important to remember that the cycle of transition can stimulate questions and emotions. Here are some additional resources that we encourage families and students to become familiar with during the first year and beyond. Move-In Packing List Student Services Center Finding Help on Campus Suggested Readings for Parents Student Services A one-stop shop for registration, billing and financial aid information. The Student Services Center (SSC) offers services to support student success. Learn more about SSC An exterior photo of Turlington residence hall during spring. Photo by Marc Hall Current Families When students join the Wolfpack their families do, too. Recognizing the critical role parents have, NC State proudly embraces parents and families of current students. With intentional programs and efforts designed to provide the information and resources necessary to connect families throughout the student life-cycle, Parents and Families Services nurtures the evolving relationship during this time and partners with parents in student success. First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Conversation Calendar We’ve provided monthly conversation starters so you can anticipate what your student might be experiencing throughout the year. View the Calendar Second-Year Parent/Family Book Club An exciting opportunity designed specifically for our returning Class of 2024 parents and families. Read the selected book Enrollment Management and Services Home 1210 Varsity Drive Raleigh, NC 27695 ncstateparents@ncsu.edu 919.515.2441 Campus Map Academic Calendar Accessibility Copyright Emergency Information Free Speech Jobs Libraries MyPack Portal Policies Privacy Strategic Plan Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.