Coronavirus (COVID-19) information and resources. × Skip to main content University of California, Riverside UCR Home A - Z Listing Admissions Campus Map Find People Parent Interest Form Quick Links Academic Calendar Financial Aid Make a Gift Ranks & Impacts Visit Search UC Riverside Parents Association Search Home Get Connected Parent Interest Form Events Parent Philanthropy Ambassadors Volunteer Visit Resources Students Student Alumni Association Student Scholarships Parent of the Year Nominations Career Center Contact Us UCR Home A - Z Listing Admissions Campus Map Find People Parent Interest Form Quick Links Academic Calendar Financial Aid Make a Gift Ranks & Impacts Visit Parents Association Breadcrumb Your Involvement Matters The support of parents and families plays an integral role in their student’s experience at UCR. The Parents Association is an opportunity for parents to engage with the campus and stay connected with their student. All parents and families of current students are invited to participate. GET INVOLVED Spring Parent Meeting The Spring Parent Meeting is an opportunity to connect with our Highlander family. Attendees heard about campus resources from Associate Provost Ken Baerenklau and Tina Marie Luis-Brown from Counseling and Psychological Services. We also celebrated 32 years of the Parent of the Year award, Chancellor Kim A. Wilcox joined us to announce our honoree. Watch Now Highlander Days Higlander Days is UCR’s virtual open house for admitted and prospective students and their families. This year's event took place in early April and was completely virtual. There were a series of webinar presentations from Undergraduate Admissions, UCR colleges, Financial Aid, Housing, and more. The UCR Parents Association hosted a session of a Q&A with UCR alumna and parent, Linda Jenkins-Swift '89. Watch Now Upcoming Events Interested in Volunteering? The UCR Parents Association values parent participation. There are multiple opportunities for parents and families to get involved. VOLUNTEER NOW The Parent Philanthropy Ambassadors program is a way for parents to stay connected through philanthropic leadership and volunteerism. LEARN MORE Calderón Family Fanny Calderón, an English professor at Peru’s ESAN University, understands the importance of a college education and parent involvement. She has supported her daughter, Stephanie, from touring the campus to senior year. Stephanie has grown academically and personally as a global citizen, advocating for mental health through the Active Minds program and as an award-winning peer in International Student Programs. Fanny appreciates UCR’s welcoming atmosphere and parent programs. She gives back by speaking at English and Spanish parent events and is an active member of the Parent Philanthropy Ambassadors (PPA). Your Gift Supports When you give to UCR you support academic excellence, research, and your student’s journey at UCR. “As parents, we are very proud of the accomplishments of our UCR student, having graduated from this fine and wonderful research university. UCR is a place for exploration, acceptance, and guidance; this is the same passion my wife and I strive to share with our children. If this is your wish for your child, you’ve come to the right place.” - MICHAEL AND DEBBIE ELKINS GIVE NOW Latest News June 17, 2020 UC Riverside announces plan for fall 2020 instruction Plan calls for default to remote instruction with limited in-person classes Read More » June 15, 2020 Nanomaterial gives robots chameleon skin A new film made of gold nanoparticles changes color in response to any type of movement. Its unprecedented qualities could allow robots to mimic chameleons and octopi — among other futuristic applications. Read More » June 12, 2020 Buckley was invited; the pig who peed wasn't Considered by itself, William F. Buckley Jr. having offered the commencement address to the UC Riverside Class of 1970 might lead one to infer this was a time of greater kumbaya among conservatives and liberals. One would be dissuaded by a retelling of the day’s events, including the on-stage introduction of a pig—the pig not being Buckley. Read More » June 10, 2020 Class of 2020: Remembered for ‘their flexibility and resilience’ UC Riverside’s 66th commencement will be a virtual celebration on Sunday, June 14. Meet some of the 2020 graduates. Read More » LATEST NEWS STORIES UCR Magazine Connect with us on Facebook Student Jobs & Internships Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 tel: (951) 827-2586 email: ucrparents@ucr.edu Related Links Parent Interest Form Academic Calendar Admissions Ranks & Impacts Financial Aid Make a Gift Visit Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search Cancel