Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Parent and Family Programs Main navigation Home About About Us From the Director Parent Assistant Leaders Sponsorship Staff Family Weekend Hotel Information Family Weekend Sibs Day Sibs Day Registration Photo Album Grandparents Day Grandparents Day Photo Gallery Get Involved Ambassadors Parents Association Parents Giving Volunteer Resources Events FAQs GT H.U.B. Link Directory Sibling Syllabus Supporting Your Student Tech Tales Coloring Book VIP Discount Program Stay Connected Ambassadors & Advisory Board ParentNews Stay Connected Virtual Workshops GT: Utility Links Contact Us Make a Gift Open Search Search Search GT H.U.B. GT H.U.B. provides support to students experienced foster care, and who have or are at risk of experiencing homelessness. The program assists students who do not have a "family" support system at Georgia Tech. Financial support, programs, and resources are intended to provide an inclusive and communal environment leading to increased retention and student success.    Residence Hall Kits Each student can receive with a move-in kit including: sheets, pillow, comforter, towels, hand towels, wash cloths, shower caddy, laundry detergent, desk lamp, cork board, white boards, toilet tissue, paper towels, blanket, body loofah, trash can, alarm clock, and hangers.    Dues for Clubs, Intramural sports, Greek organizations, LLCs Best practice shows that student involvement in campus organizations is critical to retention and student satisfaction. Our students are encouraged to join clubs, Greek Life, LLCs, and intramural sports teams. They will apply for the funds from the GT H.U.B. Scholarship to cover the costs of associated dues. Summer housing fees/Bridge loans for internship/co-op students     Students who need funding for short-term housing while pursuing an internship or co-op can apply for support through the GT H.U.B. Scholarship. Alternative Service Break Trip    Each student will have the opportunity to participate in an Alternative Service Break Trip through the Office of Student Engagement. Students must apply to join an ASB trip and if selected could then access GT H.U.B. Scholarship fund to pay their trip fees. Host Holidays  Students will receive information on how to sign up to spend Thanksgiving with local families through the Student Government Association's "Home for the Holidays" program or informally through the GT H.U.B. volunteer families. Mentorship Program Mentors are GT faculty and staff who are trained to provide one-on-one mentoring to GT H.U.B. students. Mentors will help their students navigate the Institute, discuss challenges, identify strengths, build their network and provide overall support. Questions? For more information contact Tyler Barker, Parent & Family Programs Coordinator. Register Today Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN