Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Transportation Services KU Parking myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Parking Select to follow link Parking Lots Parking Garages Edwards Campus Accessible Parking Motorcycles, Mopeds and Bikes Event Parking Parking Fees & Fines Permits Select to follow link Permit Overview Short-Term Permits Student Permits Select to follow link Student Permit Overview Students Living On Campus Students Living Off Campus Graduate Students Faculty & Staff Permits Visitor Permits Motorcycle & Moped Permits Medical Permits Permit Fees Tickets Select to follow link Tickets Overview Violations Pay a Ticket Appeal a Ticket Students Select to follow link Student Permits Getting to Class Moving In/Out Carpool Program Prospective Students Faculty & Staff Select to follow link Faculty/Staff Permits Departments New Employees Payroll Deduction Carpool Program Visitors Select to follow link Visitor Parking Visitor Permits Event Parking Pay with Parkmobile About Select to follow link About Us Parking Commission Parking Rules & Regulations Contact Us Report Disabled Vehicle Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Transportation Services KU Parking Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Permits Permits - Faculty and Staff Faculty and staff have several permit options based on eligibility, including a combination of their age and years of service. Employees may only have one permit at a time, but can choose a different type of permit from year to year. In some cases, employees may be able to change their permit type during the school year. Annual faculty/staff permits can be ordered online. Employees who purchase annual permits have the option of paying through payroll deduction. Permits purchased through payroll deduction are renewed automatically each year. Cancellation requests or changes to permit must be made by completing the online form (log in required). Red Permit - $378/year All faculty and staff are eligible to purchase a Red permit for parking in any Red or Yellow zone, the Park & Ride lot and most Housing lots. Blue Permit - $424/year Employees are eligible for a Blue permit if their combined age and years of service at the University add up to a minimum of 62. A Blue permit allows parking in any Blue, Red or Yellow lot, the Park & Ride lot, and most Housing lots. If you are eligible for a Blue permit, the option should automatically be available in the KU Parking portal. Gold - $570/year Employees are eligible for a Gold permit if their combined age and years of service at the University add up to a minimum of 70, and their primary work location is located in the central core of campus. A Gold permit allows parking in any Gold, Blue, Red or Yellow lot, the Park & Ride lot, or most Housing lots. Note: Gold permit eligibility is not automatically assigned in the KU Parking portal. Employees must contact KU Parking to determine their eligibility to purchase a Gold permit. Garage Permits Red $470/year; Blue $517/year; Gold $663/year All employees are eligible to purchase a Garage Red permit. Employees who are eligible for Blue and Gold permits are eligible for the corresponding garage permit. Faculty and staff with garage permits may park in their designated parking facility (below) or in surface lots matching the color of the permit, except for surface lots located in close proximity to their designated garage: Allen Fieldhouse Garage permits are not valid in lots 6, 7, 8, 17, 35, 41, 54, 70, 71, 72 or 129. Mississippi St. Garage permits are not valid in lots 16, 39, 53, 91, 92 or 94. Central District Garage permits are not allowed in 6, 7, 20, 31, 41, 54, 70, 71, 72, 93, 112, 113, 114, 116, 119, 125, 127, 129 or 130. Garage permits are only valid in their specified facility and are not valid in other campus garages. Yellow Permit - $302/year All faculty and staff are eligible to purchase a Staff Yellow permit for parking in any of the yellow lots on campus. Space in some yellow lots is very limited, and vehicles with a Staff Yellow permit compete with students to find available parking. If you are arrive at work before 8 a.m., you will probably find a parking space in your preferred lot. Large lots such as 57, 59, 90 and 94 generally have open stalls at any time of day. Park & Ride Permit - $220/year Park & Ride permits are valid in lot 301 near 23rd & Iowa. Bus service (route 41) to the central core of campus runs 6:30 a.m. - 10:30 p.m., Monday–Thursday, and until 7 p.m. on Fridays. The full schedule is available on the Lawrence Transit website. To order this permit, please fill out this form. Carpool Program Two to four employees may form a carpool and purchase a permit. Learn more about the carpool program and how to apply. Please note:Parking in some parking lots and the parking garages is preempted during home basketball and football game days. Signs will be posted 48 hours in advance of each home game. Please remove your vehicle from the parking lot or garage before the stated time on the specified dates. New Employees New employees receive a one-week temporary "onboarding" permit, valid in Red and Yellow zones, when they begin their paperwork. Once the employee's paperwork is entered into the system, they can purchase a permit online or in the KU Parking office. Graduate Students Graduate assistants (GTAs, GRAs and GAs) are not eligible for faculty/staff parking permits. See graduate student permit options. KU Retirees Faculty and staff who have retired from KU are eligible to choose between two types of parking permits: Retiree permit valid in any color parking lot and all garages for $110/year Free permit for lots 301 and 302 only. Bus service (route 41) to the central core of campus runs 6:30 a.m. - 10:30 p.m., Monday–Thursday, and until 7 p.m. on Fridays. The full schedule is available on the Lawrence Transit website. Purchase Permit Allen Fieldhouse Garage 1501 Irving Hill Road Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 10, 11, 38, 41, 42 kupark@ku.edu 785-864-7275 twitter Transportation Services KU on Wheels Lawrence Transit Edwards Campus Parking Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.