Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Transportation Services KU Parking myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Parking Select to follow link Parking Lots Parking Garages Edwards Campus Accessible Parking Motorcycles, Mopeds and Bikes Event Parking Parking Fees & Fines Permits Select to follow link Permit Overview Short-Term Permits Student Permits Select to follow link Student Permit Overview Students Living On Campus Students Living Off Campus Graduate Students Faculty & Staff Permits Visitor Permits Motorcycle & Moped Permits Medical Permits Permit Fees Tickets Select to follow link Tickets Overview Violations Pay a Ticket Appeal a Ticket Students Select to follow link Student Permits Getting to Class Moving In/Out Carpool Program Prospective Students Faculty & Staff Select to follow link Faculty/Staff Permits Departments New Employees Payroll Deduction Carpool Program Visitors Select to follow link Visitor Parking Visitor Permits Event Parking Pay with Parkmobile About Select to follow link About Us Parking Commission Parking Rules & Regulations Contact Us Report Disabled Vehicle Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Transportation Services KU Parking Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Permits Student Permits Permits - Students Living On Campus Students living on campus should purchase the appropriate parking permit for their residence hall or on-campus apartment. All other lots on campus are restricted during the day for vehicles with the appropriate permit for those lots. On-campus housing residents should expect to walk or ride the bus from their residence to class and back. Due to the limited number of parking stalls available for residents of campus housing, not every resident will be able to purchase a permit for the closest parking lot to their residence hall. University Housing permits for Daisy Hill, Central District, Jayhawker Tower, and GSP/Corbin can park in all green zones, except scholarship hall parking lots. Scholarship Hall permits can park in all housing zones. Important Note: There are staff red parking zones spread throughout KU housing parking lots. An appropriate staff permit is required for these spaces 24 hours a day, and vehicles with housing or other permits will be ticketed and may be towed if found parked in the red stalls. Be aware and check signs when parking. All Housing Permits cost $331 Daisy Hill Residents of Ellsworth, Hashinger, Lewis, Oswald, Self, or Templin halls can purchase a Daisy Hill (DH) permit valid in lots 101, 103, 104, 105 and 300E-G. Parking is available daily on a first-come, first-served basis. If there are no open regular (not red) spaces in lots 101, 103, 104, or 105, you will be able to park in lot 300E-G across Iowa Street (via the overpass) east of the Lied Center. View Daisy Hill parking map Click to expand GSP/Corbin Residents of Gertrude Sellards Pearson (GSP) or Corbin Hall can purchase a GC permit valid in lot 111, which surrounds GSP and Corbin Halls in three sections and includes a two-level parking garage just west of the residence halls and overflow parking is available in lot 94 Yellow. Parking is available daily on a first-come, first-served basis. Permit is required to park on home football game days. View GSP/Corbin parking map Click to expand Jayhawker Towers Residents of Jayhawker Towers can purchase a JT permit valid in lots 109, 110 and 72. Parking is available daily on a first-come, first-served basis. Students parked in lot 72 will have to move their cars to alternate locations during men's home basketball games. View Jayhawker Towers parking map Click to expand Central District Residents of Downs or McCarthy halls or Stouffer Place Apartments can purchase permit valid in the following Central District parking lots: 112, 113, 114, 115, 116, 119 and 130. Parking is available daily on a first-come, first-served basis. View Central District parking map Click to expand Scholarship Halls Residents of Scholarship Halls can purchase one of two parking permit options: An Alumni Place (AP) permit valid in lots 100, 107, 121, 122 and 124. Parking is available daily on a first-come, first-served basis, and no close overflow lots available. Residents may sometimes have to park on nearby side streets. Because of the limited parking available in AP lots, residents may choose to purchase a Mississippi Street Garage permit, valid only in the garage next to the Kansas Memorial Union. Be aware that all parking in this garage is preempted during home football game days. Signs will be posted 48 hours in advance of each home football game. Please remove your vehicle from the garage before the stated time on the specified dates. View Scholarship Halls parking map Click to expand Purchase Permit Allen Fieldhouse Garage 1501 Irving Hill Road Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 10, 11, 38, 41, 42 kupark@ku.edu 785-864-7275 twitter Transportation Services KU on Wheels Lawrence Transit Edwards Campus Parking Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.