Skip to content Park Scholarships Think and Do The Extraordinary Support the Program Think and Do The Extraordinary Support the Program Toggle navigation About About the Program The Park Scholars Staff and Faculty Park Alumni Parents & Families The Park Experience The Park Experience Faculty Mentoring Enrichment Experiences Park Scholar Initiatives William C. Friday Award Gerald H. Elkan Distinguished Lecture in Science and Society Resources Diversity Diversity Commitment and Resources Diversity Initiatives News Give Support Park Scholarships Ways to Give The Park Scholarships Endowment Day of Giving Park March Madness Get Involved Apply Apply Selection Process For Counselors & Advisors For Recommenders Park Under-Resourced Assistance FAQ Search Search for: Search January 14, 2020 | Park News Why We Run: A First Look at NC State Park Scholars Children’s Specialty Care Program By Rachel Cox On Dec. 5, 2019, Park Scholars and Krispy Kreme Challenge race directors Georgia Burgess ’21, Natalie Collier ’21, Elise Romola ’21, and Matt Traenkle ’21 received a first look at the recently opened NC State Park Scholars Children’s Specialty Care Program at UNC Children’s Raleigh. “It was so amazing to see the efforts of the Krispy Kreme Challenge over the past 15 years play a significant part in the opening of this clinic,” said Matt Traenkle. “Not only does it affirm that the work we do makes a real impact at UNC Children’s, but also that it is now helping so many families and kids in and around Raleigh.” “The atmosphere of the facility is incredible,” Natalie Collier remarked. “The clinic is organized by various regions of North Carolina, with images depicting iconic scenery from each of the regions. One of the staff members shared that their reasoning for this was so that children who come from distant parts of the state can enter the clinic and be comforted by a view that is familiar to them. One of my favorite aspects of the tour was an interactive replica of the NC State Fair, including a scavenger hunt that featured NC State’s very own Mr. Wuf!” The new facility allows patients to access multiple services in a central location. “They have all of their specialty areas under one roof in Raleigh so they can offer a complete menu of care for kids with all types of medical needs,” Traenkle explained. Collier, Traenkle, Burgess, and Romola met Stephanie Davis (L), Physician-In-Chief for UNC Children’s Raleigh, and Wesley Burks (R), dean of UNC School of Medicine and CEO of UNC Health. The NC State Park Scholars Children’s Specialty Care Program is located on the first and second floors of UNC Children’s Raleigh and includes pulmonary, neurology, surgical, endocrinology, hematology-oncology, infusion, and gastrointestinal specialty care. The hospital also features an urgent care center on the ground floor. The naming of the specialty care program honors the work of Park Scholars who have organized the Krispy Kreme Challenge since its inception. With more than $1.6 million raised of a $2 million commitment to UNC Children’s Hospital, the Challenge is the hospital’s largest unrestricted donor. The 16th annual Krispy Kreme Challenge will take place on Feb. 1, 2020. “Everyone can and should run the Krispy Kreme Challenge,” Collier explained. “With Challenger, Casual, and No Doughnut options, we have varying categories of participation that can accommodate all types of activity levels and diet preferences. Not only is it a ton of fun to dress up, get active, and eat doughnuts on a Saturday morning with friends and family, but the Krispy Kreme Challenge is an example of what a local community can accomplish with a common goal of supporting the children’s hospital in mind.” Published in Park News. Tags: 2021, Burgess, children's hospital, collier, Elise Romola, for the kids, Georgia Burgess, Krispy Kreme Challenge, leadership, Matt Traenkle, Natalie Collier, Romola, service, traenkle Hannah Bain ’20 Named a 2019-2020 Social Innovation Fellow Cultural Immersion Makes an Impression on Modesty Obasohan ’20 Apply Give Today Contact Information Mailing Address Park Scholarships NC State University Campus Box 7009 Raleigh, NC 27695-7009 Physical Address Park Scholarships 10 Watauga Club Drive 217 Peele Hall Raleigh, NC 27607 Phone: 919-515-3794 Fax: 919-515-8933 Email: parkscholars@ncsu.edu Park Scholarships NC State University Campus Box 7009 Raleigh, NC 27695-7009 919.515.3794 parkscholars@ncsu.edu Subscribe to the Newsletter wolfPAW SPIFFY Park Alumni Society Park Foundation facebook twitter instagram Park Scholarships Copyright © 2022 · NC State University · Accessibility · Privacy · University Policies · Log in NC State University North Carolina State University Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011