Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Transportation Services KU Parking myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Parking Select to follow link Parking Lots Parking Garages Edwards Campus Accessible Parking Motorcycles, Mopeds and Bikes Event Parking Parking Fees & Fines Permits Select to follow link Permit Overview Short-Term Permits Student Permits Select to follow link Student Permit Overview Students Living On Campus Students Living Off Campus Graduate Students Faculty & Staff Permits Visitor Permits Motorcycle & Moped Permits Medical Permits Permit Fees Tickets Select to follow link Tickets Overview Violations Pay a Ticket Appeal a Ticket Students Select to follow link Student Permits Getting to Class Moving In/Out Carpool Program Prospective Students Faculty & Staff Select to follow link Faculty/Staff Permits Departments New Employees Payroll Deduction Carpool Program Visitors Select to follow link Visitor Parking Visitor Permits Event Parking Pay with Parkmobile About Select to follow link About Us Parking Commission Parking Rules & Regulations Contact Us Report Disabled Vehicle Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Transportation Services KU Parking Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Tickets Parking Tickets The best way to avoid a ticket is to pay attention to signs and surroundings when parking on campus, and to be familiar with KU Parking Rules & Regulations. KU Parking uses license plate recognition for parking enforcement on the Lawrence campus. All vehicles must park with their valid license plate facing the driving lane. In most cases if you receive a ticket, you have two options: Pay a Ticket Appeal a Ticket Ticket Forgiveness Students, faculty and staff who receive their first-ever KU parking ticket may be able to have the ticket canceled by successfully completing a parking quiz. Excessive Violations Three or more tickets issued to any vehicle or posted to the account of any owner/operator and that have not been paid within 14 calendar days constitute “excessive violations.” All vehicles on an account with excessive violations are subject to being immobilized with The Barnacle or towing. All tickets must be paid in full before the vehicle will be released (see section 13.0 in KU Parking Rules & Regulations for payment methods). In addition, the Parking Commission may revoke the privilege of operating a vehicle on the University of Kansas campus. The Barnacle Some vehicles may be immobilized using The Barnacle instead of being towed from campus. For more information about the device and how it works, check out our Barnacle information page. Towing and Impounding Vehicles Vehicles may be towed from the University of Kansas property at any time if they interfere with the efficient operation of traffic and parking on the KU campus or if they are parked in an area not specifically designated for or designed as a parking area. All charges for towing and/or storage fees are the responsibility of the owner/operator and may be assessed as a separate ticket. IMPORTANT NOTE:Moving a vehicle that has a wheel-lock attached will damage the vehicle. Did you get a ticket? Pay a Ticket Appeal a Ticket Ticket Forgiveness Allen Fieldhouse Garage 1501 Irving Hill Road Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 10, 11, 38, 41, 42 kupark@ku.edu 785-864-7275 twitter Transportation Services KU on Wheels Lawrence Transit Edwards Campus Parking Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.