Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Transportation Services KU Parking myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Parking Select to follow link Parking Lots Parking Garages Edwards Campus Accessible Parking Motorcycles, Mopeds and Bikes Event Parking Parking Fees & Fines Permits Select to follow link Permit Overview Short-Term Permits Student Permits Select to follow link Student Permit Overview Students Living On Campus Students Living Off Campus Graduate Students Faculty & Staff Permits Visitor Permits Motorcycle & Moped Permits Medical Permits Permit Fees Tickets Select to follow link Tickets Overview Violations Pay a Ticket Appeal a Ticket Students Select to follow link Student Permits Getting to Class Moving In/Out Carpool Program Prospective Students Faculty & Staff Select to follow link Faculty/Staff Permits Departments New Employees Payroll Deduction Carpool Program Visitors Select to follow link Visitor Parking Visitor Permits Event Parking Pay with Parkmobile About Select to follow link About Us Parking Commission Parking Rules & Regulations Contact Us Report Disabled Vehicle Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Transportation Services KU Parking Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Tickets Appeal a Ticket Is this your first ticket at KU? If this is your first-ever parking ticket at KU, you may be eligible to take the Ticket Forgiveness Quiz. You do not have to pay the ticket before taking the quiz. Only KU students, faculty and staff are eligible for ticket forgiveness on receiving their first Group 1 violation (See section 14 "Tickets" of the KU Parking Rules & Regulations). Take the 24-question parking quiz within 14 calendar days from the time the parking ticket was issued by KU Parking. We'll verify your eligibility and notify you if we were able to cancel the ticket. You will need to log in with your KU Online ID in order to start the quiz. The Ticket Forgiveness Quiz covers KU Parking Rules & Regulations. We encourage you to study the KU Parking Rules & Regulations and this website before taking the quiz. Did you pay for parking at a garage Kiosk or through the ParkMobile app? Please email KU Parking prior to paying your citation and filing an appeal if: You paid for parking at a parking kiosk or through the ParkMobile app, or You forgot to update your license plate or entered it wrong. If the ticket cannot be cancelled, you will be referred back to the appeal process. Appeal Fees and Process Pay your ticket, then appeal. You must pay your ticket before you file an appeal. If the appeal decision is in your favor, you will receive a refund. Appeals must be filed within 14 calendar days from the time the parking ticket was issued by KU Parking. Any ticket upheld on appeal will have a $10 filing fee assessed after the decision is returned. If the filing fee is not paid within two weeks of the appeal decision being sent to you from the KU Parking, an additional $10 late fee may be charged. All appeals of parking citations are handled by the Court of Parking Appeals ("Traffic Court"), which was established by and acts as a standing committee of the University Senate. The Traffic Court’s authority is derived from both the University Senate and the Kansas Legislature. Rules of Procedure for the Traffic Court can be found in the KU Policy Library. The Traffic Court is a court of equity. This means the court will hear both sides of an issue when you feel there are mitigating circumstances that resulted in the violation and/or you have in good faith attempted to comply with the current parking regulations. Due to the volume of appeals submitted, it takes an average of seven months for an appeal to make it through the Traffic Court and back to KU Parking. Court authority is final, except for appeals made from the Traffic Court to the Court En Banc. To File an Appeal Pay the ticket and submit your appeal online within 14 calendar days of the date the ticket was issued. Keep a copy of the ticket, as the ticket number (printed at the top of the ticket) is required to file the appeal. Contact KU Parking to ask any questions you may have. A question at this stage of the appeal may save a lot of time and effort later. Complete the online appeal form in detail Include all details of what happened and the reasons and/or extenuating circumstances applicable to your ticket. If there is any evidence that might help the judges find in your favor, be sure to include it with your appeal. For example: copies of repair bills for a stranded car, copies of medical statements regarding disabilities, diagrams or photographs of the situation, notarized statements of witnesses, etc. Appeals that include no explanation or that appear to be submitted only to clear an enrollment hold will not be accepted. All appeals must be submitted online. In the case of personal appeals, the court clerk will contact you in order to schedule a hearing time if your appeal is accepted for a personal hearing. Did you get a ticket? Pay a Ticket Appeal a Ticket Ticket Forgiveness Allen Fieldhouse Garage 1501 Irving Hill Road Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 10, 11, 38, 41, 42 kupark@ku.edu 785-864-7275 twitter Transportation Services KU on Wheels Lawrence Transit Edwards Campus Parking Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.