Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Transportation Services KU Parking myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Parking Select to follow link Parking Lots Parking Garages Edwards Campus Accessible Parking Motorcycles, Mopeds and Bikes Event Parking Parking Fees & Fines Permits Select to follow link Permit Overview Short-Term Permits Student Permits Select to follow link Student Permit Overview Students Living On Campus Students Living Off Campus Graduate Students Faculty & Staff Permits Visitor Permits Motorcycle & Moped Permits Medical Permits Permit Fees Tickets Select to follow link Tickets Overview Violations Pay a Ticket Appeal a Ticket Students Select to follow link Student Permits Getting to Class Moving In/Out Carpool Program Prospective Students Faculty & Staff Select to follow link Faculty/Staff Permits Departments New Employees Payroll Deduction Carpool Program Visitors Select to follow link Visitor Parking Visitor Permits Event Parking Pay with Parkmobile About Select to follow link About Us Parking Commission Parking Rules & Regulations Contact Us Report Disabled Vehicle Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Transportation Services KU Parking Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Students Moving in/Out Move-in day for residence halls and scholarship halls is a very busy time in which hundreds of families need vehicle access to very limited spaces. In order to accommodate everyone, vehicles are only allowed to park in the residence hall lots for 10 minutes each on those days. Important Note: The 10-minute limit on move-in day applies to vehicles with Housing permits, as well. If you have a Housing permit, you will be able to park in your designated Housing lot at the end of the move-in day. Student Housing will contact residents before move-in day with the designated timeframe they should arrive based on their housing assignment, and instructions for parking before and after unloading your vehicle. Unloading During Move-in Day When a vehicle arrives at the designated residence hall for unloading, drivers will park as directed and stay in their vehicle while a representative from Student Housing will assist with the unloading of the vehicle. Once the vehicle is unloaded, it should proceed to the designated long-term parking area. Parking attendants and KU Public Safety officers will be directing traffic to help vehicles get to and from unloading areas. Moving at Other Times of the Year When moving in/out of a residence hall or scholarship hall: What to DO: Only park in University Housing lots if you have a permit Follow all KU Parking Rules and Regulations (ex: pay meters, etc.) Have the items you’re moving packed and ready to go before you park in a designated loading area Be mindful of any posted TIME LIMIT signs. What NOT to do: Don't park in faculty/staff zones in Housing lots (Red, Blue Gold zones) Don't park in delivery vehicle stalls, state vehicle stalls, etc. Don't park in accessible stalls, unless you are properly permitted to do so Don't park in bus lanes. fire lanes or No Parking zones Don't block other vehicles or impede traffic Don't park along curbs or in other areas unless specifically marked for parking or loading/unloading Allen Fieldhouse Garage 1501 Irving Hill Road Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 10, 11, 38, 41, 42 kupark@ku.edu 785-864-7275 twitter Transportation Services KU on Wheels Lawrence Transit Edwards Campus Parking Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.