Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Transportation Services KU Parking myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Parking Select to follow link Parking Lots Parking Garages Edwards Campus Accessible Parking Motorcycles, Mopeds and Bikes Event Parking Parking Fees & Fines Permits Select to follow link Permit Overview Short-Term Permits Student Permits Select to follow link Student Permit Overview Students Living On Campus Students Living Off Campus Graduate Students Faculty & Staff Permits Visitor Permits Motorcycle & Moped Permits Medical Permits Permit Fees Tickets Select to follow link Tickets Overview Violations Pay a Ticket Appeal a Ticket Students Select to follow link Student Permits Getting to Class Moving In/Out Carpool Program Prospective Students Faculty & Staff Select to follow link Faculty/Staff Permits Departments New Employees Payroll Deduction Carpool Program Visitors Select to follow link Visitor Parking Visitor Permits Event Parking Pay with Parkmobile About Select to follow link About Us Parking Commission Parking Rules & Regulations Contact Us Report Disabled Vehicle Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Transportation Services KU Parking Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home About Parking Rules & Regulations 2021-2022 Parking Regulations Transportation Services strives to provide exceptional customer service and accurate information. Parking regulations are implemented and enforced with the goal of protecting students, faculty, staff and visitors on the KU campus by providing a safe community that balances the needs of motorists, pedestrians and bicyclists. The regulation of parking is a service to the university, and is intended to protect student, staff, and faculty pedestrian mobility in fulfilling the class and work schedule itinerary; use available parking space in the best interests of the entire university; and maximize parking area consistent with land needs for the academic function, topography, financial feasibility, and maintenance of the natural beauty of the campus. Transportation Services is supported solely through the sale of permits, fines, and other user fees. It receives no income from state or tuition funds. Constructive feedback for Transportation Services is welcome by email. next section Table of Contents Jump to Section Policy Statements Quick Reference Definitions 1. General Regulations 2. Access to Central Campus 3. Student, Faculty & Staff Parking 4. Visitor Parking 5. Departmental-sponsored Parking 6. Accessible Parking 7. Parking Permits 8. Parking Fees 9. Control of Parking Lots 10. Bicycle Parking 11. Parking Garages 12. Parking Lot Closures 13. Enforcement 14. Tickets 15. Payment of Fees 16. Appeal of Violation Notices 17. Statutory Authorization Allen Fieldhouse Garage 1501 Irving Hill Road Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 10, 11, 38, 41, 42 kupark@ku.edu 785-864-7275 twitter Transportation Services KU on Wheels Lawrence Transit Edwards Campus Parking Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.