Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Transportation Services KU Parking myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Parking Select to follow link Parking Lots Parking Garages Edwards Campus Accessible Parking Motorcycles, Mopeds and Bikes Event Parking Parking Fees & Fines Permits Select to follow link Permit Overview Short-Term Permits Student Permits Select to follow link Student Permit Overview Students Living On Campus Students Living Off Campus Graduate Students Faculty & Staff Permits Visitor Permits Motorcycle & Moped Permits Medical Permits Permit Fees Tickets Select to follow link Tickets Overview Violations Pay a Ticket Appeal a Ticket Students Select to follow link Student Permits Getting to Class Moving In/Out Carpool Program Prospective Students Faculty & Staff Select to follow link Faculty/Staff Permits Departments New Employees Payroll Deduction Carpool Program Visitors Select to follow link Visitor Parking Visitor Permits Event Parking Pay with Parkmobile About Select to follow link About Us Parking Commission Parking Rules & Regulations Contact Us Report Disabled Vehicle Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Transportation Services KU Parking Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Permits Student Permits Permits - Students Living Off Campus Permits go on sale around July first and are made available based on student academic level on a first come, first served basis. A limited number of permits are available for each parking garage. If permits are sold out for your preferred garage, you can sign up for a waiting list. All yellow zone permits are valid in all yellow zones across campus this year. Bear in mind that your preferred lot may be full when you arrive. Please consider whether walking or riding a bus to class may be more convenient than purchasing a parking permit. Yellow Permit - $302/year Yellow permits are valid in any yellow zone. Garage Yellow Permit - $350/year Yellow Garage permits are sold for specific garages: Campus Area (Landmark) Designated Garage North (Kansas Memorial Union) Mississippi Street Garage Central (Burge Union) Central District Garage Central (Allen Fieldhouse) — Available only to graduate students Allen Fieldhouse Garage Please Note: All parking in the Central District and Allen Fieldhouse garages is preempted during home basketball game days. All parking in the Mississippi Parking Garage is preempted during home football game days. Signs will be posted 48 hours in advance of each home game. Please remove your vehicle from the garage before the stated time on the specified dates. Park & Ride Permit - $221/year A reduced permit is an option for remote parking in the Park & Ride lot (301). Bus service (route 41) to the central core of campus runs 7 a.m. - 10:30 p.m., Monday–Friday. The full schedule is available at the Lawrence Transit website. To order this permit, please fill out this form. Carpool Permit - Variable Price Carpool permits will be the permit price divided by the number of members in the carpool. Two or more students may form a carpool and purchase a permit valid for parking in lots 52, 61 and 301. Carpool members must be KU students who live off campus and are not freshmen. Learn more about the carpool program and how to apply. Purchase Permit Allen Fieldhouse Garage 1501 Irving Hill Road Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 10, 11, 38, 41, 42 kupark@ku.edu 785-864-7275 twitter Transportation Services KU on Wheels Lawrence Transit Edwards Campus Parking Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.