Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Transportation Services KU Parking myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Parking Select to follow link Parking Lots Parking Garages Edwards Campus Accessible Parking Motorcycles, Mopeds and Bikes Event Parking Parking Fees & Fines Permits Select to follow link Permit Overview Short-Term Permits Student Permits Select to follow link Student Permit Overview Students Living On Campus Students Living Off Campus Graduate Students Faculty & Staff Permits Visitor Permits Motorcycle & Moped Permits Medical Permits Permit Fees Tickets Select to follow link Tickets Overview Violations Pay a Ticket Appeal a Ticket Students Select to follow link Student Permits Getting to Class Moving In/Out Carpool Program Prospective Students Faculty & Staff Select to follow link Faculty/Staff Permits Departments New Employees Payroll Deduction Carpool Program Visitors Select to follow link Visitor Parking Visitor Permits Event Parking Pay with Parkmobile About Select to follow link About Us Parking Commission Parking Rules & Regulations Contact Us Report Disabled Vehicle Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Transportation Services KU Parking Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Faculty & Staff Carpool Program for Employees Two to four employees may form a carpool and purchase a permit. Members may not have any other KU parking permits. The permit may be purchased in any zone up to the highest eligibility of carpool members. The eligible member must be the primary driver. Cost is the regular permit price divided by the number of carpool members. Payroll deduction is not available for carpool permits. Only one car may be parked in the carpool color zone parking at any time. Carpool members may park additional registered vehicle(s) in the Park & Ride lot (301) on days when carpooling does not work. Any parking tickets issued to carpool participants are the responsibility of the owner/operator of the illegally parked vehicle. Any abuse of a Carpool permit by participants, family members, KU students, or anyone not authorized to use the carpool permit will result in the carpool permit being revoked. Each potential member of a carpool must fill out our online carpool application form, and will be contacted by a staff member from Transportation Services within three business days. Complete the carpool application form Allen Fieldhouse Garage 1501 Irving Hill Road Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 10, 11, 38, 41, 42 kupark@ku.edu 785-864-7275 twitter Transportation Services KU on Wheels Lawrence Transit Edwards Campus Parking Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.