Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Transportation Services KU Parking myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Parking Select to follow link Parking Lots Parking Garages Edwards Campus Accessible Parking Motorcycles, Mopeds and Bikes Event Parking Parking Fees & Fines Permits Select to follow link Permit Overview Short-Term Permits Student Permits Select to follow link Student Permit Overview Students Living On Campus Students Living Off Campus Graduate Students Faculty & Staff Permits Visitor Permits Motorcycle & Moped Permits Medical Permits Permit Fees Tickets Select to follow link Tickets Overview Violations Pay a Ticket Appeal a Ticket Students Select to follow link Student Permits Getting to Class Moving In/Out Carpool Program Prospective Students Faculty & Staff Select to follow link Faculty/Staff Permits Departments New Employees Payroll Deduction Carpool Program Visitors Select to follow link Visitor Parking Visitor Permits Event Parking Pay with Parkmobile About Select to follow link About Us Parking Commission Parking Rules & Regulations Contact Us Report Disabled Vehicle Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Transportation Services KU Parking Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Students Prospective Students KU Parking welcomes prospective students and their families to campus. We hope you enjoy your visit and decide to become part of the Jayhawk family. If you have any questions about parking on campus or need assistance, please contact us. Visitor Center The Visitor Center houses the Admissions Office and is located on the west side of Templin Hall. Visitors may park in lot 400, located west of the Visitor Center. Ask for a temporary parking permit from the front desk at the Visitor Center, and display the permit on your vehicle for the duration of your campus visit. These temporary permits are only valid in the Visitor Center lot (400). Please be aware that areas marked as “Red permit required” are reserved for faculty/staff permit holders. Orientation Parking You should receive parking information with your Orientation packet. Prospective students and parents visiting campus for Orientation should park in the Mississippi Street parking garage located just north of the Kansas Memorial Union. High School Junior Days and Senior Days Students and parents visiting campus for high school Junior and Senior Days should park in the Mississippi Street parking garage located just north of the Kansas Memorial Union. You should receive parking information from the Admissions Office prior to the event. Allen Fieldhouse Garage 1501 Irving Hill Road Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 10, 11, 38, 41, 42 kupark@ku.edu 785-864-7275 twitter Transportation Services KU on Wheels Lawrence Transit Edwards Campus Parking Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.