Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Administration and Finance Parking and Transportation Services Main Navigation Services Forms About Purchase Permits Pay or Appeal Parking Ticket AQMD Login Parking Portal Login Student Services & Information Commute Options: CDC Transportation Guideline Information More parking available! OFF-SITE PARKING & SHUTTLE SERVICE Purchase an Off-site Parking Permit for $89 and park at the local EvFree Church on Bastanchury and Brea Blvd Monday through Thursday 7:15 am to 7:00 pm. Shuttle service runs every 10-15 minutes. Last shuttle leaves campus at 6:45 pm. Any vehicle left after 8:00 pm is subject to tow. The off-site permit is valid on the CSUF campus on Fridays, during finals week, and when the campus is closed. EvFree Church Map On-campus Shuttle Stop Bike: CSUF Campus Bike Path Bike Safety tips Directive #16 Carpool Program: A minimum of 2 CSUF students must arrive to campus and park in Lot D together with a semester permit and a carpool permit. Want to park in Lot D and need help forming a carpool? On your phone, go to bit.ly/CSUFcarpoolers . Yes, it's that easy. Lost or stolen carpool permit? Contact the Commuter Services Team at cservices@fullerton.edu. Zipcar CarShare Program Zipcar CarShare is an exclusive car sharing service at Cal State Fullerton available to CSUF students, faculty and staff that provides the freedom of car ownership without the hassle and expense. Getting Started Visit CSUF Zipcar to learn more or to sign up. Metrolink/Train Students receive 25% off of a Metrolink pass through the Metrolink app or at the Metrolink stations. While riding the train, students must show their student identification along with a valid pass or ticket upon request of fare enforcement personnel. Show a Metrolink pass to board any connecting OCTA bus for free. For train schedules, please visit Metrolink . Students receive 15% off of an Amtrak pass through the Amtrak website. New early morning service to CSUF! University Bus Pass (U-Pass) - Available online The spring semester U-Pass is available to purchase online at https://parking.fullerton.edu by clicking on "Purchase Permit" The OCTA U-Pass is valid for 5 months from January through May, 2022. U-Passes are not transferable and non-refundable. The U-Pass will be mailed within 7 business days to the address provided at purchase. New early morning service to CSUF! Questions? Contact the Commuter Services Team at cservices@fullerton.edu or (657)278-4699. Parking Lots & Structures Downloadable Parking Map Downloadable Campus Map with Grid Lines Quick Links Purchase Permit Pay or Appeal Parking Ticket View Available Parking Spaces AQMD Login Parking Portal Login Commuter Choice Program Vehicle Free Zone Contact Us Parking & Transportation Services (P&TS) Get In Touch California State University, Fullerton 800 N. State College Blvd, T-1400 Fullerton, CA 92831 Office Hours The Parking Office lobby is closed to in-person transactions. Have an inquiry? The Parking Inquiry Form is available to answer your question. Visitor Information Center Hours VICs are currently closed until further notice. Policies Rules & Regulations Employee Commuter Choice Policies & Procedures This site is maintained by Parking and Transportation Services. Last Published 3/30/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact parking@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.7 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.