Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Administration and Finance Parking and Transportation Services Main Navigation Services Forms About Purchase Permits Pay or Appeal Parking Ticket AQMD Login Parking Portal Login Forms Mail printed forms to Parking & Transportation Services (T-1400) or fax (657) 278-4533. Online forms available to employees and students Form Description Contractors, Maintenance/Service Vendors Permit Request To be used for contractors, maintenance/service vendors needing a parking permit for work. CSU Reciprocity Application Apply for a CSU Reciprocity Parking Permit as a CSUEU-represented employee employed at two or more campuses. Declaration of Lost or Stolen Permit To be used if the permit holder loses their permit or it has been stolen. Employee Bus Pass (E-Pass) Faculty and Staff members who do not own a Parking permit may fill out an Employee Bus Pass (E-Pass) application to receive a free bus pass Employee Carpool Permit Application To be used by two or more employees commuting together. Event Permits Requesting campus department may order and pay through OPR Faculty/Staff EV Permit Application Employees may fill out an Electric Vehicle (EV) Permit Application to receive a supplemental EV Permit. Online Permit Request (OPR) Form (login) Faculty/Staff may request daily parking permits for visitors and guests. Requests should be made 24 hours in advance for paid permits, and 72 business hours in advance for complimentary permits. Parking Permit Refund Semester permit holders can request a prorated refund according to the employee proration schedule and student proration schedule . Refunds will be processed once the permit is received by P&TS staff. Payroll Deduction Cancellation Form To be used by Faculty/Staff to cancel their current Payroll Deduction Parking Permit. Cancellations will be processed once the permit is received by P&TS staff. Replacement of Lost Permit To be used if the permit purchased online is not received in the mail and the temporary permit has expired. Special Permit Application Valid in 30 minutes zones, special permit zones and parking structures. Division Head approval is required. Student Carpool Permit Application To be used by two or more students commuting together. Student EV Permit Application Students may fill out an Electric Vehicle (EV) Permit Application to receive a supplemental EV Permit. Travel Direct Deposit Form To be used for Faculty/Staff in the Commuter Rewards Program. Quick Links Purchase Permit Pay or Appeal Parking Ticket View Available Parking Spaces AQMD Login Parking Portal Login Commuter Choice Program Vehicle Free Zone Contact Us Parking & Transportation Services (P&TS) Get In Touch California State University, Fullerton 800 N. State College Blvd, T-1400 Fullerton, CA 92831 Office Hours The Parking Office lobby is closed to in-person transactions. Have an inquiry? The Parking Inquiry Form is available to answer your question. Visitor Information Center Hours VICs are currently closed until further notice. Policies Rules & Regulations Employee Commuter Choice Policies & Procedures This site is maintained by Parking and Transportation Services. Last Published 3/30/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact parking@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.7 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.