Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Transportation Services KU Parking myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Parking Select to follow link Parking Lots Parking Garages Edwards Campus Accessible Parking Motorcycles, Mopeds and Bikes Event Parking Parking Fees & Fines Permits Select to follow link Permit Overview Short-Term Permits Student Permits Select to follow link Student Permit Overview Students Living On Campus Students Living Off Campus Graduate Students Faculty & Staff Permits Visitor Permits Motorcycle & Moped Permits Medical Permits Permit Fees Tickets Select to follow link Tickets Overview Violations Pay a Ticket Appeal a Ticket Students Select to follow link Student Permits Getting to Class Moving In/Out Carpool Program Prospective Students Faculty & Staff Select to follow link Faculty/Staff Permits Departments New Employees Payroll Deduction Carpool Program Visitors Select to follow link Visitor Parking Visitor Permits Event Parking Pay with Parkmobile About Select to follow link About Us Parking Commission Parking Rules & Regulations Contact Us Report Disabled Vehicle Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Transportation Services KU Parking Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Faculty & Staff Departments University departments that want to provide parking for visitors may reserve a parking meter or a stall for $24 by sending an email to KU Parking. Departments can also use the self-service departmental parking portal to purchase hourly parking for visitors. KU faculty, staff and students are not eligible to use permits purchased by departments. Self-service Portal Save money by purchasing visitor permits through the self-service portal. Permits purchased in the portal will be charged the daily rate ($3 for Yellow; $4 for Red; $5 for Blue and $6 for Gold and Garages). To use the self-service portal, departmental representative must first request access by completing the portal access request form. Once approved for access, KU Parking will provide user training and instructions for accessing the self-service portal. Departmental Passes Departments can request departmental passes that provide KU employees with access to park in restricted areas for the purpose of conducting university work-related business. Passes are for occasional short-term use only. They are not to be used for parking at one’s regular work location, to attend class, or for personal (non-work) reasons. See guidelines for use of the passes. Departmental passes issued to a department should be kept in a safe place in an administrative office with a responsible party who monitors when, how and by whom the pass is used. Transportation Services maintains a record of all pass numbers and each responsible party, who is listed on the front of the pass. Transportation Services also keeps statistics on departmental pass usage in order to have an idea of how the passes are being used. If we have concerns regarding the use of a pass, we will contact the departmental representative who is responsible for the pass. Parking for Large Groups / Events KU Parking can set up your large group or event as "self-service" for your attendees to register their license plates prior to their arrival on campus. To set up an event, fill out our event request form. Important Note: A surcharge of $25 will be added to all physical visitor permits, hooded meters and reserved stalls ordered less than two business days in advance of the date they are needed. Allen Fieldhouse Garage 1501 Irving Hill Road Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 10, 11, 38, 41, 42 kupark@ku.edu 785-864-7275 twitter Transportation Services KU on Wheels Lawrence Transit Edwards Campus Parking Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.