Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home Parking & Transportation Menu University of Texas at Austin Home Financial and Administrative Services The University of Texas at Austin Financial and Administrative Services Parking & Transportation Search Search Search Search Home Expand Parking Expand Parking Garages Events Disability / ADA Parking Faculty/Staff Parking Student Parking Visitor Parking Departmental Parking Vendor Parking RecSports Membership Parking Parking & Traffic Regulations Permit Disruptions Transportation Expand BikeUT Capital Metro Car Share (Zipcar) Carpool Electric Scooters Electric Vehicles Lyft for Departments MetroRideShare UT Night Rides Shuttles Walking and Sure Walk Vending Machines Expand Vending Machine Locations Refund Request Service Request Fleet Operations Expand Fuel Forms & Policies Maintenance Reporting Purchasing/Disposal Voyager Card Program Vans Citations Expand Appeal Citation Boot Information How to Avoid Citations Pay Citation Maps Expand Campus Parking Map Visitor's Parking Maps PRC & WPR Map Shuttle Routes GPS Coordinates Bike UT Maps About Expand Annual Reports Awards & Recognition Organizational Chart PTS in the Media PTS Staff My Parking Profile Expand UT Night Rides alt="UT Night Rides your after-hours rideshare home " UT Night Rides From the Lyft Rideshare Service Lyft serves as the provider for UT Austin’s Night Rides program! UT Night Rides provides a Lyft away from main campus to your home* 7 days a week from Midnight (12 a.m.) to 4 a.m. *Locations served will mirror current UT Shuttles routes for West Campus, Far West, Lake Austin, North Riverside, Lake Shore, Crossing Place, and Intramural Fields as well as mainline Route 10, serving the Red River area. All UT Night Rides must originate from main campus only. UT Night Rides x Lyft: How to Activate your Lyft Pass Video of UT Night Rides x Lyft: How to Activate your Lyft Pass Getting Started 1. Get the app Download the Lyft app for iPhone or Android. Already have it? Just make sure to update to the latest version of the app. 2. Get your UT Night Rides credits Your Lyft email must match your official University directory email address (whether you use gmail, utexas.edu, yahoo or other) to participate. Need to know your UT email address? Click Here Need to change your Lyft address? Click Here If your UT EID is restricted, please email nightrides@austin.utexas.edu to enroll Lyft will send an email to university affiliates. Click on the activation link in the email to claim your credits. If you did not receive the email from Lyft, email nightrides@austin.utexas.edu to claim your credits. email-invite.jpeg 3. Take a Lyft ride! Rides must begin on the main campus (designated as the purple zone on map below; purple zone=main campus) and end in any designated off-campus locations (designated within the pink zone). Note: Destinations must be residential, not commercial. Once verification is complete, your UT Night Rides Lyft credits will be activated. The credits will automatically apply to any rides taken within the above parameters and the ride quote for the ride will show “FREE”. When you open the Lyft app, you will be prompted for the type of Lyft that you want to request. Tap “Shared” to the selection option (see photo). UTNightRides_Screenshots_2.png After you click "Set Pickup" you will see the following screen. Be sure to have your ride set to Lyft Shared and Personal mode. If your ride is ordered in business mode, your Lyft credit will not apply to the cost of the ride. Remember, crossed out pricing as indicated below means that your promo is being applied and the UT Night Rides credits also will be applied. If you do not see crossed-out pricing, please make sure you are following the proper steps and using the program within the set boundaries/parameters. You may view the ride parameters by visiting the Promos section in the Lyft app. Please note that any additional tips paid to a driver will be charged to the personal credit card registered to your Lyft account. To use credit, Rides must be in "Personal Mode" and Lyft Shared. How to Request a Wheelchair Accessible Vehicle: Within the Lyft app, go to Settings then Services to select Access mode. Lyft Settings.png Reopen the app. You will receive an in-app notification with instructions to dial a dedicated phone number for dispatching accessible vehicles. If you have questions about UT Night Rides, please email us at nightrides@austin.utexas.edu For inquiries regarding changes, please include your UT EID, phone number, and a screenshot or picture of your ride receipt. If you have questions about UT Night Rides, please email us at nightrides@austin.utexas.edu or visit https://parking.utexas.edu/night App Safety Tools Lyft ADT.png Access 911 For emergency assistance, riders can reach 911 directly from the Lyft app. It will prominently display your current location and vehicle information, including the license plate. This makes it easy for you to inform dispatchers if needed. Contact a Security Professional Emergency Help, supported by ADT, is available for all Lyft riders nationwide. With Emergency Help, if a rider ever feels uncomfortable or unsafe, they are able to immediately connect with an ADT security professional silently or by voice for real-time help 24/7. You can choose how you want ADT to communicate with you from the app: Text Call Alert 911 silently on your behalf If you choose for ADT to alert 911 on your behalf, authorities can arrive at the user’s live location, equipped with ride details like the vehicle’s make and model, license plate number, and the intended drop-off location. Predicting When Help Is Needed Smart Trip Check-In: If a ride looks to have unexplained delays, riders will hear from Lyft asking if they need support from their team — and if necessary, request emergency assistance. If you have questions about UT Night Rides, please email us at nightrides@austin.utexas.edu Protect Texas Together To help prevent the spread of COVID-19: Riders are required to wear face masks while using UT Night Rides Leave the front seat empty. Only one rider is allowed per ride. See Lyft's latest on COVID-19 page for information on how Lyft is protecting drivers and riders. For information on Lyft rideshare for departments, see the Lyft for Departments page Quick Links Getting Started How to Request a Wheelchair Accessible Vehicle App Safety Tools Parking & Transportation PTS Office - Trinity Parking Garage (TRG) 1815 Trinity St. Email: parking@utexas.edu Website problems? Contact FAS Communications fascommweb@austin.utexas.edu Parking Garages Parking Maps Student Parking UT Shuttles Visitor Parking UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022