Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Transportation Services KU Parking myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Parking Select to follow link Parking Lots Parking Garages Edwards Campus Accessible Parking Motorcycles, Mopeds and Bikes Event Parking Parking Fees & Fines Permits Select to follow link Permit Overview Short-Term Permits Student Permits Select to follow link Student Permit Overview Students Living On Campus Students Living Off Campus Graduate Students Faculty & Staff Permits Visitor Permits Motorcycle & Moped Permits Medical Permits Permit Fees Tickets Select to follow link Tickets Overview Violations Pay a Ticket Appeal a Ticket Students Select to follow link Student Permits Getting to Class Moving In/Out Carpool Program Prospective Students Faculty & Staff Select to follow link Faculty/Staff Permits Departments New Employees Payroll Deduction Carpool Program Visitors Select to follow link Visitor Parking Visitor Permits Event Parking Pay with Parkmobile About Select to follow link About Us Parking Commission Parking Rules & Regulations Contact Us Report Disabled Vehicle Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Transportation Services KU Parking Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Parking Parking Garages There are three parking garages on campus for permit and hourly toll parking: Allen Fieldhouse Garage is located on the corner of Naismith and Irving Hill Road (Clearance is 7 feet) Mississippi St. Garage is located just north of the Kansas Union (Clearance is 8 feet) Central District Garage is located southwest of the Integrated Science Building and the Burge Union with access from Ousdahl Road (Clearance is 8.5 feet) Hourly Parking Hourly parking is for visitors and others who don't have a KU parking permit. To use hourly parking: KU uses license plate recognition for parking enforcement in the garages. Pull slowly into the garage and find a place to park. ADA/Limited mobility and reserved/service stalls require a special permit. Proceed to the pay station within 15 minutes of entering the garage or use the ParkMobile app to pre-pay for parking. The first hour (or any portion of an hour) is $1.75, and all subsequent hours are $1.50. Pay stations accept Visa, MasterCard, American Express, Discover or cash. Have exact change if paying by cash, as pay stations do not give change. Accessible Parking Individuals with a valid KU permit and an ADA placard registered with KU Parking may park in garages without an additional garage-specific permit. Questions About Parking Garages How much does it cost to park in the garage? The charge to park in the garages is $1.75 for the first hour, and $1.50 for each additional hour, or any portion of an hour. Can I get a permit for the garage? Yes. Faculty and staff can purchase an annual permit for a specified garage. Students must contact KU Parking and be placed on a waiting list before they can purchase a garage permit. Garage permits are sold on an annual basis only. Why can't I park in lots around the garage with my garage permit? You may not park in the lots directly surrounding the garages because we guarantee you a space in the garage. If you parked just outside it, you would, in effect, be taking up two parking spaces. Why isn't my regular surface lot permit valid in the garage? Your permit is not valid in the garage because the garages cost more to maintain, and the permits which are valid there cost more. Please refer to the answer about garage permits above. Allen Fieldhouse Garage 1501 Irving Hill Road Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 10, 11, 38, 41, 42 kupark@ku.edu 785-864-7275 twitter Transportation Services KU on Wheels Lawrence Transit Edwards Campus Parking Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.