Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Transportation Services KU Parking myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Parking Select to follow link Parking Lots Parking Garages Edwards Campus Accessible Parking Motorcycles, Mopeds and Bikes Event Parking Parking Fees & Fines Permits Select to follow link Permit Overview Short-Term Permits Student Permits Select to follow link Student Permit Overview Students Living On Campus Students Living Off Campus Graduate Students Faculty & Staff Permits Visitor Permits Motorcycle & Moped Permits Medical Permits Permit Fees Tickets Select to follow link Tickets Overview Violations Pay a Ticket Appeal a Ticket Students Select to follow link Student Permits Getting to Class Moving In/Out Carpool Program Prospective Students Faculty & Staff Select to follow link Faculty/Staff Permits Departments New Employees Payroll Deduction Carpool Program Visitors Select to follow link Visitor Parking Visitor Permits Event Parking Pay with Parkmobile About Select to follow link About Us Parking Commission Parking Rules & Regulations Contact Us Report Disabled Vehicle Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Transportation Services KU Parking Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Ticket Forgiveness Quiz Students, faculty and staff who receive their first-ever KU parking ticket may be able to have the ticket canceled by successfully completing a parking quiz within 14 calendar days of the ticket’s issuance. The quiz over general Parking Rules & Regulations and information on this website is designed for drivers to educate themselves about commonly misunderstood parking policies. The quiz is part of our existing appeals process, however you should not pay the ticket before taking the quiz. If your ticket is deemed ineligible for cancellation, you will still have the opportunity to appeal the ticket. Eligibility Current KU student, faculty or staff member at KU First KU parking ticket ever Ticket for Group 1 violation (see section 14.9 of the KU Parking Rules & Regulations) Complete the quiz within 14 calendar days of ticket issuance Only one ticket will be canceled per account and/or license plate. Taking the Quiz If you think you are eligible, take the 24-question parking quiz within 14 calendar days. We'll then verify your eligibility and notify you if we were able to cancel the ticket. We encourage you to study the KU Parking Rules & Regulations and this website before taking the quiz. You will need to log in with your KU Online ID in order to start the quiz. Important Note: The Parking Quiz does not apply to citations written for Unpaid Garage Toll, Parking Meters, ADA Stalls, Non-designated Parking, Reserved Stall violations, and Fire Lanes! If you received one of these types of tickets, you can appeal the ticket. Start the Quiz Allen Fieldhouse Garage 1501 Irving Hill Road Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 10, 11, 38, 41, 42 kupark@ku.edu 785-864-7275 twitter Transportation Services KU on Wheels Lawrence Transit Edwards Campus Parking Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.