Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton A-Z Index Search Search Domains Search this site or CSUF general sites Search Type Site CSUF Search Site Menu Administration and Finance Parking and Transportation Services Main Navigation Services Forms News About Purchase Permits Pay or Appeal Parking Ticket AQMD Login Load Social Media Icons Home AQMD AQMD Home Admin Login AQMD Fall 2021 CSUF Commute Survey To comply with local air quality regulations, CSUF must conduct an annual employee commute survey and submit an employee commute reduction plan to the South Coast Air Quality Management District (SCAQMD). The purpose of the survey is to measure the effectiveness of the University's efforts to reduce the number of single-occupancy vehicle trips and attain a 1.5 average vehicle ridership (AVR) to improve air quality in Southern California. All employees who start work between the hours of 6-10 am will be identified, and a random sample will be selected from this group. Department collectors have been appointed to distribute notifications and survey instructions to the selected employees. The survey will open on Thursday, October 14th and must be completed by Friday, October 22nd. Participants will be asked information about their telecommute or commute to work for the week of October 11th – October 15th. Participants Participant Phases Status Phase Description Survey is closed October 14 (12:00 AM) - October 22 (11:59 PM) See Daily Winners Collectors Collector Phases Status Phase Description PHASE 1 Identify who is in the window September 7 (12:00 AM) - September 20 (9:00 AM) PHASE 1B Verify email addresses September 21 (12:00 AM) - October 1 (11:59 PM) PHASE 3 Monitor People who have not filled in the survey October 14 (12:00 AM) - October 22 (11:59 PM) PHASE 4 Work schedule data collection November 1 (12:00 AM) - November 12 (11:59 PM) More Information AQMD Rule 2202 Prizes- Daily Giveaways and Breathe a Little Easier Sweepstakes Information Survey Methodology This site is maintained by Parking and Transportation Services. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact parking@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.6 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.