Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Transportation Services KU Parking myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Parking Select to follow link Parking Lots Parking Garages Edwards Campus Accessible Parking Motorcycles, Mopeds and Bikes Event Parking Parking Fees & Fines Permits Select to follow link Permit Overview Short-Term Permits Student Permits Select to follow link Student Permit Overview Students Living On Campus Students Living Off Campus Graduate Students Faculty & Staff Permits Visitor Permits Motorcycle & Moped Permits Medical Permits Permit Fees Tickets Select to follow link Tickets Overview Violations Pay a Ticket Appeal a Ticket Students Select to follow link Student Permits Getting to Class Moving In/Out Carpool Program Prospective Students Faculty & Staff Select to follow link Faculty/Staff Permits Departments New Employees Payroll Deduction Carpool Program Visitors Select to follow link Visitor Parking Visitor Permits Event Parking Pay with Parkmobile About Select to follow link About Us Parking Commission Parking Rules & Regulations Contact Us Report Disabled Vehicle Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Transportation Services KU Parking Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Where to Park KU Lawrence is a closed campus, with traffic generally restricted from 7:45 a.m. to 5 p.m. year-round. All campus parking is restricted to vehicles with permits that authorize parking in that area, or where a meter fee or garage toll has been paid. Parking on the KU Edwards Campus is open and does not require a permit. Parking enforcement is done primarily using license plate recognition software. Vehicles are required to park with the license plate facing the driving lane. Parking spaces are marked with paint. If there are no painted lines, it is not a parking space. The only exceptions are gravel parking lots. Permits and parking lots/zones are color coded. Drivers should pay close attention to signs in campus parking lots. Some parking lots include a mix of student and employee parking zones with different restrictions. Drivers are responsible for understanding and following KU Parking Rules & Regulations. Visitor Parking Visitors are required to observe all University of Kansas parking regulations and to park in designated visitor or metered parking areas. If parked at a meter, all visitors must pay the prescribed fee. Parking tickets are assessed against a vehicle, not the vehicle operator. Student, Faculty & Staff Parking KU maintains various types of parking facilities to meet the needs of faculty, staff, and students. These include regular permit lots, parking garages and metered parking spaces. Some parking lots and garages are controlled 24 hours per day. Students, faculty and staff may purchase only one automobile permit and one motorcycle/moped permit per year. Parking permits are registered to your license plate, instead of a window sticker. Permit holders can register alternate license plates if they drive a different vehicle; however, only one registered vehicle can be parked on campus at a time. Purchasing a parking permit does not imply or guarantee a parking space at any particular time, and parking privileges may be modified or preempted by the authority of the Chancellor of the University. Allen Fieldhouse Garage 1501 Irving Hill Road Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 10, 11, 38, 41, 42 kupark@ku.edu 785-864-7275 twitter Transportation Services KU on Wheels Lawrence Transit Edwards Campus Parking Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.