Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Administration and Finance Parking and Transportation Services Main Navigation Services Forms About Purchase Permits Pay or Appeal Parking Ticket AQMD Login Parking Portal Login Visitor Services & Information Includes Daily Parking, Park and Pay, and ParkMobile. To procure equipment for your department event, email parking@fullerton.edu. Online Permit Request (OPR) Faculty and Staff can request daily permits for guests and visitors through the Online Permit Request (OPR) System! All paid permit requests will be processed upon receipt when "faculty/staff" is the selected parking location. Visit Online Permit Request (OPR) FAQs page for more information. Questions? Contact the Permit Coordinator at mdelgadillo@fullerton.edu or (657) 278-3082. Purchase Daily Parking Permit Campus guests can purchase a Daily Parking Permit from one of the on-campus permit dispensers located in parking lots A, D, and G, and on levels 2 and above in the Eastside South Parking Structure, the Nutwood Parking Structure, and the Statre College Parking Structure. Parking Lots & Structures Downloadable Parking Map Downloadable Campus Map with Grid Lines Quick Links Purchase Permit Pay or Appeal Parking Ticket View Available Parking Spaces AQMD Login Parking Portal Login Commuter Choice Program Vehicle Free Zone Contact Us Parking & Transportation Services (P&TS) Get In Touch California State University, Fullerton 800 N. State College Blvd, T-1400 Fullerton, CA 92831 Office Hours The Parking Office lobby is closed to in-person transactions. Have an inquiry? The Parking Inquiry Form is available to answer your question. Visitor Information Center Hours VICs are currently closed until further notice. Policies Rules & Regulations Employee Commuter Choice Policies & Procedures This site is maintained by Parking and Transportation Services. Last Published 5/3/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact parking@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.7 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.