Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home Parking & Transportation Menu University of Texas at Austin Home Financial and Administrative Services The University of Texas at Austin Financial and Administrative Services Parking & Transportation Search Search Search Search Home Expand Parking Expand Parking Garages Events Disability / ADA Parking Faculty/Staff Parking Student Parking Visitor Parking Departmental Parking Vendor Parking RecSports Membership Parking Parking & Traffic Regulations Permit Disruptions Transportation Expand BikeUT Capital Metro Car Share (Zipcar) Carpool Electric Scooters Electric Vehicles Lyft for Departments MetroRideShare UT Night Rides Shuttles Walking and Sure Walk Vending Machines Expand Vending Machine Locations Refund Request Service Request Fleet Operations Expand Fuel Forms & Policies Maintenance Reporting Purchasing/Disposal Voyager Card Program Vans Citations Expand Appeal Citation Boot Information How to Avoid Citations Pay Citation Maps Expand Campus Parking Map Visitor's Parking Maps PRC & WPR Map Shuttle Routes GPS Coordinates Bike UT Maps About Expand Annual Reports Awards & Recognition Organizational Chart PTS in the Media PTS Staff My Parking Profile Expand Home Transportation : Walking Walking Sure Walk If you are on campus late and have concerns about your safety getting home, all students, faculty, and staff can request SURE Walkers to accompany them. Two SURE Walkers may accompany you on your walk home or provide a complimentary cart or car ride, depending on service area. Sure Walk does not provide walks or rides starting FROM off or west campus locations. It does provide walks or rides TO off and west campus locations, provided they are within the service area and originate from an on-campus location. Sure Walk also provides walks or rides from any on-campus location to any on-campus location. Sure Walk Boundary Map Request a Sure Walk Walking Around Campus The UT campus has a pleasant environment that invites students, staff, faculty, and visitors to walk throughout our campus. The University Master Plan and the Campus Transportation Study both recognized the importance of pedestrian movement on campus. As a result there have been several recent changes in the campus to improve pedestrian movement, and there will be more during the next few years. Pedestrian movement on campus will be integrated with a review and analysis of the campus outside lighting program, emergency call boxes, and a wayfinding system. The easiest way to access campus and the surrounding area is often by foot, and there's NO PERMIT required! Pedestrians, bicycles, and vehicles must obey all traffic control devices. Pedestrians have the right-of-way at marked crosswalks, in intersections, and on sidewalks extending across a service drive, building entrance, or driveway. Pedestrians should not leave the curb or their place of safety and walk or run into the path of a vehicle that is so close that it is impossible for the driver to yield. Pedestrians may cross an intersection diagonally where permitted by special pavement marking. Pedestrians crossing a street at any point other than within a marked crosswalk at an intersection should yield the right-of-way to all vehicles. Health Benefits Reduced blood cholesterol Lower blood pressure Increased cardiovascular endurance Boost bone strength Burn calories and keep weight down Have fun! Request a Sure Walk 8 p.m. - 2 a.m., 7 days/week* *excludes holidays and when dorms are closed To cancel a Sure Walk, email orderasurewalk@gmail.com Protect Texas Together No walk-ups or phone calls. Please use the request form to order a Sure Walk. Masks are optional inside university buildings and outdoors. For individuals who are not fully vaccinated or have weakened immune systems, masking is optional but recommended. @surewalk Sure Walk SUREWalk Sure Walk will be suspending service beginning at 12:01 a.m. Thursday, Feb. 3 due to potential inclement weather. P… https://t.co/GKhEvPhzwv 3 months ago reply2 retweet star Sure Walk SUREWalk Reminder: Sure Walk operating hours have changed due to Daylight Saving Time. The new hours of operation are 7 p.m… https://t.co/SFgcIMTq5Q 6 months ago reply2 retweet star Sure Walk SUREWalk Reminder: Sure Walk operating hours will be changing due to Daylight Saving Time. The new hours of operation will… https://t.co/ZHpGBXnXXJ 6 months ago reply2 retweet starSee more... Parking & Transportation PTS Office - Trinity Parking Garage (TRG) 1815 Trinity St. Email: parking@utexas.edu Website problems? Contact FAS Communications fascommweb@austin.utexas.edu Parking Garages Parking Maps Student Parking UT Shuttles Visitor Parking UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022