Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Transportation Services KU Parking myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Parking Select to follow link Parking Lots Parking Garages Edwards Campus Accessible Parking Motorcycles, Mopeds and Bikes Event Parking Parking Fees & Fines Permits Select to follow link Permit Overview Short-Term Permits Student Permits Select to follow link Student Permit Overview Students Living On Campus Students Living Off Campus Graduate Students Faculty & Staff Permits Visitor Permits Motorcycle & Moped Permits Medical Permits Permit Fees Tickets Select to follow link Tickets Overview Violations Pay a Ticket Appeal a Ticket Students Select to follow link Student Permits Getting to Class Moving In/Out Carpool Program Prospective Students Faculty & Staff Select to follow link Faculty/Staff Permits Departments New Employees Payroll Deduction Carpool Program Visitors Select to follow link Visitor Parking Visitor Permits Event Parking Pay with Parkmobile About Select to follow link About Us Parking Commission Parking Rules & Regulations Contact Us Report Disabled Vehicle Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Transportation Services KU Parking Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Students Getting to Class Students who must drive to campus should take advantage of other options to get from class to class, including walking, biking and riding buses for free. Moving your car from one parking lot to another between classes is not practical and contributes to traffic congestion. Walking To help you plan how much walking time you should allow to get to your class, we've timed trips from some Yellow lots to key campus locations. Walking Routes and Times FROM TO ROUTE TIME Lot 90 Wescoe Map 11 min. Lot 125 Wescoe Map 12 min. Lot 59 JRP Map 7 min. Lot 60 Wescoe Map 8 min. Lot 94 Fraser Map 11 min. Lot 301 Wescoe Map (via bus route #41) 20 min. Contact KU Parking for more suggestions on where to park for easy access to particular buildings. Bus Service You can ride any bus on on campus for free, and by showing your KU Card when riding off campus. A bus is available at nearly any campus bus stop every 5-10 minutes. Route 42 circulates throughout campus, including lots to 90, 59, 60, 94 and 125. Additional Routes circulate on main campus as well, including to residence halls, West Campus and the Park & Ride lots. Biking + Bus All buses in Lawrence are equipped with bike racks that can hold up to two bikes. Racks are available on a first-come, first-served basis. There are a few things to be aware of when taking your bike on the bus: If there are no bikes in the rack, you should place your bike in the slot closest to the bus. To lower the rack, squeeze the handle and pull it down. After placing your bike in the rack, raise the support arm over the front tire to secure it. Remember to remind the driver that you will be removing your bike when you get off the bus. Allen Fieldhouse Garage 1501 Irving Hill Road Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 10, 11, 38, 41, 42 kupark@ku.edu 785-864-7275 twitter Transportation Services KU on Wheels Lawrence Transit Edwards Campus Parking Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.