Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Department of Parking and Transportation Services Main Menu In this section Parking Services Public Transportation Fleet Services Contact Us Home Fleet Services Transportation FAQ Fleet Services Leasing rates Fleet details Transportation FAQ's Fleet Services FAQ's Billing and Insurance How is my department billed for a trip? Completed trip tickets are calculated daily and electronically transferred to the Financial Accounting. Transportation Services will send your department a copy of all trip tickets on a monthly basis. -insured liability coverage will respond to claims made against the employee or the University even if they are driving their own vehicle. This coverage is for liability only. There is no coverage provided for physical damages to an employee's privately owned vehicle. Am I insured if I drive my personal vehicle on official University business? State of Oklahoma's self-insured liability coverage will respond to claims made against the employee or the University even if they are driving their own vehicle. This coverage is for liability only. There is no coverage provided for physical damages to an employee's privately owned vehicle. Cancellations and Vehicle Return What happens if I reserve a vehicle and later find out that the meeting date has been changed or canceled? Immediately notify the Motor Pool reservation staff of the change or cancellation so that the vehicle can be reserved for another department. Failure to cancel a reservation will result in a no-cancellation charge of a partial day rental. I went to the Motor Pool to return a vehicle but it was closed. Now, what do I do? The customer should leave the vehicle in the customer parking area. Due to safety precautions, please do not park in the vehicle fueling area. A vehicle check-in unit with detailed instructions posted is provided for after hour returns. Fuel and Repairs What if I am using a Motor Pool vehicle in the Stillwater area and need fuel or vehicle services? To obtain the fuel and services at Transportation Services only. The hours of operation are sufficient to meet most service needs. Do not buy from a local outlet. Having the vehicle serviced at Transportation Services also allows the staff to make service inspections. When operating a University vehicle in the Stillwater area, purchases of fuel, services, and other automotive supplies must be made from Transportation Services. Fuel is available from Transportation Services 24 hours daily by means of a fleet fuel card and automated fuel dispensing equipment. Exception can be made for emergency services and automotive supplies on University holidays and Sundays. OSU Policy and Procedure for 3-0160 How do I pay for gasoline when using a Motor Pool vehicle? You will be issued a fuel credit card. It is in the packet attached to the vehicle key along with instructions on how to use it. If the fuel credit card doesn’t work and you have to personally pay for any fuel or service, you must keep the original receipt in order to be reimbursed. Please notify the Motor Pool if a fuel card has been rejected. We will then need to fax you the form required for reimbursement. You will need to fill this out as well as attach the original receipt. All receipts need to show the vehicle number along with the tag number. Once completed, please return the form and receipt back to the Motor Pool staff and they will process your reimbursement. Reimbursement normally takes four to five days. What if the vehicle has need of mechanical repair during my trip? If repairs are needed while traveling with a Transportation Services' vehicle, the following policy should be strictly adhered to: Minor Repair - Items such as belts, hoses, flat tires, etc., are easily replaced by any competent full-service station and may be purchased with a University credit card. Upon return to campus, contact the Manager, Transportation Services' to inform him of such vehicle repairs. If for some reason the driver must personally pay for the repair, reimbursement will be made upon presentation of receipt. The receipt must have the vehicle number, tag number and odometer reading on the copy turned in for reimbursement. Major repair - There may be incidents that require major repair and/or render the vehicle unsafe or inoperative, such as engine, electrical, transmission, brakes, steering, etc., problems. In this event, the driver should follow the instructions in the emergency procedures policy letter located in an envelope in the glove-box or door side pocket of each Transportation Services' vehicle. Under NO circumstances should the driver abandon a Transportation Services' vehicle without being given explicit permission to do so Accidents and Citations What happens if I get a speeding ticket in a Motor Pool vehicle? The person who received the ticket is responsible for paying it. What do I need to do if I'm involved in an accident? Immediately, no matter how insignificant you might feel the accident to be, call the local police or highway patrol for an accident investigation. An investigation will help to protect you and the University in the event of a liability claim. Do not make any statements of guilt or innocence and follow the instructions on the accident report form in the vehicle glove box. Call the University Transportation Services collect and inform the staff about the accident. If the vehicle is disabled, you can give directions to your location so that another vehicle can be sent to you for trip continuation. On completion of your trip, you must make an accident report to the Risk Manager at 204 Whitehurst. Vehicle Pick-Up What is the vehicle check out procedures for a Transportation Services vehicle? At the time you pick-up your vehicle you must complete and sign a trip ticket campus invoice. This procedure will take approximately three minutes to complete. To complete the checkout, you will have to have a current and valid U.S.A driver's license and University employee picture identification card. Additionally, if prior reservations have not been made, you will also need the departmental account number to be billed. What types of identification are required when leasing Transportation Services vehicle? A current and valid U.S.A. driver's license and a current University employee picture identification card. How do I make reservations for a vehicle? By telephone call, e-mail (mp.reservations@okstate.edu), fax or by mail to Transportation Services requesting a specific type of vehicle on a specific date. Reservation requests need to include the driver's name, the responsible department, department's telephone number, account number, trip destination and date/time of departure/return. Regardless of the method of request, the requestor must receive a confirmation number in order for the reservation to be guaranteed. Note: Reservations must be made under a full-time employee's name. How far in advance can I make vehicle reservations? Reservations can be made for any time, but limited to one (1) year in advance. Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©