Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Transportation Services KU Parking myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Parking Select to follow link Parking Lots Parking Garages Edwards Campus Accessible Parking Motorcycles, Mopeds and Bikes Event Parking Parking Fees & Fines Permits Select to follow link Permit Overview Short-Term Permits Student Permits Select to follow link Student Permit Overview Students Living On Campus Students Living Off Campus Graduate Students Faculty & Staff Permits Visitor Permits Motorcycle & Moped Permits Medical Permits Permit Fees Tickets Select to follow link Tickets Overview Violations Pay a Ticket Appeal a Ticket Students Select to follow link Student Permits Getting to Class Moving In/Out Carpool Program Prospective Students Faculty & Staff Select to follow link Faculty/Staff Permits Departments New Employees Payroll Deduction Carpool Program Visitors Select to follow link Visitor Parking Visitor Permits Event Parking Pay with Parkmobile About Select to follow link About Us Parking Commission Parking Rules & Regulations Contact Us Report Disabled Vehicle Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Transportation Services KU Parking Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Students Carpool Program Parking on campus is limited and most student parking lots quickly fill up Monday through Friday. Students often may spend more time looking for a parking space than if they chose alternative transportation. We encourage students to consider carpooling, and we offer a carpool permit for those who choose this option. Two or more students may form a carpool and purchase a permit valid for parking in lots 52, 61 and 301. Carpool members must be KU students who live off campus and are not freshmen. A carpool must have at least two members, and members may not have any other KU parking permits. Student carpool permits are valid only in lots 52, 61 and 301. Only one car may be parked in lot 52 or 61 at any time. Carpool members who need to park separately on any given day may park additional registered vehicle(s) in the Park & Ride lot (301). Any parking tickets issued to carpool participants are the responsibility of the owner/operator of the illegally parked vehicle. Any abuse of a Carpool permit by participants, family members, non-KU students or anyone not authorized to use the Carpool permit will result in the Carpool permit being revoked. Each potential member of a carpool must fill out our online carpool application form, and will be contacted by a staff member from Transportation Services within 3 business days: Go to Carpool Application Form Allen Fieldhouse Garage 1501 Irving Hill Road Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 10, 11, 38, 41, 42 kupark@ku.edu 785-864-7275 twitter Transportation Services KU on Wheels Lawrence Transit Edwards Campus Parking Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.