Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Transportation Services KU Parking myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Parking Select to follow link Parking Lots Parking Garages Edwards Campus Accessible Parking Motorcycles, Mopeds and Bikes Event Parking Parking Fees & Fines Permits Select to follow link Permit Overview Short-Term Permits Student Permits Select to follow link Student Permit Overview Students Living On Campus Students Living Off Campus Graduate Students Faculty & Staff Permits Visitor Permits Motorcycle & Moped Permits Medical Permits Permit Fees Tickets Select to follow link Tickets Overview Violations Pay a Ticket Appeal a Ticket Students Select to follow link Student Permits Getting to Class Moving In/Out Carpool Program Prospective Students Faculty & Staff Select to follow link Faculty/Staff Permits Departments New Employees Payroll Deduction Carpool Program Visitors Select to follow link Visitor Parking Visitor Permits Event Parking Pay with Parkmobile About Select to follow link About Us Parking Commission Parking Rules & Regulations Contact Us Report Disabled Vehicle Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Transportation Services KU Parking Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Students Student Permits All cars in KU parking lots must have valid permits before the start of school. Students may purchase only one automobile permit and one motorcycle/moped permit per year. Parking permits are registered to your license plate, instead of a window sticker. Please know your license plate before you begin the permit purchase process. You can register alternate license plates if drive a different vehicle. Only one registered vehicle can be parked on campus at a time. Annual student permits will be available to order online through the KU Parking portal beginning July 6. Students will be offered permits in order by class*: Graduate and professional students (July 6) Seniors (July 12) Juniors (July 19) Sophomores (July 26) Freshmen and all university housing (Aug 2) You must be enrolled in order to purchase a parking permit. Typically, this means that new students cannot buy their permits until at least 24 hours after their orientation visit. Annual permits are valid August 1-July 31. If you need a permit for one semester only, purchase the annual permit and contact KU Transportation Services after finals week to cancel your permit if it is no longer needed. Students who cancel the permit will only be able to repurchase a Park & Ride permit for the remainder of the current academic year. Night-and-Weekend Garage Pass Students with a valid KU parking permit can purchase a pass for $5 that allows parking in either the Mississippi Street Garage, the Allen Fieldhouse Garage or the Central District Garage after 5 p.m. and before 7 a.m. Monday-Friday, and any time on weekends. A pass is valid only for the specified garage, and is not valid when the garage is reserved for KU home football or basketball games. Cars must be moved prior to the date/time indicated on temporary signs posted at garage entrances at least 48 hours prior to game days. Permits for: Students Living On Campus Students Living Off Campus Graduate Students Motorcycles & Mopeds Purchase Permit Allen Fieldhouse Garage 1501 Irving Hill Road Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 10, 11, 38, 41, 42 kupark@ku.edu 785-864-7275 twitter Transportation Services KU on Wheels Lawrence Transit Edwards Campus Parking Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.