Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Administration and Finance Parking and Transportation Services Main Navigation Services Forms About Purchase Permits Pay or Appeal Parking Ticket AQMD Login Parking Portal Login Faculty and Staff Services & Information Alternative transportation options Your commute is your choice. Make it easy. Make it safe. CDC Transportation Guideline Information Bike/Walk: CSUF Campus Bike Path Bike Safety tips Directive #16 Employee Commuter Choice Program - Begins August 1, 2021 Commuting to campus by walking or biking? Explore the Employee Commuter Choice Program to learn how you can receive rewards each day you walk or bike to campus. Carpool Program: A minimum of 2 CSUF registered Faculty/Staff per vehicle arriving to campus At least one applicant must own a current Faculty/Staff semester parking permit Applicants must live within a close proximity of each other or commute to campus along the same route Apply for a Carpool Permit by filling out a Faculty/Staff Carpool Permit Application for all-day parking in 3-Hour parking spaces. Employee Commuter Choice Program - Begins August 1, 2021 Commuting to campus by carpool? Explore the Employee Commuter Choice Program to learn how you can receive rewards each day you carpool to campus. Zipcar CarShare Program Zipcar is a leading car-sharing network service at Cal State Fullerton available to CSUF students, faculty and staff that provides the freedom of car ownership without the hassle and expense. Getting Started Visit Zipcar to learn more or to sign up. Employee Bus Pass (E-Pass) Employee Commuter Choice Program: CSUF employees who do not own a parking permit may receive a free bus pass for any of OCTA's local routes to be used for commuting to and from their employment on the CSUF campus. Request an Employee Bus Pass by emailing cservices@fullerton.edu. OCTA Routes 26, 57, and 123 come directly to campus. Visit OCTA for more information. OCTA COVID-19 Safety Guidelines and Operations Update Request an Employee Bus Pass by filling out an Employee Bus Pass (E-Pass) Application . Metrolink Train Show a Metrolink pass to board any connecting OCTA bus for free. For train schedules, please visit Metrolink or Amtrak . Metrolink Health & Safety Employee Commuter Choice Program - Begins August 1, 2021 Commuting to campus by train? Explore the Employee Commuter Choice Program to learn how you can receive reimbursements when you take the Metrolink or Amtrak train to campus. New early morning service to CSUF! Vanpool: Save time, money, and stress on the commute to work! Reduce cost of gas/fuel, auto insurance, auto maintenance/repairs, and mileage depreciation/resale value. Learn more at Commute with Enterprise . Apply today! Contact the CSUF Transportation Analyst at (657) 278-4699 or cservices@fullerton.edu. Employee Commuter Choice Program - Begins August 1, 2021 Commuting to campus by vanpool? Explore the Employee Commuter Choice Program to learn how you can receive reimbursements when you vanpool to campus. Parking Lots & Structures Downloadable Parking Map Downloadable Campus Map with Grid Lines Quick Links Purchase Permit Pay or Appeal Parking Ticket View Available Parking Spaces AQMD Login Parking Portal Login Commuter Choice Program Vehicle Free Zone Contact Us Parking & Transportation Services (P&TS) Get In Touch California State University, Fullerton 800 N. State College Blvd, T-1400 Fullerton, CA 92831 Office Hours The Parking Office lobby is closed to in-person transactions. Have an inquiry? The Parking Inquiry Form is available to answer your question. Visitor Information Center Hours VICs are currently closed until further notice. Policies Rules & Regulations Employee Commuter Choice Policies & Procedures This site is maintained by Parking and Transportation Services. Last Published 3/30/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact parking@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.7 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.