Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Administration and Finance Parking and Transportation Services Main Navigation Services Forms About Purchase Permits Pay or Appeal Parking Ticket AQMD Login Parking Portal Login PARKING TICKETS Pay or appeal the parking ticket(s) within 21 calendar days from the ticket issuance date or 14 days from the delinquent notice receipt date. Pay ticket Student & Faculty/Staff: Login the Pay Parking Ticket page and follow necessary instructions. Guest/Non-Affiliates: Individuals not affiliated with the University have the option to pay their ticket: By check or money order payable to: CSUF Parking & Transportation P.O. Box 34065 Fullerton, CA 92834-9465 Please include the ticket in the envelope or reference the ticket number on the check. DO NOT SEND CASH. A penalty will be assessed for dishonored checks. Appeal Ticket - 1st Level Administrative Review Submit a statement of facts for administrative review. Additional documentation (such as permits or placards) may be included to support the claim. Each appeal attachment can only be 1MB, with a cumulative total of 3MB. Student & Faculty/Staff: Login to the Appeal Parking Ticket page and follow the necessary instructions. Guest/ Non-Affiliates: Individuals not affiliated with the University may appeal their ticket by emailing this completed form to parking@fullerton.edu or: Mail a copy of the ticket including name, mailing address, and reason for appeal to: CSUF Parking & Transportation P.O. Box 30465 Fullerton, CA 92834-9465 Appeal Ticket - 2nd Level Administrative Review Per CVC 40215, dissatisfaction with the 1st level administrative review results are eligible for a hearing within 21 days of the results letter date. Administrative Hearings are held in 15 minute intervals on the third Tuesday of each month. Once the parking ticket(s) have been paid for, please contact the Parking Office (by phone or mail) to schedule a hearing. Individuals unable to pay for the ticket(s) at the time of requesting an administrative hearing may fill out a Waiver of Fine Deposit Form with a copy of a W2 or a W2 from whom they are a dependant at the Parking & Transportation Services office. Administrative Hearing appointments will be scheduled upon approval of the fee waiver request. Ticket(s) upheld by the Administrative Hearing Officer are required to be paid within one week of the hearing results or the ticket(s) will be subject to delinquent fees and subsequently a DMV hold on the vehicle's registration. Failure to submit all necessary documentation by the due date indicated on the appeal results will result in normal processing of the ticket(s) and forfeiture of an administrative hearing appointment. Citation Payment Plan Payment plans are available for those with multiple unpaid parking citations or those who owe $200 or more. For more information, please contact P&TS by Getting In Touch Parking Ticket Fines Fines Violation Fine Violation of Rules & Regulations $80 Safety Violations $80 Displaying Forged/Altered Permit or Displaying Lost/Stolen Permit $350 Disabled Zone Violations $330 and up Boot Information Vehicles with five or more outstanding University parking tickets will be booted (CVC 22651.7 ). The only way to remove a boot is to pay all outstanding parking violating penalties and fees in full. Removing or attempting to remove a boot from an immobilized vehicle will result in University Police involvement. If the vehicle is booted: Pay fines through the Pay Parking Tickets page After hours, call Public Safety at (657) 278-2515 Contact Parking & Transportation Services within 24 hours. After 72 hours, the vehicle may be impounded. Parking Lots & Structures Downloadable Parking Map Downloadable Campus Map with Grid Lines CVC 40215 (B): If the person is dissatisfied with the results of the initial review, the person may request an administrative hearing of the violation no later than 21 calendar days following the mailing of the results of the issuing agency's initial review. The request may be made by telephone, in writing, or in person. The person requesting an administrative hearing shall deposit the amount of the parking penalty with the processing agency. The issuing agency shall adopt a written procedure to allow a person to request an administrative hearing without payment of the parking penalty upon satisfactory proof of an inability to pay the amount due. An administrative hearing shall be held within 90 calendar days following the receipt of a request for an administrative hearing, excluding time tolled pursuant to this article. The person requesting the hearing may request one continuance, not to exceed 21 calendar days. University Policies: Administrative Hearing Fee Waiver Notice of Delinquent Violations Notice of Parking Violation Parking Ticket Appeals Parking Ticket Appeals Court Vehicle Immobilization CSU Policies Parking Program System Information State Policies Parking Violation: Procedure Procedure on Parking Violation Notice of Penalty Driving or Parking on Public Grounds Contesting Parking Violation California Ed Codes 89700-89711 Title 5 42200 Title 5 42201 Title 5 42202 Quick Links Purchase Permit Pay or Appeal Parking Ticket View Available Parking Spaces AQMD Login Parking Portal Login Commuter Choice Program Vehicle Free Zone Contact Us Parking & Transportation Services (P&TS) Get In Touch California State University, Fullerton 800 N. State College Blvd, T-1400 Fullerton, CA 92831 Office Hours The Parking Office lobby is closed to in-person transactions. Have an inquiry? The Parking Inquiry Form is available to answer your question. Visitor Information Center Hours VICs are currently closed until further notice. Policies Rules & Regulations Employee Commuter Choice Policies & Procedures CA DMV 21113 Driving or Parking on Public Grounds , provides for the establishment and enforcement of all vehicle (including bicycle) traffic, pedestrian traffic, and parking regulations upon the grounds of the California State University and Colleges. Title 5 ( Title 5 42200 ) states that no person shall drive any vehicle, nor shall any person stop, park, or leave standing any vehicle upon the driveways, paths, parking facilities or grounds of any campus, except with the permission of the president of the campus. This site is maintained by Parking and Transportation Services. Last Published 3/30/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact parking@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.7 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.