Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Transportation Services KU Parking myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Parking Select to follow link Parking Lots Parking Garages Edwards Campus Accessible Parking Motorcycles, Mopeds and Bikes Event Parking Parking Fees & Fines Permits Select to follow link Permit Overview Short-Term Permits Student Permits Select to follow link Student Permit Overview Students Living On Campus Students Living Off Campus Graduate Students Faculty & Staff Permits Visitor Permits Motorcycle & Moped Permits Medical Permits Permit Fees Tickets Select to follow link Tickets Overview Violations Pay a Ticket Appeal a Ticket Students Select to follow link Student Permits Getting to Class Moving In/Out Carpool Program Prospective Students Faculty & Staff Select to follow link Faculty/Staff Permits Departments New Employees Payroll Deduction Carpool Program Visitors Select to follow link Visitor Parking Visitor Permits Event Parking Pay with Parkmobile About Select to follow link About Us Parking Commission Parking Rules & Regulations Contact Us Report Disabled Vehicle Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Transportation Services KU Parking Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Parking Event Parking Campus parking lots may be preempted for events, especially home football and men's basketball games, and commencement. Signs will be posted at the entrance to the affected parking lots at least two business days in advance of the event, with the date(s) and time(s) of the restriction. Vehicles will be ticketed, and may be towed, if they remain in the parking lot after the posted restriction begins. Sporting Events Football Game Parking Basketball Game Parking Department Events KU departments can arrange reserved visitor parking for events. If you are visiting campus to attend a conference or other event, ask your departmental contact about parking arrangements. Department Event Planners: In general, we do not close parking lots for events between 7 a.m. and 5 p.m., Monday through Friday. However, if you are planning an event for which you'd like to close a parking lot, please follow these steps: Get your event approved by the University Events Committee. Email KU Parking to discuss lot closure, signage and enforcement. Orientation Parking You should receive parking information with your Orientation packet. Prospective students and parents visiting campus for Orientation should park in the Mississippi Street parking garage located just north of the Kansas Memorial Union. High School Junior Days and Senior Days Students and parents visiting campus for high school Junior and Senior Days should park in the Mississippi Street parking garage located just north of the Kansas Memorial Union. You should receive parking information from the Admissions Office prior to the event. Allen Fieldhouse Garage 1501 Irving Hill Road Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 10, 11, 38, 41, 42 kupark@ku.edu 785-864-7275 twitter Transportation Services KU on Wheels Lawrence Transit Edwards Campus Parking Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.