Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Transportation Services KU Parking myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Parking Select to follow link Parking Lots Parking Garages Edwards Campus Accessible Parking Motorcycles, Mopeds and Bikes Event Parking Parking Fees & Fines Permits Select to follow link Permit Overview Short-Term Permits Student Permits Select to follow link Student Permit Overview Students Living On Campus Students Living Off Campus Graduate Students Faculty & Staff Permits Visitor Permits Motorcycle & Moped Permits Medical Permits Permit Fees Tickets Select to follow link Tickets Overview Violations Pay a Ticket Appeal a Ticket Students Select to follow link Student Permits Getting to Class Moving In/Out Carpool Program Prospective Students Faculty & Staff Select to follow link Faculty/Staff Permits Departments New Employees Payroll Deduction Carpool Program Visitors Select to follow link Visitor Parking Visitor Permits Event Parking Pay with Parkmobile About Select to follow link About Us Parking Commission Parking Rules & Regulations Contact Us Report Disabled Vehicle Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Transportation Services KU Parking Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home New SafeBus Service Wed, 02/23/22 SHARE: Share by Email Share on LinkedIn Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Since August 2021, KU's SafeRide service has seen a sizeable increase in ridership leading to longer wait times. To alleviate the longer wait times, KU Transportation Services is reintroducing SafeBus, a late-night bus route that will drive between 10:30 p.m. and 2:30 a.m. The route (pictured below) will have two buses going opposite directions, stopping at popular destinations, such as KU residence halls, 14th and Tennessee, and downtown Lawrence. “We’ve seen higher demand for SafeRide this school year which has led to longer wait times. I hope SafeBus can alleviate this by servicing our most popular destinations,“ said Max Schieber, student transportation coordinator for KU Transportation Services. SafeBus will run though the spring semester. Riders can track the bus as route 53 in real time using the MyBusLawrence app. “This is a pilot program. Right now, we plan to run SafeBus through the spring semester, then the Transit Commission will use the data we collect to reevaluate the success of the program this next year,” said Aaron Quisenberry, associate director of Transportation Services. For more information, visit the SafeBus page or email kuonwheels@ku.edu. You can also find us on Facebook: @lawrencetransit and on Twitter: @TransitKU. Download PDF Route Map Allen Fieldhouse Garage 1501 Irving Hill Road Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 10, 11, 38, 41, 42 kupark@ku.edu 785-864-7275 twitter Transportation Services KU on Wheels Lawrence Transit Edwards Campus Parking Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.