Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Transportation Services KU Parking myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Parking Select to follow link Parking Lots Parking Garages Edwards Campus Accessible Parking Motorcycles, Mopeds and Bikes Event Parking Parking Fees & Fines Permits Select to follow link Permit Overview Short-Term Permits Student Permits Select to follow link Student Permit Overview Students Living On Campus Students Living Off Campus Graduate Students Faculty & Staff Permits Visitor Permits Motorcycle & Moped Permits Medical Permits Permit Fees Tickets Select to follow link Tickets Overview Violations Pay a Ticket Appeal a Ticket Students Select to follow link Student Permits Getting to Class Moving In/Out Carpool Program Prospective Students Faculty & Staff Select to follow link Faculty/Staff Permits Departments New Employees Payroll Deduction Carpool Program Visitors Select to follow link Visitor Parking Visitor Permits Event Parking Pay with Parkmobile About Select to follow link About Us Parking Commission Parking Rules & Regulations Contact Us Report Disabled Vehicle Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Transportation Services KU Parking Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Parking Accessible Parking To cut down on the number of ADA placards that are used illegally, KU Parking requires that students, faculty and staff who use an ADA placard to park on campus must provide proof of registration. Vehicles that display unregistered placards will be ticketed. Students, Faculty and Staff All student, faculty or staff cars on campus require paid parking permits, including those parked in ADA-compliant spaces. Students, faculty and staff who intend to park in ADA-compliant spaces on campus must register their ADA placard with KU Parking. Vehicles that display unregistered placards will be ticketed. There are ADA-compliant parking spaces in most parking lots on campus. However, in some parking lots there is no accessible entrance to nearby buildings. Anyone with a registered ADA placard and a paid KU parking permit can also park in regular parking spaces in any KU parking garage or surface lot regardless of permit color or type. ADA-compliant parking spaces at KU are at a premium. If you have difficulty finding a space, please contact KU Parking for assistance. How to Register Your ADA Placard You can register your state-issued ADA placard by mail or in person. You will need to provide the following (photocopies if registering by mail): Placard Placard registration receipt or proof of registration KU Card Driver's License Once we have verified that the placard belongs to you, KU Parking will register your placard on your existing parking permit, or sell you an ADA permit for your vehicle. Accessible Visitor Parking Options Stop at a traffic booth entering Jayhawk Boulevard or come to the KU Parking office to purchase a permit. If you present your ADA wallet ID or registration and your driver’s license, you can purchase a half day permit ($1.50) or a full day permit ($3.00) to park in any color lot, housing lot or parking garage. Request a free visitor registration pass that will allow you to park only at meters without paying the meter fee. Visit the KU Parking office to purchase. Pay the hourly toll in a parking garage ($1.75 for the first hour, $1.50 for each subsequent hour). Accessible Buses You may board any bus for free while you are on campus. All campus buses are lift-equipped for wheelchairs and some buses are low floor. Allen Fieldhouse Garage 1501 Irving Hill Road Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 10, 11, 38, 41, 42 kupark@ku.edu 785-864-7275 twitter Transportation Services KU on Wheels Lawrence Transit Edwards Campus Parking Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.