Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Transportation Services KU Parking myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Parking Select to follow link Parking Lots Parking Garages Edwards Campus Accessible Parking Motorcycles, Mopeds and Bikes Event Parking Parking Fees & Fines Permits Select to follow link Permit Overview Short-Term Permits Student Permits Select to follow link Student Permit Overview Students Living On Campus Students Living Off Campus Graduate Students Faculty & Staff Permits Visitor Permits Motorcycle & Moped Permits Medical Permits Permit Fees Tickets Select to follow link Tickets Overview Violations Pay a Ticket Appeal a Ticket Students Select to follow link Student Permits Getting to Class Moving In/Out Carpool Program Prospective Students Faculty & Staff Select to follow link Faculty/Staff Permits Departments New Employees Payroll Deduction Carpool Program Visitors Select to follow link Visitor Parking Visitor Permits Event Parking Pay with Parkmobile About Select to follow link About Us Parking Commission Parking Rules & Regulations Contact Us Report Disabled Vehicle Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Transportation Services KU Parking Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Visitors ParkMobile Long-term metered parking stalls as well as yellow lots on campus can be paid for by mobile phone instead of coins. The meters are labeled with a green sticker that displays instructions for how to pay using ParkMobile and there are green ParkMobile signs at then entrances to the yellow lots specifying the Zone #. The hourly cost of paying to park via ParkMobile is the same as long-term meters is $1.50 per hour. The hourly cost of paying to park via ParkMobile in the garages is the same as the regular cost which is $1.75 for the first hour and $1.50 for each additional hour after. There is an additional $.35 fee collected by ParkMobile for each transaction. ParkMobile allows you to add time to a meter remotely by phone instead of having to return to the lot to manually put in more coins. You also can choose to receive text message alerts when your time is about to expire. There are ParkMobile-enabled meters in lots 1, 210, and 301. The entirety of all yellow lots and all three parking garages are also ParkMobile-enabled zones in which you can pay the hourly price for parking in stalls without a meter. When paying with ParkMobile, enter the zone number posted on the meter sticker (or on the signs for the parking garages and yellow lots) and your license plate information. Visit ParkMobile's website for more information about ParkMobile at KU. Download the ParkMobile App Allen Fieldhouse Garage 1501 Irving Hill Road Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 10, 11, 38, 41, 42 kupark@ku.edu 785-864-7275 twitter Transportation Services KU on Wheels Lawrence Transit Edwards Campus Parking Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.