Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Administration and Finance Parking and Transportation Services Main Navigation Services Forms About Purchase Permits Pay or Appeal Parking Ticket AQMD Login Parking Portal Login ParkMobile Enjoy convenient and accessible short-term parking on campus! ParkMobile Makes It Easy When you're on the go, the free ParkMobile app makes it easy to pay for parking at CSUF right from your phone. Once you set up your account, simply select your parking zone, vehicle, pay for the day or hour, and go. It's smart, contactless payment in the palm of your hand! Download The App ParkMobile is free to download and available for iPhones and Androids. Text me a link to download the app ParkMobile website ParkMobile FAQs How To Use ParkMobile Download the ParkMobile App Turn on App's location settings in your mobile device Set up profile (contact, payment, and vehicle info) Park in designated ParkMobile zones on campus Enter zone number, and if prompted, enter space number Select parking duration Where to Park ParkMobile parking is available in the following marked zones on campus: Zone Name Zone Number Location Rate Eastside South Structure 1674 Ground level $4/hour Nutwood Structure 1672 Ground level $4/hour State College Structure 1673 Ground level $4/hour This information is from <a href="https://www.youtube.com/embed/8gCAaPZm1D8">https://www.youtube.com/embed/8gCAaPZm1D8</a> Parking Lots & Structures Downloadable Parking Map Downloadable Campus Map with Grid Lines Quick Links Purchase Permit Pay or Appeal Parking Ticket View Available Parking Spaces AQMD Login Parking Portal Login Commuter Choice Program Vehicle Free Zone Contact Us Parking & Transportation Services (P&TS) Get In Touch California State University, Fullerton 800 N. State College Blvd, T-1400 Fullerton, CA 92831 Office Hours The Parking Office lobby is closed to in-person transactions. Have an inquiry? The Parking Inquiry Form is available to answer your question. Visitor Information Center Hours VICs are currently closed until further notice. Policies Rules & Regulations Employee Commuter Choice Policies & Procedures This site is maintained by Parking and Transportation Services. Last Published 3/30/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact parking@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.7 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.