Skip to navigation Skip to content MU Logo University of Missouri Search search Parking & Transportation menu Home Permitsarrow_drop_down Employee Permit Graduate/Professional Students Residential Life Permit Undergraduate Student Permit Overnight permit Accessible Parking Events Visitor Permit Official Guest Vendor/Services Permit Schedule Event Parking Department Portal Rates Regulationsarrow_drop_down Pay Citation Donations for Citations Student Regulations Student Game Day Parking Employee Regulation Employee Game Day Parking Visitor Regulations Barnacles Motorcyle Regulation Individual Transportation Regulations MU Vehicle Regulation Lane Regulations Snow and Ice Action Plan Getting Around FAQ Maps Resources About Tiger Line Service Announcement Last day of the Tiger Line service for 2021-2022 Academic Calendar will be on Friday May 13, 2022 at 8:00 PM. Read more... Published: May 9, 2022 Summer 2022 Hello tiger, Beginning May 16, MU Parking will close Tiger Avenue and Turner Avenue parking structures to address deferred maintenance repairs to extend their life span. The garages are scheduled to open in early August before summer move in. A parking consultant determined a need of $22 million in repairs to Mizzou’s seven parking structures.… Read more... Published: April 18, 2022 Summer permit purchases Purchase your summer permit on April 25 at 9 a.m. Be aware that these permits are valid from May 16 – August 19. They are issued on a first-come, first-serve basis. Log into your My Parking Account. Select location* and complete payment process. Wait until you receive your confirmation email before parking in your assigned… Read more... Published: March 23, 2022 Tiger Line not running during Spring Break During spring break, the Tiger Line shuttles stop on Friday, March 25 at 8 p.m. and will resume on Saturday, April 2 at Noon. Read more... Published: March 23, 2022 Navigating winter parking If there is snow or ice on campus that has been deemed unsafe by Campus Facilities, we have an official plan of action that runs from now through April 1, 2022. Read more... Published: Nov. 30, 2021 Mask up on the Tiger Line City buses, including Tiger Line, require masks until March 18. This is per the TSA mandate for public transportation. Thanks for understanding. Read more... Published: Oct. 18, 2021 New Parking Rates Announced for Fall 2021 Parking rates increase this fall. This is the first increase in 14 years, and funds will be used for deferred maintenance of parking structures and parking lots. The increase was approved by the Parking and Transportation Services committee, whose membership includes faculty, staff and students, and has been approved by university leadership to begin Sept.… Read more... Published: April 5, 2021 Restricted Parking Lots/Structures are Being Enforced REMINDER: Park in your permitted lots/structures to avoid getting a ticket. Remember restricted lots, accessible spaces, meters and all other parking regulations are in full effect while the campus is open and operating. The 24-hour parking lots/structures are restricted 24 hours/day, 365 days/year. People who are continuing to work on campus must be able to… Read more... Published: Nov. 18, 2020 Tiger Line Shuttle Cleaning Information In an effort to provide Social Distancing on all Tiger Line buses, the following actions were agreed to between the City of Columbia and the University of Missouri, Columbia. Tiger Line Cleaning Information Read more... Published: Aug. 5, 2020 Your New Missouri License Plates: How They Can Cost You Money Residents of the State of Missouri will be issued new license plates. The new license plates sent to vehicle owners will have different license plate numbers, meaning that our license plate recognition system will not recognize them. If not recognized, unknown plates will be cited like any other person violating campus regulations. Expand the information… Read more... Published: Sept. 3, 2019 Donations for Citations Visit your parking account to pay your citation by searching your license plate or citation number, or see if you’re eligible to use our our Donations for Citations program. Visiting for a Home Game or Event? Visit our Events page for parking and event details. Safe Walk Officers Feel unsafe walking to a location on campus? Call 573-882-7201 to request a security officer or campus safety officer from the University Police Department to accompany you to an on-campus location. Please note these officers are on foot and cannot provide rides to your destination. Parking Acronyms Acronym Definition PS Parking Structure TF Top Floor TAPS Tiger Avenue Parking Structure VAPS Virginia Avenue Parking Structure HSPS Hitt Street Parking Structure TAG Turner Avenue Parking Structure UAPS University Avenue Parking Structure PS7 Parking Structure 7 WG1 Hospital/Tiger Avenue SG4 Hearnes Center SG5 South Side Mizzou Arena CG1 Virginia/Hospital Links schedule Enforcement Hours pets My Parking Account local_parking City Parking info MO DMV sort Parking Assignments sports Athletic Parking Map Connect with Us Tweets by Mizzou Parking MU Logo University of Missouri Division of Operations muparking@missouri.edu 121 General Services Building 900 E. Stadium Blvd. Columbia, MO 65211 Phone: 573-882-4568 MU is an equal opportunity/access/affirmative action/pro-disabled and veteran employer and does not discriminate on the basis of sex in our education programs or activities, pursuant to Title IX and 34 CFR Part 106. For more information, visit MU’s Nondiscrimination Policy or the Office of Institutional Equity. © 2022 — Curators of the University of Missouri. All rights reserved. DMCA and other copyright information. Privacy policy