Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Transportation Services KU Parking myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Parking Select to follow link Parking Lots Parking Garages Edwards Campus Accessible Parking Motorcycles, Mopeds and Bikes Event Parking Parking Fees & Fines Permits Select to follow link Permit Overview Short-Term Permits Student Permits Select to follow link Student Permit Overview Students Living On Campus Students Living Off Campus Graduate Students Faculty & Staff Permits Visitor Permits Motorcycle & Moped Permits Medical Permits Permit Fees Tickets Select to follow link Tickets Overview Violations Pay a Ticket Appeal a Ticket Students Select to follow link Student Permits Getting to Class Moving In/Out Carpool Program Prospective Students Faculty & Staff Select to follow link Faculty/Staff Permits Departments New Employees Payroll Deduction Carpool Program Visitors Select to follow link Visitor Parking Visitor Permits Event Parking Pay with Parkmobile About Select to follow link About Us Parking Commission Parking Rules & Regulations Contact Us Report Disabled Vehicle Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Transportation Services KU Parking Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Tickets Violations Vehicle owners are ultimately responsible for parking violations. If the vehicle owner is not a member of the KU community, KU Parking assumes the student or faculty/staff member who is related to the owner is the operator of the vehicle on campus. If the vehicle is registered with KU Parking, the owner of the parking will be held responsible for that ticket. Vehicle owners and operators should both review the KU Parking Rules & Regulations. Enforcement KU Parking uses license plate recognition to enforce parking on the Lawrence campus. All vehicles must park with their valid license plate facing the driving lane. Lawrence city parking ordinances may be enforced on city streets within campus. A vehicle will be considered unidentifiable if it has no license plate or visible VIN number. Any vehicle that is unidentifiable shall be towed immediately. E-citations may be issued to vehicles that move before a paper ticket can be placed on the vehicle (e.g. bus zones, loading zones, double parked, blocking traffic, etc.). Fines and Fees Some fines increase by $10 each time they are issued to the same car in the same academic year (e.g. a $25 ticket will increase to $35 the second time it is issued, then $45, and so on). Once a fine has escalated six times, the violation becomes a towable offense. If a vehicle is towed twice for the same escalating fine, parking privileges will be revoked for the remainder of the academic year. A $10 late fee will be added to all tickets not paid within 14 calendar days. Parking Rules & Regulations Violation categories and fines are detailed in KU Parking Rules & Regulations. Allen Fieldhouse Garage 1501 Irving Hill Road Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 10, 11, 38, 41, 42 kupark@ku.edu 785-864-7275 twitter Transportation Services KU on Wheels Lawrence Transit Edwards Campus Parking Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.