Skip to Content Open Close primary navigation Search Search About UsExpand Collapse section Office Directory Leadership Team Faculty Directory Staff Directory Dean’s Message Our History News Info for…Expand Collapse section Prospective Students Online Learners Veterans & Military-Connected Students Transfer Students Current Students High School Students Alumni Faculty Request Info AcademicsExpand Collapse section Apply Online Degrees and Certificates On Campus Part-time Degrees Professional Acceleration and Microcredentials International Programs Registration and Course Information Forms and Links Academic Advising Tuition and Financial AidExpand Collapse section Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Forms & Links Scholarships and Grants Non-Matriculated Students Contact Us Give Search Search Home Tuition and Financial Aid Scholarships and Grants Alpha Sigma Lambda Scholarship Alpha Sigma Lambda Scholarship Alpha Sigma Lambda is the nation’s largest and oldest chapter-based honor society for nontraditional students. The Society was founded in 1945-46 and today has more than 300 institutional chapters. The Syracuse University chapter is the Beta Delta Chapter and was established in 1977. Alpha Sigma Lambda’s aim is to recognize the special achievements of adults who accomplish academic excellence while facing competing interests of home and work. The Society is dedicated to the advancement of scholarship and recognizes high scholastic achievement in an adult student’s career. By so doing, this Society encourages many students to continue toward and to earn associate and bachelor’s degrees. Who is Eligible? Link Part-time, undergraduate students at Syracuse University who: completed 24 semester hours (36 quarter hours) of graded course work at Syracuse University (does not include transfer credit) achieved a grade point average of 3.2 on a 4.0 scale on all work taken at Syracuse University are currently enrolled in a baccalaureate degree program at Syracuse University have financial need to complete the degree NOTE: Students do NOT have to be members of the Alpha Sigma Lambda chapter at Syracuse University to apply. Application Information Link Syracuse University Deadline to apply: April 1, 2019 Eligible students will be invited to apply in late January/early February. Submission instructions will be provided to eligible students. Number of awards given nationwide: Thirteen (13) $3,500 scholarships Alpha Sigma Lambda Scholarship Information Application package information Link Application Instructions Application form Letter of recommendation from a faculty member at Syracuse University on University letterhead Current Official Transcript – contained within an envelope with an unbroken university seal Personal Statement Applications evaluation criteria Link Scholarship Leadership Personal statement Faculty recommendation Financial need Read more about the Syracuse University chapter of the Alpha Sigma Lambda Society, or visit their national web site at: www.alphasigmalambda.org . More from this Section Achiever Scholarship The Haudenosaunee Promise at the College of Professional Studies Distant Drums Scholarship Hortence Cochrane Scholarship Lois Otten Scholarship Levi L. Smith Scholarship Eta Pi Upsilon Scholarship Women of the University Community Scholarship SU Alumnae Club Scholars 700 University Ave, Syracuse, NY 13244 | 315.443.9378 Toll-free: 1.866.498.9378 Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter Follow Us on Instagram © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy