Skip to main content Partnership Portal Menu Close Partner With Us Location Talent Entrepreneurship Research and Development Branding Sustainability For Existing Partners For Faculty Centennial Campus Partner Benefits COVID-19 Information Case Studies In the News Contact Meet Our Team Partner With Us Partner With Us Location Talent Entrepreneurship Research and Development Branding Sustainability For Existing Partners For Existing Partners For Faculty For Faculty Centennial Campus Centennial Campus Partner Benefits COVID-19 Information Case Studies Case Studies In the News Contact Contact Meet Our Team Stop Video Why Partner With NC State? Unparalleled access to cutting-edge research and world-class brainpower — plus a seamless partnership process. Join Forces With Us When you partner with NC State, you put a leading research university to work for you. Our Centennial Campus is home to more than 75 industry partners, and we’re at the forefront of research commercialization. In fact, we have an entire department dedicated to supporting corporate partnerships. The benefits of partnering with NC State include talent recruitment and long-term project collaboration, as well as access to emerging concepts and research. Here, you can drive your vision forward with our world-class faculty, engaged students and field-tested partnership process. NC State has played an important role in our success. Having access to incredible talent was a game changer for us. David Morken Founder and CEO, Bandwidth Inc. Meet Our Team NC State’s Office of Partnerships helps organizations save time and money by providing expert assistance and strategic connections. Partnerships Staff partner resources Common Negotiation Areas Types of Agreements Centennial Campus Partner Benefits Protect Your Intellectual Property Conflicts of Interest Frequently Asked Questions Partnership Support Model submit a project We design business-friendly agreements that make it easy to collaborate with NC State. Work with us A Refrigeration Revolution — Advanced on Centennial Campus Phononic found its first home at NC State. Now, the startup’s innovative solid-state cooling technology is heating up the refrigeration industry. Learn more 70+ corporate, government and nonprofit partners on Centennial Campus #6 for industry-sponsored research (among public universities without a medical school) NSF HERD, FY19 FEatured project A Future in Bloom We’re bringing together the brightest experts to shape the future of plant sciences. Learn more $24.2 Million in research sponsored by our industry and government partners in FY20 Partnership Stories More Stories NC State Names Mark Schmidt AVC for Partnerships As vice chancellor for partnerships, Schmidt will oversee the Office of Partnerships strategy for engaging with corporate, government and nonprofit partners, including the 75 partnerships on Centennial Campus. Leah Burton Named Board President of International Research Park Association Leah Burton, director of NC State’s Office of Partnerships, has been named president of the Association of University Research Parks Board of Directors. All Hands on Deck: Building Powerful Partnerships NC State’s Partnerships Office brings together experts across campus to forge successful university-industry collaborations that benefit everyone. Still have questions? Let us help. Contact the Partnerships Office at 919.515.7036 or ncstatepartnerships@ncsu.edu Name* Email* Phone Note* Submit Partnership Portal Home Office of Partnerships 1021 Main Campus Drive Raleigh, NC 27606 919.515.7036 Campus Map Privacy Accessibility Contact Twitter Facebook © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.