Skip to Content Open Close primary navigation Search Search About UsExpand Collapse section Office Directory Leadership Team Faculty Directory Staff Directory Dean’s Message Our History News Info for…Expand Collapse section Prospective Students Online Learners Veterans & Military-Connected Students Transfer Students Current Students High School Students Alumni Faculty Request Info AcademicsExpand Collapse section Apply Online Degrees and Certificates On Campus Part-time Degrees Professional Acceleration and Microcredentials International Programs Registration and Course Information Forms and Links Academic Advising Tuition and Financial AidExpand Collapse section Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Forms & Links Scholarships and Grants Non-Matriculated Students Contact Us Give Search Search Home Academics In this Section Academics Earn A Highly Respected Credential—Part Time! Link Syracuse University’s College of Professional Studies offers accessible academic pathways to market-sensitive degrees, certificates and credentials so you can excel in your education and career. Request Info Information Sessions Apply Now Online Part-time Undergraduate Degrees and Certificates Link Syracuse University has a well-earned reputation for excellence that spans 150 years of classroom teaching on a diverse, inclusive campus. That commitment to high-quality learning now infuses our part-time online programs. View all online offerings On Campus Part-time Undergraduate Degrees Link There are over 100 undergraduate degree programs offered on campus at Syracuse University, and most of them can be completed through part-time study. Most degrees require at least some daytime classes, and some offer a combination of evening and flexible format classes including online, accelerated and weekend classes. All Syracuse University part-time undergraduates register through the College of Professional Studies. View all on campus undergraduate majors Enroll in a Course Link Thousands of courses are offered each semester. You do not need to be a Syracuse University student to search and register for courses. View a full listing of courses at MySlice.syr.edu, where you can search by subject, session, or mode of instruction. Speak with an advisor to help with course registration if you are not currently enrolled at Syracuse University. How to search/register for classes International Programs Link Our goal is to make Syracuse University accessible to a geographically diverse population. Through our international programs, we are creating avenues for international students to start earning college credit at Syracuse University, online from their home countries, including English language training to improve academic English skills before coming to the United States. View all international programs High School Students Link Syracuse University Office of Pre-College Programs offers high school students the opportunity to explore potential college majors and careers. View all pre-college programs Summer and Winter Sessions Link Summer Sessions is a separate term at Syracuse University, consisting of four sessions that run from May until August. Classes are taught in a variety of formats. Registration incurs summer tuition charges. Winterlude runs for four weeks and is fully online, giving you the ability to earn up to three credits. Boost your GPA, prepare for study abroad, or – if you’re a visiting student – transfer credits to your home college. Contact your advisor for more information about taking a Winterlude course. 700 University Ave, Syracuse, NY 13244 | 315.443.9378 Toll-free: 1.866.498.9378 Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter Follow Us on Instagram © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy