Skip to Content Open Close primary navigation Search Search About UsExpand Collapse section Office Directory Leadership Team Faculty Directory Staff Directory Dean’s Message Our History News Info for…Expand Collapse section Prospective Students Online Learners Veterans & Military-Connected Students Transfer Students Current Students High School Students Alumni Faculty Request Info AcademicsExpand Collapse section Apply Online Degrees and Certificates On Campus Part-time Degrees Professional Acceleration and Microcredentials International Programs Registration and Course Information Forms and Links Academic Advising Tuition and Financial AidExpand Collapse section Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Forms & Links Scholarships and Grants Non-Matriculated Students Contact Us Give Search Search Home Academics Online Degrees and Certificates Syracuse University's Bachelor of Professional Studies In this Section Bachelor of Professional Studies Syracuse University offers part-time Bachelor of Professional Studies (BPS) degree programs that prepare graduates for career advancement. What is a Bachelor of Professional Studies? Link All of our BPS degree programs provide you with the specific skills and credentials employers seek when they hire and promote employees. Graduates are equipped with the competencies needed to keep pace with today’s global networks and technologies. Curriculum within Syracuse University’s Bachelor of Professional Studies programs adhere to the university’s existing standards for rigor and excellence. What’s the difference between a BPS, a BA or a BS degree? Link While all are four-year bachelor’s degrees, the difference between the three types comes down to what type of skills outcomes or curriculum you’re interested in. A BA is the most heavily focused on liberal arts of the three degrees – 75% of the credits you earn towards your degree are general or liberal art-based credits, and the remaining 25% are career-specific credits. A BS is evenly split, with 50% of credits towards general art-based credits and 50% towards career-specific credits. A BPS is opposite of a BA in that 75% of the credits you earn are career-specific and only 25% are general liberal art-based credits. BPS degrees are differentiated in that they include a required 30 credit hour general education core, 30 required credits of a professional competencies core, and 30-60 credits of a major with electives. The 90 credits that make up the combination of professional competencies and major requirements and electives is what differentiates the BPS from the BA and BS — the intentional coupling of career-focused majors with professional competency and skills courses. Bachelor of Professional Studies Programs are ideal for: Link Working professionals looking advance their career or update their skills Individuals who want to start or finish a degree Active duty service members or veterans View all BPS degree options 700 University Ave, Syracuse, NY 13244 | 315.443.9378 Toll-free: 1.866.498.9378 Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter Follow Us on Instagram © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy