Skip to site alert. Skip to content Pathology Faculty Directory News Events Make a Gift Contact Us Search About Us Diagnostic Specialties Client and Patient Support Research Education Coronavirus Updates from Columbia Department of Pathology and Cell Biology Coronavirus COVID-19 Studies Learn more about how you can participate COVID-19 Studies COVID-19: Donate Now Support Columbia Pathology and Cell Biology COVID-19: Donate Now Research Offering exceptional opportunities and resources for basic science, clinical, and translational research. Learn about our Research Learn about our Research Education Training the next generation of pathologists at a world-renowned medical center in the heart of New York City. View our Programs View our Programs Clinical Services Providing accurate and timely diagnostic test results from board-certified pathologists at ColumbiaDoctors. Go to Clinical Services Go to Clinical Services News "We Are CUIMC" Take on Armory's Team Relay Marathon Relay Challenge Source: Armory Track May 16, 2022 Cheers to our Angelic Pla (front left) and Milan Fredricks (rear 2nd from right), who took part in the event as members of the “We Are CUIMC” team representing Columbia. Topic Campus News Kurenai Tanji and Helen Remotti Accepted into ACE May 12, 2022 Dr. Kurenai Tanji and Dr. Helen Remotti were inducted into the VP&S Academy of Clinical Excellence (ACE) in recognition of the outstanding clinical care they demonstrate. Topic Campus News Alan Detton Receives Fundamentals Outstanding Teacher’s Award May 5, 2022 The award was given to Dr. Alan Detton by the VP&S Class of 2024 to recognize his outstanding classroom teaching. Topic Education Yasmeen Majoka Selected As Society of '67 2022 PDAS Fellow May 3, 2022 Yasmeen Majoka is this year's Society of 67' PDAS Marty Lawlor Fellow. She is the first to receive this special honor. Topic Campus News Departmental COVID-19 Article Collection June 24, 2020 We highlight the department's COVID-19 related articles published since the outbreak of the disease. Topic Infectious Diseases View All News Events 45th Columbia Renal Biopsy Course Saturday, July 2, 2022 to Friday, July 22, 2022 All day Venue College of Physicians and Surgeons, 630 W. 168 St., New York, NY 10032 View All Events Anatomical Donation Program You can help educate the physicians of tomorrow. Learn about Anatomical Donation Learn about Anatomical Donation Make a Gift Your gift helps to ensure our mission of providing the very best diagnostic services and furthering ground-breaking research. Donate Now Donate Now Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Client and Patient Support Diagnostic Specialties Education Research Faculty Directory News Events Make a Gift Contact Us Columbia University 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Back to top