Skip to main content Enter the terms you wish to search for. Select Search Option This Site All WCM Sites Directory Menu Weill Cornell Medicine Care Discover Teach Pathology & Laboratory Medicine Explore this Website Home About UsToggle About Us menu options Directory Books Career OpportunitiesToggle Career Opportunities menu options Academic Autopsy Pathologist Academic Breast Pathologists Academic Cellular Therapy Physician Academic Renal Pathologist Academic Surgical Pathologists Division Director of Transfusion Medicine and Cellular Therapy Laboratories Medical Director, Clinical Pathology Informatics Surgical Pathologists (NYP-BMH) Well-Being and DiversityToggle Well-Being and Diversity menu options Ergonomics Presentation Ways to Give Licenses and Accreditation Contact Us News and EventsToggle News and Events menu options Events Calendar Newsletters DivisionsToggle Divisions menu options Anatomic PathologyToggle Anatomic Pathology menu options Autopsy Pathology Breast Pathology Cytopathology Dermatopathology Gastrointestinal and Liver Pathology Genitourinary Pathology Gynecologic Pathology Head and Neck/Endocrine Pathology Neuropathology Pediatric Pathology Perinatal and Obstetric Pathology Renal Pathology Surgical Pathology Thoracic Pathology Computational Pathology Division of Cell and Cancer Pathobiology HematopathologyToggle Hematopathology menu options Immunopathology Molecular Hematopathology Laboratory MedicineToggle Laboratory Medicine menu options Central Laboratory Clinical Microbiology Laboratory Transfusion Medicine and Cellular Therapy Special Coagulation and Hematology Molecular and Genomic PathologyToggle Molecular and Genomic Pathology menu options Molecular Pathology Laboratory Cytogenetics Clinical Genomics Laboratory Molecular Hematopathology ResearchToggle Research menu options Publications Research LaboratoriesToggle Research Laboratories menu options Nicholas Brady, Ph.D. Ethel Cesarman, M.D., Ph.D. Selina Chen-Kiang, Ph.D. Annarita Di Lorenzo, Ph.D. Maria Diaz-Meco Conde Yi-Chieh (Nancy) Du, Ph.D. Matthew B. Greenblatt, M.D. Marcin Imielinski, M.D., Ph.D. Giorgio Inghirami, M.D. Steven Josefowicz, Ph.D. Benjamin Kleaveland, M.D., Ph.D. Massimo Loda, M.D. Jorge Moscat, Ph.D. Anna (Seung Ha) Nam, M.D. Ji-Hye Paik, Ph.D. Hanna Rennert, Ph.D. David Rickman, Ph.D. Teresa Sanchez, Ph.D. Jessica K. Tyler, Ph.D. Pengbo Zhou, Ph.D. COVID-19Toggle COVID-19 menu options COVID-19 Research Newly Awarded Grants Translational PathologyToggle Translational Pathology menu options Services Fee Schedule Multiparametric In Situ Imaging (MISI) LaboratoryToggle Multiparametric In Situ Imaging (MISI) Laboratory menu options Services Fee Schedule Experimental Cellular Therapy Pathology Core Laboratory Computational Pathology EducationToggle Education menu options Residency ProgramToggle Residency Program menu options Message from the Chief Residents A Day in the Life of a Resident Resident Research DayToggle Resident Research Day menu options Resident Research Day 2019 Resident Research Day 2018 Resident Research Day 2017 Resident Research Day 2016 Resident Research Day 2015 Resident Research Day 2014 Resident Awards Our Residents Physician Scientist Training Program Fellowship ProgramsToggle Fellowship Programs menu options Blood Bank and Transfusion Medicine Fellowship Breast Pathology Fellowship Cytopathology Fellowship Gastrointestinal/Liver Pathology Fellowship Genitourinary Pathology Fellowship Gynecologic and Perinatal Pathology Fellowship Hematopathology Fellowship Molecular Genetic Fellowship Renal Pathology Fellowship Our Fellows Grossing Video Library Medical Student Education Neighborhood and Housing Masterclass in Perioperative Bleeding Management WCM Cancer Metabolism and Inflammation Symposium Patient Care Weill Cornell Medicine Care Discover Teach Home About Us News and Events Divisions Research Translational Pathology Education Patient Care A Commitment to Patient Care, with Rapid Delivery of Diagnostic Test Results The Department provides the highest quality science-based diagnostic services in anatomic pathology and laboratory medicine; pursues innovative basic and clinical research to improve the diagnosis and management of disease; and promotes an integrated scientific and clinical education for pathology residents, fellows, and graduate students. Read more about us WeillCornell MaxLoda Final 2021 06 21 Video of WeillCornell MaxLoda Final 2021 06 21 Dr. Loda's Vision for the Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Department WCM Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Chair Dr. Massimo (Max) Loda explains his vision for the department. Events Jun 02,2022 11:00am to 12:00pm Pancreatic Cancer Biology and Medicine Jun 03,2022 7:00am to 12:30pm Perioperative Bleeding Management Master Class Jun 06,2022 5:00pm to 6:00pm Where are we going? A view of the future of molecular Jun 24,2022 8:00am to 5:00pm Cancer Metabolism and Inflammation Latest News WCM Pathology Newsletter Vol 28 January 2022 January 26, 2022 Read the latest WCM Pathology Newsletter to learn more about our Research Highlights, Scholarly Advances, new faculty and much more. You can also read our past issues here. Castle Connolly Top Doctors 2022 May 11, 2022 Congratulations to Drs. Cynthia Magro, Jose Jessurun, Amy Chadburn and Syed Hoda on being recognized as a Top Doctor by Castle Connolly, which are peer-nominated, for excellence in Medicine.Also special shout-out to Amy Chadburn, MD and Cynthia Magro, MD as being a recipient of Exceptional Women in Medicine 2021, by Castle Connolly (2022 recipients are announced this fall 2022).Congratulations to all! Tweets by WCMCPathology Research The Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine at Weill Cornell Medicine is both a clinical and basic science department, providing an optimal perspective for true translational research that bridges patient care with biomedical research. Our department engages in cutting-edge research with the goal of improving patient care. Publications Research Labs Covid-19 Research Computational Pathology Center for Translational Pathology Education Fellowships Our thirteen highly competitive fellowships provide subspecialty training and opportunities to conduct and present research. Fellows teach residents, attend and present at multidisciplinary tumor board conferences, and interact daily with attending physicians on both in-house cases and challenging cases referred to us for expert opinion. Residency Program We tailor to each resident's career goals and prepare them for Board certification in anatomic or clinical pathology, or a combination of the two. Residents learn the diagnostic criteria for diseases and the clinical implications of each diagnosis. Residents can conduct and present research and teach medical students during their final years. Physician Scientist Training Program This program is committed to training the next generation of physician scientist leaders in Clinical Pathology and Anatomic Pathology. The program provides support and mentorship through the clinical and postdoctoral training years to prepare trainees for highly competitive tenure track academic positions as an independent physician scientist. Medical Student Education Students learn about the pathophysiology of disease through faculty lectures and small group tutorials in a case-based approach during their second year. Later, students may choose an elective rotation to observe the daily activities of pathologists. Students shadow residents, fellows, and faculty and participating in sign-outs and conferences. Masterclass in Perioperative Bleeding Management June 1-3, 2022 WCM Cancer Metabolism and Inflammation Symposium June 23 - June 24, 2022 - Register now! Patient Care Our pathologists are board-certified experts, providing patients with accurate and comprehensive diagnosis fundamental to effective treatment. Because they see a large volume of diverse cases, patients know we have the knowledge and experience to provide excellent care. We often provide patients with a second opinion after a primary diagnosis. Career Opportunities Our department is an excellent place to launch or grow your career. Located in New York City, our pathologists are afforded the opportunity to explore a range of cases, from routine to extremely rare diseases and conditions, that better prepare them for an exciting career and to provide outstanding care for our patients. Ways to Give Your contribution helps bolster our efforts to improve the care of patients and expand our knowledge of how diseases develop and progress. You can support a specific program, area of study, or honor an individual physician or researcher. Unrestricted gifts expand our programs, and help purchase the latest, most sophisticated equipment. Our Location Pathology & Laboratory Medicine Contact Us Twitter Facebook Instagram 1300 York Avenue New York, NY 10065 Phone: (212) 746-6464 Surgical Pathology: (212) 746-2700 About Us Directory Books Career Opportunities Well-Being and Diversity Ways to Give Licenses and Accreditation Contact Us News and Events Events Calendar Newsletters Divisions Anatomic Pathology Computational Pathology Division of Cell and Cancer Pathobiology Hematopathology Laboratory Medicine Molecular and Genomic Pathology Research Publications Research Laboratories COVID-19 Newly Awarded Grants Translational Pathology Services Fee Schedule Multiparametric In Situ Imaging (MISI) Laboratory Experimental Cellular Therapy Pathology Core Laboratory Computational Pathology Education Residency Program Physician Scientist Training Program Fellowship Programs Grossing Video Library Medical Student Education Neighborhood and Housing Masterclass in Perioperative Bleeding Management WCM Cancer Metabolism and Inflammation Symposium Patient Care Care. Discover. Teach. With a legacy of putting patients first, Weill Cornell Medicine is committed to providing exemplary and individualized clinical care, making groundbreaking biomedical discoveries, and educating generations of exceptional doctors and scientists. Weill Cornell Medicine © Weill Cornell Medicine. Privacy & Legal Careers Giving Directory Web Accessibility Assistance