Skip to main content University of Washington University of Washington Quick Links About About Physiology & Biophysics Diversity Statement University of Washington Computational Neuroscience Center Virtual tour of UW, Seattle, and the Puget Sound Region UW PBIO – A Brief History (1946-2010) People Roster Faculty Adjunct Faculty Affiliate Faculty Emeriti Postdoctoral Scholars Graduate Students Administrative Staff Seminars & Events 2021-2022 Seminar Series Seminar Archives News & Announcements News Announcements Resources Graduate Program Postdoctoral Training Fellowships and Training Grants UW Allies Keck Imaging Center PBIO Intranet Physiology & Biophysics Physiology and Biophysics Menu About About Physiology & Biophysics Diversity Statement University of Washington Computational Neuroscience Center Virtual tour of UW, Seattle, and the Puget Sound Region UW PBIO – A Brief History (1946-2010) People Roster Faculty Adjunct Faculty Affiliate Faculty Emeriti Postdoctoral Scholars Graduate Students Administrative Staff Seminars & Events 2021-2022 Seminar Series Seminar Archives News & Announcements News Announcements Resources Graduate Program Postdoctoral Training Fellowships and Training Grants UW Allies Keck Imaging Center PBIO Intranet Home Physiology and Biophysics PBIO Mission The Department of Physiology & Biophysics is built on the principles of integrity and service. These principles are the foundation of our contributions to the State of Washington, the UW, the international science community, and the broader public. Our mission centers on three areas. Discovery: to explain physiological processes at the molecular, cellular, tissue, and organismal levels. Training: to provide high-quality, rigorous training that prepares students and postdoctoral scholars for science- and medicine-related careers. Communication: to disseminate scientific results and share our passion for science. Announcements Beth Buffalo elected to National Academy of Sciences We are thrilled to announce that Beth Buffalo, professor and chair of Physiology & Biophysics, has been elected to the National Academy of Sciences. Our hearty congratulations! UW Allies: The UW Allies program serves graduate students and postdoctoral scholars in basic science labs at UW Read more… Tweets by UW_PBIO Upcoming Events Jun 2 Thu 2022 3:30 pm SHAC seminar co-host with Bloede... SHAC seminar co-host with Bloede... Jun 2 @ 3:30 pm – 4:30 pm HOLDING – co-host with Bloedel SHACS series One receptor, two surprises: unexpected mGluR-mediated neuromodulation in sound localization circuits Yong Lu, PhD Professor of Anatomy and Neurobiology College of Medicine Northeast Ohio Medical University (NEOMED) Abstract:... View Calendar Latest News Liz de la Cruz featured in Journal of Cell ScienceMay 10, 2022 Beth Buffalo elected to National Academy of SciencesMay 3, 2022 Remembrances of Paul NewmanApril 25, 2022 Land Acknowledgment The department of Physiology & Biophysics acknowledges the Coast Salish peoples of this land, the land which touches the shared waters of all tribes and bands within the Suquamish, Tulalip and Muckleshoot nations. It is in this land where we work, teach, and learn. Read full diversity statement Contact us Physiology & Biophysics University of Washington (206) 543-0950pbioadministrator@uw.edu Contact Us PBIO Intranet Log in My UW Accessibility Terms Privacy Make a Gift The PBIO logo was designed by J.P. Johnson Jr. for the 2002 Patton Symposium © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA