Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Psychological and Brain Sciences Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences Contact Us Psychological.and.Brain.Sciences@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Psychology Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Neuroscience Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Curriculum Transfer and AP Credit Courses and Syllabi Introductory Intermediate Topics Labs Independent Research Course Syllabi (ID login required) Permission Courses Request Form Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Resources Back to Top Nav Graduate Graduate Program in Psychological and Brain Sciences Research Areas Coursework and Curriculum Mentoring Toolkit Resources Current Graduate Students Graduate Admissions Admissions FAQs Our Graduates Recent Dissertations Back to Top Nav Research Overview Recent Research Findings Facilities Undergraduate Research Post-Doctoral Fellows Post-Doctoral Opportunities Participate in Experiments 2021 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) 2022 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) Back to Top Nav Community Diversity Suggestions For Current PBS Community (ID Login Required) Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Curriculum The numbering system used for courses in the Psychological and Brain Sciences department is intended to be meaningful. The magnitude of a course's number has implications for the format of the course and for the level of coverage. PSYC 1-10 Courses numbered below 10 do not have prerequisites, are introductory in nature, and do not carry major credit. These courses include Introductory Psychology (1) and Introduction to the Neurosciences (6). Find out more here. In addition, First-Year Seminars (7) are offered in Psychology. Psychology 10 (Experimental Design, Methodology, and Data Analysis Procedures) is a prerequisite for the Psychology major and for Psyc 11. PSYC 11 Psychology 11 is a required course for the psychology major. Psychology 10 is the prerequisite for this course and may NOT be taken concurrently. This laboratory course will provide a general introduction to the experimental methods of psychological science. Lectures and lab exercises will provide an overview of experimental techniques in four content areas (behavioral and cognitive neuroscience, social psychology and applied psychology). PSYC 20-29 Courses numbered in the 20's are open enrollment (though sometimes limited by available seating), courses designed to provide broad coverage of a particular area of Psychology. Complete descriptions of these courses are available in the ORC. These courses usually have PSYC 1 or 6 as a prerequisite, but in some cases, alternate prerequisites are possible. Courses numbered in the 20s are a part of both the Psychology and Neuroscience majors. Consult the relevant major requirements for details. Most of the 20-level courses are taught in a lecture format. Enrollments in such courses over the past few years have ranged from 60-150. In general these courses use the Registrar's priority system as follows: Senior majors, junior majors, senior minors, junior minors, sophomores, other seniors, other juniors and first-year students. As much as is possible, 20 level courses are offered every year, and in the same term each year. PSYC 35-38 Courses numbered in the 30's are open enrollment courses (though sometimes limited by available seating) that provide broad coverage of a particular area of Neuroscience. Complete descriptions of these courses are available in the ORC. These courses usually have PSYC 6 as a prerequisite, but in some cases, alternate prerequisites are possible. Courses numbered in the 30s are the core courses for Neuroscience majors. In general these courses use the Registrar's priority system as follows: Senior majors, junior majors, senior minors, junior minors, sophomores, other seniors, other juniors and first-year students. As much as is possible, 30's-level courses are offered every year, and in the same term each year. PSYC 40-49 Courses numbered in the 40's have a somewhat narrower focus than courses in the 20's. Enrollment may be limited. In general these courses use the Registrar's priority system as follows: Senior majors, junior majors, senior minors, junior minors, other seniors, other juniors, sophomores, and first-year students. PSYC 50-59 Courses numbered in the 50's are focused on a specific topic, and enrollment is usually limited to 35 students. In general these courses use the Registrar's priority system as follows: Senior majors, junior majors, senior minors, junior minors, other seniors, other juniors, sophomores, and first-year students. Most instructors in these courses attempt to provide a mixture of lecture and discussion. These courses carry major credit, and usually have Psychology 1 or 6 as a prerequisite. Courses in the 50's are not necessarily offered every year, and the term of offering varies. Descriptions and terms of offering are supplied in the ORC and on the department webpage. PSYC 60-69 Courses numbered in the 60s are advanced laboratory courses. These courses provide students with direct involvement with research. These courses usually have one or more prerequisites and permission is required and enrollment is limited. (See section on permission policy.) Descriptions of these courses and information on prerequisites can be found in the ORC and on the department webpage. Courses at this level can be used to fulfill the Culminating Experience requirement for psychology majors. PSYC 80-87 Courses numbered in the 80's are focused on a specific topic, and enrollment is usually limited to 15 students. These seminars fulfill the Culminating Experience requirement for both the neuroscience and psychology majors. These courses usually have one or more prerequisites and permission is required. (See section on permission policy.) Descriptions of these courses and information on prerequisites can be found in the ORC and on the department webpage. When chosing a culminating experience, neuroscience majors should be sure to consult the list of courses which qualify for neuroscience credit. The list is available on the neuroscience major page. PSYC 70 and PSYC 88-91 PBS offers advanced students the opportunity to do Independent and Honors Research for credit. Up to, but not more than, two terms of these courses may count toward the major requirements. Learn more about Independent Neuroscience and Psychology Research (PSYC 70, PSYC 88, and PSYC 90) Learn more about Honors Research in Psychology (PSYC 89), including the required permission forms. Learn more about Honors Research in Neuroscience (PSYC 91), including the required permission form. Overview Psychology Neuroscience Curriculum Transfer and AP Credit Courses and Syllabi Permission Courses Resources Share Related DepartmentClassicsRelated DepartmentFilm and Media Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences Undergraduate Overview Psychology Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Neuroscience Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Curriculum Transfer and AP Credit Courses and Syllabi Introductory Intermediate Topics Labs Independent Research Course Syllabi (ID login required) Permission Courses Request Form Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Resources Graduate Graduate Program in Psychological and Brain Sciences Research Areas Coursework and Curriculum Mentoring Toolkit Resources Current Graduate Students Graduate Admissions Admissions FAQs Our Graduates Recent Dissertations Research Overview Recent Research Findings Facilities Undergraduate Research Post-Doctoral Fellows Post-Doctoral Opportunities Participate in Experiments 2021 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) 2022 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) Community Diversity Suggestions For Current PBS Community (ID Login Required) News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback