Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Psychological and Brain Sciences Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences Contact Us Psychological.and.Brain.Sciences@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Psychology Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Neuroscience Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Curriculum Transfer and AP Credit Courses and Syllabi Introductory Intermediate Topics Labs Independent Research Course Syllabi (ID login required) Permission Courses Request Form Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Resources Back to Top Nav Graduate Graduate Program in Psychological and Brain Sciences Research Areas Coursework and Curriculum Mentoring Toolkit Resources Current Graduate Students Graduate Admissions Admissions FAQs Our Graduates Recent Dissertations Back to Top Nav Research Overview Recent Research Findings Facilities Undergraduate Research Post-Doctoral Fellows Post-Doctoral Opportunities Participate in Experiments 2021 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) 2022 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) Back to Top Nav Community Diversity Suggestions For Current PBS Community (ID Login Required) Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Graduate Program in Psychological and Brain Sciences Research Areas Coursework and Curriculum Mentoring Toolkit Resources Current Graduate Students Graduate Admissions Our Graduates Share Mentoring Toolkit Mentorship is a central aspect of our scientific community in PBS. All graduate students in PBS are assigned a Mentoring Team: a committee of two faculty members and a senior peer graduate student who provides team-based, holistic support throughout the early years of grad school. This Mentoring Toolkit was designed to support Mentoring Teams, and to orient those who mentor graduate students in PBS to information and expectations around mentoring. Within this Toolkit, there are three forms which all graduate mentors/mentees in the department are required to submit to the department at various points. There are also a number of outside resources relating to knowledge and skills around mentorship in STEM. Mentoring in PBS Mentorship is an essential component of science. Principal investigators will likely train and mentor individuals at various stages of scientific development: undergraduates, lab technicians, research assistants, graduate students, postdocs, and career research scientists. While the focus of training is to support the advisees in their formal responsibilities to progress towards academic and scientific goals, the focus of mentorship is the personal and professional growth of an advisee. Mentors share knowledge, experience, networks, and resources to guide, sponsor, and advise students in their development. Successful mentoring is essential for the career satisfaction, research productivity, and personal development of a mentee. It forms the fabric of our scientific community. The skills and knowledge to effectively mentor must be continuously practiced and refined. Thus, the department pairs all tenure-track faculty in PBS with senior mentors both inside and outside of the department to guide in their development. Mentoring Teams HOW THEY WORK What is a mentoring team? All graduate students in PBS have a mentoring team. The role of this mentoring team is to provide an early-career graduate student with guidance and support as they get off the ground in graduate school (Years 1-2). This Mentoring Team is comprised of the student's PI, one secondary faculty member in the PBS graduate program, and one peer (a senior graduate student, called your "senior peer"). Although formal meetings aren't required after a student's second year, the secondary faculty mentor and senior peer can still serve as mentoring resources for a student. In later years students also have committees focused on their research (e.g. specialist and dissertation committees) who would also serve as mentors. When do mentoring teams meet? By December 15 of their first year in the program, all mentees in PBS should have an orientation meeting with their PI as well as an initial introductory meeting with the other members of their mentoring team (their secondary faculty mentor and their senior peer, together). Secondary faculty mentors should reach out to their mentee and the senior peer to schedule this introductory meeting during fall term. After that, mentees should schedule an annual individual meeting with their secondary faculty mentor and their senior peer to discuss personal development, career goals, and any hurdles each year (Years 1 and 2). These meetings can occur at any point throughout the year. This flowchart illustrates the standard mentoring meetings and timeline. What is the structure of mentoring meetings? Below, you will find forms created to guide the conversations in each of these meetings. Each form also has a signature page to document the meeting. Graduate students are responsible for submitting each form to the PBS Department Administrator after the meeting takes place. Mentoring Forms Year 1: Form 1 (pdf) – Student and Advisor Orientation Meeting - Due December 15 Form 1 (word doc) Form 2 (pdf) – Student and Mentoring Team Introductory Meeting - Due December 15 Form 2 (word doc) Years 1 and 2: Form 3 (pdf) - Annual Mentoring Review Meetings – Due no later than April 30 with graduate student annual report Form 3 (word doc) Outside Resources How Can I Learn More About Mentoring? Mentors: A book written by The Howard Hughes Medical Institute specifically for postdocs and new faculty: Making the Right Moves: A practical guide to scientific management and mentoring for postdocs and new faculty (Burroughs Wellcome Fund and Howard Hughes Medical Institute). Effective mentoring in STEMM: Effective Mentoring in STEMM: Practice, Research, and Future Directions (National Academy of Sciences, 2017, workshop proceedings). Detailed resources for mentoring and cultivating a positive lab environment from the Center for the Improvement of Mentored Experiences in Research (Requires a free account; Clinical and Behavioral Sciences resources are particularly well-matched to many labs in PBS). Nature's guide for good mentorship: Nature's guide for mentors (Lee et al., 2007, Nature). For new mentors. Entering Mentoring: A seminar to train a new generation of scientists. (The Wisconsin Program for Scientific Teaching; 2005). Mentoring advice for mentees and mentors in science: Mentoring Advice (Pain, 2012, Science). Science writers share their perspectives on mentoring and research integrity. Spotlight on Mentoring (U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Research Integrity, 2012) Guide to mentoring graduate students. How to mentor graduate students: a guide for faculty (University of Michigan Rackam Graduate School, 2018) Postdocs: Helping postdocs find their next position: Mentoring: On the right path. (Allison McCook, 2011, Nature) Selecting a good postdoctoral mentor: Ten Simple Rules for Selecting a Postdoctoral Position (Bourne et al., 2006, PLOS Computational Biology) Selecting a good postdoctoral lab: Advice on Choosing a Successful Post-doctoral Position (ASCB Newsletter, 2005) Mentees: The "Quick Start for Great Mentoring" from the Council of Graduate Schools (Lunsford and Baker, 2016) For students seeking mentors: How to get the mentorship you want (University of Michigan Rackham graduate school, 2018). Spotting a good mentor: Mind Matters: Getting Yourself Mentored (Levine, 2006, Science) Mentoring advice for mentees and mentors in science: Mentoring Advice (Pain, 2012, Science). A brief primer on the PhD supervision relationship (Madan, 2021, European Journal of Neuroscience). Click here to jump to the mentoring forms. Related DepartmentClassicsRelated DepartmentFilm and Media Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences Undergraduate Overview Psychology Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Neuroscience Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Curriculum Transfer and AP Credit Courses and Syllabi Introductory Intermediate Topics Labs Independent Research Course Syllabi (ID login required) Permission Courses Request Form Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Resources Graduate Graduate Program in Psychological and Brain Sciences Research Areas Coursework and Curriculum Mentoring Toolkit Resources Current Graduate Students Graduate Admissions Admissions FAQs Our Graduates Recent Dissertations Research Overview Recent Research Findings Facilities Undergraduate Research Post-Doctoral Fellows Post-Doctoral Opportunities Participate in Experiments 2021 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) 2022 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) Community Diversity Suggestions For Current PBS Community (ID Login Required) News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback