Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Psychological and Brain Sciences Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences Contact Us Psychological.and.Brain.Sciences@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Psychology Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Neuroscience Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Curriculum Transfer and AP Credit Courses and Syllabi Introductory Intermediate Topics Labs Independent Research Course Syllabi (ID login required) Permission Courses Request Form Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Resources Back to Top Nav Graduate Graduate Program in Psychological and Brain Sciences Research Areas Coursework and Curriculum Mentoring Toolkit Resources Current Graduate Students Graduate Admissions Admissions FAQs Our Graduates Recent Dissertations Back to Top Nav Research Overview Recent Research Findings Facilities Undergraduate Research Post-Doctoral Fellows Post-Doctoral Opportunities Participate in Experiments 2021 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) 2022 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) Back to Top Nav Community Diversity Suggestions For Current PBS Community (ID Login Required) Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Independent Research PSYC 88 Independent Psychology Research The course is offered every term and is designed to enable specifically qualified students, usually seniors, to engage in independent laboratory or field research under the direction of a faculty member. Students may take up to three terms of Independent Research. However, no more than two terms of 88, 89, or a combination of 88s and 89s may count toward the eight required courses for the major. Normally a student must have a minimum grade point average of 3.0 both overall and in the major to enroll. This course may NOT be used to satisfy the 60- or above requirement of the major. Prerequisites: PSYC 1 or PSYC 6, and PSYC 10, and PSYC 11. Non-majors may request exemption from normal prerequisites and other requirements of PSYC 88. To request permission for PSYC 88, complete the appropriate checklist below: Psychology Majors: Lab or Field Research Permission Checklist Psychology Majors: Library Research Permission Checklist Non-Psychology Majors: Research Permission Checklist PSYC 89 Honors Psychology Research This course is offered every term and is designed to enable especially qualified students, usually seniors, to engage in independent laboratory or field research under the direction of a faculty member. Students may take two terms of Honors Research, and no more than two terms of 88, 89, or a combination of 88s and 89s may count toward the eight required courses for the major. Beginning in 2017-18, this course may be used to fulfill the upper-level (60 or above) major requirement. A student must have a minimum grade point average of 3.30 in the major and 3.0 overall to enroll and must enroll before the end of the Fall term of their Senior year. Consult the Psychology Honors page for further information, including the required checklist for enrolling in PSYC 89. PSYC 70 Neuroscience Research This course is offered every term and is designed to enable Neuroscience majors early in their course of study to engage in independent laboratory research under the direction of a neuroscience faculty member. Students are required to write a final report that describes the goal of the project, their research, and what they learned from their experience. This course may count in the neuroscience major as an elective numbered above 20, but cannot fulfill the requirement for electives numbered above 40. It cannot be used towards the culminating experience. Students may take up to three terms of independent/honors research (PSYC 70, PSYC 90, PSYC 91) but only two terms may be counted for credit towards the major. More advanced students who have taken at least two core neuroscience courses should enroll in PSYC 90. Prerequisites: PSYC 6 To request permission for PSYC 70, complete the PSYC 70 permission checklist. PSYC 90 Independent Neuroscience Research This course is offered every term and is designed to enable Neuroscience majors to engage in independent laboratory research under the direction of a neuroscience faculty member. Students are required to write a final report of their research. Students may take up to three terms of independent/honors research, but only two terms may be counted for credit towards the major. If two terms are taken, one may count towards the culminating experience and the second may count as an elective numbered above 20, but cannot be used to fulfill the requirement for electives numbered above 40. Prerequisite: PSYC 6, PSYC 10, two of the four core courses required for the major, and instructor permission. To request permission for PSYC 90, complete the PSYC 90 permission checklist. PSYC 91 Honors Neuroscience Research This course is offered every term and is designed to enable especially qualified Neuroscience majors, usually seniors, to engage in independent laboratory research under the direction of a neuroscience faculty member. Students must take two terms of PSYC 91. A student must have a minimum grade point average of 3.30 in the major and 3.00 overall to enroll and must enroll by the Fall term of the senior year. Consult the Neuroscience Honors page for further information, including the required checklist for enrolling in PSYC 91. Overview Psychology Neuroscience Curriculum Courses and Syllabi Introductory Intermediate Topics Labs Independent Research Course Syllabi (ID login required) Permission Courses Resources Find out about PBS Research Fellowships Share Related DepartmentClassicsRelated DepartmentFilm and Media Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences Undergraduate Overview Psychology Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Neuroscience Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Curriculum Transfer and AP Credit Courses and Syllabi Introductory Intermediate Topics Labs Independent Research Course Syllabi (ID login required) Permission Courses Request Form Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Resources Graduate Graduate Program in Psychological and Brain Sciences Research Areas Coursework and Curriculum Mentoring Toolkit Resources Current Graduate Students Graduate Admissions Admissions FAQs Our Graduates Recent Dissertations Research Overview Recent Research Findings Facilities Undergraduate Research Post-Doctoral Fellows Post-Doctoral Opportunities Participate in Experiments 2021 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) 2022 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) Community Diversity Suggestions For Current PBS Community (ID Login Required) News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback