Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Psychological and Brain Sciences Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences Contact Us Psychological.and.Brain.Sciences@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Psychology Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Neuroscience Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Curriculum Transfer and AP Credit Courses and Syllabi Introductory Intermediate Topics Labs Independent Research Course Syllabi (ID login required) Permission Courses Request Form Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Resources Back to Top Nav Graduate Graduate Program in Psychological and Brain Sciences Research Areas Coursework and Curriculum Mentoring Toolkit Resources Current Graduate Students Graduate Admissions Admissions FAQs Our Graduates Recent Dissertations Back to Top Nav Research Overview Recent Research Findings Facilities Undergraduate Research Post-Doctoral Fellows Post-Doctoral Opportunities Participate in Experiments 2021 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) 2022 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) Back to Top Nav Community Diversity Suggestions For Current PBS Community (ID Login Required) Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Neuroscience Major/Minor FAQs If you are considering majoring or minoring in Neuroscience, the information below may be helpful. Q. I am interested in both Psychology and Neuroscience as a major. Which course should I take between PSYC 1 vs. PSYC 6? A. PSYC 6 is required for the Neuroscience major, so if you know that you are interested in neuroscience, then PSYC 6 may be your best choice. However, if you are unsure, then selecting PSYC 1 (required for the Psychology major) is a good option, because you will cover the field of psychology in more breadth and it will include some neuroscience. Many students end up taking both to help with the decision. Q. What is the difference between the Psychology major and the Neuroscience major? A. Psychology is the study of behavior–from the level of brain mechanisms of behavior to social interactions. It encompasses a large breadth of topics including: applied, social, developmental, clinical cognitive, and physiological psychology. Majoring in psychology will expose you to many of these disciplines. In contrast, neuroscience is the study of brain mechanisms and encompasses material from the molecular and cellular level of how neurons work, to cognitive and behavioral levels where questions of how neural processes lead to behavior and cognitive thought is studied. In between these two levels, neuroscience also involves anatomical and system level analyses of brain function. Q. Why would I want to take the two course Bio 12/Bio 13 sequence to satisfy the cellular/molecular neuroscience requirement instead of the one course–Psyc 35? A. Taking the BIOL 12 and 13 sequence (in lieu of PSYC 35) for the cellular/molecular neuroscience requirement) would fulfill the premed recommendations, since both these Biology courses have laboratories (PSYC 35 does not contain a laboratory). However, PSYC 35 has more content directly related to neuroscience than the BIOL 12/13 sequence. Q. Can I get neuroscience elective credit for taking PSYC 35 even if I've taken BIOL 12 and 13? A. Yes. The content of PSYC 35 is sufficiently different from BIOL 12 and 13; thus, we allow elective credit for it. Q. I have AP Credit for some of the prerequisites (e.g., Math 3). Does this mean I have credit for one prerequisite? A. Yes. If you have AP credit and were given a Dartmouth college credit for the course, then this course can count as one of your prerequisites. Q. Can I count an elective course for the neuroscience major or minor that is used to count as an elective course in another major? A. No. For example, if a student is majoring in Psychology and is counting PSYC 50.01 as one of their elective courses for the Psychology major, then he/she cannot use this course to count towards required credits for any other major or minor (Neuroscience included). Q. Can I NRO (non-recording option) neuroscience courses? A. You may NRO any of the prerequisites except PSYC 6, PSYC 10, BIOL 29. You may not NRO any required, elective, or culminating experience courses. Q: Can I modify the neuroscience major? A: The neuroscience major cannot be modified with another major. However, students can petition to modify another major with neuroscience (e.g., Comp Sci modified with Neuro) if the primary major department allows it. If so, when submitting the major plan in DartWorks the student should include in the modification rationale information as to why a modification is preferable to minoring in Neuroscience, and explaining which 4 neuroscience courses (in addition to the prerequisite PSYC 6) will be used for the modification, and why they are suitable. Q: How do I calculate my neuroscience major GPA? A: The major GPA in Neuroscience is calculated by averaging all of the currently-completed courses that are part of the major, excluding PSYC 10 (or it's equivalent, e.g. ECON 10) and the non-PSYC prerequisite courses (e.g. CHEM 5 or CHEM 6). This includes PSYC 6, core courses, approved electives, and culminating courses, and is independent of the departmental designation of those courses. Please note that grades for independent/honors research courses (PSYC 70, 90, and 91) are also excluded from the major GPA calculation. Q. Do I need to add exact course numbers in my major declaration plan? A. When selecting courses in your major declaration, please scroll down until you come to the exact course number. Please note that course numbers with decimals come later than course numbers without decimals. Courses are listed in order based on the first number (i.e., PSYC 83.08 will come later than PSYC 085 and PSYC 174). Overview Psychology Neuroscience Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Curriculum Courses and Syllabi Permission Courses Resources Share Related DepartmentClassicsRelated DepartmentFilm and Media Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences Undergraduate Overview Psychology Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Neuroscience Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Curriculum Transfer and AP Credit Courses and Syllabi Introductory Intermediate Topics Labs Independent Research Course Syllabi (ID login required) Permission Courses Request Form Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Resources Graduate Graduate Program in Psychological and Brain Sciences Research Areas Coursework and Curriculum Mentoring Toolkit Resources Current Graduate Students Graduate Admissions Admissions FAQs Our Graduates Recent Dissertations Research Overview Recent Research Findings Facilities Undergraduate Research Post-Doctoral Fellows Post-Doctoral Opportunities Participate in Experiments 2021 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) 2022 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) Community Diversity Suggestions For Current PBS Community (ID Login Required) News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback