Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Psychological and Brain Sciences Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences Contact Us Psychological.and.Brain.Sciences@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Psychology Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Neuroscience Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Curriculum Transfer and AP Credit Courses and Syllabi Introductory Intermediate Topics Labs Independent Research Course Syllabi (ID login required) Permission Courses Request Form Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Resources Back to Top Nav Graduate Graduate Program in Psychological and Brain Sciences Research Areas Coursework and Curriculum Mentoring Toolkit Resources Current Graduate Students Graduate Admissions Admissions FAQs Our Graduates Recent Dissertations Back to Top Nav Research Overview Recent Research Findings Facilities Undergraduate Research Post-Doctoral Fellows Post-Doctoral Opportunities Participate in Experiments 2021 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) 2022 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) Back to Top Nav Community Diversity Suggestions For Current PBS Community (ID Login Required) Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Psychology Neuroscience Curriculum Courses and Syllabi Permission Courses Request Form Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Resources Share Fall 2022 Permission forms will be accepted for Fall 2022 courses beginning on May 1, 2022. Note that all the PSYC courses listed below are accepted towards the Psychology major, but only some are accepted towards the Neuroscience major. PSYC 60 Principles of Human Brain Mapping with fMRI In 22F at 2A, Luke Chang This course is designed to introduce students to the theoretical and practical issues involved in conducting functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) experiments of cognitive and behaviorally-related brain activity. Participants will gain an understanding of the physiological principles underlying the fMRI signal change, as well as the considerations for experimental design. The course will include firsthand exposure to the scanning environment and data collection procedures. Participants will be provided conceptual and hands-on experience with image processing and statistical analysis. At the completion of this course, it is expected that participants will be prepared to critique, design and conduct fMRI studies; appreciate limitations and potentials of current fMRI methods and techniques; and better understand the broad range of expertise required in an fMRI research program. The course is designed to provide the participant with intensive, hands-on instruction. As a result, enrollment in the course will be limited to 12 people. Knowledge of MR physics, signal processing, or the UNIX/Linux operating system is not a prerequisite. Approved course for the Neuroscience major/minor. Prerequisite: Instructor permission through the department website. PSYC 80.01 Neuroscience of Reward In 22F at 10A, Kyle Smith Much of the life of humans and other animals revolves around reward, whether engaging in basic pleasures like food and sex or enjoying more complex things like music. This course will introduce conceptual frameworks to understand reward as a phenomenon that is distinct from other features of goal-directed behavior. We will then discuss recent advances in neuroscience research that are helping us to understand the basic brain mechanisms that make things pleasurable, including anatomical pathways, neurotransmitter systems, and dynamics of neural activity. Approved course for the Neuroscience major/minor. Prerequisite: PSYC 6 and PSYC 37 (formerly offered as PSYC 45); and instructor permission via the department website PSYC 84.06 Organizational Psychology In 22F at 3A, John Jordan How do some organizations unleash remarkable creativity, teamwork, job satisfaction, and performance, while others struggle, stagnate, become toxic and/or fail? Through active engagement with case studies, simulation challenges, external experts, and project-based learning we will find out. This seminar will explore how the attitudes, motivations and behavior of individuals and groups affect organizational performance, and the psychological science that helps explain why. We will discover how the best leaders use their power and influence to shape their organization's culture and build organizational systems that place the right talent in the right roles, empower high-performing teams, improve processes, develop capabilities, and reward the right behaviors. Students will derive practical science-based insights they can use to strengthen the teams, clubs, and organizations to which they belong. Prerequisite: PSYC 1 or PSYC 6; and one of the following: PSYC 23 or 28 or 53.12 or 54.08; and Instructor Permission through the department website. Distributive: SOC PSYC 86.04 SfN Annual Meeting - Bucci Fellows Seminar in Advanced Neuroscience In 22F at 10A, Katherine Nautiyal This seminar provides advanced undergraduates the opportunity to participate in the exploration of the cutting edge of neuroscience research through the vehicle of the Annual Meeting of the Society for Neuroscience (SfN). The conference program serves as a syllabus and roadmap for the most up-to-date techniques and discoveries in the field of neuroscience. The seminar will explore topics and issues informed by the scheduled presentations at the meeting, allowing student learning to keep pace with the current research and knowledge of leading international experts in neuroscience. The culmination of the course will involve travel to the Annual Meeting of SfN with over 30,000 neuroscientists. This experience is designed to make neuroscience "come alive," and to provide students with valuable opportunities to take part in a scientific conference, meet world-renowned researchers, prospective graduate mentors, and possible future employers. Students will also have the chance to develop important professional skills through critical evaluation of research, exposure to different presentation styles, and preparation of an in-depth research paper and oral presentations. This seminar is offered in honor of the late Professor David Bucci and his dedication to innovative undergraduate teaching in Neuroscience. Thanks to the generosity of the donors to the David Bucci Fellows Fund, all travel expenses for students will be covered by Bucci Fellowships. Approved course for the Neuroscience major/minor. Prerequisite: PSYC 6 and instructor permission through the department website. Students interested in the course should contact the instructor prior to the course registration period. Students will be asked to complete a brief application stating their interest in the course, what they hope to get out of the course, courses completed in Neuroscience/Psychology, and any prior/current research experience. Advanced students (Seniors, then Juniors) majoring in Neuroscience or Psychology will be given priority for enrollment. A code of conduct will also be developed by and for the students to guide their participation at the conference as ambassadors of Dartmouth College. Related DepartmentClassicsRelated DepartmentFilm and Media Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences Undergraduate Overview Psychology Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Neuroscience Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Curriculum Transfer and AP Credit Courses and Syllabi Introductory Intermediate Topics Labs Independent Research Course Syllabi (ID login required) Permission Courses Request Form Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Resources Graduate Graduate Program in Psychological and Brain Sciences Research Areas Coursework and Curriculum Mentoring Toolkit Resources Current Graduate Students Graduate Admissions Admissions FAQs Our Graduates Recent Dissertations Research Overview Recent Research Findings Facilities Undergraduate Research Post-Doctoral Fellows Post-Doctoral Opportunities Participate in Experiments 2021 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) 2022 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) Community Diversity Suggestions For Current PBS Community (ID Login Required) News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback