Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Psychological and Brain Sciences Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences Contact Us Psychological.and.Brain.Sciences@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Psychology Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Neuroscience Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Curriculum Transfer and AP Credit Courses and Syllabi Introductory Intermediate Topics Labs Independent Research Course Syllabi (ID login required) Permission Courses Request Form Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Resources Back to Top Nav Graduate Graduate Program in Psychological and Brain Sciences Research Areas Coursework and Curriculum Mentoring Toolkit Resources Current Graduate Students Graduate Admissions Admissions FAQs Our Graduates Recent Dissertations Back to Top Nav Research Overview Recent Research Findings Facilities Undergraduate Research Post-Doctoral Fellows Post-Doctoral Opportunities Participate in Experiments 2021 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) 2022 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) Back to Top Nav Community Diversity Suggestions For Current PBS Community (ID Login Required) Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Undergraduate Research In the Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences, undergraduates have the opportunity to directly contribute to new discoveries in brain science by engaging in research under the guidance of a faculty mentor. Indeed, many faculty in the department are conducting state of the art research and there are several mechanisms available to involve undergraduate researchers including volunteer and paid work, carrying out research for independent study credit, or engaging in a seniors honors thesis. Funding support is available through a wide range of grants and research programs sponsored by the Office of Undergraduate Research, and the department provides funding through the fellowships and prizes described below. To get started, explore the faculty profiles to learn about their research programs, and then contact faculty members to find out how you can get involved. Undergraduate Research Fellowships The Lincoln Filene Undergraduate Fellowship in Human Relations This fellowship pays a stipend of $3,500 to support a psychology or neuroscience major during an off-term (three months) of engagement in full-time research. The Fellowship may be used during any leave term available to the recipient of the award. However, it would seem most suitable that the award be made to a student during a term that could serve as a foundation for Honors Research. Most often this would be in the spring or summer preceding one's senior year. The award will be made as a result of an application process. If you wish to apply, you should submit a proposal describing the research area in which you are interested. In this statement: Indicate the origin of your interest in this area Describe how the research opportunity would fit into the structure of your undergraduate major Indicate any post-graduate plans you might have and how the term of research could facilitate these In addition to supplying this statement, you must identify a faculty sponsor who is willing to collaborate in developing the research plan and serve as adviser for your research. The faculty sponsor should submit a letter in support of your application. Applications and all supporting material should be submitted in one package to Elizabeth Ritter, Moore Hall, Room 104 or via email to Elizabeth.Ritter@dartmouth.edu. The applications will be evaluated by the faculty members on the Undergraduate Committee. Preference will be given to research on topics related to human relations, broadly defined. The application package must be submitted by the following deadlines: Summer, 2022: Wednesday, May 11, 2022 Fall, 2022: Monday, August 8, 2022 Winter, 2023: Monday, November 28, 2022 Spring, 2023: Tuesday, February 21, 2023 The Benjamin J Benner '69 Undergraduate Research Fellowship The Benjamin G. Benner 1969 Undergraduate Research Fellowship pays a stipend to support a psychology or neuroscience major during an off-term (three months) of engagement in full-time research. This may take the form of research in a faculty lab on campus, research at another university or institution, or a psychology or neuroscience-focused internship. The Fellowship may be used during any leave term available to the recipient of the award. Preference will be given to students engaged in research on campus with a Dartmouth faculty mentor, but we welcome applications from students engaged in other types of relevant research as well. The awards will be made as a result of an application process. To apply, submit a two-page proposal describing the following: The area of research and the activity in which you will be engaged during your off term The origin of your interest in this area How the research opportunity fits into the structure of your undergraduate major Any post-graduate plans you might have and how the term of research could facilitate these In addition to this proposal, provide a budget outlining your anticipated expenses for the term as well as any expenses related to the research (e.g. travel to a conference to present research, publication expenses, etc.). A typical fellowship will be between $3,500-5,000 for the term. More than one award may be made each cycle based on the submitted applications and available funding. Applications and all supporting material should be submitted in one package to Elizabeth Ritter, Moore Hall, Room 104 or via email to Elizabeth.Ritter@dartmouth.edu. The applications will be evaluated by the faculty members on the Undergraduate Committee and the Chair of the department. The application package must be submitted by the following deadlines: Summer, 2022: Wednesday, May 11, 2022 Fall, 2022: Monday, August 8, 2022 Winter, 2023: Monday, November 28, 2022 Spring, 2023: Tuesday, February 21, 2023 Notes Although you must apply for one or the other of these awards, both awards have been used to support research in various areas, and the department will fund the most meritorious proposals. Undergraduate Research Prizes The Jack Baird Prize The Jack Baird Prize is intended to support undergraduate research projects or internships in psychology, travel to present research findings at a national conference, or other activities within this spirit. Applications and nominations for the Prize will be considered by the chair of the department and chair of the Undergraduate Committee. The financial value of the prize(s) will be determined by the chair of the department and the chair of the Undergraduate Committee, based on student need and available funds, and will not exceed $1,000 in any given year. Applications will be accepted on a rolling basis, but must be submitted no later than the following deadlines for each term: August 15 for the fall term, December 1 for the winter term, March 1 for the spring term, and June 1 for the summer term. To apply: Please submit the following materials via email to Elizabeth.Ritter@dartmouth.edu: A proposal describing the project or activity for which you are requesting funding. The proposal should include how this activity fits into your undergraduate study. A budget which supports the amount of funding you are requesting. This budget should not exceed $1,000. If your proposal includes the involvement of a faculty member (Dartmouth or external), a letter of support from that individual. Deadlines: Summer, 2022: Wednesday, June 1, 2022 Fall, 2022: Monday, August 15, 2022 Winter, 2023: Thursday, December 1, 2022 Spring, 2023: Wednesday, March 1, 2023 Notes: The annual amount awarded is not to exceed $1,000. Depending on applications and available funding, the prize may not be awarded every term. About the Jack Baird Prize In honor of John C. (Jack) Baird, several former students, colleagues, and friends have contributed to the establishment of this prize for an undergraduate psychology student who has demonstrated commitment to the study of psychology and brain science. Jack Baird received his undergraduate degree from Dartmouth in 1960 and his PhD from Princeton in 1964. He returned to Dartmouth as a faculty member in 1967 and enjoyed a long and productive career. For those who are interested in pursuing the award, the generous group of donors funding this prize have provided a bit of background about Jack and his long and productive career at Dartmouth. Overview Recent Research Findings Facilities Undergraduate Research Post-Doctoral Fellows Participate in Experiments 2021 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) 2022 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) Honors in Neuroscience Honors in Psychology Share Related DepartmentClassicsRelated DepartmentFilm and Media Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences Undergraduate Overview Psychology Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Neuroscience Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Curriculum Transfer and AP Credit Courses and Syllabi Introductory Intermediate Topics Labs Independent Research Course Syllabi (ID login required) Permission Courses Request Form Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Resources Graduate Graduate Program in Psychological and Brain Sciences Research Areas Coursework and Curriculum Mentoring Toolkit Resources Current Graduate Students Graduate Admissions Admissions FAQs Our Graduates Recent Dissertations Research Overview Recent Research Findings Facilities Undergraduate Research Post-Doctoral Fellows Post-Doctoral Opportunities Participate in Experiments 2021 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) 2022 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) Community Diversity Suggestions For Current PBS Community (ID Login Required) News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback