Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Psychological and Brain Sciences Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences Contact Us Psychological.and.Brain.Sciences@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Psychology Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Neuroscience Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Curriculum Transfer and AP Credit Courses and Syllabi Introductory Intermediate Topics Labs Independent Research Course Syllabi (ID login required) Permission Courses Request Form Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Resources Back to Top Nav Graduate Graduate Program in Psychological and Brain Sciences Research Areas Coursework and Curriculum Mentoring Toolkit Resources Current Graduate Students Graduate Admissions Admissions FAQs Our Graduates Recent Dissertations Back to Top Nav Research Overview Recent Research Findings Facilities Undergraduate Research Post-Doctoral Fellows Post-Doctoral Opportunities Participate in Experiments 2021 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) 2022 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) Back to Top Nav Community Diversity Suggestions For Current PBS Community (ID Login Required) Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Neuroscience Honors PSYC 91 Honors Neuroscience Research Qualified students (usually seniors) majoring in neuroscience have the opportunity to carry out thesis research that provides individualized advanced instruction and research experience in neuroscience that has the potential to culminate in the awarding of Honors or High Honors in the neuroscience major. Students must enroll in two terms of PSYC 91 while carrying out their thesis work. To begin thesis work and to enroll in PSYC 91: 1) Students must have a minimum grade point average (GPA) of 3.30 in the major and 3.00 overall and have successfully completed PSYC 6, and PSYC 10 or BIOL 29. Major GPA is calculated by averaging PSYC 6 and all the currently-completed courses, above the prerequisite level, that are a part of the major, except PSYC 90 and 91. 2) Students must identify a two-person thesis committee (one of which is the research advisor) that will evaluate the thesis. The thesis committee must include a regular faculty member of the Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences (PBS). The other individual must have an active academic appointment at Dartmouth. The thesis committee must be approved by the Chair of the Neuroscience Steering Committee. For 2021-2022, the Chair of the Neuroscience Steering Committee is Professor Matt van der Meer. 3) Enrollment must take place by the end of the second week of the fall term of their senior year. A completed Permission Checklist for Enrolling in Neuroscience Thesis Research (PSYC 91) should be submitted to the PBS Department office. The Neuroscience Steering Committee will evaluate and approve the application. Instructor Permission to enroll in PSYC 91 will then be granted. To be awarded Honors at graduation the student must fulfill the following requirements: 1) Satisfactorily fulfill all course requirements of the major and maintain at least a 3.30 major GPA. 2) By the last day of the fifth week of the Winter term preceding the completion of the thesis, the student must submit a prospectus of the thesis work to the Chair of the Neuroscience Steering Committee. The prospectus should include a brief description of the rationale for the research, methods being used, analyses to be employed, and implications of the expected results. 3) An acceptable thesis must be written based upon at least two terms of laboratory or field research that is carried out under the auspices of PSYC 91 and is under the supervision of a PBS department faculty member. The thesis will entail an independent and individual project. Furthermore, the thesis must be read by, orally defended to, and approved by the thesis committee. The defense must be attended by at least one member of the Neuroscience Steering Committee. The thesis committee will make a recommendation to the Neuroscience Steering Committee regarding the potential awarding of honors. 4) Students will present their research to department faculty and interested others during the latter part of the Spring term of their senior year. Please note that grades for PSYC 91 are assigned by the primary advisor. It is common for faculty advisors to find it difficult to evaluate the thesis work until it is complete, and thus it is typical to assign a grade of ON (On-going) for the initial term of PSYC 91. The "ON" grades must be changed to regular letter grades by the end of the Spring term, when the thesis is completed. Finding funds and finding research advisors The Office of Undergraduate Research provides information about how to find a research advisor and how to apply for funds to support your research. Note that there are specific application deadlines for each term. Honors Program Components Quick Summary Written Thesis Due: Friday, May 27, 2022, by 3:00pm Format: Cover Page with signatures (signatures can be electronic), Abstract, Introduction, Methods, Results, Discussion, References One signed PDF must be submitted to the PBS Admin Office via email. PDFs should already be signed by your advisor and second reader when they are turned in. Many students use Gnomon Copy on Main Street to produce bound copies of their thesis. Be aware that you may need to make corrections to your thesis after your oral defense, allow yourself enough time to do so. Oral Defense You will give a 15-20 minute overview of your research and then answer questions from committee members. In total the defense usually lasts one and a half hours. In attendance will be your thesis committee, comprised of your Primary Advisor, Secondary Reader, and a Neuroscience Committee Member. Other students are not permitted to attend. You should submit your final drafted thesis to your committee at least one week prior to your oral defense. Your oral defense must occur before the Poster Session. It is advisable to bring a draft of your poster to your defense for feedback from your committee. Once you have a date and time set with your committee, contact Michelle Powers to reserve a room. Poster Session Typically held on an afternoon during the week before the last week of classes of the spring term. In 2022 - Thursday, May 26 4:30 - 5:30 p.m. You will stand by your poster and should be able to summarize your project in 3-5 minutes. Friends and family are welcome to attend. Honors vs. High Honors Recommendation of high honors is made by your thesis committee. Must have a major GPA of 3.75 (excluding the two terms of PSYC 89 or 91). No more than 50% of honors students will receive high honors. Overview Psychology Neuroscience Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Curriculum Courses and Syllabi Permission Courses Resources Share Related DepartmentClassicsRelated DepartmentFilm and Media Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences Undergraduate Overview Psychology Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Neuroscience Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Curriculum Transfer and AP Credit Courses and Syllabi Introductory Intermediate Topics Labs Independent Research Course Syllabi (ID login required) Permission Courses Request Form Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Resources Graduate Graduate Program in Psychological and Brain Sciences Research Areas Coursework and Curriculum Mentoring Toolkit Resources Current Graduate Students Graduate Admissions Admissions FAQs Our Graduates Recent Dissertations Research Overview Recent Research Findings Facilities Undergraduate Research Post-Doctoral Fellows Post-Doctoral Opportunities Participate in Experiments 2021 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) 2022 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) Community Diversity Suggestions For Current PBS Community (ID Login Required) News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback