Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Psychological and Brain Sciences Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences Contact Us Psychological.and.Brain.Sciences@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Psychology Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Neuroscience Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Curriculum Transfer and AP Credit Courses and Syllabi Introductory Intermediate Topics Labs Independent Research Course Syllabi (ID login required) Permission Courses Request Form Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Resources Back to Top Nav Graduate Graduate Program in Psychological and Brain Sciences Research Areas Coursework and Curriculum Mentoring Toolkit Resources Current Graduate Students Graduate Admissions Admissions FAQs Our Graduates Recent Dissertations Back to Top Nav Research Overview Recent Research Findings Facilities Undergraduate Research Post-Doctoral Fellows Post-Doctoral Opportunities Participate in Experiments 2021 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) 2022 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) Back to Top Nav Community Diversity Suggestions For Current PBS Community (ID Login Required) Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Graduate Program in Psychological and Brain Sciences Graduate Admissions Admissions FAQs Our Graduates Share Admissions FAQs Do you require a GRE as part of the application? No, because we do not want the substantial cost of this test to prevent anyone from applying. However, if you feel your scores will strengthen your application, you are welcome to submit them. Is there an application fee? No. We do not charge an application fee. It will be automatically waived as you proceed through the application. What makes a strong application? There is no single "correct" way to do it, no formula. However, strong statements usually incorporate some or all of these elements: We are interested in you as an individual! We love to hear about what questions excite you, what your plans and hopes for the future are, what experiences have informed your thinking, what you hope to learn in graduate school, what makes you happy… play to your strengths and your passions. If you are invited for an interview, you'll have the opportunity to have one-on-ones with grad students and post-docs who are excited to learn about you in a non-evaluative capacity. Identify a few faculty you'd like to work with, and describe how you can see yourself engage with their work. Show that you have taken some time to get a sense of what they are doing and how it fits with your interests and goals. You are encouraged to contact specific faculty members to find out if they are taking new students, and so that your name is on their radar when reviewing applications. See below for some tips on writing a good introductory email for this purpose. (This step is especially important if you don't select that person's name as one of the top 3 faculty you are interested in as part of the online application, because some faculty only review applications they are listed on.) Research experience is often helpful: if you are going to be doing research for ~5 years, how would you know if you'd enjoy it? It is however not required to apply: there are many paths into brain sciences, including from engineering, computer science, philosophy, and vocational training, in which research experience is not common. Some outstanding scientists didn't get formal research experience opportunities until later. Do I apply to the program as a whole or to a specific advisor? You apply to the program, and admission decisions are made by the Graduate Committee. However, because the program does not have first-year rotations, you have a primary advisor as soon as you enter the program. Thus, it's a good idea to check to see if faculty members you are interested in working with are recruiting this year. Recommendations from potential advisors who are interested in working with you carry substantial weight in admission decisions; graduate recruiting weekend is one way to meet potential advisors in person. If your interests span multiple labs, co-advising by more than one advisor may be a good fit for you. Which faculty are recruiting new students? Here is a list of faculty who plan to recruit students for fall 2022. Luke Chang Brad Duchaine Emily Finn Richard Granger Kate Nautiyal Caroline Robertson Kyle Smith Alireza Soltani Arjen Stolk Viola Stormer Jeffrey Taube Mark Thornton Peter Tse Matt van der Meer Tor Wager How do you suggest I contact faculty I'm interested in working with? Faculty love to hear from prospective students! See here for the list of faculty and their email addresses; click through to their lab websites to learn more about their work, or look them up in Google Scholar. If you don't get a reply, you can reach out to a graduate student or postdoc in the lab. A helpful email includes a short introduction of who you are and why you are writing. For instance: "My name is X and I'm considering applying to the PBS graduate program. " Consider including a few sentences about your interests and background. "I am currently working on my senior thesis with Prof. Y on predicting attentional states with fMRI. This experience has made me eager to get into a graduate program but I would want to work with rodents to get at the circuit-level mechanisms." Include your resume and undergraduate transcript. What happens to my application after I submit it? Your specific application will be looked at by any potential advisors who are interested in your application; this can happen because you indicated their name in your application, and/or because you already communicated with them prior to applying. Faculty can suggest who they'd like to invite to the graduate recruiting weekend; the graduate committee compiles all these recommendations and decides the list of invitees. Invitations for 2022 will go out early January. Note that for 2022 recruiting weekend will happen remotely. What is graduate recruiting weekend? We invite you for an on-site visit to Dartmouth and the department. It's an opportunity for you to get to know potential advisors, current graduate students in the program, and get a sense of Dartmouth, and the Hanover/Upper Valley area. The weekend includes an informal dinner with current students; short talks introducing the program and research areas across the department, meeting slots with potential advisors, group Q&As, and other events The department will help offset your travel expenses. Meals and lodging are taken care of. If your travel costs present a barrier, contact us and we will work with you to find a solution. What if I missed the application deadline? You can still submit your application, but if it is more than a few days late, it is likely it will not be seen as part of the review process. In that case, you should contact specific faculty you are most interested in working with and they can let you know if they are able to accommodate you. What if I still have questions? For questions about the department or the application process, email Psychological.and.Brain.Sciences@dartmouth.edu. For questions about graduate education, please contact the chair of the graduate committee, Prof. Kyle Smith (Kyle.S.Smith@dartmouth.edu). Related DepartmentClassicsRelated DepartmentFilm and Media Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences Undergraduate Overview Psychology Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Neuroscience Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Curriculum Transfer and AP Credit Courses and Syllabi Introductory Intermediate Topics Labs Independent Research Course Syllabi (ID login required) Permission Courses Request Form Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Resources Graduate Graduate Program in Psychological and Brain Sciences Research Areas Coursework and Curriculum Mentoring Toolkit Resources Current Graduate Students Graduate Admissions Admissions FAQs Our Graduates Recent Dissertations Research Overview Recent Research Findings Facilities Undergraduate Research Post-Doctoral Fellows Post-Doctoral Opportunities Participate in Experiments 2021 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) 2022 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) Community Diversity Suggestions For Current PBS Community (ID Login Required) News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback