Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Psychological and Brain Sciences Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences Contact Us Psychological.and.Brain.Sciences@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Psychology Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Neuroscience Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Curriculum Transfer and AP Credit Courses and Syllabi Introductory Intermediate Topics Labs Independent Research Course Syllabi (ID login required) Permission Courses Request Form Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Resources Back to Top Nav Graduate Graduate Program in Psychological and Brain Sciences Research Areas Coursework and Curriculum Mentoring Toolkit Resources Current Graduate Students Graduate Admissions Admissions FAQs Our Graduates Recent Dissertations Back to Top Nav Research Overview Recent Research Findings Facilities Undergraduate Research Post-Doctoral Fellows Post-Doctoral Opportunities Participate in Experiments 2021 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) 2022 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) Back to Top Nav Community Diversity Suggestions For Current PBS Community (ID Login Required) Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Transfer and AP Credit Psychology and Neuroscience majors and minors are permitted to take no more than two of their eight required courses at other universities. Courses must be approved in advance by the Chair of the Undergraduate Committee. In addition, the courses must satisfy all of the College regulations about transfer credits as found in the ORC. Additional information can be found on the ORC Regulations page. It is wise to seek approval for more than the number of desired courses because a particular course may end up being filled or canceled at the other university. Transfer courses in certain cases can provide a good way of pursuing an interest that cannot be satisfied easily in our department. To take maximum advantage of such opportunities, however, they should be planned well in advance. Approval of courses for transfer credit is subject to the nature of the courses and the institution at which they are taken. Transfer courses may not be used to satisfy the upper level (50, 60, or 80) requirements for the major or minor. Advanced Placement AP Psychology The department does not offer credit for Advanced Placement. Our recent experience with high school-based AP Psychology indicates that fewer than 15% of students with scores of 5 on the AP exam have mastered material equivalent to a passing grade in Psychology 1 at Dartmouth. Information and Required Materials Psychology and Neuroscience Transfer Credit Decisions regarding transfer credit in psychology are made by the Chair of the Undergraduate Committee, Professor Catherine Cramer. Use the checklist for requesting transfers of credit with the other required materials: Please submit a PDF of the full syllabus for each course in Psychology being requested from the institution including the reading assignments (text & authors), evaluation methods (exams and homework), schedule of class meetings, and Professor name and title. Syllabi can generally be obtained on request from the psychology department at the school to which you are applying. This must be a PDF. References to web pages are not an acceptable substitute. No application will be considered without this information. Appropriate completed paperwork from the registrar's office or pre-matriculation request from the first-year office. Requests for transfer credit that do not include all the required information will not be considered. A course description from a course catalog is not sufficient, and requests that do not provide course syllabi will be denied. The required documents should be submitted to Psychological.and.Brain.Sciences@dartmouth.edu ten days prior to the deadline listed on the Registrar's webpage for the relevant academic term. The Chair of the Undergraduate Committee will then review the documents and either approve or not approve your request. There is no guarantee that requests for transfer credit will be approved. If you are granted approval from Professor Cramer, you may then submit your request to the Registrar's office to request official Registrar's approval for your transfer courses. Advanced Placement AP Statistics Students who have received Advanced Placement credit for Statistics (Math 10) and who are planning to become Psychology majors are not exempted from Psychology 10 (Statistical Methods) and should take PSYC 10 before enrolling in Psychology 11 (Laboratory in Psychological Science). Students who are planning to become Neuroscience majors may use the Math 10 credit in lieu of the statistics prerequisite for the major. Overview Psychology Neuroscience Curriculum Transfer and AP Credit Courses and Syllabi Permission Courses Resources Transfer Credits (ORC) Share Related DepartmentClassicsRelated DepartmentFilm and Media Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences Undergraduate Overview Psychology Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Neuroscience Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Curriculum Transfer and AP Credit Courses and Syllabi Introductory Intermediate Topics Labs Independent Research Course Syllabi (ID login required) Permission Courses Request Form Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Resources Graduate Graduate Program in Psychological and Brain Sciences Research Areas Coursework and Curriculum Mentoring Toolkit Resources Current Graduate Students Graduate Admissions Admissions FAQs Our Graduates Recent Dissertations Research Overview Recent Research Findings Facilities Undergraduate Research Post-Doctoral Fellows Post-Doctoral Opportunities Participate in Experiments 2021 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) 2022 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) Community Diversity Suggestions For Current PBS Community (ID Login Required) News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback