Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Psychological and Brain Sciences Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences Contact Us Psychological.and.Brain.Sciences@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Psychology Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Neuroscience Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Curriculum Transfer and AP Credit Courses and Syllabi Introductory Intermediate Topics Labs Independent Research Course Syllabi (ID login required) Permission Courses Request Form Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Resources Back to Top Nav Graduate Graduate Program in Psychological and Brain Sciences Research Areas Coursework and Curriculum Mentoring Toolkit Resources Current Graduate Students Graduate Admissions Admissions FAQs Our Graduates Recent Dissertations Back to Top Nav Research Overview Recent Research Findings Facilities Undergraduate Research Post-Doctoral Fellows Post-Doctoral Opportunities Participate in Experiments 2021 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) 2022 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) Back to Top Nav Community Diversity Suggestions For Current PBS Community (ID Login Required) Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Psychology Neuroscience Curriculum Courses and Syllabi Introductory Intermediate Topics Labs Independent Research Course Syllabi (ID login required) Permission Courses Resources Share Introductory Courses, 2022-2023 PSYC 1 Introductory Psychology In 22F at 10, Thalia Wheatley and Bradley Duchaine In 23S at 10, Meghan Meyer and Tor Wager This course provides an introduction to the scientific study of the mind, brain, and behavior. Emphasis is placed upon the basic psychological processes of perception, consciousness, cognition, memory, and motivation as well as development, personality, individual differences, social behavior, and psychological disorders. Dist: SOC. PSYC 6 Introduction to Neuroscience In 22F at 2, Sean Winter In 23W at 2, Jalina Graham This course provides students with an introduction to the fundamental principles of neuroscience. The course will include sections on cellular and molecular neuroscience, neurophysiology, neuroanatomy, and cognitive neuroscience. Neuroscience is a broad field that is intrinsically interdisciplinary. As a consequence, the course draws on a variety of disciplines, including biochemistry, biology, physiology, pharmacology, (neuro) anatomy and psychology. The course will begin with in depth analysis of basic functions of single nerve cells. We will then consider increasingly more complex neural circuits, which by the end of the course will lead to a analysis of the brain mechanisms that underlie complex goal-oriented behavior. Dist: SCI. PSYC 7 First-Year Seminar Consult Special Listings. This course does not carry major credit. PSYC 10 Experimental Design, Methodology, and Data Analysis Procedures In 22X at 10, John Pfister In 22F at 9L, John Pfister In 23W at 10, Samantha Wray In 23S at 2, Jay Hull This course covers the various ways in which empirical information is obtained and analyzed in psychology and neuroscience. Statistical techniques covered will include ways to describe center and spread, t-tests, linear regression, chi-square, and complex analysis of variance (ANOVA), as well as use of a common statistical program to analyze data. This course is the preferred preparation for PSYC 11, Laboratory in Psychological Science. Prerequisite: PSYC 1 or PSYC 6 (may be taken concurrently). Because of the large overlap in material covered, no student may receive credit for more than one of the courses ECON 10, GOVT 10, MATH 10, QSS 15, PSYC 10, or SOCY 10 except by special petition. Cannot be taken concurrently with PSYC 11. Dist: QDS. PSYC 11 Laboratory in Psychological Science In 22X at 12, Catherine Cramer In 22F at 12, Kimberly Rose Clark In 23S at 12, Instructor TBA Progress in psychological science depends upon the analysis and thoughtful interpretation of results from well-designed experiments. In this course you will learn how to think critically about this research process, first through a series of guided readings and exercises. In the second part of the course you will design, carry out, and analyze your own original experimental research project as part of a small team and then present your work in a public forum and as a written journal-style manuscript. Prerequisites: PSYC 1 or PSYC 6, and PSYC 10 or equivalent. Cannot be taken concurrently with PSYC 10. Dist: SLA. Related DepartmentClassicsRelated DepartmentFilm and Media Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences Undergraduate Overview Psychology Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Neuroscience Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Curriculum Transfer and AP Credit Courses and Syllabi Introductory Intermediate Topics Labs Independent Research Course Syllabi (ID login required) Permission Courses Request Form Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Resources Graduate Graduate Program in Psychological and Brain Sciences Research Areas Coursework and Curriculum Mentoring Toolkit Resources Current Graduate Students Graduate Admissions Admissions FAQs Our Graduates Recent Dissertations Research Overview Recent Research Findings Facilities Undergraduate Research Post-Doctoral Fellows Post-Doctoral Opportunities Participate in Experiments 2021 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) 2022 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) Community Diversity Suggestions For Current PBS Community (ID Login Required) News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback