Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Psychological and Brain Sciences Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences Contact Us Psychological.and.Brain.Sciences@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Psychology Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Neuroscience Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Curriculum Transfer and AP Credit Courses and Syllabi Introductory Intermediate Topics Labs Independent Research Course Syllabi (ID login required) Permission Courses Request Form Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Resources Back to Top Nav Graduate Graduate Program in Psychological and Brain Sciences Research Areas Coursework and Curriculum Mentoring Toolkit Resources Current Graduate Students Graduate Admissions Admissions FAQs Our Graduates Recent Dissertations Back to Top Nav Research Overview Recent Research Findings Facilities Undergraduate Research Post-Doctoral Fellows Post-Doctoral Opportunities Participate in Experiments 2021 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) 2022 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) Back to Top Nav Community Diversity Suggestions For Current PBS Community (ID Login Required) Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Psychology Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Neuroscience Curriculum Courses and Syllabi Permission Courses Resources Share Psychology Major/Minor FAQs Q. I AM INTERESTED in BOTH PSYCHOLOGY AND NEUROSCIENCE AS A MAJOR. WHICH COURSE SHOULD I TAKE BETWEEN PSYC 1 VS. PSYC 6? A. PSYC 6 is required for the Neuroscience major, so if you know that you are interested in neuroscience, then PSYC 6 may be your best choice. However, if you are unsure, then selecting PSYC 1 (required for the Psychology major) is a good option, because you will cover the field of psychology in more breadth and it will include some neuroscience. Many students end up taking both to help with the decision. Q. WHAT IS THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE PSYCHOLOGY MAJOR AND THE NEUROSCIENCE MAJOR? A. Psychology is the study of behavior–from the level of brain mechanisms of behavior to social interactions. It encompasses a large breadth of topics including: applied, social, developmental, clinical cognitive, and physiological psychology. Majoring in psychology will expose you to many of these disciplines. In contrast, neuroscience is the study of brain mechanisms and encompasses material from the molecular and cellular level of how neurons work, to cognitive and behavioral levels where questions of how neural processes lead to behavior and cognitive thought is studied. In between these two levels, neuroscience also involves anatomical and system level analyses of brain function. Q. CAN I NRO (NON-RECORDING OPTION) PSYCHOLOGY COURSES? A. You may only NRO PSYC 1. You may not NRO any other required prerequisite, elective, or culminating experience courses taken to complete the psychology major. You may NRO no more than one course for the minor. Q. CAN I MODIFY THE PSYCHOLOGY MAJOR? A. The psychology major cannot be modified with any other major. However, students can petition to modify another major with psychology (e.g. Biology modified with Psychology) if the major forms a unified and coherent whole, as approved by the Chair of the Departmental Undergraduate Committee. Q. Do I need to take Psyc 10 and 11 before I move on to courses numbered in the 20s? A. No, you may take 20s-level courses as soon as you have completed PSYC 1. Q. When should I take Psyc 10 and Psyc 11? A. Psyc 10 must be completed first, so you should take it at your earliest convenience, ideally by the end of the sophomore year. Psyc 11 builds on knowledge gained in Psyc 10, so taking it as soon as possible after completing Psyc 10 will make it easier to remember what you've learned. We strongly recommend that you complete Psyc 11 before the beginning of your senior year, because that will give you the widest range of culminating courses from which to choose. (Most culminating courses require that Psychology majors have completed Psyc 11.) Q. CAN I SUBSTITUTE ANOTHER DEPARTMENT'S STATISTICS COURSE FOR PSYC 10? A. The statistical methods seen in psychological research are considerably different from those utilized in other fields. While ECON 10, GOVT 10, SOCY 10, MATH 10, and QSS 15 are permitted as alternative statistics courses (with permission), we STRONGLY recommend that Majors and Minors take PSYC 10. Please also note that Math 10 credit by AP or IB is not an acceptable substitute. Q. HOW DO I CALCULATE MY PSYCHOLOGY MAJOR GPA? A. The major GPA in Psychology is calculated by averaging all of the currently-completed courses that are part of the major, including PSYC 10 (or equivalent), PSC 11, and all PSYC courses 21-87. This excludes PSYC 1 and independent/honors research courses (PSYC 88 and 89). Q. Do I need to add exact course numbers in my major declaration plan? A. When selecting courses in your major declaration, please scroll down until you come to the exact course number. Please note that course numbers with decimals come later than course numbers without decimals. Courses are listed in order based on the first number (i.e., PSYC 83.08 will come later than PSYC 085 and PSYC 174). Related DepartmentClassicsRelated DepartmentFilm and Media Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences Undergraduate Overview Psychology Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Neuroscience Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Curriculum Transfer and AP Credit Courses and Syllabi Introductory Intermediate Topics Labs Independent Research Course Syllabi (ID login required) Permission Courses Request Form Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Resources Graduate Graduate Program in Psychological and Brain Sciences Research Areas Coursework and Curriculum Mentoring Toolkit Resources Current Graduate Students Graduate Admissions Admissions FAQs Our Graduates Recent Dissertations Research Overview Recent Research Findings Facilities Undergraduate Research Post-Doctoral Fellows Post-Doctoral Opportunities Participate in Experiments 2021 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) 2022 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) Community Diversity Suggestions For Current PBS Community (ID Login Required) News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback