Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Psychological and Brain Sciences Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences Contact Us Psychological.and.Brain.Sciences@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Psychology Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Neuroscience Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Curriculum Transfer and AP Credit Courses and Syllabi Introductory Intermediate Topics Labs Independent Research Course Syllabi (ID login required) Permission Courses Request Form Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Resources Back to Top Nav Graduate Graduate Program in Psychological and Brain Sciences Research Areas Coursework and Curriculum Mentoring Toolkit Resources Current Graduate Students Graduate Admissions Admissions FAQs Our Graduates Recent Dissertations Back to Top Nav Research Overview Recent Research Findings Facilities Undergraduate Research Post-Doctoral Fellows Post-Doctoral Opportunities Participate in Experiments 2021 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) 2022 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) Back to Top Nav Community Diversity Suggestions For Current PBS Community (ID Login Required) Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Psychology Neuroscience Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Curriculum Courses and Syllabi Permission Courses Resources Alumni Profile Meet a Neuroscience Major Neuroscience Undergraduate degree information Registrar's Guide: How to Declare, Update, or Drop a Major Undergraduate course descriptions Share Major in Neuroscience The Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences (PBS) administers the Neuroscience major. Potential majors are encouraged to begin planning their course of study by the end of their first year. Review the information below and utilize the checklist to guide you in planning your coursework. Curriculum The Neuroscience Major comprises 6 Prerequisite courses 4 Core Courses 4 Elective Courses 1 Culminating Experience Core courses provide a strong background in the measurement of behavior as it relates to the brain. Then, students are expected to choose a set of electives that will lead them towards a broad understanding of the neuroscience field, as well as techniques used by neuroscientists to study the brain. The electives list is meant to be adaptive. For example depending on one's interests/future goals, electives in Computer Science and Mathematics could be selected that emphasize computational methods. Alternatively, a student might choose electives emphasizing cell or molecular biology. Students fulfill their culminating experience by either conducting research in neuroscience under the direction of a PBS faculty advisor (PSYC 90 or 91) or taking an upper-level seminar (PSYC 80s) with an emphasis in neuroscience (See 'Electives' section below for explanation). We encourage students considering further graduate school study in Neuroscience to opt for the research experience option (PSYC 90 or 91). Utilize the appropriate checklist neuroscience major checklist for class of 2023 and earlier or neuroscience major checklist for class of 2024 and later to guide your major plans and view the major flowchart for the recommended order in which to progress through the courses in the major. These materials can augment your seeking advice from your Neuroscience course instructors as you progress through the major. When you are ready to declare your Neuroscience major, follow the instructions from the Registrar's Office. Students interested in the research experience option as their Culminating Experience can learn about ongoing research in PBS through their coursework as well as exploring the People section of this website to learn more about the Faculty. Learn how to find a research advisor and how to obtain funds for research projects. PBS Faculty provide a core resource for research opportunities for students; however, neuroscience research opportunities for undergraduate majors can also involve faculty in the School of Medicine, the Thayer Engineering School, and other departments within the College of Arts and Sciences subject to approval by the Neuroscience Steering Committee. The Chair of the Neuroscience Major Steering Committee is Professor Matt van der Meer. Note: The Neuroscience major cannot be modified. This includes both Modified Majors in which Neuroscience is the primary component (e.g., Neuroscience Modified with Biology) and those in which it is the secondary component (e.g., Biology Modified with Neuroscience). Students who seek to modify a major in another department with courses in Neuroscience may do so by using the option of a modified major without indication of the secondary department (e.g., Biology Modified). Students who wish to have a more substantial study of Neuroscience noted on their transcript are encouraged to declare a Neuroscience minor. Questions? If you have questions about the major requirements or your major plan, please contact Professor Catherine Cramer, Chair of the PBS Undergraduate Committee. Prerequisite Courses Must complete six PSYC 6 Introduction to Neuroscience PSYC 10 Statistics OR BIOL 29 Statistics (Note: Students cannot get major credit for taking both PSYC 10 and BIOL 29) And any 4 of the following courses. (Students in the class of 2023 and earlier may take any 4 courses from the lists below. Students in the class of 2024 and later must take at least one course from each category.) Category 1: CHEM 5 General Chemistry CHEM 6 General Chemistry PHYS 3 General Physics I PHYS 4 General Physics II Category 2: MATH 3 Introduction to Calculus MATH 4 Calculus with Applications MATH 8 Calculus of Functions COSC 1 Introduction to Computer Science COSC 10 Problem Solving with Computer Science COSC 31 Algorithms ENGS 20 Introduction to Computer Science with applications in Engineering Notes: You can NRO prerequisite classes EXCEPT PSYC 6 and 10 and BIOL 29. You must obtain a grade no lower than a C in PSYC 6. Students who fail to obtain a C or better in PSYC 6 may still complete the major in the event that they earn a C or better in their next two Neuroscience courses. Core Courses Must complete four PSYC 28 Cognitive Psychology OR PSYC 38 (Previously offered as PSYC 27) Cognitive Neuroscience Note: While PSYC 28 or PSYC 38 are strongly recommended, students in the class of 2023 or earlier may alternatively fulfill this requirement by taking PSYC 21. PSYC 37 (Previously offered as PSYC 45) Behavioral Neuroscience PSYC 35 (Previously offered as PSYC 46) Cellular and Molecular Neuroscience OR BIOL 12 Cell Structure and Function AND BIOL 13 Gene Expression and Inheritance PSYC 36 (Previously offered as PSYC 65) Systems Neuroscience with Laboratory Notes: Students who elect to take the Biology 12/13 sequence to satisfy their cellular/molecular neuroscience requirement can take Psychology 35 as one of the four elective credits. Students cannot get major credit for both PSYC 28 and PSYC 38. Core courses CANNOT be taken as an NRO. Elective Courses Must complete four Two courses must be at the 40's level or higher: At the beginning of each academic year, the Neuroscience Steering Committee will post here which courses qualify for elective and culminating experience credit. Below is a link to the currently approved courses that count towards the Neuroscience major. We recommend that you not save a copy of this pdf to your computer at the beginning of the year, but instead use this link each time you wish to access this list. This is because we may add classes as the year progresses and those updates will appear here. Approved Neuroscience Elective Courses for 2022-2023 (Updated May 10, 2022) Previously approved courses: Approved Neuroscience Elective Courses for 2021-2022 Approved Neuroscience Elective Courses for 2020-2021 Approved Neuroscience Elective Courses for 2019-2020 Approved Neuroscience Elective Courses for 2018-2019 Approved Neuroscience Elective Courses for 2017-2018 Notes: Elective courses CANNOT be taken as an NRO. While it is highly likely that subsequent offerings of a course would also count as an elective, it is not guaranteed. This is because the instructor may change and/or the amount of neuro-relevant content may change over time. Please consult each year's list of approved electives to be sure the course you plan to take counts as an elective! With permission of the Neuroscience Steering Committee, other courses that are appropriate given the student's area of specialization may be taken for elective credit. Not all 50s, 51s, 52s, and 80s-level courses count for neuroscience credit. You MUST consult the list of Approved Neuroscience Elective Courses for each year (via the link above). Students who take Physiology 150 or PEMM 211 should register for Psychology 90 and have permission of the instructor. Courses that are taken as part of another major/minor cannot be used as elective courses for Neuroscience. For permission courses at 60's and 80's level, students should fill out an online permission form. Culminating Experience Must complete one BIOL 74 Advanced Neurobiology Seminar OR PSYC 80s level seminar - Approved seminar with neuroscience emphasis OR PSYC 90 Independent Neuroscience Research (see Independent Research for permission form) OR PSYC 91 Honors Neuroscience Research Notes: The culminating experience is in addition to the requirement of four qualifying elective courses. The culminating experience cannot be taken as an NRO. For PSYC 90, 91, and 80's level seminars, neuroscience students will not be granted instructor permission until they fulfill the prerequisite of completing at least two of the core courses in the major, in addition to any course-specific prerequisites. Jump to Approved Neuroscience Elective Courses. Related DepartmentClassicsRelated DepartmentFilm and Media Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences Undergraduate Overview Psychology Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Neuroscience Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Curriculum Transfer and AP Credit Courses and Syllabi Introductory Intermediate Topics Labs Independent Research Course Syllabi (ID login required) Permission Courses Request Form Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Resources Graduate Graduate Program in Psychological and Brain Sciences Research Areas Coursework and Curriculum Mentoring Toolkit Resources Current Graduate Students Graduate Admissions Admissions FAQs Our Graduates Recent Dissertations Research Overview Recent Research Findings Facilities Undergraduate Research Post-Doctoral Fellows Post-Doctoral Opportunities Participate in Experiments 2021 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) 2022 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) Community Diversity Suggestions For Current PBS Community (ID Login Required) News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback