Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Psychological and Brain Sciences Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences Contact Us Psychological.and.Brain.Sciences@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Psychology Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Neuroscience Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Curriculum Transfer and AP Credit Courses and Syllabi Introductory Intermediate Topics Labs Independent Research Course Syllabi (ID login required) Permission Courses Request Form Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Resources Back to Top Nav Graduate Graduate Program in Psychological and Brain Sciences Research Areas Coursework and Curriculum Mentoring Toolkit Resources Current Graduate Students Graduate Admissions Admissions FAQs Our Graduates Recent Dissertations Back to Top Nav Research Overview Recent Research Findings Facilities Undergraduate Research Post-Doctoral Fellows Post-Doctoral Opportunities Participate in Experiments 2021 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) 2022 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) Back to Top Nav Community Diversity Suggestions For Current PBS Community (ID Login Required) Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Psychology Neuroscience Curriculum Courses and Syllabi Introductory Intermediate Topics Labs Independent Research Course Syllabi (ID login required) Permission Courses Resources Share Intermediate Courses, 2022-2023 While all intermediate courses count towards the Psychology major/minor, only some are approved for the Neuroscience major/minor. PSYC 21 Perception In 22F at 9L, Peter Tse Our senses are our windows to the world, and the scientific study of the senses is one of the oldest sub-disciplines in experimental psychology. This course introduces students to the fundamental workings of our senses of vision, hearing, touch, taste and smell. The course includes careful consideration of experimental methodology as well as content. Approved course for the Neuroscience major/minor. Prerequisite: PSYC 1 or PSYC 6. Dist: SCI PSYC 22 Learning In 23S at 9L, Dwiel Learning is a fundamental process of behavior change that is essential for survival. In this course, we will approach the study of learning primarily focusing on Pavlovian and instrumental conditioning procedures. Generally, this course focuses on the psychological principles that underlie learning, memory, and behavior. In addition, we will also cover material examining the neural systems underlying these processes. The main goal of this course is for students to develop a strong understanding of theory and research in the area of learning and behavior. Approved course for the Neuroscience major/minor. Prerequisites: PSYC 1 or PSYC 6. Dist: SOC PSYC 23 Social Psychology In 22X at 10A, Melissa Herman In 23W at 11, Mark Thornton This course is an introduction to social psychological theory and research. Specific topics include perception of self and others (e.g., attitudes, emotions), interpersonal relations (e.g., attraction, altruism, conformity, aggression), and group dynamics (e.g., decision making, intergroup conflict). Within those contexts, emphasis is placed on how we construe situations around us and how those situations influence us in ways we may not realize. Prerequisite: PSYC 1. Dist: SOC PSYC 24 Abnormal Psychology In 22F at 3A, William Hudenko This course explores various types of psychopathology, with a focus on characteristics, diagnosis, etiology, and treatment. We will examine psychopathology from a variety of perspectives and will discuss current research on specific disorders. We illustrate the experience of psychology using case histories and video footage to better understand the realities and challenges for those diagnosed with psychopathology. Prerequisite: PSYC 1. Dist: SOC PSYC 25 Developmental Psychology In 23W at 10A, Melissa Herman We will examine the social and cognitive development of children from infancy to adolescence. We will also consider the implications of psychological research and theory for parenting, and for social and legal policies that affect young children. Film and videotape materials will be used to illustrate examples of infant and child behavior. Prerequisite: PSYC 1. Dist: SOC PSYC 28 Cognitive Psychology In 23S at 2, Instructor TBA This course provides a comprehensive overview of cognitive psychology, the scientific study of mental processes: how people acquire, store, transform, use, and communicate information. Topics may include perception, attention, language, memory, reasoning, problem solving, decision-making, and creativity. Approved elective for the Neuroscience major/minor. Prerequisite: PSYC 1, PSYC 6, or COGS 1. Dist: SOC PSYC 35 Cellular and Molecular Neuroscience Please note that this course was previously offered as PSYC 46. In 22F at 11, Michael Hoppa This course focuses on cellular and molecular mechanisms that underlie the development and function of the nervous system. This includes aspects of gene expression (transcription, mRNA metabolism) and cell biology (cellular transport and cytoskeleton, cell cycle, signal transduction, and signaling pathways) as they pertain to neurons and glia. Lectures supplemented by in-class discussion of primary research articles will also serve as an introduction to microscopic, electrophysiological, molecular biological, and genetic techniques and animal models used to study the nervous system and neurological disorders. Approved course for the Neuroscience major/minor. Prerequisite: PSYC 6. Crosslisted as: BIOL 35. Dist: SCI PSYC 37 Behavioral Neuroscience Please note that this course was previously offered as PSYC 45. In 22F at 10A, Ann Clark In 23W at 10A, Ann Clark We are complex organisms that perform complex behaviors. In this course we will explore the neurological underpinnings of behavior. Some topics we will cover include the neural control of life-sustaining behaviors such as eating and drinking. In addition, we will explore how the brain contributes to the display of other complex behaviors such as sexual behavior and responding to stress. We will use the text, primary research articles and case studies to examine the relationship between brain and behavior. Approved course for the Neuroscience major/minor. Prerequisite: PSYC 6. Dist: SCI PSYC 38 Cognitive Neuroscience Please note that this course was previously offered as PSYC 27. In 23W, Caroline Robertson In Cognitive Neuroscience, we survey the neural basis of a variety of cognitive phenomena that are the heart of human experience: how we perceive and attend to the world around us; how we remember and forget our experiences; how we listen, communicate, and understand through language and music; how we reason, evaluate, and decide under risk and uncertainty; how we represent our thoughts and those of others; how we lose and gain consciousness through sleeping and waking; how we develop, learn, and adapt. To do this, we take a multidisciplinary approach that spans disciplines including psychology, neuroscience, computer science, biomedical engineering, and philosophy. We will also learn about classic and cutting-edge scientific methods including psychophysics, functional neuroimaging, electrophysiology, optogenetics, machine learning, and brain-computer interfaces. All in all, this course represents a blend of neurobiology (brain) and psychology (behavior). It aims to provide necessary background knowledge for scientific frontiers related to understanding human neuroscience and behavior. Approved course for the Neuroscience major/minor. Prerequisite: PSYC 1 or PSYC 6. Dist: SCI PSYC 40 Introduction to Computational Neuroscience In 22F at 2A, Richard Granger Your brain is composed of low-precision, slow, sparsely-connected computing elements, yet it outperforms any extant computer on tasks ranging from perception to planning. Computational Neuroscience has as its twin goals the scientific understanding of how brains compute thought, and the engineering capability to reconstruct the identified computations. Topics in the class included anatomical circuit design, physiological operating rules, evolutionary derivation, mathematical analyses, and emergent behavior, as well as development of applications from robotics to medicine. Approved course for the Neuroscience major/minor. Prerequisite: PSYC 1, PSYC 6, COSC 1, or ENGS 20. Cross-listed as: COSC 16 and COGS 21. Dist: SCI PSYC 43 Emotion In 22F at 2, Mark Thornton Emotions define human experience. When you ask someone how they are, they tell you how they are feeling. We formulate our life goals in terms of emotions, striving to obtain happiness, while avoiding regret. Emotions such as love, pride, contempt, and shame shape our social relationships, both as individuals and as groups. When our emotions go badly awry, we suffer debilitating mental illnesses such as depression and anxiety. Although emotions play a central role in our lives, studying them scientifically presents profound challenges. They seem intuitively hidden, elusive, messy, and hard to evoke or quantify in a laboratory. Despite these challenges, researchers have developed a thriving science of our emotional lives, which you will learn about in this course. We will begin by considering the origins of emotion, both biological and cultural. Subsequently we will examine how emotions manifest themselves in our bodies and brains, change dynamically over time, shape our social interactions, influence our cognition, and affect our mental health. Finally, we will consider ongoing theoretical debates in emotion science, and where the field could and should go next. Prerequisite: PSYC 1 or PSYC 6. Dist: SOC Related DepartmentClassicsRelated DepartmentFilm and Media Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences Undergraduate Overview Psychology Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Neuroscience Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Curriculum Transfer and AP Credit Courses and Syllabi Introductory Intermediate Topics Labs Independent Research Course Syllabi (ID login required) Permission Courses Request Form Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Resources Graduate Graduate Program in Psychological and Brain Sciences Research Areas Coursework and Curriculum Mentoring Toolkit Resources Current Graduate Students Graduate Admissions Admissions FAQs Our Graduates Recent Dissertations Research Overview Recent Research Findings Facilities Undergraduate Research Post-Doctoral Fellows Post-Doctoral Opportunities Participate in Experiments 2021 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) 2022 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) Community Diversity Suggestions For Current PBS Community (ID Login Required) News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback