Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Psychological and Brain Sciences Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences Contact Us Psychological.and.Brain.Sciences@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Psychology Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Neuroscience Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Curriculum Transfer and AP Credit Courses and Syllabi Introductory Intermediate Topics Labs Independent Research Course Syllabi (ID login required) Permission Courses Request Form Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Resources Back to Top Nav Graduate Graduate Program in Psychological and Brain Sciences Research Areas Coursework and Curriculum Mentoring Toolkit Resources Current Graduate Students Graduate Admissions Admissions FAQs Our Graduates Recent Dissertations Back to Top Nav Research Overview Recent Research Findings Facilities Undergraduate Research Post-Doctoral Fellows Post-Doctoral Opportunities Participate in Experiments 2021 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) 2022 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) Back to Top Nav Community Diversity Suggestions For Current PBS Community (ID Login Required) Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Graduate Program in Psychological and Brain Sciences Graduate Admissions Admissions FAQs Our Graduates Share Graduate Admissions How to Apply Applications are accepted through the Guarini School of Graduate and Advanced Studies at Dartmouth. Applications for fall 2022 admission will be accepted starting August 1, 2021 and the application deadline is December 1, 2021. Please follow this link to apply. Applicants who are asked to interview will be contacted by late December or early January. Grad Recruiting weekend typically occurs in mid-January, and offers are made on a rolling basis starting in late January. Who can apply? You should have a bachelor's degree (or equivalent). The specific degree area isn't important; current and past students have degrees in diverse fields including not only psychology and neuroscience, but also physics, computer science, biology, engineering, philosophy, cognitive science, and others. Whatever your degree is in, a strong application benefits from experience that has allowed you to reflect on why you want to pursue graduate studies, and Psychological and Brain Sciences in particular. Graduate school is a major commitment from both sides (see "what makes a strong application" in the FAQs) so the decision to apply should be made intentionally. Applications are open to US and international applicants (but note current visa and travel restrictions). We seek to remove barriers that BIPOC and other underserved groups continue to face in accessing graduate education in psychology and neuroscience. We do not charge an application fee and do not require the GRE. It is not unusual for potential applicants to feel unsure whether they are ready/qualified for graduate school. We encourage you to reach out to specific faculty whose interests align with yours (see the FAQs for suggestions on how to write such an email) to ask what they think, and/or apply anyway! Faculty can sometimes offer an applicant a 1- or 2-year position as a research assistant/lab manager in preparation for graduate school. Application Components A completed application form Personal statement, describing your interests in graduate study (~2-3 pages) Transcript(s) from your bachelor's coursework. An unofficial copy may be used for initial submission, and an official copy will be required if an offer of admission is made. Letters of recommendation (at least 3) from professors, research advisors, employers who can speak to your skills, experience, and promise A list of potential advisors whose work interests you. (A list of faculty recruiting graduate students this year can be found on the Admissions FAQs page.) Note that the GRE is not required for admission to the program and we do not charge an application fee. Frequently Asked Questions For answers to frequently asked questions please see our Admissions FAQs page. For answers to frequently asked questions please see our Admissions FAQs page. Related DepartmentClassicsRelated DepartmentFilm and Media Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences Undergraduate Overview Psychology Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Neuroscience Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Curriculum Transfer and AP Credit Courses and Syllabi Introductory Intermediate Topics Labs Independent Research Course Syllabi (ID login required) Permission Courses Request Form Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Resources Graduate Graduate Program in Psychological and Brain Sciences Research Areas Coursework and Curriculum Mentoring Toolkit Resources Current Graduate Students Graduate Admissions Admissions FAQs Our Graduates Recent Dissertations Research Overview Recent Research Findings Facilities Undergraduate Research Post-Doctoral Fellows Post-Doctoral Opportunities Participate in Experiments 2021 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) 2022 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) Community Diversity Suggestions For Current PBS Community (ID Login Required) News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback