Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Psychological and Brain Sciences Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences Psychological science is traditionally defined as the study of behavior; neuroscience as the study of the nervous system. As a Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences we are focused on understanding mind and behavior in terms of underlying psychological processes that have their genesis in neural activity in the brain. Contact Us Psychological.and.Brain.Sciences@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail more Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Psychology Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Neuroscience Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Curriculum Transfer and AP Credit Courses and Syllabi Introductory Intermediate Topics Labs Independent Research Course Syllabi (ID login required) Permission Courses Request Form Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Resources Back to Top Nav Graduate Graduate Program in Psychological and Brain Sciences Research Areas Coursework and Curriculum Mentoring Toolkit Resources Current Graduate Students Graduate Admissions Admissions FAQs Our Graduates Recent Dissertations Back to Top Nav Research Overview Recent Research Findings Facilities Undergraduate Research Post-Doctoral Fellows Post-Doctoral Opportunities Participate in Experiments 2021 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) 2022 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) Back to Top Nav Community Diversity Suggestions For Current PBS Community (ID Login Required) Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Top Stories Previous Next 2022 Faculty Mentoring Award Recipients: Todd Miller and Kate Nautiyal Faculty Mentoring Award Landmark-Tracking Neuron Helps Rats Know Where They Are Dartmouth researchers identify new type of neuron that behaves differently. Jeremy Manning Wins NSF CAREER Award Assistant Professor Jeremy Manning was selected for a National Science Foundation Career Award. The NSF grant will provide funding for the next five years to support his lab's research using natural language processing and geometric models to study and enhance classroom learning. When People ‘Click,’ They Respond Faster to Each Other New study reveals the science of connection. Neuroscience Day at Dartmouth The annual Neuroscience Day at Dartmouth will take place in a virtual format on Saturday, February 5th, 2022, from 12:30-4pm. How Time Blurs Self-Perception New study shows how our past and future selves become less distinguishable over time. Should I Stay or Go: Predicting Choice Distribution Researchers have created a new way to predict how we match response to rewards. Jeremy Manning Elected to Memory Disorders Research Society Assistant Professor Jeremy Manning was elected as a member of the Memory Disorders Research Society! MDRS is a professional honors society dedicated to the study of how memory works and why it breaks. Membership to the society is by invitation only. How Shared Neural Codes Help Us Recognize Familiar Faces Information about familiar faces is shared across the brains of people who know each other. Tough Day? Stress Can Predict Social Interaction A study using mobile phone sensing data finds that stress may decrease socialization. Recent Publications view all Leveraging the power of media to drive cognition: a media-informed approach to naturalistic neuroscience. Grall, C., Finn, E. S. Social Cognitive and Affective Neuroscience, 2022. Computational Mechanisms of Distributed Value Representations and Mixed Learning Strategies. Shiva Farashah, Alireza Soltani Nature Communications, 12: 7191 (2021) Entropy-based metrics for predicting choice behavior based on local response to reward. Ethan Trepka, Mehran Spitmaan, Bilal Bari, Vincent Costa, Jeremiah Cohen, et al. Nature Communications, 12: 6567 (2021) Landmark-modulated directional coding in postrhinal cortex. LaChance PA, Graham J, Shapiro BL, Morris AJ, Taube JS Science Advances Events view all Oct 13 1:00PM Psychological and Brain Sciences Colloquium In-Person Location To Be Determined Mayank Mehta, PhD, University of California, Los Angeles Related DepartmentClassicsRelated DepartmentFilm and Media Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences Undergraduate Overview Psychology Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Neuroscience Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Curriculum Transfer and AP Credit Courses and Syllabi Introductory Intermediate Topics Labs Independent Research Course Syllabi (ID login required) Permission Courses Request Form Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Resources Graduate Graduate Program in Psychological and Brain Sciences Research Areas Coursework and Curriculum Mentoring Toolkit Resources Current Graduate Students Graduate Admissions Admissions FAQs Our Graduates Recent Dissertations Research Overview Recent Research Findings Facilities Undergraduate Research Post-Doctoral Fellows Post-Doctoral Opportunities Participate in Experiments 2021 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) 2022 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) Community Diversity Suggestions For Current PBS Community (ID Login Required) News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback