Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Psychological and Brain Sciences Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences Contact Us Psychological.and.Brain.Sciences@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Psychology Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Neuroscience Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Curriculum Transfer and AP Credit Courses and Syllabi Introductory Intermediate Topics Labs Independent Research Course Syllabi (ID login required) Permission Courses Request Form Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Resources Back to Top Nav Graduate Graduate Program in Psychological and Brain Sciences Research Areas Coursework and Curriculum Mentoring Toolkit Resources Current Graduate Students Graduate Admissions Admissions FAQs Our Graduates Recent Dissertations Back to Top Nav Research Overview Recent Research Findings Facilities Undergraduate Research Post-Doctoral Fellows Post-Doctoral Opportunities Participate in Experiments 2021 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) 2022 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) Back to Top Nav Community Diversity Suggestions For Current PBS Community (ID Login Required) Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Psychology Neuroscience Curriculum Courses and Syllabi Permission Courses Resources Share Resources Research Fellowships The Psychological and Brian Sciences department at Dartmouth College has two undergraduate research fellowships available to Dartmouth students. The Lincoln Filene Undergraduate Fellowship in Human Relations and the Benjamin J. Benner '69 Undergraduate Research Fellowship each pay a stipend of $3,500 to support a psychology or neuroscience major during an off-term (three months) of engagement in full-time research. For more information, including application instructions and deadlines, see Undergraduate Research. The Marcus Autism Center, in conjunction with the Emory University School of Medicine and Children's Healthcare of Atlanta, is offering six fellowships: the Cohen Fellowship in Developmental Social Neuroscience, the Simons Fellowship in Computational Neuroscience, the Marcus Fellowship in Speech Science and Engineering, the Education Sciences Fellowship, the Clinical Research Fellowship, and the Implementation Science Fellowship. Students who will receive a bachelor's degree by June 2022 will be eligible for the positions. The fellowships will commence in July 2022, and they are 2 years in duration. Students can find further details on our website and in this brochure. The Hot Metal Bridge Post-Bac Program at The Dietrich School of Arts & Sciences Graduate Studies, University of Pittsburgh is a two-semester post-baccalaureate fellowship program designed to help talented students from groups traditionally underrepresented in their academic disciplines to bridge the gap between an undergraduate degree and a graduate training program. Fellows enjoy financial support and mentoring by both faculty and graduate students as they prepare themselves for a successful program of doctoral studies. The application deadline is March 1. (Posted February 21, 2022) The E.E. Just Undergraduate Fellowship is a two-year fellowship—held during the junior and senior years—designed to increase the number of underrepresented minorities at Dartmouth who choose to enter a doctoral program in a STEM discipline post-graduation. To learn more about the E.E. Just Undergraduate Fellowship, please visit dartgo.org/eejuf and see this flyer. (Posted March 9, 2022) Jobs & Internships The department periodically receives job or internship postings from organizations interested in recruiting current students or recent graduates and we'll post those here as they are received. Many positions are advertised in the spring to attract recent graduates. The Ramachandran Lab in the Department of Neurology and Neuroscience, Columbia University Taub Institute on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging Brain is looking for recently graduated or graduating undergraduates that are interested in working in a lab for a few years before going to graduate or medical school. Dr. Ramachandran started a lab at Columbia a few months ago and would love to see if there are undergrads graduating in either the winter or spring that would be interested. Check out the lab website here. (Posted November 12, 2021) Camp Triumph is a summer therapeutic day camp for special needs children ages 5-16. This summer, there will be one camp location in North Reading, MA. We are looking for strong undergraduate and graduate students to work in our therapeutic summer program. This is a wonderful way for students to gain valuable experience working with children who struggle with a range of disabilities. Find more information and application instructions here. (Posted November 17, 2021) The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia Research Institute is pleased to announce that applications for the CHOP Research Institute Summer Scholars Program are now open. CRISSP is a 10-week internship designed to inspire undergraduate students to pursue careers in pediatric research and academic medicine through training in theoretical knowledge and research as well as critical exposure to pediatric-focused career trajectories under the direct mentorship of CHOP faculty. (Posted December 3, 2021) The Seaver Autism Center for Research and Treatment at the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai is hiring Clinical Research Coordinators. We are a research center focusing on Autism Spectrum Disorder and related rare diseases and we are looking to fill full-time Clinical Research Coordinator positions that start Spring/Summer 2022. Applicants interested in continuing on to a medical, psychology, clinical genetics, or professional clinical research career are encouraged to apply. The position description can be found here. (Posted December 12, 2021) The Center for Anxiety and Traumatic Stress Disorders and Complicated Grief Program at Massachusetts General Hospital has recently begun recruiting for our Clinical Research Coordinator position opening for June 1st, 2022. Please check out the job description for this position as well as instructions on how to apply here. (Posted January 5, 2022) One research assistant position will be available beginning April 1st, 2022 at the Shirley Ryan AbilityLab under the supervision of Drs. Jordan Grafman and Patrick McNamara. You will participate in a three year project on the neural basis of religious belief with the possibility of extension. Affiliated with the Northwestern University School of Medicine, the Shirley Ryan AbilityLab features a dedicated 3.0 T human MRI scanner, excellent MRI-compatible auxiliary equipment, and significant computational resources. More information can be found here. (Posted January 5, 2022) The Canine Cognition Center and Social Cognitive Development Lab are seeking applicants for a summer 2022 NSF-REU program. The REU program is supported by an award from the U.S. National Science Foundation (Award #1659085) to Yale University as part of the Research Experiences for Undergraduates Program. The broad goal of the Comparative and Developmental Origins of Social Cognition REU Site is to provide students from under-represented backgrounds with joint training in developmental and comparative psychology research. Students will gain experience investigating the origins of human social cognition from two different but related perspectives: developmental studies testing human children's social understanding and comparative studies examining social cognition in domesticated dogs. More information can be found here. (Posted January 7, 2022) Applications are invited for a full-time research coordinator (lab manager) position in the JK Lifespan Development lab of Dr. Jungmeen Kim-Spoon, in the Department of Psychology at Virginia Tech. Projects in the lab combine developmental psychopathology and decision neuroscience to investigate brain function, emotion, cognition and personality processes, decision making and health behaviors. We use a variety of methods including structural and functional magnetic resonance imaging, behavioral tasks, interviews, and questionnaires. This is an excellent opportunity for a personable, motivated, and detail-oriented person seeking further research experience before applying to graduate school. Find more information here or visit Virginia Tech Jobs and search job posting # 518893. (Posted January 20, 2022) The Dynamic Experiences in Neuroscience to Diversify Research Internship Training Exposures for Students (DENDRITES) program supports the research and career development of students interested in basic, clinical, and translational neuroscience. This NIH-funded program will host visiting undergraduate students to participate in an intensive nine-week research program under the direction of faculty mentors, introducing them to cutting-edge research methods and solidifying their commitment to pursuing research careers. DENDRITES will be part of the Leadership Alliance Summer Research – Early Identification Program (SR-EIP) at UChicago to offer students professional development workshops and social activities across Chicago. Application deadline: February 1, 2022. (Posted January 21, 2022) The Neuroscience Institute at the New York University Grossman School of Medicine is currently seeking to hire outstanding college graduates as research associates, with positions starting Summer 2022. Technicians generally work in a lab for 2 years in preparation for applying to graduate school (PhD, MD/PhD). Please see this announcement describing the position with instructions on how to apply. Additional information and link to application portal can be found on the Neuroscience Institute webpage. (Posted January 26, 2022) The Anxiety, Stress & Prolonged Grief Program led by Dr. Naomi Simon at NYU School of Medicine is seeking applicants for a Research Coordinator position to start in June 2022. Please see the position description here. (Posted February 1, 2022) The Clinical Research Department at the Nathan Kline Institute for Psychiatric Research (located just outside of New York City) is seeking to hire a full-time Clinical Research Coordinator to start this summer. This position would be ideal for a candidate interested in pursuing a Clinical Ph.D. or Medical School program in the future, as it offers incredible research and clinical experience. This RA position has a special focus on working with patients with schizophrenia and cognitive impairment, while also having the opportunity to work with patients with depression. Please see this job posting for more information. (Posted February 7, 2022) The Wainger Lab at Massachusetts General Hospital is seeking a motivated and enthusiastic research assistant with experience in molecular biology and in particular stem cell biology to support preclinical studies related to Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (Lou Gehrig's Disease) and chronic pain. See this flier for more information. (Posted February 7, 2022) McLean Hospital is seeking a clinical research assistant to work in the Division of Geriatric Psychiatry under the supervision of Brent Forester, MD, MSc and David Harper, Ph.D. In the Division of Geriatric Psychiatry, the primary tasks of a clinical research assistant are the recruitment and assessment of study subjects with Alzheimer's disease, mild cognitive impairment (MCI) or a late life mood disorder from the Division's clinical programs. McLean Hospital maintains the largest neuroscience and psychiatry research program of any private psychiatric hospital in the United States and was recently named the #1 Hospital in the country for psychiatric care by U.S. News and World Report. Applicants can apply via this link. (Posted February 7, 2022) The Research Department at the White River Junction VA is currently recruiting for research project coordinator positions that are based at the White River Junction VA. The position is open for applicants to apply from 2/7 to 2/18/22. Please find more information here. (Posted February 9, 2022) The University of California, Davis is looking to hire research assistants in the Translational Cognitive and Affective Neuroscience Lab in Sacramento, CA. Anyone interested in a post-graduate, full-time research position, preferably those with psychology, neuroscience, physiology, computer science, and similar experience/interest should check out this job posting. (Posted February 10, 2022) The Harvard Laboratory for Developmental Studies hosts an annual summer internship for undergraduates and recent grads, supervised by Dr. Susan Carey and Dr. Jesse Snedeker. Interns gain in-depth research experience by working on a research project with a graduate student or post-doc mentor. You can learn about Dr. Carey and Dr. Snedeker's current research by visiting our website and reading publications from our lab members. You can find more information about the internship, as well as instructions on how to apply, here. Applications are now open and are due at noon on March 1, 2022. Please contact Briony Waite (bwaite@fas.harvard.edu) and Nancy Soja (nnsoja@fas.harvard.edu) with any questions. (Posted February 14, 2022) The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau's (CFPB) Office of Research (OR) is currently hiring Research Assistants. The posting for the position opened February 4, 2022 and will be open until February 18, 2022. The posting can be found here and more information can be found in this flyer. (Posted February 10, 2022) The Rhode Island Methods to Improve Diagnostic Assessment and Services (MIDAS) project is looking to hire a research assistant (RA), with a potential start date of May/June 2022 (or sooner if available). Candidates should be a recent or upcoming college graduate with a psychology or neuroscience major and an interest in going to graduate or medical school. Please find additional information here. (Posted February 22, 2022) Krempels Center is a non-profit organization which provides classes and support groups for adult survivors of acquired brain injury. They are seeking students in the allied health, social science, neuroscience and public health professions for a volunteer or intern experience. Check out this flyer and take a short intern interest survey here. The deadline for submission of the survey is February 25. (Posted February 23, 2022) The Center for Technology and Behavioral Health at the Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth is seeking a full time Research Assistant to work with Dr. Catherine Stanger on a national clinical trial testing web health coaching for young adults with a chronic medical condition (type 1 diabetes). Please find more details here. (Posted March 1, 2022) The Boston University Alzheimer's Disease Research Center (ADRC) now has an opening for a Clinical Research Assistant. This position will work within our research team on the Alzheimer's Disease Clinical Trials. Details about this position, responsibilities, and expectations for starting are all found within the position flyer. (Posted March 3, 2022) The Boston University CTE Center now has an opening for a Clinical Research Assistant. This position will work within the DIAGNOSE CTE Research Project. Details about this position, responsibilities, and expectations for starting are all found within the position flyer. (Posted March 3, 2022) The White River Junction VA is seeking an outstanding Clinical Research Coordinator. This full-time position is intended to support mental health research under the direction of Dr. Paul Holtzheimer. The position is through the Veterans Education and Research Association of Northern New England, Inc. (VERANNE). The office will be located at the VA Medical Center in White River Junction, VT. This position is anticipated to be available through May 31, 2024, with the possibility of extension depending on research funding and for the right candidate. For more information see the job posting. (Posted March 10, 2022) The Psychosocial Research Program at Butler Hospital, which is affiliated with the Alpert Medical School of Brown University, is currently hiring research assistants for several federally-funded projects, focused on the identification of novel risk factors for suicidal ideation and behavior using laboratory-based behavioral and physiological assessments, smartphone technology, brain imaging and the analysis of speech patterns as well as treatment development studies for suicide. Responsibilities vary by project, but include participant recruitment, clinical interviewing, tracking participants, and data collection. For more information please see the position announcement. (Posted March 10, 2022) The Psychosocial Research Department at Butler Hospital is currently looking to hire 1-2 full-time Research Assistant to work on studies related to transitions of care interventions for a variety of clinical populations recruited from a psychiatric hospital setting (i.e., people with severe mood disorders, schizophrenia, and comorbid substance use disorders). There also is a strong emphasis on suicide prevention, treatment adherence, and digital health in our projects. The position is available for start by June of 2022. Find more information here. (Posted March 21, 2022) The Massachusetts General Hospital Center for Women's Mental Health is looking to fill two open Clinical Research Coordinator positions with a start date of early June 2022. The goal of our research division is to examine a wide range of questions which affect the lives of women with psychiatric conditions. The research coordinators in our Program are each assigned 1-2 active research projects and are responsible for the implementation of those projects under the guidance of the principal investigator(s) and the supervision of the senior research coordinator. We are looking for candidates who possess at least a bachelor's degree. At least one year of research experience, paid or un-paid, is preferred but not required. Find out more information from this position description. (Posted March 24, 2022) The Psychosocial Research Program at Butler Hospital is looking to hire a full-time research assistant to work on studies related to women's perinatal mental health. The position is available for start by May or June of 2022. Candidates should have a bachelor's degree in psychology, neuroscience, or related field by the start of the position. Spanish language skills are preferred but not required. The position is particularly attractive for those wishing to pursue graduate or medical school in the future. Please find more information here. (Posted March 25, 2022) The Mass General Hospital's Center for Women's Mental Health is looking to fill three open positions. Please see the job descriptions for Clinical Research Coordinator, Senior Clinical Research Coordinator, and Program Manager. (Posted April 18, 2022) Entegra + Architectural Health is a sustainability and healthy building design consultancy that works with architects, building owners and organizations. As experts in architecture and research psychology, sustainability and business, E+AH works holistically to help project teams plan for the longer-term success of their organization and community. We are looking for collaborators who are passionate about our mission to create buildings that make people healthier and who have a versatile skill set needed to help grow our consultancy. Find our post on Handshake. (Posted April 21, 2022) The Learning, Understanding, Memory, & Neurodevelopment Lab (LUMeN Lab, PI: Dr. Alexandra Cohen) in the Department of Psychology at Emory University (Atlanta, GA) is seeking a full-time Research Assistant (RA) to work on studies examining how motivation and emotion influence learning, memory, and brain function across development. Please find more information here. (Posted May 9, 2022) Brian Kavanaugh PsyD ABPP (pediatric neuropsychologist) and Petya Radoeva, MD PhD (child psychiatrist) at Emma Pendleton Bradley Hospital are recruiting a research assistant (RA) for their current research programs, which are utilizing neuromodulation and neuroimaging approaches to investigate the neurobiological underpinnings of childhood psychiatric disorders. Please find more information in this job description. (Posted May 23, 2022) Mothers for Justice and Equality is seeking summer staff for two of our summer programs. -STEM (ages 9 - 14): focused on developing a community base project related to a concern/issue the youth see in their community. and -Peer Leaders (15-18): civic engagement, leadership skills, and organize a youth led park rally for the community. Please see the flyer, application and position description. (Posted May 23, 2022) The lab of Alysa Doyle, PhD in the Psychiatric and Neurodevelopmental Genetics Unit at Massachusetts General Hospital is seeking a BA-level Clinical Research Coordinator (CRC) to work on a study that integrates clinical psychology, developmental psychopathology, pediatric neuropsychology, and psychiatric genetics. Find more information here. (Posted May 25, 2022) Master's and Ph.D. Programs Prospective students of The Teaching and Teacher Leadership (TTL) Ed.M. program at the Harvard Graduate School of Education are encouraged to introduce themselves to the program so they can stay informed on program updates and admission details. The Teaching and Teacher Leadership (TTL) Ed.M. program at HGSE is a new program designed for leaders interested in education. The Teaching and Teacher Leadership (TTL) master's program embodies the core commitment and dedication to creating expansive, equitable, transformational opportunities for learners everywhere. Apply here. More information can be found here. (Posted November 30, 2021) Other Opportunities Simply Neuroscience, a student-led non-profit organization that works to expand interdisciplinary neuroscience education, outreach, and awareness for students has recently launched the Action Potential Advising Program (APAP) which works to virtually connect young neuroscience students ("advisees") with older professionals ("advisors") to provide educational guidance and mentorship. The APAP's mission is to bridge gaps in early neuroscience and psychology education through creating an international, centralized mentorship space that supports both STEM and humanities students. Apply here. (Posted December 9, 2020) The Dartmouth CPD's Fall 2021 Recruiting Program is officially underway for entry-level and internship opportunities. The recruiting program provides a structured process for current Dartmouth students to search, apply and interview for both internships and entry-level jobs. More information about the recruiting program can be found on the CPD website. This quarter, the program features many employers involved in management, health, and science consulting: Full-Time Opportunities & Employer Events and Internship Opportunities & Employer Events. Please email any questions to srs@dartmouth.edu. (Posted September 16, 2021) UC Santa Barbara and UT Austin are recruiting graduating seniors who want to use science and technology to make a positive impact on the world. Come spend next year contributing to a fast-paced, mission-driven effort to improve the focus and emotional resilience of teens across the country in our Post-Baccalaureate Program in Applied Psychology. Post-bacs can also kick-start the year with free access to the Summer Institute in Applied Psychology—a 3-week academic retreat in Costa Rica. Learn more about the Post-Baccalaureate Program here. (Posted January 11, 2022) The Louis de la Parte Florida Mental Health Institute (FMHI) at USF is inviting undergraduate students interested in substance use and co-occurring disorders to apply for a highly selective Summer Research Institute (SRI) funded by the National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA). This program is designed for students interested in building their research skills within the context of substance use and co-occurring disorders to prepare for a Senior Thesis and/or graduate school. The SRI@FMHI is an 11-week in-person program taking place from May 26, 2022 to August 4, 2022. The application deadline is March 20, 2022. For more information and access to the application, please view this flyer. (Posted February 2, 2022) Casa de Esperanza seeks applicants for the Hands of Hope Service Year Program. Casa de Esperanza provides residential foster care to children ages birth through six who are in crisis due to abuse, neglect or the effects of HIV. For a complete description visit our website. Our application can be found here. For more information, please contact Darean Talmadge 713-529-0639 dtalmadge@casahope.org (Posted February 15, 2022) Related DepartmentClassicsRelated DepartmentFilm and Media Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences Undergraduate Overview Psychology Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Neuroscience Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Curriculum Transfer and AP Credit Courses and Syllabi Introductory Intermediate Topics Labs Independent Research Course Syllabi (ID login required) Permission Courses Request Form Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Resources Graduate Graduate Program in Psychological and Brain Sciences Research Areas Coursework and Curriculum Mentoring Toolkit Resources Current Graduate Students Graduate Admissions Admissions FAQs Our Graduates Recent Dissertations Research Overview Recent Research Findings Facilities Undergraduate Research Post-Doctoral Fellows Post-Doctoral Opportunities Participate in Experiments 2021 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) 2022 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) Community Diversity Suggestions For Current PBS Community (ID Login Required) News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback