Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Psychological and Brain Sciences Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences Contact Us Psychological.and.Brain.Sciences@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Psychology Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Neuroscience Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Curriculum Transfer and AP Credit Courses and Syllabi Introductory Intermediate Topics Labs Independent Research Course Syllabi (ID login required) Permission Courses Request Form Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Resources Back to Top Nav Graduate Graduate Program in Psychological and Brain Sciences Research Areas Coursework and Curriculum Mentoring Toolkit Resources Current Graduate Students Graduate Admissions Admissions FAQs Our Graduates Recent Dissertations Back to Top Nav Research Overview Recent Research Findings Facilities Undergraduate Research Post-Doctoral Fellows Post-Doctoral Opportunities Participate in Experiments 2021 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) 2022 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) Back to Top Nav Community Diversity Suggestions For Current PBS Community (ID Login Required) Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Share Tough Day? Stress Can Predict Social Interaction Posted on October 15, 2021 by Amy Olson News subtitle A study using mobile phone sensing data finds that stress may decrease socialization. Image Image Assistant Professor Meghan Meyer; Alex daSilva, Guarini ’21; and Professor Andrew T. Campbell. (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Body When you’re stressed, do you ever feel like you just don’t want to be around other people? A new study published in the journal Emotion has found that greater levels of stress on a given day can predict decreases in social interaction the following day. “Our findings show that people who experienced more stress on one day, socialized less with others the next day,” says senior author Meghan Meyer, an assistant professor of psychological and brain sciences and director of the Dartmouth Social Neuroscience Lab. “This effect may persist for up to two days later after someone has had a stressful day.” Previous studies with animals have shown that they prefer not to socialize with their peers if they were stressed the day before, a phenomenon known as “stress-induced social avoidance.” To date, it has been difficult to determine if humans also engage in social avoidance as a result of stress, as researchers have not had the tools to effectively measure how stress affects real-world social interactions. The study relied on mobile phone sensing technology that collects passively and automatically. The data was obtained via the StudentLife app developed earlier by co-author Andrew Campbell, the Albert Bradley 1915 Third Century Professor in Computer Science. Quote Our findings show that people who experienced more stress on one day, socialized less with others the next day. Attribution Meghan Meyer, an assistant professor of psychological and brain sciences and director of the Dartmouth Social Neuroscience Lab Through the StudentLife app, data on sleep, movement, and time spent at home was provided passively by 99 Dartmouth undergraduate students—56% female and 44% male—who agreed to participate in the two-month study. To protect participants’ privacy, the data was anonymized. The StudentLife app also measured how much social interaction participants had each day by detecting human conversation through the mobile phones’ microphones. For ethical reasons, actual conversations and sounds were not recorded. The app asked participants questions about their overall well-being, including stress. Once a day, they were prompted to choose an image that best described their stress level from a set of images ranging from a peaceful pond to a person pulling their hair out—a method of measuring stress that prior research shows is comparable to people’s responses in formal psychological stress assessments. “By leveraging mobile sensing technology, our research is among the first to examine the temporal relationship between stress and socialization,” says co-author Alex daSilva, Guarini ’21, a PhD student in psychological and brain sciences at Dartmouth. The team’s findings provide some of the first concrete evidence of stress-induced social avoidance in humans. “Our findings showed that higher levels of stress on one day predicted decreased social interaction the next day while accounting for levels of movement, sleep, and time spent at home,” daSilva says. “College is a time when a lot of mental health issues emerge in young adults. At the same time, previous research has shown that being integrated into your social network is really good for mental health, as it buffers mental health issues in a number of ways,” says Meyer. “Stress is a big risk factor for the onset of a lot of mental health conditions and it often precedes the onset of depression and anxiety disorders. If students are stressed and then they withdraw from their social environment in response, they may be missing these opportunities to use their social interaction to buffer their mental health issues. They’re withdrawing from people at a time when they may need them most.” The research team says that mobile sensing and physiological measures may be useful for studying stress and social avoidance further, as well as for studying biological stress responses that may be involved. In addition to Meyer, daSilva, and Campbell, Jeremy Huckins, a lecturer in psychological and brain sciences; Weichen Wang, Guarini ’17, a PhD student in computer science; and Rui Wang, Guarini ’18, at Facebook, also served as co-authors of the study. Tags: Recent Research Findings Related DepartmentClassicsRelated DepartmentFilm and Media Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences Undergraduate Overview Psychology Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Neuroscience Major Minor Major & Minor FAQs Honors Honors FAQs Curriculum Transfer and AP Credit Courses and Syllabi Introductory Intermediate Topics Labs Independent Research Course Syllabi (ID login required) Permission Courses Request Form Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Resources Graduate Graduate Program in Psychological and Brain Sciences Research Areas Coursework and Curriculum Mentoring Toolkit Resources Current Graduate Students Graduate Admissions Admissions FAQs Our Graduates Recent Dissertations Research Overview Recent Research Findings Facilities Undergraduate Research Post-Doctoral Fellows Post-Doctoral Opportunities Participate in Experiments 2021 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) 2022 Honors Student Thesis Presentations (ID Login Required) Community Diversity Suggestions For Current PBS Community (ID Login Required) News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback