Skip to content Program on Corporate Governance Home Advisory Board Corporate Governance Roundtable Working Papers Mailing List Faculty Fellows Hiring Speakers & Events Conferences News & Media Prizes Courses Blog Data Annual Reports About the Program The Program on Corporate Governance seeks to foster research and scholarship about corporate governance and facilitate discourse in this field among academics, practitioners, and policy-makers. The Program’s Advisory Board consists of William Ackman, Peter Atkins, David Bell, Kerry E. Berchem, Richard Brand, Daniel Burch, Paul Choi, Jesse Cohn, Creighton Condon, Arthur B. Crozier, Michael Delikat, John Finley, Bruce H. Goldfarb, Joseph Hall, Jason M. Halper, Paul Hilal, Carl Icahn, Jack B. Jacobs, David Millstone, Theodore Mirvis, Maria Moats, Erika Moore, Carey Oven, Morton Pierce, Philip Richter, Paul K. Rowe, Marc Treviño, Steven J. Williams, and Daniel Wolf. The Program’s director is Professor Lucian Bebchuk, and other Harvard Law School faculty members contributing to its activities are Robert Clark, John Coates, Alma Cohen, Allen Ferrell, Jesse Fried, Howell Jackson, Reinier Kraakman, Mark Ramseyer, Mark Roe, Robert Sitkoff, Holger Spamann, and Guhan Subramanian. Also contributing to the Program’s activities are its Senior Fellows, Stephen M. Davis, Oliver Hart, Kobi Kastiel, and Leo E. Strine, Jr., and its Fellows, Raffaele Felicetti, Leeor Ofer, Anete Pajuste, Wanling Su, Roberto Tallarita, and Anna Toniolo. In planning events and conferences, the Program receives input from the members of its Corporate Governance Roundtable Advisory Council and of the Advisory Council of the Harvard Law School Institutional Investor Forum. The Program’s Associate Directors are Stephen Davis and Roberto Tallarita. The Program’s Administrator is Jordan Figueroa, its Event Coordinator is Kat Linnehan, and its Coordinator is Marzieh Noori. The co-editors of the Harvard Law School Forum on Corporate Governance are Leeor Ofer, Anna Restuccia, Wanling Su, and Roberto Tallarita. This website also includes information about several research projects operated by the Program on Corporate Governance—the Corporate Governance Lab, the Project on Controlling Shareholders, the Project on Corporate Political Spending, the Project on Hedge Fund Activism, the Project on Institutional Investors, the Project on M&A and Corporate Control, the Project on Short-Termism, and the Project on Stakeholder Capitalism. Some of the activities of the Program are jointly operated or co-sponsored with the Program on Law and Finance and the Program on Institutional Investors. The Program on Corporate Governance seeks to foster research and discussion by individuals holding a wide range of views on corporate governance issues. The Program does not take any positions on such issues; all views expressed in connection with the Program’s activities should be attributed only to the individuals expressing them. The work of the Program on Corporate Governance is supported by the Harvard Law School Program on Corporate Governance Fund. Knowledge Partners HLS Faculty & Senior Fellows Lucian Bebchuk Robert Clark John Coates Alma Cohen Stephen M. Davis Allen Ferrell Jesse Fried Oliver Hart Howell Jackson Kobi Kastiel Reinier Kraakman Mark Ramseyer Mark Roe Robert Sitkoff Holger Spamann Leo E. Strine, Jr. Guhan Subramanian Program Advisory Board William Ackman Peter Atkins David Bell Kerry E. Berchem Richard Brand Daniel Burch Paul Choi Jesse Cohn Creighton Condon Arthur B. Crozier Michael Delikat John Finley Bruce H. Goldfarb Joseph Hall Jason M. Halper Paul Hilal Carl Icahn Jack B. Jacobs David Millstone Theodore Mirvis Maria Moats Erika Moore Carey Oven Morton Pierce Philip Richter Paul K. Rowe Marc Trevino Steven J. Williams Daniel Wolf Last Updated June 2022 | Copyright © The President and Fellows of Harvard College. Questions should be directed to The Program on Corporate Governance.