Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown University Primary Care Population Medicine Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home Who We Are Leadership & Staff Student Profiles Publications Curriculum MD Curriculum ScM Curriculum Longitudinal Integrated Clerkship Admission Tuition & Fees Frequently Asked Questions Search Primary Care Population Medicine Frequently Asked Questions Answers to some of the most pressing questions about the Primary Care-Population Medicine (PCPM) program. Breadcrumb Home Admission Sub Navigation In This Section Tuition & Fees Frequently Asked Questions Learn More About Us Brown's Primary Care-Population Medicine Program gives students a 360-degree view of health care. Read more in the program brochure. PC-PM Brochure Frequently Asked Questions Answers to some of the most pressing questions about the Primary Care-Population Medicine (PCPM) program. What is the interview process for the MD-ScM program? The process is the same as it is for Regular MD applicants. If you are invited to interview, we will send you an email with information on how to schedule your interview date online. You would then come to Alpert Medical School and complete two interviews with members of the Admissions Committee. How many openings are there in the MD-ScM program? There are 16 openings available. If I choose to apply to the MD-ScM program, do I have to fill out a different secondary application from the Regular MD program? The secondary application for the Regular MD program and the MD-ScM program are the same for most of the sections, except that MD-ScM applicants complete additional essay questions. If I apply to the MD-ScM program, will it exclude me from being considered for the Regular MD program? No. In fact, applicants are first offered admission to the Regular MD program. Admission decisions for the MD-ScM program will occur in March after the initial admission offer to the Regular MD program has been made. How do I apply to the MD-ScM program on the secondary application? On your secondary application, you will select "Yes" when asked if you are applying to the MD-ScM program. If you select "No" you will be applying to the Regular MD program. How do I apply to the MD-ScM program on my AMCAS application? When you are completing your AMCAS application, select the "Regular MD" program designation. We will then email the secondary application information to you within the same week we receive your verified AMCAS record. You will choose the MD-ScM program on the secondary. I'm interested in population medicine, but not in primary care. Can I still enroll in this program? Yes. Although our goal is to graduate more primary care physicians, we understand that students' interests change over time. Health care will need physicians trained in population medicine in all specialty areas. Enrolling in this program will not put students at a disadvantage if they decide to apply to specialty fields other than primary care. What is a Longitudinal Integrated Clerkship (LIC)? The Longitudinal Integrated Clerkship (LIC) is an essential component of the PC-PM Program. The LIC model for core clinical education in medical schools was first introduced in the 1970s but became more prevalent in medical education beginning in the 2000s. This model provides students with an understanding of the continuum of health and disease, and transitions in care, by participating in the care of patients wherever it is delivered--from the outpatient setting to the hospital, rehabilitation, and care in the home. Students in the LIC will follow a panel of approximately 20-35 patients over the course of their third year, including newborns, geriatric patients, and pregnant women. Students serve as advocates and navigators for their patients throughout the year and attend physician visits, surgical procedures, and deliveries with patients from their panel. In addition, students spend one half-day per week over the course of a year with physicians in internal medicine, family medicine, pediatrics, psychiatry/neurology, obstetrics and gynecology, and surgery. How many years will it take to complete the program? The program is uniquely designed to integrate the master's coursework throughout the 4-year Medical School curriculum. It is anticipated that most students will complete the coursework and graduate in 4 years. There is, however, an option to take an additional year. Why pursue the combined MD-ScM degree rather than only an MD degree? The combined-degree program is designed to provide medical students with training in competencies such as interprofessional teamwork, epidemiology, and quality improvement. The program prepares medical students for leadership roles in healthcare on the local, state, or national level. How is the Master of Science Degree in Population Medicine different from a Master of Public Health? In a rapidly changing health care environment, physicians will be responsible for the care of communities and populations. The Master of Science in Population Medicine will focus on providing the knowledge, attitudes, and skills for dealing with these important areas of health care. The PC-PM program aims to improve health outcomes and reduce health disparities using multimodal and multisectoral approaches. The knowledge, attitudes, and skills necessary for population medicine, ranging from quality, safety, leadership and health disparities, will be integrated longitudinally throughout the educational program in nine newly designed courses. Unlike MPH programs, students will apply the knowledge and skills they learn in the classroom directly to the care of patients and communities throughout the four years of medical school. Learn More About Us Brown's Primary Care-Population Medicine Program gives students a 360-degree view of health care. Read more in the program brochure. PC-PM Brochure Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Who We Are Leadership & Staff Student Profiles Publications Curriculum MD Curriculum ScM Curriculum Longitudinal Integrated Clerkship Admission Tuition & Fees Frequently Asked Questions Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Frequently Asked Questions Open details for Frequently Asked Questions Bookmark this Page