Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown University Primary Care Population Medicine Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home Who We Are Leadership & Staff Student Profiles Publications Curriculum MD Curriculum ScM Curriculum Longitudinal Integrated Clerkship Admission Tuition & Fees Frequently Asked Questions Search Primary Care Population Medicine Curriculum The PC-PM program integrates preparation for the MD and ScM degrees into a seamless 4-year curriculum. Sub Navigation In This Section MD Curriculum ScM Curriculum Longitudinal Integrated Clerkship Learn More About Us Brown's Primary Care-Population Medicine Program gives students a 360-degree view of health care. Read more in the program brochure. PC-PM Brochure Curriculum The PC-PM program integrates preparation for the MD and ScM degrees into a seamless 4-year curriculum. MD Curriculum As Rhode Island's only school of medicine, The Warren Alpert Medical School is uniquely positioned to offer PC-PM students a rich and and dynamic medical education -- from some of the best educators in the field. Visit Page Open details for MD Curriculum ScM Curriculum Specialty coursework for this degree examines the intersection of population and clinical medicine and imparts an in-depth understanding of the U.S. healthcare system. Visit Page Open details for ScM Curriculum Longitudinal Integrated Clerkship This clerkship allows students to follow a panel of patients over time as they move through various health care settings, observing the continuum of patient services at all levels of health care. Visit Page Open details for Longitudinal Integrated Clerkship “ If you want to redesign the health care system, you need to have a real mastery in understanding of what it is today. ” Matt Perry MD'19 Years 1 and 2 During Years 1 and 2, students enroll in four sequential semesters of Integrated Medical Sciences and Doctoring alongside traditional MD students. In addition, PCPM students take Master of Science courses in research methods in population medicine, quantitative methods, and leadership. Year 3 PC-PM students spend Year 3 in the Longitudinal Integrated Clerkship (LIC). Over the course of 32 weeks, PC-PM students spend one half day per week with a physician mentor. In addition, third-year students are assigned a panel of 30 patients to follow through various health care settings--advocating for their patients as they move from operating room to specialist visits to primary care office visits. Year 4 Students will participate in the usual elective rotations offered at The Warren Alpert Medical School and will also complete a sub-internship. At the same time, students will complete their thesis research under the guidance of a faculty member. Curriculum at a Glance Take a look at the documents below to view a map of the PC-PM program curriculum by year. Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Learn More About Us Brown's Primary Care-Population Medicine Program gives students a 360-degree view of health care. Read more in the program brochure. PC-PM Brochure Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Who We Are Leadership & Staff Student Profiles Publications Curriculum MD Curriculum ScM Curriculum Longitudinal Integrated Clerkship Admission Tuition & Fees Frequently Asked Questions Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Curriculum Open details for Curriculum Bookmark this Page