Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown University Primary Care Population Medicine Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home Who We Are Leadership & Staff Student Profiles Publications Curriculum MD Curriculum ScM Curriculum Longitudinal Integrated Clerkship Admission Tuition & Fees Frequently Asked Questions Search Primary Care Population Medicine Who We Are This four-year program, the first of its kind in the United States, results in the awarding of both a Doctor of Medicine and a Master of Science in Population Medicine. Sub Navigation In This Section Leadership & Staff Student Profiles Publications Frequently Asked Questions Answers to some of the most pressing questions about the Primary Care-Population Medicine (PCPM) program. Frequently Asked Questions Learn More About Us Brown's Primary Care-Population Medicine Program gives students a 360-degree view of health care. Read more in the program brochure. PC-PM Brochure Who We Are This four-year program, the first of its kind in the United States, results in the awarding of both a Doctor of Medicine and a Master of Science in Population Medicine. The Primary Care-Population Medicine (PC-PM) program is an innovative, dual-degree curriculum that prepares students for a career in medicine while providing comprehensive, longitudinal training in population medicine. The program prepares medical students for leadership roles in health care on the local, state, or national level in areas ranging from primary care clinical service to research, education, and health policy. https://www.youtube.com/embed/_b8ITBB5Oxk “ I'm going to have the knowledge and the skills that I need to really address health care from a 360 degree point of view. And at the end of the day, I think the network that we're building here is invaluable. I think the content that we're receiving here is invaluable. And it will make us truly well-rounded physicians who care about populations and individuals. ” Michelle Diop MD'19 Tweet this quote Nation’s first Primary Care-Population Medicine doctors graduate Four years after Brown’s Warren Alpert Medical School began an innovative program to educate leaders for tomorrow’s health care systems, 15 students earned both M.D. and master of science degrees. Read the story at News From Brown Frequently Asked Questions Answers to some of the most pressing questions about the Primary Care-Population Medicine (PCPM) program. Frequently Asked Questions Learn More About Us Brown's Primary Care-Population Medicine Program gives students a 360-degree view of health care. Read more in the program brochure. PC-PM Brochure Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Who We Are Leadership & Staff Student Profiles Publications Curriculum MD Curriculum ScM Curriculum Longitudinal Integrated Clerkship Admission Tuition & Fees Frequently Asked Questions Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Who We Are Open details for Who We Are Bookmark this Page