Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown University Primary Care Population Medicine Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home Who We Are Leadership & Staff Student Profiles Publications Curriculum MD Curriculum ScM Curriculum Longitudinal Integrated Clerkship Admission Tuition & Fees Frequently Asked Questions Search Primary Care Population Medicine Admission Learn more about how to join this innovative and dynamic program. Sub Navigation In This Section Tuition & Fees Frequently Asked Questions Admission Learn more about how to join this innovative and dynamic program. PC-PM students are admitted to the Program through the standard MD admissions processes. The application process is outlined below. For more information about standard MD admission at Brown, please visit the Admissions website. Admissions https://www.youtube.com/embed/p1kQ9PF9Ji0 “ We're looking for students who are bright, who are altruistic, who have values around service to society. They're really going to be the vanguard. ” Jeffrey Borkan, MD assistant dean of the Primary Care-Population Medicine Program AMCAS Application Candidates must complete an initial application through the American Medical College Application Service (AMCAS). Applicants should select the "Regular MD" program and designate “Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University” as a receiving school on the AMCAS application. Please note that the Medical College Admissions Test (MCAT) is required for all AMCAS applicants. Secondary Application Upon verification of the AMCAS application, prospective students will receive email instructions for the online secondary application. Applicants should select "Yes" when asked if they are applying to the PC-PM Program and complete additional essay questions. Interview Process Program applicants are screened by the Medical School admission staff and offered an interview if they meet AMS’ requirements. Students are interviewed by two members of the admissions committee, with one member typically faculty in the PC-PM program. Decision Applicants to the MD-ScM Program are considered for admission to the Regular MD program initially. MD-ScM admission decisions are determined in mid-March. Applicants who are offered a wait list position or an acceptance to either program must respond to the offer within two weeks of the date of the decision. Admitted candidates may hold seats at multiple schools up until April 30. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Who We Are Leadership & Staff Student Profiles Publications Curriculum MD Curriculum ScM Curriculum Longitudinal Integrated Clerkship Admission Tuition & Fees Frequently Asked Questions Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Admission Open details for Admission Bookmark this Page