Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown University Primary Care Population Medicine Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home Who We Are Leadership & Staff Student Profiles Publications Curriculum MD Curriculum ScM Curriculum Longitudinal Integrated Clerkship Admission Tuition & Fees Frequently Asked Questions Search Primary Care Population Medicine Primary Care Population Medicine Program An innovative curriculum that prepares students for the medical field while providing comprehensive training in population medicine. Primary Care Population Medicine Program An innovative curriculum that prepares students for the medical field while providing comprehensive training in population medicine. Quick Links Who We Are This four-year program, the first of its kind in the United States, results in the awarding of both a Doctor of Medicine and a Master of Science in Population Medicine. Visit Page Open details for Who We Are Curriculum The PC-PM program integrates preparation for the MD and ScM degrees into a seamless 4-year curriculum. Visit Page Open details for Curriculum Admission Learn more about how to join this innovative and dynamic program. Visit Page Open details for Admission The Primary Care-Population Medicine (PC-PM) program is an innovative, dual-degree curriculum that prepares students for a career in medicine while providing comprehensive, longitudinal training in population medicine. Graduates are awarded both an MD degree and a Master of Science in Population Medicine. Curriculum Details MD Curriculum As Rhode Island's only school of medicine, The Warren Alpert Medical School is uniquely positioned to offer PC-PM students a rich and and dynamic medical education -- from some of the best educators in the field. ScM Curriculum Specialty coursework for this degree examines the intersection of population and clinical medicine and imparts an in-depth understanding of the U.S. healthcare system. Longitudinal Integrated Clerkship This clerkship allows students to follow a panel of patients over time as they move through various health care settings, observing the continuum of patient services at all levels of health care. Frequently Asked Questions Answers to some of the most pressing questions about the Primary Care-Population Medicine (PCPM) program. Visit Page Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Who We Are Leadership & Staff Student Profiles Publications Curriculum MD Curriculum ScM Curriculum Longitudinal Integrated Clerkship Admission Tuition & Fees Frequently Asked Questions Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Primary Care Population Medicine Program Open details for Primary Care Population Medicine Program Bookmark this Page