Skip to main content Search: Search context: This Site Cornell Program Advisory Council Standing Members Faculty Members External Members Mentors Apply Entity Formation SBIR Registrations I-Corps Training About Facilities Security Equipment Resources Tools Services Companies Team News Center News Client News Cornell News Contact Program Advisory Council Standing Members Faculty Members External Members Mentors Apply Entity Formation SBIR Registrations I-Corps Training About Facilities Security Equipment Resources Tools Services Companies Team News Center News Client News Cornell News Contact Display Search Featured Content Welcome to the Cornell’s On-Campus Incubator for Startups in Engineering, Digital and Physical Sciences The Praxis Center for Venture Development helps Cornell engineering, digital and physical science startup companies grow from interesting ideas to self sufficient enterprises. The Center focuses on accelerating the development of client companies’ technologies or products, validating client companies’ value propositions and strengthening client companies’ management teams. The Center facilitates the maturation of client companies to achieve a sustainable level of economic activity, generate significant outside investments and independent operation. Definition of praxis (prăkˈsĭs): n. Practical application or exercise of a branch of learning. News Center News The Praxis Center for Venture Development – Grand Opening September 17, 2018 Ithaca – On March 21, 2019 at 5:00 pm, Cornell University will host a grand opening and ribbon cutting for… More Center News Client News Halomine Inc. ranked among the top 100 companies in the SOSV Human Health 100 showcase list February 24, 2022 (Ithaca, NY) — Halomine™, Inc., a pioneer in advanced technology for managing surfaces and providing long-term protection against viruses, bacteria,… More Client News Cornell News Jayawardhana reappointed A&S dean, named Bethe professor May 26, 2022 Ray Jayawardhana, the Harold Tanner Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences, has been appointed to a second five-year term, beginning July 1, 2023, and named the Hans A. Bethe Professor, an appointment that begins July 1, 2022. More Cornell News Events See all events Spotlights Build your dream inside our advanced technology incubator Connections to the vast resources of the Cornell ecosystem Share this page on Twitter Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Google Plus Share this page on LinkedIn Praxis Center for Venture Development Contact Web Accessibility Assistance 350 Duffield Hall | Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 ©2022 Praxis Center for Venture Development