Jump to main content Facebook Mail Twitter LinkedIn User menu Log in Postdoctoral Council Search form Search Main menu Home Events Event Calendar Event Archive Photo Gallery Resources New Postdocs PDC Seminar Series Links About Us Past Council Members Postdocs at Princeton University An official university set of rules and resources for postdocs can be found at the university postdoc website. Postdoctoral research associates and fellows are appointed through the Office of the Dean of the Faculty. Though appointed through the Office of the Dean of Faculty, we are not faculty but academic professionals. Rules corresponding to the different types of postdoc appointments can be found on this Policies & Procedures website. In coordinating your appointment at Princeton, your primary contact will be your supervising professor and their departmental administrative staff, however, questions regarding benefits can be addressed by the Office of Human Resources. Welcome! The Princeton Postdoctoral Council (PDC) aims to serve Postdoctoral Fellows, Postdoctoral Scholars and Research Associates at Princeton University by aiding in their professional development, fostering a sense of community and identity, and enhancing the quality of the postdoctoral experience. Join Us We have two mailing lists, which you can join by logging in to the Princeton listserv service. We send out events and other announcements through our PDC-social mailing list. We also have the Ask A Postdoc (ASAP) mailing list that you can use to ask fellow postdocs questions about housing, funding, or anything else. We also have a Slack! Join via your @princeton.edu email address. And visit us on Facebook and Twitter! Upcoming PDC Events PDC Happy Hour PDC Happy Hour Wed, Jun 29, 2022, 6:30 pm Interested in interdisciplinary discussions? Getting the latest news about Princeton? Getting involved in the next events of PDC? Or just grabbing... Read more > PDC Happy Hour PDC Happy Hour Wed, Jul 27, 2022, 6:30 pm Interested in interdisciplinary discussions? Getting the latest news about Princeton? Getting involved in the next events of PDC? Or just grabbing... Read more > PDC Happy Hour PDC Happy Hour Wed, Aug 31, 2022, 6:30 pm Interested in interdisciplinary discussions? Getting the latest news about Princeton? Getting involved in the next events of PDC? Or just grabbing... Read more > Pages 1 2 3 4 5 next › last » View All Events Postdoc Events at McGraw Center Book Talk Series: Academic Innovation for the Public Good - Empires of Ideas: Creating the Modern University from Germany to America to China via Zoom Wednesday, June 22, 2022, 7 – 8pm Book Talk Series: Academic Innovation for the Public Good An online book conversation with author William Kirby, professor of modern Chinese history and of business at Harvard University. Part of the series, Academic Innovation for the Public Good, organized by Stanford Digital Education and Trinity College. Please visit here for more information and to register. (Wednesday, June 22, 2022 | 4:00pm - 5:00pm PDT Event Type: Discussion For: FACULTY Read more... Book Talk Series: Academic Innovation for the Public Good - Other People’s Colleges: The Origins of American Higher Education Reform via Zoom Wednesday, July 27, 2022, 7 – 8pm Book Talk Series: Academic Innovation for the Public Good An online book conversation with author Ethan Ris, assistant professor of educational leadership at University of Nevada, Reno. Part of the series, Academic Innovation for the Public Good, organized by Stanford Digital Education and Trinity College. Please visit here for more information and to register. (Wednesday, July 27, 2022 | 4:00pm - 5:00pm PDT Event Type: Discussion For: FACULTY Read more... Book Talk Series: Academic Innovation for the Public Good - Other People’s Colleges: The Origins of American Higher Education Reform via Zoom Wednesday, August 24, 2022, 7 – 8pm Book Talk Series: Academic Innovation for the Public Good An online book conversation with author Ethan Ris, assistant professor of educational leadership at University of Nevada, Reno. Part of the series, Academic Innovation for the Public Good, organized by Stanford Digital Education and Trinity College. Please visit here for more information and to register. (Wednesday, July 27, 2022 | 4:00pm - 5:00pm PDT) Event Type: Discussion For: FACULTY Read more... Postdoc Events at Davis IC Check davisic.princeton.edu/events for postdoc events. Secondary menu Forms Publications Policies Princeton, New Jersey 08544 USA © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University