Skip to main content Tech Moving Forward: Learn more about GTPE's health and safety guidelines for in-person learning and events as well as our expanded virtual course offerings and virtual event services. Menu Home Subjects Browse By Subject Area Business Computing Defense Technologies Digital Media Engineering Exam Prep K-12 Programs Languages Management Manufacturing Mathematics Occupational Safety & Health Personal Development Supply Chain & Logistics Programs All Program Offerings Courses Degrees Graduate Certificates Professional Certificates Boot Camps Savannah Campus Workplace Learning & Professional Development Partner With Us Corporate Education Train at Your Location Featured FinTechU Georgia Tech Summer K-12 Programs Military Programs ESL (English as a Second Language) Georgia Film Academy Georgia Tech Online All Online Offerings Online Courses Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) Savannah Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events In-Person Meetings Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conference Management Blog Georgia Tech Main Site Give Directory Sign In My Cart Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Mailing List YouTube Search Select Search Category Everything Courses & Programs Degree Programs Articles & News GTPE Website Search this site Home Tech Moving Forward Tech Moving Forward GTPE health & safety guidelines for in-person learning and events Since the beginning of the Covid-19 pandemic, Georgia Tech Professional Education has remained committed to providing safe, in-person options for professional learning and events. We are proactively follow these cleaning practices and protocols by the CDC. Additionally, we are still offering virtual course and virtual event service options for those not ready to join us in person. For information on what to expect while in our facilities, please review our list of Frequently Asked Questions below. Complete details on all of Georgia Tech’s Covid-19 related policies and guidelines can be found at health.gatech.edu/tech-moving-forward. Frequently Asked Questions Tech Moving Forward Are masks required while visiting GTPE (Atlanta or Savannah)? We encourage everyone in the Georgia Tech community to follow the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's (CDC) recommendations, vaccinate, and wear a mask based on preference and assessment of personal risk. What measures are being taken to ensure the facility is clean and sanitized? The Global Learning Center and Georgia Tech-Savannah facilities are cleaned every day with EPA-approved disinfectants that meet the CDC requirements for use against viruses, bacteria, and other airborne and bloodborne pathogens. Our staff will continue to routinely sanitize high-touch areas and hand sanitizing stations are provided strategically throughout the buildings. I am not ready to return to in-person learning and events. Are there options available virtually? Yes! In addition to online course offerings, we have also upgraded our event services and capabilities to include new virtual and hybrid solutions, available to attendees around the globe. What do I do if I receive a positive Covid-19 test result before my face-to-face class at GTPE (Atlanta or Savannah)? Do not attend the course until a minimum of 10 days have passed since your symptoms of Covid-19 began, or, if you do not have symptoms, 10 days have passed since your test was collected. We will refund registration fees for health-related reasons with no questions asked. What should I do if I receive a positive Covid-19 test result after my in-person GTPE class? If your face-to-face class at GTPE (Atlanta or Savannah) was in the time period starting two days before your Covid-19 symptoms began (or two days before your Covid-19 test sample was taken if asymptomatic), and ending 10 days after your symptoms began, we request that you report your positive test via the Georgia Tech Covid-19 Positive Test Reporting Form. We request that you comply with local health department contact tracing protocols. When contacted, please provide them the contact information for the GTPE Registration Team (see below). The team answering the call will be able to provide a class roster for contact tracing, as well as contact information for support staff and Georgia Tech's Stamps Health Services, which reports all positive campus cases. What is the protocol for testing and quarantine following exposure? The most current protocols for testing and quarantine following exposure can be found on Georgia Tech's COVID-19 Institute Operations Updates webpage. Who should I contact for additional questions? Please reach out to the GTPE Registration Team at 404-385-3501 or via email at peregistration@pe.gatech.edu. If calling, please be prepared to leave a message with your email address for follow up. Interested in discussing courses or events with us? Contact Us Resources Programs Browse by Subject Courses Certificates Degrees Military Programs ESL Georgia Tech Online Train at Your Location Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conferences About Us Executive Leadership Leadership Searches Impact Reports Savannah Campus The Language Institute Accreditation Contact Us FAQs Visit Us Georgia Tech Global Learning Center 84 5th St NW Atlanta GA 30308 USA Get Directions Phone: 404-385-3500 Emergency Information Legal and Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Report Website Issue © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology