Skip to main content Tech Moving Forward: Learn more about GTPE's health and safety guidelines for in-person learning and events as well as our expanded virtual course offerings and virtual event services. Menu Home Subjects Browse By Subject Area Business Computing Defense Technologies Digital Media Engineering Exam Prep K-12 Programs Languages Management Manufacturing Mathematics Occupational Safety & Health Personal Development Supply Chain & Logistics Programs All Program Offerings Courses Degrees Graduate Certificates Professional Certificates Boot Camps Savannah Campus Workplace Learning & Professional Development Partner With Us Corporate Education Train at Your Location Featured FinTechU Georgia Tech Summer K-12 Programs Military Programs ESL (English as a Second Language) Georgia Film Academy Georgia Tech Online All Online Offerings Online Courses Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) Savannah Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events In-Person Meetings Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conference Management Blog Georgia Tech Main Site Give Directory Sign In My Cart Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Mailing List YouTube Search Select Search Category Everything Courses & Programs Degree Programs Articles & News GTPE Website Search this site Home Georgia Tech-Savannah K-12 Programs K12 Programs in Savannah Educating and inspiring the future scientists and engineers of the Coastal Region Home Courses Boot Camps OSHA Training Project Management Supply Chain & Logistics Programs Georgia Film Academy K-12 Programs Leadership Training Military Meetings Request for Proposal Coastal Impact STEM Enrichment for Students and Teachers Collaborating with K-12 schools, teachers, and students to strengthen pathways to careers in science, technology, and engineering, and math (STEM). Today’s world demands that students acquire a great understanding of advances in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) from an early age. In partnership with the Savannah Center for Education Integrating Science, Mathematics, and Computing (CEISMC), Georgia Tech-Savannah advocates for STEM exploration to improve appreciation, diversity, and performance in STEM fields. From intensive, innovative professional development for educators to highly engaging STEM in-school and extracurricular STEM experiences for kindergarten through high school (K-12) students, we offer programs that take advantage of the resources and expertise of the Georgia Tech community. Annually, our K12 programs impact more than 1,000 students and 80 teachers, while serving schools in the Bryan, Chatham, Effingham, and Liberty counties. In addition, we also offer satellite camps for rural communities across Georgia who are unable to offer their students high-quality STEAM-based programming during the summer. Student Programs Year-round STEM enrichment programs are available for local Savannah students to inspire their creativity and curiosity, while providing hands-on learning experiences to build tech and problem-solving skills. Programs range from one-week camps to weekend workshops, with a special focus on robotics, coding, virtual reality, logistics, and more. Learn More Events & Competitions From robotics to inventions and entrepreneurship, events and competitions provide K-12 students with unique, hands-on experiences to apply their classroom knowledge to fun challenges. Our annual competitions include: Elementary Science Olympiad Georgia First LEGO League K12 InVenutre Prize Professional Development for STEM Educators Learn innovative classroom approaches in real-world contexts that you can bring back to your classroom to encourage excitement about STEM learning. Our training includes support for K-12 InVenture Prize, EarSketch, Hummingbird Robotics, and Makerspaces. We also connect teachers to research and industry professional development opportunities through the GIFT program. Learn More The Effingham County School District is fortunate to benefit from a rewarding partnership with Georgia Tech-Savannah. Out students are exposed to a number of educational opportunities through Georgia Tech's CEISMC program that they would, otherwise be unable to experience. The program supports our district's ongoing efforts to offer students a variety of learning events in the areas of science, technology, engineering, and math. - Randy Shearhouse Superintendent K12 PROGRAM NEWS Savannah Students Put Their Heads Together for K-12 InVenture Prize Competition Dozens of students competed in the area's first regional qualifier for the K-12 InVenture Prize at Georgia Tech-Savannah. Learn More Students Get Creative During FIRST Lego Robotics Competition Children ages 9 to 16 participated in a "Into Orbit" competition during a FIRST Lego League regional meet. Learn More Saturday STEMlabs launched at Georgia Tech-Savannah From virtual reality to Internet of Things, Georgia Tech-Savannah brings STEM to the coastal region. Learn More Want to learn more about our K12 programs? Contact Us Resources Programs Browse by Subject Courses Certificates Degrees Military Programs ESL Georgia Tech Online Train at Your Location Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conferences About Us Executive Leadership Leadership Searches Impact Reports Savannah Campus The Language Institute Accreditation Contact Us FAQs Visit Us Georgia Tech Global Learning Center 84 5th St NW Atlanta GA 30308 USA Get Directions Phone: 404-385-3500 Emergency Information Legal and Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Report Website Issue © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology