Skip to main content Tech Moving Forward: Learn more about GTPE's health and safety guidelines for in-person learning and events as well as our expanded virtual course offerings and virtual event services. Menu Home Subjects Browse By Subject Area Business Computing Defense Technologies Digital Media Engineering Exam Prep K-12 Programs Languages Management Manufacturing Mathematics Occupational Safety & Health Personal Development Supply Chain & Logistics Programs All Program Offerings Courses Degrees Graduate Certificates Professional Certificates Boot Camps Savannah Campus Workplace Learning & Professional Development Partner With Us Corporate Education Train at Your Location Featured FinTechU Georgia Tech Summer K-12 Programs Military Programs ESL (English as a Second Language) Georgia Film Academy Georgia Tech Online All Online Offerings Online Courses Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) Savannah Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events In-Person Meetings Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conference Management Blog Georgia Tech Main Site Give Directory Sign In My Cart Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Mailing List YouTube Search Select Search Category Everything Courses & Programs Degree Programs Articles & News GTPE Website Search this site Home Programs All Program Offerings Boot Camps Georgia Tech Boot Camps Immersive skills-based training for in-demand careers Overview How You Benefit How It Works Overview Boot Camps Overview Advancements in technology are reshaping entire industries and drastically changing careers. As the future needs of the workplace continue to evolve, the skill sets required to harness and leverage these advances is also expanding. To accommodate the growing need for these in-demand skills, Georgia Tech Professional Education — in collaboration with Trilogy Education Services, a 2U, Inc. brand — offers 12- and 24-week boot camps in coding, data analytics, cybersecurity, and UX. Offered nights and weekends, the boot camps provide working professionals access to Georgia Tech's deep STEM expertise and hands-on training to master specialized skills needed to switch careers, upskill, or even launch their own startups. Learners will finish the boot camp with a wide set of technical skills, a portfolio of projects, and a Georgia Tech Program Certificate — showcasing their abilities and honing their competitive edge in the employment market. How You Benefit How You Benefit Interdisciplinary Curriculum Develop the most in-demand skills across coding, data, cyber, and UX/UI in a engaging learning environment that combines discussion, lab work, and hands-on projects. Flexible Schedule Participate in a convenient part-time format, allowing you to advance your skills over 24 weeks without leaving work. For those who wish to study at a faster pace, our coding boot camp offers a full-time schedule. Hands-On Learning Build a wide-ranging portfolio of projects and applications to showcase your abilities and demonstrate your knowledge of the skills you are mastering. Support Services Benefit from a dedicated Student Success Manager to navigate the program and support your transition into the industry. How It Works How It Works Admission All interested applicants will need to fill out an application interest form on the Trilogy Education Services website. After the form is submitted, an admissions advisor from Trilogy will be in touch for next steps. Applicants will be required to go through an initial phone interview with an advisor and those who are recommended to move forward will then take a critical thinking and problem-solving test. Those who pass the academic test will have a final interview to determine if they are accepted into the program. Cost Boot camp tuition is $10,000 with offers for early registration pricing, scholarships, and payment plans. To get details on tuition cost and any available financial options, please call a Trilogy admission advisor at 404-369-3107. Completion Learners are given access to professional development services including mock interviews, portfolio or homework reviews, resume support, soft-skills training, and more to help equip you for success in the job search. Upon successful completion of the program, participants will earn a Georgia Tech Program Certificate, showcasing your accomplishments to future employers. Browse Boot Camp Offerings Coding Boot Camp Gain key skills needed to learn computer science fundamentals and become proficient in front and back-end technologies. You'll understand how to build sites with responsive layouts and how to create and program interactive games. Plus you'll learn how to present your app projects with confidence. Learn More Cyber and Network Security Boot Camp Receive a multidisciplinary approach to attaining proficiency in IT, networking, and modern information security while gaining experience with a host of tools, such as Wireshark, Kali Linux, Metasploit, and Burp Suite, and receiving training towards certifications such as Security+, Network+, and CISSP. Learn More Data Science and Analytics Boot Camp Focus on the practical and technical skills needed to analyze and solve complex data analytics and visualization problems. You'll master the fundamentals of statistics, Python programming, databases, front end web visualization, and business intelligence software. You'll also gain experience with a host of technologies such as Excel, Python, JavaScript, and more. Learn More Digital Marketing Boot Camp Gain the fundamental knowledge, skills, and abilities needed for the modern marketer in the digital era. This program will introduce you to topics from the basics of marketing to deep dives on today's digital channels and combine theory with practical applications in areas like lead generation, pay-per-click advertising, social media marketing, SEO, and A/B testing. Learn More Product Management Boot Camp Receive hands-on experience building products and gain skills in areas like roadmap development, feature prioritization, sprint planning and execution, persona development, rapid prototyping, and customer insight analysis. You''ll also gain experience tools like Product Pl an and Jira. Learn More UX/UI Boot Camp Discover the theory and tools used by modern designers, employing user-centered design and creative tools to build compelling designs and user experiences. You'll master user-centric design research, visual prototyping and wireframing, user interface development, and more. Learn More Participating in the Georgia Tech Cyber and Network Security Boot Camp transformed my competitiveness in the job market and made my skill set more relevant to employers. It was a key ingredient to landing a new job. - Eddie Radford Principal Architect RECENT BOOT CAMP NEWS The Growth in America's Workforce A hot U.S. job market is coaxing people in from the sidelines. Learn More From Dishwasher to Software Engineer Recipient of the Full Stack Web Development Certificate shares his success story. Learn More Certificate Program Offered in Peachtree Corners A business incubator in Peachtree Corners is teaming up with Georgia Tech to offer the Georgia Tech Coding Boot Camp beginning January 2019. Learn More Students Leave Coding Boot Camp with Real Projects Coding Boot Camp program is giving aspiring techies the crucial hands on experience needed to help fill the local job shortage. Learn More Sandy Seay Steps Out of Comfort Zone Sales Manager shares the challenges she faced as an adult learner and how she overcame them. Learn More Ready to take the next step? Contact Trilogy Education Services to learn more about boot camps. Contact Trilogy Resources Programs Browse by Subject Courses Certificates Degrees Military Programs ESL Georgia Tech Online Train at Your Location Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conferences About Us Executive Leadership Leadership Searches Impact Reports Savannah Campus The Language Institute Accreditation Contact Us FAQs Visit Us Georgia Tech Global Learning Center 84 5th St NW Atlanta GA 30308 USA Get Directions Phone: 404-385-3500 Emergency Information Legal and Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Report Website Issue © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology