Skip to main content Tech Moving Forward: Learn more about GTPE's health and safety guidelines for in-person learning and events as well as our expanded virtual course offerings and virtual event services. Menu Home Subjects Browse By Subject Area Business Computing Defense Technologies Digital Media Engineering Exam Prep K-12 Programs Languages Management Manufacturing Mathematics Occupational Safety & Health Personal Development Supply Chain & Logistics Programs All Program Offerings Courses Degrees Graduate Certificates Professional Certificates Boot Camps Savannah Campus Workplace Learning & Professional Development Partner With Us Corporate Education Train at Your Location Featured FinTechU Georgia Tech Summer K-12 Programs Military Programs ESL (English as a Second Language) Georgia Film Academy Georgia Tech Online All Online Offerings Online Courses Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) Savannah Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events In-Person Meetings Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conference Management Blog Georgia Tech Main Site Give Directory Sign In My Cart Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Mailing List YouTube Search Select Search Category Everything Courses & Programs Degree Programs Articles & News GTPE Website Search this site Home Blog Meet Tania Allen Working & Learning Meet Tania Allen Apr 13, 2016 | By GTPE Communications tania-allen-1900x930.jpg For Cybersecurity Certificate Program graduate, Tania Allen, what began as a career step turned out to be a giant professional leap forward leading to a new business opportunity. The IT professional with a decade of experience, who had taken several years’ break to raise her children, signed up for the certificate program at Georgia Tech Professional Education (GTPE) to become current in her field. But as she progressed through the dynamic five-course program, she saw the chance to reinvent herself and plot a unique career path as an entrepreneur. Today, she runs ItGresa Consulting Group, an IT services company she founded soon after completing the program. Allen credits GTPE’s Cybersecurity Certificate Program for preparing her to take on this challenge. “The program gave me the confidence to start my own company,” she said. “I’ve used what I’ve learned to create service products for small businesses and home networks that I can market to potential clients.” Originally from Venezuela, where she worked in the oil industry, Allen identified a need in the market that her company is ideally positioned to meet. “Since I’m from South America, one of my areas of specialization is the Latin American community, which is an underserved demographic, especially in IT and cybersecurity,” she explained. Courses leading to the Cybersecurity Certificate Program at GTPE are held at the Global Learning Center on Tech Square, Atlanta’s technology innovation hub. Allen found the traditional classroom format ideal because she was able to interact face-to-face with instructors and other learners. She also appreciated the applied learning aspect of the program. "Not only are the instructors the best in the industry, but the labs are hands on and you get real-life experience using the techniques you're taught," she noted. "It's not only about academics but also about effectively using the tools to achieve a goal." Contributions from other learners can be particularly valuable because of the diverse backgrounds and work experience they bring to a class, which Allen found to be true in her case. “My classmates came from industry and government, so the knowledge and real-life experiences they shared in class enriched my learning,” she said. Now that she’s earned a prestigious Georgia Tech credential and launched her own business, what’s next for this forward-thinking entrepreneur? Considering the fast-paced nature of her field and the constantly evolving cyber threats businesses face, Allen believes that professional education is crucial for her future success. “When it comes to IT, you can’t stop learning. I plan to take more courses to stay up to date in cybersecurity and to learn more about mobile security. I’m also planning on taking some business classes." she said. "I’d love to see what GTPE has to offer!” You May Also Like Working & Learning Post-Pandemic Workplaces: Take Control of Your Career Apr 21, 2022 | Kelsey Harris When the Covid-19 pandemic struck in the spring of 2020, entire industries and labor markets saw disruption seemingly overnight. From furloughs to job losses and the transition to remote work, the... Read Article > Working & Learning Keeping Workplaces Healthy and Safe Apr 14, 2022 | GTPE Communications Cara Eck is a picture of lifelong learning. Having discovered her passion for safety and health, her career and learning journeys are evidence of the value that professional education provides for... Read Article > Join Our List The latest insights in tech, business, and leadership straight to your inbox each month. Sign Up Connect With Us Join the conversation on the latest industry news and academic offerings. Resources Programs Browse by Subject Courses Certificates Degrees Military Programs ESL Georgia Tech Online Train at Your Location Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conferences About Us Executive Leadership Leadership Searches Impact Reports Savannah Campus The Language Institute Accreditation Contact Us FAQs Visit Us Georgia Tech Global Learning Center 84 5th St NW Atlanta GA 30308 USA Get Directions Phone: 404-385-3500 Emergency Information Legal and Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Report Website Issue © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology