Skip to main content Tech Moving Forward: Learn more about GTPE's health and safety guidelines for in-person learning and events as well as our expanded virtual course offerings and virtual event services. Menu Home Subjects Browse By Subject Area Business Computing Defense Technologies Digital Media Engineering Exam Prep K-12 Programs Languages Management Manufacturing Mathematics Occupational Safety & Health Personal Development Supply Chain & Logistics Programs All Program Offerings Courses Degrees Graduate Certificates Professional Certificates Boot Camps Savannah Campus Workplace Learning & Professional Development Partner With Us Corporate Education Train at Your Location Featured FinTechU Georgia Tech Summer K-12 Programs Military Programs ESL (English as a Second Language) Georgia Film Academy Georgia Tech Online All Online Offerings Online Courses Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) Savannah Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events In-Person Meetings Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conference Management Blog Georgia Tech Main Site Give Directory Sign In My Cart Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Mailing List YouTube Search Select Search Category Everything Courses & Programs Degree Programs Articles & News GTPE Website Search this site Home Blog Meet Anargyros Antonopoulos Learner Stories Meet Anargyros Antonopoulos Nov 19, 2015 | By Danielle Goss Anargyros_Antonopoulos.jpg Ever since graduation, Georgia Tech School of Civil and Environmental Engineering alumnus, Anargyros Antonopoulos, has relied on GTPE’s professional development programs to advance his career in the construction industry. After receiving his master’s in civil engineering in 2012, and achieving a 3.8 GPA, he soon landed a job as a project engineer at LEVEL5, an Atlanta-based company specializing in design-build. Within a year and a half, he was promoted twice and now holds the position of project manager. He credits GTPE for helping him transition to his new career. “The programs are top quality and related directly to what I do,” he said. Antonopoulos has completed several professional development courses at GTPE, which have led to highly regarded industry credentials – one of them being the Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certificate. And in September this year, he became GTPE’s first learner to be awarded the Certificate in Advanced Problem Solving. He was drawn to the advanced problem solving certificate program because of its hands-on, application-based approach to tackling challenges project managers often face. Rather than exploring theories in a purely academic setting, the program requires learners to apply their knowledge and skills to solve the real-world problems presented in industry pertinent case studies. Antonopoulos completed the demanding program within six months and found it valuable for several reasons. Learning about ways of thinking about problems and the approaches to solving them brought an instant benefit – he was able to incorporate his new skills in his day-to-day work to make overt improvements. “Being in the construction industry, I have to solve problems every day. And they’re different each time. Having a framework for approaching them is important,” he explained. Another aspect of the program that was immediately applicable to his job was the course he took on leading engineering teams, which was an elective he selected as part of the program. In his role as project manager, a large part of his work entails leading teams. The opportunity for him to take the course as part of the program was an added advantage. And an unexpected highlight, for Antonopoulos, was the opportunity to interact with other learners from different professional backgrounds and to discover a variety of perspectives. “I found it valuable to be exposed to other mindsets and to see how classmates from other industries see the same topics and approach similar problems,” he said. Despite having earned two renowned industry credentials at GTPE, this forward-focused professional has no intention of taking a break from learning. Passionate about his career and constantly on the lookout for opportunities to improve, he sees professional education as crucial for helping him achieve his goals. “Day-to-day experience and learning on the job is valuable but to advance, you need to combine it with professional education. Blending work experience with formal instruction to get the best of both is important,” he said. You May Also Like Learner Stories Family Ties: Father and Son Take Power Systems Certificate Program Jun 26, 2019 | GTPE Communications It’s not uncommon for multiple generations of a family to attend the same university. But at the same time? Not usually.... Read Article > Working & Learning Keeping Workplaces Healthy and Safe Apr 14, 2022 | GTPE Communications Cara Eck is a picture of lifelong learning. Having discovered her passion for safety and health, her career and learning journeys are evidence of the value that professional education provides for... Read Article > Join Our List The latest insights in tech, business, and leadership straight to your inbox each month. Sign Up Connect With Us Join the conversation on the latest industry news and academic offerings. Resources Programs Browse by Subject Courses Certificates Degrees Military Programs ESL Georgia Tech Online Train at Your Location Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conferences About Us Executive Leadership Leadership Searches Impact Reports Savannah Campus The Language Institute Accreditation Contact Us FAQs Visit Us Georgia Tech Global Learning Center 84 5th St NW Atlanta GA 30308 USA Get Directions Phone: 404-385-3500 Emergency Information Legal and Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Report Website Issue © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology