Skip to main content Tech Moving Forward: Learn more about GTPE's health and safety guidelines for in-person learning and events as well as our expanded virtual course offerings and virtual event services. Menu Home Subjects Browse By Subject Area Business Computing Defense Technologies Digital Media Engineering Exam Prep K-12 Programs Languages Management Manufacturing Mathematics Occupational Safety & Health Personal Development Supply Chain & Logistics Programs All Program Offerings Courses Degrees Graduate Certificates Professional Certificates Boot Camps Savannah Campus Workplace Learning & Professional Development Partner With Us Corporate Education Train at Your Location Featured FinTechU Georgia Tech Summer K-12 Programs Military Programs ESL (English as a Second Language) Georgia Film Academy Georgia Tech Online All Online Offerings Online Courses Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) Savannah Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events In-Person Meetings Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conference Management Blog Georgia Tech Main Site Give Directory Sign In My Cart Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Mailing List YouTube Search Select Search Category Everything Courses & Programs Degree Programs Articles & News GTPE Website Search this site Home Workplace Learning & Professional Development Workplace Learning & Professional Development Find Your Next Learning Opportunity About Services Team Location Contact Learning Course Catalog Programs ASPIRE MentorTech New Employees Professional Development Circles People Leaders Resources Course Catalog Custom Training Campus Learning Directory Interruptions Podcast Additional Resources News from WLPD The Workplace Learning & Professional Development (WLPD) team is dedicated to advancing Georgia Tech's mission and our community members' career potential through engaging and applicable learning that can be immediately integrated into your day-to-day activities. The foundation of our learning and development opportunities are centered around the Institute’s vision, beliefs, and newly articulated values. As such, we provide an array of personalized learning competencies and skills that are relevant and engaging, allowing you to facilitate the development of your professional learning goals and add lifetime value to your career at Georgia Tech. VIEW OUR UPCOMING PROGRAMS ASPIREMentorTechProfessional Circles Faculty & Staff Learning Portal To help centralize and streamline training, learning, and development opportunities across campus, Georgia Tech has launched a new online learning portal to help employees grow their knowledge, skills, and abilities, while quickly gaining access to required trainings and professional development. View Course Catalog Learn Now WHAT WE DO Values-Based Learning Our learning catalog is deliberately connected to each of Georgia Tech’s nine organizational values, defining who we are and who we aspire to be as a community. Learn More about Values-Based Learning > Signature Programs In addition to in-person and virtual workshops, we offer signature programming developed with a specific audience and professional development needs in mind. Learn More about our Signature Programs > Curated Learning As a Georgia Tech employee, you have a suite of learning resources available to you, both on and off campus, curated by our team to meet your professional development needs. Learn More about Learning Resources > Customized Training We serve as a learning partner to campus, providing customized training — in the form of learning design and delivery, meeting facilitation, and speaking engagements — to help teams build upon their talents. Learn more about Customized Training > The members of Workplace Learning & Professional Development are thoughtful and candid, creating a safe space to learn. - Crystal Rosser Donors Relations Associate Office of Development Meet Our Team Whether facilitating discussions, leading in-depth sessions, or running professional development programs, our team of energetic learning and development professionals are your guides to meaningful and purposeful career-long learning. LaTrese Ferguson Director, Workplace Learning & Professional Development As a multi-talented learning professional, LaTrese Ferguson has expertise in instructional design and delivery, quality management, and people management. However, her first love is standing in front of an audience facilitating insightful discussions. Learn more Monte Hammon Training Coordinator Monte Hammon understands that the world is consistently changing and to keep up you must change, too. His interest ranges from diversity and customer service to music and aesthetics and he merges all these elements into his daily routine of change. Learn more Bryan Harber Learning Consultant Whether working for municipal government, state government, higher education, or Fortune 100 and 500 companies, Bryan Harber has always been passionate about the development of organizations and the employees that carry out its mission. Learn more Yvette Francis Senior Learning Consultant As a dynamic learning professional, Yvette Francis fosters meaningful relationships, facilitates insightful conversations, and develops impactful learning experiences. Having worked in both the public and private sectors, Yvette equips adult learners with the tools and resources for professional and personal success. Learn more Rachel Watts Senior Learning Consultant Throughout her career, Rachel Watts has developed and delivered training in a wide range of topics. Working in higher education and on a Ph.D., she uses research-based instructional design methods to help learners achieve results and maximize their potential. Learn more Subscribe to our Newsletter Want customized learning content, news, and updates straight to your inbox each month? Join Our List 1_g7hg0e4i A Message from WLPD: We are dedicated to advancing Georgia Tech’s mission by leveraging our community values to provide engaging, applicable, learning. How to Find Us Most in-classroom courses and programs take place at the Georgia Tech Global Learning Center (GLC) in Midtown Atlanta at the intersection of 5th and Spring Streets in the heart of Tech Square — Atlanta's thriving innovation community. We are accessible by foot, bus, and car. Georgia Tech Campus Map Georgia Tech Live Bus Tracking GLC Directions & Parking News from WLPD Echoes of Each Other Mentorship is an essential part of personal and professional growth, as it allows us to self-reflect, seek advice,... Learn More New Tool Guides People Leaders The arrival of a new year ushers in a season of refreshed and new ambitions. As a people leader, it is vital to... Learn More 2022 Cohort of Aspiring Leaders Announced This semester, Workplace Learning & Professional Development kicked off their third cohort of APSPIRE, one of... Learn More National Mentoring Month If you have a desire to empower others or if you are interested in taking ownership of your professional growth in 2... Learn More GTPE Leads Launch of Employee Learning and Training Platform Employee training, learning, and development are fundamental to employee engagement and performance. From orientation... Learn More Institute Value Spotlight: Collaboration Continuing Georgia Tech’s campaign, Living Our Values Every Day (L.O.V.E. GT), the opinion-based podcast series from... Learn More Understanding Workplace Values In Fall 2020, Georgia Tech introduced a new 10-year strategic plan, grounded in a new mission statement and nine... Learn More Find Your Next Learning Opportunity After a recent move aimed at centralizing workforce development and professional learning at Georgia Tech, the... Learn More How to Create Leadership Fluency In this article in Industry Training Magazine, published in July/August 2021, Training Generalists, Rachel Watts and... Learn More Values-Based Learning is Here! The campus community is all abuzz with enthusiasm around our newly articulated values. As we all attempt to live our... Learn More Partnership Strengthens Lifelong Learning Opportunities for Tech Employees Members of the Georgia Tech Human Resources (GTHR) and Georgia Tech Professional Education (GTPE) leadership teams... Learn More Employee Learning Opportunities Plentiful on Campus For some Tech faculty and staff, summer is a little less hectic than the rest of the year. So, the coming months may... Learn More Questions? Have questions or comments about what we do? Need a specific learning resource? Contact Us Resources Programs Browse by Subject Courses Certificates Degrees Military Programs ESL Georgia Tech Online Train at Your Location Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conferences About Us Executive Leadership Leadership Searches Impact Reports Savannah Campus The Language Institute Accreditation Contact Us FAQs Visit Us Georgia Tech Global Learning Center 84 5th St NW Atlanta GA 30308 USA Get Directions Phone: 404-385-3500 Emergency Information Legal and Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Report Website Issue © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology