Skip to main content Tech Moving Forward: Learn more about GTPE's health and safety guidelines for in-person learning and events as well as our expanded virtual course offerings and virtual event services. Menu Home Subjects Browse By Subject Area Business Computing Defense Technologies Digital Media Engineering Exam Prep K-12 Programs Languages Management Manufacturing Mathematics Occupational Safety & Health Personal Development Supply Chain & Logistics Programs All Program Offerings Courses Degrees Graduate Certificates Professional Certificates Boot Camps Savannah Campus Workplace Learning & Professional Development Partner With Us Corporate Education Train at Your Location Featured FinTechU Georgia Tech Summer K-12 Programs Military Programs ESL (English as a Second Language) Georgia Film Academy Georgia Tech Online All Online Offerings Online Courses Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) Savannah Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events In-Person Meetings Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conference Management Blog Georgia Tech Main Site Give Directory Sign In My Cart Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Mailing List YouTube Search Select Search Category Everything Courses & Programs Degree Programs Articles & News GTPE Website Search this site Home Georgia Tech-Savannah Leadership Training Leadership Training Building and sustaining Savannah leaders Home Courses Boot Camps OSHA Training Project Management Supply Chain & Logistics Programs Georgia Film Academy K-12 Programs Leadership Training Military Meetings Request for Proposal Coastal Impact Leadership Seminars, Workshops, and Professional Certificates Georgia Tech-Savannah provides training for today's workplace leaders to develop outstanding leadership skills, foster visionaries, and tool area executives with actionable goals that will directly improve their performance as employees and their greater vision for their employers. From two-day workshops to interactive business sessions and a professional leadership certificate, our leadership training is designed to provide quick and timely high-level education for all of Savannah's leaders. Learners and leaders discuss succession planning Succession planning involves passing the "baton" on to the next group of leaders, and it is an often overlooked step among organizations. Watch the video Training Overview Professional Leadership Certificate Leading Well Workshops Learners & Leaders Breakfast Series Professional Leadership Certificate Focused on assisting emerging leaders to accelerate their careers by differentiating their leadership skills and business acumen through education and self discovery, the professional leadership certificate will generate high-value returns and practical results for organizations while preparing leaders for today's ever-changing business environments. You will gain a broader understanding of core business operations while enhancing critical leadership skills to navigate business environments driven by innovation and global markets. Required courses are segmented into three focused areas of learning: leading from within, leading others, and leading organizations. More Leading Well Workshops Do you want to take your leadership skills to the next level? Leading Well is a workshop series designed for tomorrow’s leaders. This high-level leadership training will prepare participants in a variety of areas. Executives want middle- and upper-level managers who are trailblazers – individuals who connect with people, deliver consistent results, drive innovation and much more. It’s a tough role to fill and finding time to fine tune these skills is scarce. That’s why Georgia Tech-Savannah developed the Leading Well series – a collection of workshops that help professional pacesetters develop leadership skills within a time frame that is manageable. The workshops were built to delve into developing outstanding leadership skills, foster visionaries, and tool executives with actionable goals. Some of the topics include working with a multigenerational workforce, apply project management fundamentals, leading change and maximizing innovation, and improvement. More Learners & Leaders Breakfast Series The Learners & Leaders Breakfast series provides established and emerging Savannah-area leaders the opportunity to gain knowledge on current, relevant, and interesting topics relevant to the local business community. Designed with input from the Savannah business community, the leadership trainings reveal ways companies can maintain a competitive edge to survive in today's economy. Each session includes breakfast, networking, and special guest speakers exploring topics such as technology, innovation, safety management, coaching and mentoring, as well as larger topics like port sustainability. Past speakers have included: Melissa Furman, assistant dean for the James M. Hull College of Business at Augusta University Don Wiggins, president of Business Valuation & Heritage Capital Group G'Sean Williams, executive director of the Supply Chain and Supplier Performance at SMS Advisors More BROWSE SAVANNAH LEADERSHIP TRAINING LEADING WELL WORKSHOPS One- or two-day seminars that address topics as varied as focused performance management, building and leading high-performance teams, maximizing innovation, and improvement. Workshops can be taken individually, or you can earn a Georgia Tech Professional Leadership Certificate by successfully completing all required courses. Leading Well: Relating to Others (MNGT PE01P) Part of the Leading Well workshop series, this one-day course focuses on leadership fundamentals, such as critical thinking and emotional intelligence. You will explore matching various management styles to meet the challenges and needs of changing environments; the best ways to communicate wi... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions There are no sessions scheduled at this time. Please check again later. Course Details Leading Well: Living the Project Lifecycle (MNGT PE13P) Organizations exist in an ever-changing world and implementation of new ideas is essential to adapting to the marketplace. Project management skills and techniques will provide managers with a framework for adapting projects to your organizational environment and ensuring success from applying... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions There are no sessions scheduled at this time. Please check again later. Course Details Leading Well: Maximizing Innovation and Improvement (MNGT PE04P) As part of the Leading Well workshop series, this one-day course positions leaders to be effective change agents through continuous improvement. From the rationale for continuous improvement to the tools and techniques that support such efforts and how to assess the return on investment of you... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions There are no sessions scheduled at this time. Please check again later. Course Details Leading Well: Managing and Leading a Multigenerational Organization (MNGT PE12P) This workshop is designed for emerging leaders or career professionals who are or will be responsible for executing organizational strategy with an integrated view of the organization, in a wide cross-section of industries including those active in business, education, government, nonprofit, a... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions There are no sessions scheduled at this time. Please check again later. Course Details Leading Well: Leading Change (MNGT PE11P) Change management is a structured approach for ensuring that changes are thoroughly and smoothly implemented, and that the lasting benefits of change are achieved. This session explores the wider impacts of change, particularly on people and how they, as individuals and teams, move from the cu... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions There are no sessions scheduled at this time. Please check again later. Course Details Leading Well: Building and Leading High-Performing Teams (MNGT PE03P) Part of the Leading Well workshop series, this one-day course explores various aspects of teams. You'll discuss team dynamics, the team lifecycle, employee motivation models, conflict-resolution models, and the power of celebrating team and individual successes. You will gain hands-on experien... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions There are no sessions scheduled at this time. Please check again later. Course Details Leading Well: Meeting Goals Through Focused Performance Management (MNGT PE08P) The Leading Well workshop series encompasses the four key themes leaders need to be successful in today’s competitive and ever changing environment. This course will emphasize the second theme: achieving results. Leaders responsible for managing processes, departments, and teams are critical f... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions There are no sessions scheduled at this time. Please check again later. Course Details Leading Well: Overcoming Unconscious Bias (MNGT PE14P) Everybody sees the world through a personalize lens that has been shaped by their experiences and that lens can impact unconscious thinking. There is a direct link between our unconscious thinking and actions and behaviors which can result in the development of unconscious biases. This trainin... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions There are no sessions scheduled at this time. Please check again later. Course Details Leading Well: Managing and Leading in a Virtual Environment (MNGT PE15P) Virtual teams often evolve and can be commonplace for many organizations. Most virtual teams are proactively created to achieve strategic goals; however, they can also be reactively created in response to a crisis, emergency, or sudden change to a physical workspace. Whether proactively or rea... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions There are no sessions scheduled at this time. Please check again later. Course Details LEARNERS & LEADERS BREAKFAST SERIES Interactive breakfast sessions designed to provide quick and timely high-level education for area leaders on topics such as technology, innovation, sustainability, challenges, solutions for port regions, safety management, and more. Learning Series: What Successful Women Know that All Women Should Know (MNGT SS30P) As the workplace becomes more gender diverse, women are faced with many challenges as it relates to their career success. This session is designed for men and women as men play a critical role in helping women overcome challenges to maximize career development and personal success. Topics will... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions There are no sessions scheduled at this time. Please check again later. Course Details More The Learners & Leaders series provides opportunities for members of the local business community to learn from experienced professionals. I was excited to serve on the business panel for the Succession Planning breakfast. It allowed business leaders to understand the different models used to plan for the future of their company from local experts. - Al Kennickell President Want to learn more about our leadership training? Contact Us Resources Programs Browse by Subject Courses Certificates Degrees Military Programs ESL Georgia Tech Online Train at Your Location Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conferences About Us Executive Leadership Leadership Searches Impact Reports Savannah Campus The Language Institute Accreditation Contact Us FAQs Visit Us Georgia Tech Global Learning Center 84 5th St NW Atlanta GA 30308 USA Get Directions Phone: 404-385-3500 Emergency Information Legal and Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Report Website Issue © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology