Skip to main content Tech Moving Forward: Learn more about GTPE's health and safety guidelines for in-person learning and events as well as our expanded virtual course offerings and virtual event services. Menu Home Subjects Browse By Subject Area Business Computing Defense Technologies Digital Media Engineering Exam Prep K-12 Programs Languages Management Manufacturing Mathematics Occupational Safety & Health Personal Development Supply Chain & Logistics Programs All Program Offerings Courses Degrees Graduate Certificates Professional Certificates Boot Camps Savannah Campus Workplace Learning & Professional Development Partner With Us Corporate Education Train at Your Location Featured FinTechU Georgia Tech Summer K-12 Programs Military Programs ESL (English as a Second Language) Georgia Film Academy Georgia Tech Online All Online Offerings Online Courses Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) Savannah Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events In-Person Meetings Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conference Management Blog Georgia Tech Main Site Give Directory Sign In My Cart Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Mailing List YouTube Search Select Search Category Everything Courses & Programs Degree Programs Articles & News GTPE Website Search this site Home Blog Coasting with the Clarks GTPE News Coasting with the Clarks Georgia Tech-Savannah's Russ Clark featured in Richmond Hill Neighbors for water sensor success Oct 14, 2021 | By GTPE Communications clarks-1900x930.jpg Russ and Karen Clark. Photo Cred: Megan Myrick Photography. Russ Clark and his wife Karen were recently featured in the Richmond Hill Neighbors magazine, highlighting their life and involvement in the Savannah suburb. Russ Clark is the director of Mobile Technology & IoT Programs at Georgia Tech-Savannah, and his leadership in the Smart Sea Level Sensors program has been instrumental in keeping the coastal community safe from tide and flood risks. Clark completed his bachelor’s degree at Vanderbilt University and then went on to receive his masters and Ph.D. from Georgia Tech. Now, Clark splits his time between Georgia Tech’s Atlanta campus, where he is the senior research scientist in the School of Computer Science, and its Savannah campus, where he directs the Mobile Technology and IoT programs. In 2018, Clark helped launch the Smart Sea Level Sensors program, a partnership between Georgia Tech Savannah researchers, Chatham County Emergency Management (CEMA) and the City of Savannah. The project was born out of a lack of sufficient and accurate data to prepare for the increasingly frequent hurricanes along the Georgia coast. Clark, relying on his engineering and computer science background from Georgia Tech, worked with a team of research scientists to develop sensor technology that could affordably establish local visibility of water level conditions at each bridge in Chatham County, determine which ones need to be inspected, and relay necessary actions to be taken to ensure its safety. The program is proving successful in Savannah and Chatham Counties, providing data to better predict weather and water patterns in the area, and plans have been made for its expansion along the entire Georgia coast. richmond-hill-neighbors.JPG Read the full story about Russ Clark and the Smart Sea Level Sensors program here. You May Also Like GTPE News GTPE Forms Digital First Task Force Dec 01, 2021 | GTPE Communications Since the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic, organizations and working professionals are using digital tools and automation more than ever. ... Read Article > Industry & Trends Partnering for Success Mar 28, 2022 | GTPE Communications Training, reskilling, and equipping management for the future are all hot topics for organizations today. Just as it is important for individual managers to equip themselves with the skills to grow... Read Article > Join Our List The latest insights in tech, business, and leadership straight to your inbox each month. Sign Up Connect With Us Join the conversation on the latest industry news and academic offerings. Resources Programs Browse by Subject Courses Certificates Degrees Military Programs ESL Georgia Tech Online Train at Your Location Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conferences About Us Executive Leadership Leadership Searches Impact Reports Savannah Campus The Language Institute Accreditation Contact Us FAQs Visit Us Georgia Tech Global Learning Center 84 5th St NW Atlanta GA 30308 USA Get Directions Phone: 404-385-3500 Emergency Information Legal and Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Report Website Issue © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology