Skip to main content Tech Moving Forward: Learn more about GTPE's health and safety guidelines for in-person learning and events as well as our expanded virtual course offerings and virtual event services. Menu Home Subjects Browse By Subject Area Business Computing Defense Technologies Digital Media Engineering Exam Prep K-12 Programs Languages Management Manufacturing Mathematics Occupational Safety & Health Personal Development Supply Chain & Logistics Programs All Program Offerings Courses Degrees Graduate Certificates Professional Certificates Boot Camps Savannah Campus Workplace Learning & Professional Development Partner With Us Corporate Education Train at Your Location Featured FinTechU Georgia Tech Summer K-12 Programs Military Programs ESL (English as a Second Language) Georgia Film Academy Georgia Tech Online All Online Offerings Online Courses Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) Savannah Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events In-Person Meetings Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conference Management Blog Georgia Tech Main Site Give Directory Sign In My Cart Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Mailing List YouTube Search Select Search Category Everything Courses & Programs Degree Programs Articles & News GTPE Website Search this site Home About Us Accreditation About Us Inspire to innovate. Empower to learn. Enable to succeed. Defining 21st Century Learning for Professionals From personal enrichment to career advancement, we believe lifelong learning is the vehicle of individual progress. As an academic unit of Georgia Tech, we give professionals — and the organizations they help power forward — multiple pathways to the world-class offerings at Georgia Tech. By leveraging our legacy as a technology, business, and innovation leader, our learners are evolving, adapting, and advancing at every stage of their careers. 21k+ graduate and undergraduate students enrolled in online degree programs 350+ courses and certificate programs offered in STEM and business fields. 11k+ guests and over 111 events at The Global Learning Center per year. World Class Education Get the best of both worlds — academic rigor and hands-on practical training. Browse Subjects MEET OUR EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP TEAM Our executive leadership team works closely with the Dean, Dr. Nelson Baker, to provide strategic counsel as well as oversight of the division's academic programs, business operations, development, learning systems, and student affairs. Nelson Baker, Ph.D. Dean, Professional Education Nelson Baker is the dean of GTPE and associate professor in the university’s School of Civil and Environmental Engineering. Learn more Nisha Botchwey, Ph.D. Associate Dean, Academic Programs Nisha Botchwey collaborates with faculty and the Georgia Tech community to develop world class academic programs for Georgia Tech Professional Education. Learn more Yakut Gazi, Ph.D. Associate Dean, Learning Systems Yakut Gazi joined GTPE to lead initiatives in creating and delivering world-class content across a variety of media to learners across the globe. Learn more Stephen Harmon, Ed.D. Associate Dean, Research The appointment of Stephen Harmon marks a unique collaboration between GTPE, C21U, and the College of Design, the three units he serves. Learn more Diane Lee Executive Director of Georgia Tech-Savannah Diane Lee manages the daily campus operations while working with regional community and business leaders to assess the educational needs of Coastal Georgia. Learn more Patrice Miles Assistant Dean, Business Operations Patrice works to align the division's business objectives with academic programs, while creating and sustaining effective processes to support customer service. Learn more What We Offer We offer professional development courses, certificate programs, and online master’s degrees to career-focused individuals in STEM, business, and leadership fields worldwide. We are a proven partner for organizations, providing training on site to help shape their workforce and solve relevant real-world problems. Our programs are engaging and rigorous, and include the technological and educational excellence that have earned Georgia Tech an international reputation. Where We're Located Most in-classroom courses and programs take place at the Global Learning Center (GLC) in the heart of Tech Square - Atlanta's thriving innovation community. The GLC is our home and the facility of choice for corporate meetings, conferences, and other events. We also have a satellite campus at Georgia Tech-Savannah that includes fully equipped classrooms and meeting facilities offering video conferencing and streaming technology. Get Directions The Lifetime Learner Spotlighting the industries, trends, and skills driving disruption in education, the workforce, and the people in them. Future of Work: A Lifelong Learning Mindset During uncertain times, education has been a persistent and powerful tool for our individual and collective ability... Learn More Post-Pandemic Workplaces: Take Control of Your Career When the Covid-19 pandemic struck in the spring of 2020, entire industries and labor markets saw disruption seemingly... Learn More Keeping Workplaces Healthy and Safe Cara Eck is a picture of lifelong learning. Having discovered her passion for safety and health, her career and lear... Learn More Growing Through The Stages For most working adults, ongoing professional education is a fact of life. Today’s workers, regardless of experience,... Learn More Partnering for Success Training, reskilling, and equipping management for the future are all hot topics for organizations today. Just as it... Learn More Industry Trends: Data Science and Analytics Big data isn’t going away, and the better we understand what data reveals, the clearer the road to success. As a... Learn More Echoes of Each Other Mentorship is an essential part of personal and professional growth, as it allows us to self-reflect, seek advice,... Learn More Learner, Leader, and Inspirer in Workplace Safety When Carlos Alvarado started his safety career, he never could have imagined how integral a commitment to... Learn More Women in Construction: The Value of Mentorship The Occupational Safety and Health (OSH) field, like many STEM-based fields, is an energy-intensive industry that re... Learn More The Future of Master’s Degree Programs in Data Science As the demand for data scientists grows in response to an increasingly data-reliant economy, data science education... Learn More BIPOC Youth Learn Map-Making to Build Disaster Resilience In an effort to empower youth in underserved communities, the Georgia Tech-based project Visualizing Resilience:... Learn More NFTs: A Digital Token of Love If you have yet to order your mom or other Valentine flowers or a card, you’re not alone. Most of us wait until the ... Learn More See All News Download the Brochure Explore the variety of professional development opportunities offered at GTPE. Download Brochure Additional Information Accreditation Accreditation The Georgia Institute of Technology is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC) to award baccalaureate, masters, and doctoral degrees. Contact the Commission on Colleges at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, GA 30033-4097 or call 404-679-4500 for questions about the accreditation of Georgia Tech Institute of Technology. Additional information can also be found on the SACSCOC website. NC-SARA Approval The Institute has been approved by the state of Georgia to participate in the National Council for State Authorization Reciprocity Agreements (NC-SARA). NC-SARA is a voluntary, regional approach to state oversight of postsecondary distance education. The State Authorization Reciprocity Agreement (SARA) is an agreement among member states, districts, and territories that establish comparable national standards for interstate offering of postsecondary distance education courses and programs. It is intended to make it easier for students to take online courses offered by postsecondary institutions based in another state. SARA is overseen by a National Council and administered by four regional education compacts. Impact Impact Reports Georgia Tech Professional Education has been serving working professionals' and industry partner education needs on behalf of Georgia Tech for over 100 years, including offering Distance Learning starting in 1977. Our annual Impact Reports showcase our growth and success stories advancing the people and organizations we serve. View the 2021 FY Impact Report View the 2020 FY Impact Report View the 2019 FY Impact Report View the 2018 FY Impact Report View the 2017 FY Impact Report View the 2016 FY Impact Report View the 2015 FY Impact Report View the 2014 FY Impact Report Want to learn more about GTPE? Contact Us Resources Programs Browse by Subject Courses Certificates Degrees Military Programs ESL Georgia Tech Online Train at Your Location Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conferences About Us Executive Leadership Leadership Searches Impact Reports Savannah Campus The Language Institute Accreditation Contact Us FAQs Visit Us Georgia Tech Global Learning Center 84 5th St NW Atlanta GA 30308 USA Get Directions Phone: 404-385-3500 Emergency Information Legal and Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Report Website Issue © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology