Skip to main content Tech Moving Forward: Learn more about GTPE's health and safety guidelines for in-person learning and events as well as our expanded virtual course offerings and virtual event services. Menu Home Subjects Browse By Subject Area Business Computing Defense Technologies Digital Media Engineering Exam Prep K-12 Programs Languages Management Manufacturing Mathematics Occupational Safety & Health Personal Development Supply Chain & Logistics Programs All Program Offerings Courses Degrees Graduate Certificates Professional Certificates Boot Camps Savannah Campus Workplace Learning & Professional Development Partner With Us Corporate Education Train at Your Location Featured FinTechU Georgia Tech Summer K-12 Programs Military Programs ESL (English as a Second Language) Georgia Film Academy Georgia Tech Online All Online Offerings Online Courses Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) Savannah Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events In-Person Meetings Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conference Management Blog Georgia Tech Main Site Give Directory Sign In My Cart Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Mailing List YouTube Search Select Search Category Everything Courses & Programs Degree Programs Articles & News GTPE Website Search this site Home Subjects Browse By Subject Area Occupational Safety & Health Occupational Safety & Health Training Safety and health training for businesses and individuals Set Yourself Apart with Professional Safety Training Safety and health training for every level of your career Additional training is essential for today's safety culture. Whether you are an experienced OSH practitioner, just beginning in the field, or taking on new responsibilities, Georgia Tech Professional Education's safety and health training is for you. All courses and certificate programs are designed and taught by experts who have extensive real-world experience and leadership in occupational safety and health fields. We offer a wide array of courses online and throughout Georgia, Florida, Alabama, South Carolina, North Carolina, Mississippi, Tennessee, and Kentucky through our nationally recognized and approved OSHA Training Institute Education Center. Whether you're renewing your Authorized Outreach Trainer card or learning more about general industry and construction safety, HAZMAT, incident management, bloodborne pathogens, emergency planning, silicia, or other safety topics we deliver the knowledge you need to keep your workplace and co-workers safe. Our learners acquire specialized expertise through invaluable access to Georgia Tech faculty, industry leaders, and the Georgia Tech Enterprise Innovation Institute's Safety, Health and Environmental Services' industrial hygienists, safety professionals, researchers and practicing engineers. Their real-world insights and knowledge of OSHA regulations can help your company: Save money. Reduce accidents. Lower worker's compensation premiums. Download: Measuring Progress Toward Certificate Completion Stay on track — and ensure sufficient progress — toward your health and safety certificate goal! Our Track Your Progress Certificate Flyer allows you to quickly review the course requirements for each of our certificate programs, allowing you to determine your timeline for completion and track your progress along the way. Track My Progress Safety and Health Training Offerings Safety Skill Development Build immediately applicable skills, address the needs of your employer, and stay current with OSHA guidelines through courses and certificates that are offered in-person and virtually. Search for Upcoming Courses > Safety, Health and Environmental Services Georgia Tech is an authorized OSHA Training Institute Education Center (OTIEC) ─ offering courses throughout OSHA Region IV. We also provide a free, confidential, on-site consultation service for small companies throughout Georgia. Learn More About Our Services > Safety Certificates By pursuing one of our 11 certificates you will gain recognition in your field and develop a deeper skillset of OSH topics including construction & general industry safety, facilities maintenance, industrial management, hazardous material management and more. View Certificates > Occupational Safety and Health Degree Become a leader in OSH with an advanced degree from a top-ranked institution. The two-year cohort program is designed for experienced, working professionals looking to gain real-world knowledge and advance their careers. View Master's Degree > Health and Safety Training-at-a-Glance 80+ Courses 11 Certificates 1 Master's Degree Online and In-Person Customized Training WIA Funding Looking for safety and health training online? Interactive, instructor-led, and self-paced OSH training available online. Learn More PRIVATE OSHA COURSES AND TRAINING Eliminate travel expenses and foster team learning by scheduling a private offering at your location. Our expert instructors will customize courses to meet your organizational needs and deliver training on your schedule. Save Money Flexible Schedule Group Training Customize Content On-Site Training Earn a Certificate Learn More Safety and Health Training Solutions in Savannah As one of four OSHA Training Institute Education Centers, Georgia Tech-Savannah offers nationally recognized OSHA training for the construction and general industries from Savannah to South Carolina, northern Florida, and beyond. Browse Training "The training at Georgia Tech has really catapulted my career in construction and safety management. It has helped me become a better employer, contractor, and worker." Meloni Boatswain OSHA Safety Consultant "The instructors have real-world experience and are interacting with today's corporations and industry leaders. They have real insight in getting students involved and sharing the total experience of involvement beyond the classroom to providing advice, information, or guidance after the conclusion of the course." Rick Givens Environmental Health Safety and Security Professional "The OSH certificates at Georgia Tech has expanded my knowledge of the health and safety profession while reinventing my safety knowledge and solidifying my safety career. With access to the consultation program and instructors, there are no issues that I will encounter that cannot be rectified." Victor Shell Sr. Safety and Transportation Director "All of our instructors at the OSHA Training Institute share a common theme of wanting to help people do better, live better, and take cae of each other, both as individuals and as businesses." Hilarie Schubert-Warren Industrial Hygienist HEALTH AND SAFETY TRAINING NEWS Keeping Workplaces Healthy and Safe Cara Eck is a picture of lifelong learning. Having discovered her passion for safety and health, her career and lear... Learn More Learner, Leader, and Inspirer in Workplace Safety When Carlos Alvarado started his safety career, he never could have imagined how integral a commitment to... Learn More Women in Construction: The Value of Mentorship The Occupational Safety and Health (OSH) field, like many STEM-based fields, is an energy-intensive industry that re... Learn More National Safety Month: Top OSHA Violations Jobs in industries such as construction and manufacturing are prone to high numbers of work-related injuries largely... Learn More The Intersection of Science and Problem-Solving The field of occupational safety and health has undergone a major shift over the last year as all industries – no ma... Learn More Looking Forward: Safety & Health Over the Next Decade Covid-19 has tested infrastructure, policies, businesses, and workers across the gamut of industries. The unpreceden... Learn More Father-Son Duo Tackles Safety and Health Training Together Victor Shell Jr. was at a crossroads. The 23-year-old had been playing semi-professional basketball since graduating... Learn More Safety and Health Professional Shares Passion for Safety Whether he realized it or not, Carman Bailey had always been involved in the safety and health field. In the fifth... Learn More Construction Site Safety Manager's Journey from the NFL to OSHA Ryan Mack has always had a knack for protecting people – whether it was his family, co-workers, or quarterback – but... Learn More Women in Construction: The OSHA Impact As the founder and CEO of a construction management firm in Atlanta and the director of marketing for a safety... Learn More Professional Master's Degree in Safety and Health Achieves Important Designation Beginning in January 2020, the Georgia Tech’s Professional Master’s in Occupational Safety and Health (PMOSH) degree... Learn More First Professional Master's in Occupational Safety and Health Cohort Graduates The inaugural class of Professional Master’s in Occupational Safety and Health (PMOSH) were presented their diplomas... Learn More Join Our List The latest safety and health training straight to in your inbox. Sign Up Connect With Us Join the conversation on the latest industry news and OSHA offerings. Resources Programs Browse by Subject Courses Certificates Degrees Military Programs ESL Georgia Tech Online Train at Your Location Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conferences About Us Executive Leadership Leadership Searches Impact Reports Savannah Campus The Language Institute Accreditation Contact Us FAQs Visit Us Georgia Tech Global Learning Center 84 5th St NW Atlanta GA 30308 USA Get Directions Phone: 404-385-3500 Emergency Information Legal and Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Report Website Issue © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology