Skip to main content Tech Moving Forward: Learn more about GTPE's health and safety guidelines for in-person learning and events as well as our expanded virtual course offerings and virtual event services. Menu Home Subjects Browse By Subject Area Business Computing Defense Technologies Digital Media Engineering Exam Prep K-12 Programs Languages Management Manufacturing Mathematics Occupational Safety & Health Personal Development Supply Chain & Logistics Programs All Program Offerings Courses Degrees Graduate Certificates Professional Certificates Boot Camps Savannah Campus Workplace Learning & Professional Development Partner With Us Corporate Education Train at Your Location Featured FinTechU Georgia Tech Summer K-12 Programs Military Programs ESL (English as a Second Language) Georgia Film Academy Georgia Tech Online All Online Offerings Online Courses Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) Savannah Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events In-Person Meetings Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conference Management Blog Georgia Tech Main Site Give Directory Sign In My Cart Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Mailing List YouTube Search Select Search Category Everything Courses & Programs Degree Programs Articles & News GTPE Website Search this site Home Programs K-12 Programs Dual Enrollment Dual Enrollment Enjoy the challenge of a college class without leaving your high school Overview Student Support Georgia Tech’s Dual Enrollment program enables you to enjoy the challenge of a college class without leaving your high school! Georgia Tech offers advanced mathematics students in high schools across Georgia the opportunity to take online classes while still in high school. Classes are held on campus, taught to Georgia Tech students, while being delivered via live video or internet feed to high school students across Georgia. All tuition, fees, and textbooks are paid for by the State of Georgia and Georgia Tech. Application Available May 15 – Jun 15 Download April 26 Student Meeting PresentationApply Now Distance Math Prospective Student Meeting Missed the Distance Math Prospective Student Meeting on April 26, 2022? No problem! Watch the recording Distance Math Courses Year 1 Courses MATH 1554 MATH 1554 is a four-credit course that introduces students to linear algebra. Students will explore fundamental concepts of this subject that has an essential role in applications of linear algebra to many areas of industry, science, and engineering. We will explore systems of linear equations and a systematic method for solving them, subspaces, determinants, eigenvalues, orthogonality, and the singular value decomposition. Applications of linear algebra to computer graphics, economics, Google PageRank, and least-squares. MATH 2551 MATH 2551 is a four-credit course that extends concepts that students encountered in linear algebra and differential and integral calculus to functions of several variables. This course explores the calculus of vector functions, derivatives, and integrals of functions of several variables, and integral theorems that are widely used in engineering and physics. Applications that are explored include constrained optimization, center of mass, Jacobians, line integrals, circulation, and flux. Year 2 Courses MATH 3012 MATH 3012 is a three-credit course that explores counting methods, solving linear recurrences, graph and network models, related algorithms, and combinatorial designs. Applications that are explored include sorting, spanning trees, shortest paths, Eulerian circuits, graph coloring, planarity testing and network flows. Students will explore fundamental concepts and algorithms in computer science and engineering that have applications in complex practical problems in areas such as scheduling, vehicle routing, supply-chain optimization, and resource allocation. A final project gives students an opportunity to explore the application of applied combinatorics to a topic of their choice. MATH 2552 MATH 2552 is a four-credit course that focuses on the techniques used to model and analyze relationships between changing quantities. As rates of change are often represented mathematically by derivatives, such models often involve equations relating an unknown function and one or more of its derivatives. Such equations are differential equations, which are the focus of this course. Students will apply techniques of solving differential equations to solve first and higher order differential equations that model spring-mass systems, heat flow, mechanics, and population biology. A final project gives students an opportunity to explore the application of differential equations to a topic of their choice. More Application and Admission Admission Requirements Application Deadline Enrollment Documents Apply Now Admission Requirements The admission process is selective. Applicants must have the following minimums to be considered for admission: 3.5 GPA 3.5 Math GPA 600 Math score on SAT or 27 Math ACT 4 on AP Calculus BC exam More Application Deadline Application for admission into the Dual Enrollment program is open May 15 to Jun 15. More Enrollment Documents Students who are offered admission must submit the following enrollment documents: Official SAT or ACT and AP scores, if not previously submitted. Student Participation agreement Dual Enrollment funding application completed online Verification of lawful presence in the United States Immunization records (only for students taking dual enrollment classes on the main Tech campus) Class Schedule Planning Form (only for students taking dual enrollment classes on the main Tech campus) More Apply Now Eager to get started on your college education? Apply Now Resources Programs Browse by Subject Courses Certificates Degrees Military Programs ESL Georgia Tech Online Train at Your Location Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conferences About Us Executive Leadership Leadership Searches Impact Reports Savannah Campus The Language Institute Accreditation Contact Us FAQs Visit Us Georgia Tech Global Learning Center 84 5th St NW Atlanta GA 30308 USA Get Directions Phone: 404-385-3500 Emergency Information Legal and Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Report Website Issue © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology