Skip to main content Tech Moving Forward: Learn more about GTPE's health and safety guidelines for in-person learning and events as well as our expanded virtual course offerings and virtual event services. Menu Home Subjects Browse By Subject Area Business Computing Defense Technologies Digital Media Engineering Exam Prep K-12 Programs Languages Management Manufacturing Mathematics Occupational Safety & Health Personal Development Supply Chain & Logistics Programs All Program Offerings Courses Degrees Graduate Certificates Professional Certificates Boot Camps Savannah Campus Workplace Learning & Professional Development Partner With Us Corporate Education Train at Your Location Featured FinTechU Georgia Tech Summer K-12 Programs Military Programs ESL (English as a Second Language) Georgia Film Academy Georgia Tech Online All Online Offerings Online Courses Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) Savannah Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events In-Person Meetings Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conference Management Blog Georgia Tech Main Site Give Directory Sign In My Cart Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Mailing List YouTube Search Select Search Category Everything Courses & Programs Degree Programs Articles & News GTPE Website Search this site Home Blog Education & Innovation Water Monitoring Project Makes Savannah a World Leader Education & Innovation Water Monitoring Project Makes Savannah a World Leader Georgia now has the highest density of water monitoring sensors anywhere in the world thanks to the Smart Level Sensors partnership program May 11, 2020 | By GTPE Communications smart-level-sensors-1900x930.jpg Georgia Tech's Russell Clark, left, and Matt Gerig of Chatham County, Tom McDonald of the City of Savannah, and David Anderson of Chatham, work to install Smart Sea Sensors as a part of the Georgia Smart Communities Challenge project measuring sea level. A few years ago there existed only one gauge in Georgia that monitored tide levels and that was at Fort Pulaski on the Savannah River. Now Georgia is home to more than 40 sensors that keep track of the rise and fall of sea levels in Savannah and Chatham County. According to one expert, thanks to the Smart Sea Level Sensors partnership program, Georgia now has the highest density of water monitoring sensors anywhere in the world. The smart sea level sensor project is a partnership between the city of Savannah, Chatham County Emergency Management, and Georgia Tech that started approximately two years ago with a $100,000 grant. During the past 18 months, 42 sensors have been installed around bridges, coastal areas prone to flooding, docks, marinas and at some private sites, according to Russell J. Clark, director of Mobile Technology & IoT Programs at Georgia Tech-Savannah. Thirty additional sensors are expected to be installed this year. Clark, who is also co-director of Georgia Tech’s Research Network Operations Center, explained that the sensors have wireless technology, are online all the time and transmit water level readings every five minutes. The data is stored in the virtual cloud and from that information programs can determine trends and conduct analytics. Chatham County Emergency Management officials monitor the information routinely and share it with Savannah officials. “We are able to look at all the data and give alerts when a location’s water is rising or about to flood,” Clark said. Read the fully story on Savannah CEO. You May Also Like Education & Innovation Georgia Tech-Savannah Expands its Reach to Rural Communities Dec 23, 2021 | GTPE Communications Georgia Tech-Savannah has a strong mission to not only be an educational hub for learners of all ages, but to extend its reach beyond its walls to support the development of our region, state and... Read Article > Industry & Trends Partnering for Success Mar 28, 2022 | GTPE Communications Training, reskilling, and equipping management for the future are all hot topics for organizations today. Just as it is important for individual managers to equip themselves with the skills to grow... Read Article > Join Our List The latest insights in tech, business, and leadership straight to your inbox each month. Sign Up Connect With Us Join the conversation on the latest industry news and academic offerings. Resources Programs Browse by Subject Courses Certificates Degrees Military Programs ESL Georgia Tech Online Train at Your Location Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conferences About Us Executive Leadership Leadership Searches Impact Reports Savannah Campus The Language Institute Accreditation Contact Us FAQs Visit Us Georgia Tech Global Learning Center 84 5th St NW Atlanta GA 30308 USA Get Directions Phone: 404-385-3500 Emergency Information Legal and Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Report Website Issue © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology