Skip to main content Tech Moving Forward: Learn more about GTPE's health and safety guidelines for in-person learning and events as well as our expanded virtual course offerings and virtual event services. Menu Home Subjects Browse By Subject Area Business Computing Defense Technologies Digital Media Engineering Exam Prep K-12 Programs Languages Management Manufacturing Mathematics Occupational Safety & Health Personal Development Supply Chain & Logistics Programs All Program Offerings Courses Degrees Graduate Certificates Professional Certificates Boot Camps Savannah Campus Workplace Learning & Professional Development Partner With Us Corporate Education Train at Your Location Featured FinTechU Georgia Tech Summer K-12 Programs Military Programs ESL (English as a Second Language) Georgia Film Academy Georgia Tech Online All Online Offerings Online Courses Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) Savannah Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events In-Person Meetings Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conference Management Blog Georgia Tech Main Site Give Directory Sign In My Cart Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Mailing List YouTube Search Select Search Category Everything Courses & Programs Degree Programs Articles & News GTPE Website Search this site Home Programs All Program Offerings Graduate Certificates Georgia Tech Graduate Certificates Deepen your expertise and advance your career with a specialized certificate tailored to meet today’s workforce demands Graduate Certificate Overview Graduate Certificate Benefits Graduate Certificate or Master's Degree? Graduate Certificate Overview Today’s workforce is quickly changing due to digital advancements, shifting demographics, and economic growth. To keep up with these transformations, working professionals will be required to continually expand upon their technical capabilities while building relevant skills quickly. Designed as an “in-between” option for professionals wanting to deepen their expertise in specific areas, graduate certificates are custom, credit-bearing programs that address rapidly evolving industry needs. These graduate certificates combine accessibility with challenging coursework and world-class faculty to prepare you to adapt to the changing demands of the workforce and increase your promotability. Unlike a traditional master’s degree that requires a long-term commitment, a graduate certificate can be completed in less than two semesters and requires only 12 credit hours. Graduate Certificate Benefits Top 7 Benefits of a Georgia Tech Graduate Certificate Earn a prestigious Georgia Tech credential. Get a graduate-level education and a prestigious Georgia Tech credential without the long-term commitment of a master’s degree. Gain in-demand, immediately applicable industry expertise. Our graduate certificates are designed to address today’s most pressing industry needs in specific fields. They are taught by our esteemed Georgia Tech faculty, bringing industry expertise, rigorous learning, and a vast worldwide network. Shape your career and build a professional network. Our graduate certificates offer you opportunities for professional growth and career pivots while connecting you to a robust online community where you can build a global network spanning industries and functions. Earn credits for a Georgia Tech master’s degree. If you’re considering pursuing a master’s degree, completing a graduate certificate is the ideal way to test if you’re ready for a longer-term commitment. Select credits you earn in a graduate certificate can count toward a Georgia Tech master’s degree. Complete your certificate in two semesters. You can complete a graduate certificate in two semesters or you can take longer if you need to take a break. Enjoy the flexibility of a 100% online program. All four courses in each graduate certificate are 100% online. Lectures are accessible to you 24/7. You have the opportunity to interact live with the instructional team during weekly office hours. Online chats enable you to stay connected with faculty, teaching assistants and other students. Make an affordable investment in your future. A top-notch education from a prestigious institution doesn’t need to break the bank. To complete a graduate certificate, you need only 12 credit hours. Each course is three credit hours. You pay as you go, so you don’t need to make any large upfront payments. Graduate Certificate or Master's Degree? Is a Graduate Certificate right for you? A Georgia Tech graduate certificate is a unique credential that enables you to gain a graduate-level education without the long-term commitment of a master’s degree. Is it right for you? It depends on what you’re looking for. See how it compares with our master’s degrees and other professional development certificates we offer. Master's Degrees Graduate Certificates Professional Certificates What are these programs? Master's degrees from a top 10-ranked university delivered online to learners worldwide. They include rigorous course content and expert instruction from Georgia Tech faculty as well as essential support needed for degree completion. Graduate-level certificates from a top 10-ranked university delivered online to learners worldwide. They include rigorous course content and expert instruction from Georgia Tech faculty as well as essential support needed for certificate completion. Professional certificates from a top 10-ranked university delivered online, in-person, or a hybrid of both. They include a series of courses with a particular focus and expert instruction from Georgia Tech faculty and industry leaders. Who is it for? Working professionals and other adult learners who have a broad knowledge base in their field, want to develop deep expertise in a particular discipline and can make a long-term commitment to a rigorous academic program. Working professionals and other adult learners who have a broad knowledge base in their field, want to develop deep expertise in a particular discipline and prefer a graduate-level program that can be completed in two semesters with flexibility to extend as needed. Adult learners of all professional levels seeking to develop or strengthen specific skills in a high demand field. How long does it take? 2-3 years 2 semesters or less Less than 1 year, varies by program Does it lead to a Georgia Tech degree? Yes Not directly but the credit earned can be applied toward a degree if permitted by the school in question. No How many credit hours are required for completion? 30 to 36 credit hours depending on the program 12 credit hours are required for completion Our professional certificates are not credit-bearing credentials How many courses are required for completion? 10 to 11 depending on the program. 4 courses are required for completion. Each course is 3 credit hours. Varies by program. What is the delivery method? Our online master's degrees for working professionals are 100% online* 100% online GTPE offers programs leading to a professional certificate. Some programs are offered fully online, some are offered on-site, and others are hybrid. What credential do I get when I finish the program? Georgia Institute of Technology Master's Degree Georgia Institute of Technology Graduate Certificate Georgia Tech Professional Education Certificate of Completion Who awards the credential? Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech Professional Education Does "online" appear on the diploma or certificate? No No If the program was delivered online, the word “online” does not appear on the certificate document. What are the admission requirements? Applicants must meet Georgia Tech admission criteria for graduate programs plus specific program requirements. Applicants must meet Georgia Tech admission criteria for graduate programs plus specific program requirements. No admission requirements. How much flexibility does the program offer? Our online master’s degrees are designed to meet the needs of working professionals. They offer a flexible schedule and the ability for students to learn at their own pace. Our graduate certificate programs are designed to meet the needs of working professionals. They offer a flexible schedule and the ability for students to learn at their own pace. Our professional certificate programs are designed for working professionals. Some are offered online and offer maximal flexibility; others follow a set schedule and may include face-to-face instruction. These programs are significantly shorter than our credit-bearing programs. Where can I learn more about these program options? Online Master's Degrees MBA Programs Online Graduate Certificates Professional Certificates (online, in-person, hybrid) *Professional Master’s degrees are mostly online but include an on-campus component. MBA programs are not offered online. Business Analytics In today's world, every organization is looking for ways to make better business decisions. Professionals with training and expertise in business analytics know how to take a data-driven approach to finding solutions in every industry. The Business Analytics Certificate teaches professionals how to prepare, analyze, and interpret data to move business into the future. Learn more about the Business Analytics Certificate Data Science for the Chemical Industry Providing the foundation to understand how data science is relevant to chemical manufacturing, the Online Graduate Certificate in Data Science for the Chemical Industry is designed for chemical engineers to learn how to use data science programming and software to solve real-world problems in chemical manufacturing. Learn More about the Data Science Certificate Resources Programs Browse by Subject Courses Certificates Degrees Military Programs ESL Georgia Tech Online Train at Your Location Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conferences About Us Executive Leadership Leadership Searches Impact Reports Savannah Campus The Language Institute Accreditation Contact Us FAQs Visit Us Georgia Tech Global Learning Center 84 5th St NW Atlanta GA 30308 USA Get Directions Phone: 404-385-3500 Emergency Information Legal and Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Report Website Issue © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology