Skip to main content Tech Moving Forward: Learn more about GTPE's health and safety guidelines for in-person learning and events as well as our expanded virtual course offerings and virtual event services. Menu Home Subjects Browse By Subject Area Business Computing Defense Technologies Digital Media Engineering Exam Prep K-12 Programs Languages Management Manufacturing Mathematics Occupational Safety & Health Personal Development Supply Chain & Logistics Programs All Program Offerings Courses Degrees Graduate Certificates Professional Certificates Boot Camps Savannah Campus Workplace Learning & Professional Development Partner With Us Corporate Education Train at Your Location Featured FinTechU Georgia Tech Summer K-12 Programs Military Programs ESL (English as a Second Language) Georgia Film Academy Georgia Tech Online All Online Offerings Online Courses Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) Savannah Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events In-Person Meetings Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conference Management Blog Georgia Tech Main Site Give Directory Sign In My Cart Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Mailing List YouTube Search Select Search Category Everything Courses & Programs Degree Programs Articles & News GTPE Website Search this site Home Blog Meet Sheela Shaw Learner Stories Meet Sheela Shaw Jan 27, 2014 | By GTPE Communications Sheelabrochure.jpg Sheela Shaw desired to build and expand her systems engineering knowledge and earn an advanced degree from a university with a strong reputation. She only considered schools with top graduate engineering programs, and Georgia Tech was on her list. She focused on finding a master’s degree program that was not fully online but still allowed her to continue her career with no interruption. It wasn’t easy to find a program with a blend of online and in-person learning that also allowed her to stay committed to her current job. Then she discovered Georgia Tech’s Professional Master’s Degree in Applied Systems Engineering (PMASE), a two-year program whose hybrid format blends face-to-face instruction and online learning. “This was perfect. I can keep working, and it’s Georgia Tech. It’s the best engineering school,” said Shaw, 32, a principal analyst for Manhattan Associates, which designs, builds and delivers market-leading supply chain commerce solutions. The program’s instructors are experts in their field and serve as faculty members for Georgia Tech's College of Engineering – the nation’s 4th Best Graduate Engineering School – or as researchers and scientists with Georgia Tech Research Institute. Even though some learning takes place remotely, Shaw has enjoyed getting to know the instructors, who are approachable, personable and act as mentors to her and her cohorts. Shaw has seen immediate results from the program’s practical, hands-on approach to learning how to successfully integrate systems. “The best thing about this program is we are applying as we learn. We do activities and projects in every course,” Shaw says. “I see my progress. I'm better organized. I'm a better systems engineer now.” Shaw, who earned her undergraduate degree with a specialization in computer science in India, believes the skills and knowledge from PMASE will help her move her career toward management positions. She adds: “I have been sacrificing my personal time but I'm happy to do that because I'm here to study and learn, and I’m eager to learn.” You May Also Like Learner Stories Family Ties: Father and Son Take Power Systems Certificate Program Jun 26, 2019 | GTPE Communications It’s not uncommon for multiple generations of a family to attend the same university. But at the same time? Not usually.... Read Article > Working & Learning Keeping Workplaces Healthy and Safe Apr 14, 2022 | GTPE Communications Cara Eck is a picture of lifelong learning. Having discovered her passion for safety and health, her career and learning journeys are evidence of the value that professional education provides for... Read Article > Join Our List The latest insights in tech, business, and leadership straight to your inbox each month. Sign Up Connect With Us Join the conversation on the latest industry news and academic offerings. Resources Programs Browse by Subject Courses Certificates Degrees Military Programs ESL Georgia Tech Online Train at Your Location Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conferences About Us Executive Leadership Leadership Searches Impact Reports Savannah Campus The Language Institute Accreditation Contact Us FAQs Visit Us Georgia Tech Global Learning Center 84 5th St NW Atlanta GA 30308 USA Get Directions Phone: 404-385-3500 Emergency Information Legal and Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Report Website Issue © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology