Skip to main content Tech Moving Forward: Learn more about GTPE's health and safety guidelines for in-person learning and events as well as our expanded virtual course offerings and virtual event services. Menu Home Subjects Browse By Subject Area Business Computing Defense Technologies Digital Media Engineering Exam Prep K-12 Programs Languages Management Manufacturing Mathematics Occupational Safety & Health Personal Development Supply Chain & Logistics Programs All Program Offerings Courses Degrees Graduate Certificates Professional Certificates Boot Camps Savannah Campus Workplace Learning & Professional Development Partner With Us Corporate Education Train at Your Location Featured FinTechU Georgia Tech Summer K-12 Programs Military Programs ESL (English as a Second Language) Georgia Film Academy Georgia Tech Online All Online Offerings Online Courses Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) Savannah Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events In-Person Meetings Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conference Management Blog Georgia Tech Main Site Give Directory Sign In My Cart Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Mailing List YouTube Search Select Search Category Everything Courses & Programs Degree Programs Articles & News GTPE Website Search this site Home Georgia Tech-Savannah Courses Supply Chain & Logistics Supply Chain and Logistics Courses in Savannah Educating and training the Coastal Region's supply chain workforce Home Courses Boot Camps OSHA Training Project Management Supply Chain & Logistics Programs Georgia Film Academy K-12 Programs Leadership Training Military Meetings Request for Proposal Coastal Impact Global Supply Chain Management Practical and immediate applicable training in various supply chain functions. Leading-edge supply chain and logistics practices are important to the success of the entire coastal region. The Port of Savannah includes the largest single container terminal in North America and is home to manufacturers, distributors, and a rapidly expanding logistics service industry. As technology advances, large and small businesses must continually evaluate and refine their supply chain strategies and capabilities. Thanks to the Georgia Tech-Savannah campus, coastal area companies and supply chain and logistics professionals have local access to Georgia Tech's renowned professional education curriculum, designed and taught by the Georgia Tech Supply Chain & Logistics Institute — the world's largest supply chain and logistics research and education enterprise. Georgia Tech-Savannah understands that a successful supply chain relies on the integration of people, processes, and technology. Our short courses provide the latest in supply chain best practices and include real-life examples, site visits, and facility tours. We adjust our public-enrollment course offerings based on market needs, and we can tailor any of our short courses to the corporate learning objectives of customers and deliver them privately. From lean warehousing to procurement and supply management, principles of transportation management, and demand-driven supply chain strategy, our supply chain courses are applicable towards one of Georgia Tech's certificates in supply chain and logistics. In addition, we offer a series of online supply chain fundamentals courses to address supply chain workforce readiness and provide foundational information for each supply chain domain. Professional education for Savannah's logistics community Our leading-edge supply chain and logistics courses provide the latest strategies for those who work – or want to work – in logistics at all levels, from the warehouse to the executive suite. Watch the video Browse Supply Chain and Logistics Courses Supply Chain & Logistics Management Category Management and Sourcing Leadership (LOG 3700P) Category Management and Sourcing Leadership is designed to deepen your knowledge base of core activities in the procurement and supply management function. The program covers the sourcing process, specifications gathering, common bid package alternatives, cross-functional collaboration, and su... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions SEP 12, 2022 - SEP 15, 2022 Register by SEP 10, 2022 Online $1,200 Course Details Contracting and Legal Oversight (LOG 3701P) Contracting and Legal Oversight provides you with a holistic and integrated understanding of contract law, contract types, key industry standard contract terms, and contract structure to improve your confidence when creating or modifying contract documents. The program is geared to reinforce s... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions SEP 15, 2022 - SEP 21, 2022 Register by SEP 13, 2022 Online $1,200 Course Details Demand Driven Supply Chain Strategy (LOG 3140P) As supply chain (SC) executives become more instrumental in supporting long-term strategic objectives for their firms, they need to complement traditional SC operational knowledge with a more strategic view of their role in delivering aligned results to the business. This course addresses this... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions There are no sessions scheduled at this time. Please check again later. Course Details Essentials of Negotiations and Stakeholder Influence (LOG 3702P) Essentials of Negotiations and Stakeholder Influence level-sets your understanding of negotiation influence and strengthens preparation, planning, and execution activities involved with both simple and complex negotiations. The program includes industry techniques and tools for traditional sup... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions SEP 22, 2022 - SEP 29, 2022 Register by SEP 20, 2022 Online $1,450 Course Details Lean Warehousing (LOG 3160P) This course will demonstrate how warehouse operations are a key enabler to a successful supply chain implementation and the starting point for a transformation. It is critical to manage safety, quality and efficiency. Learn to leverage the lean supply chain modifications to improve custom... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions JUN 7, 2022 - JUN 9, 2022 Register by JUN 2, 2022 Online $3,000 Course Details Principles of Transportation Management (LOG 3122P) This course prepares you for the basics of transportation operations and analysis. Throughout the course, you’ll review the key elements of transportation such as modes of transportation, transportation procurement, cost minimization techniques, the role of ports in global logistics, and inter... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions JUN 21, 2022 - JUN 23, 2022 Register by JUN 17, 2022 Online $1,950 Course Details Supply Chain Project Management: Effectively Managing Transformation Projects (LOG 3212P) Complex supply-chain transformation requires managing resources from many different departments. The supply-chain project manager must ensure internal and external stakeholder alignment, mitigate large amounts of risk, and implement communication, risk mitigation, and change management plans t... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions There are no sessions scheduled at this time. Please check again later. Course Details Supply Chain Project Management Fundamentals (LOG 3210P) Note: This course is offered in a live, 100% in-person three-day format, and also in a virtual instructor-led format spread out in two-hour increments over seven days with some self-directed course work. Please note the format type when you are registering. Supply-chain management pr... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions There are no sessions scheduled at this time. Please check again later. Course Details Supply Chain Project Management: Vendor Selection and Management (LOG 3211P) To keep pace with the continuous moves toward outsourcing of operations and the advancement of technology, companies need to focus on selecting the right suppliers and partnerships to provide the most value to their customers and to remain profitable. This course provides a deeper understandin... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions JUN 14, 2022 - JUN 16, 2022 Register by JUN 10, 2022 Online $1,950 Course Details Fundamentals Supply Chain Fundamentals: Customer Service Operations (LOG 3183P) Be more effective in your entry-level or supervisory roles in customer service and order management! This course prepares learners for all aspects of customer service operations. Gain a solid understanding of the role of customer service within an organization’s overall supply chain. Disc... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions MAY 16, 2022 - MAY 15, 2023 Register by NOV 30, 2023 Online $350 Course Details Supply Chain Fundamentals: Customer Service Operations in Spanish (LOG 3183S) Ver descripción en es Español. Be more effective in your entry-level or supervisory roles in customer service and order management! This course, delivered in Spanish prepares learners fo... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions MAY 16, 2022 - MAY 15, 2023 Register by NOV 30, 2022 Online $350 Course Details Supply Chain Fundamentals: Demand Planning (LOG 3185P) An organization's success depends on the principles of effective supply and demand. Gain knowledge of the basics of demand planning and the role of demand planning within an organization’s overall supply chain. This fundamental course includes presentations of the key elements of dem... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions MAY 16, 2022 - MAY 15, 2023 Register by NOV 30, 2023 Online $350 Course Details Supply Chain Fundamentals: Demand Planning in Spanish (LOG 3185S) Ver descripción en es Español. An organization's success depends on the principles of effective supply and demand. Gain knowledge of the basics of demand planning and the role of demand p... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions MAY 16, 2022 - MAY 15, 2023 Register by NOV 30, 2022 Online $350 Course Details Supply Chain Fundamentals: Inventory Management (LOG 3186P) This course covers the basics of inventory control and management operations and the role of inventory management within an organization’s overall supply chain. You will learn the key elements of inventory control and management, including inventory cost components, types and uses of inv... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions MAY 16, 2022 - MAY 15, 2023 Register by NOV 30, 2023 Online $350 Course Details Supply Chain Fundamentals: Inventory Management in Spanish (LOG 3186S) Ver descripción en es Español. This course covers the basics of inventory control and management operations and the role of inventory management within an organization’s overall sup... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions MAY 16, 2022 - MAY 15, 2023 Register by NOV 30, 2022 Online $350 Course Details Supply Chain Fundamentals: Manufacturing and Service Operations (LOG 3187P) This course prepares you for the basics of manufacturing and service operations and for your role within an organization’s overall supply chain. The course includes presentations of defining the role of manufacturing and service operations, linkages between market requirements and the sel... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions MAY 16, 2022 - MAY 15, 2023 Register by NOV 30, 2023 Online $350 Course Details Supply Chain Fundamentals: Manufacturing and Service Operations in Spanish (LOG 3187S) Ver descripción en es Español. This course prepares you for the basics of manufacturing and service operations and for your role within an organization’s overall supply chain. The ... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions MAY 16, 2022 - MAY 15, 2023 Register by NOV 30, 2022 Online $350 Course Details Supply Chain Fundamentals: Supply Chain Management Principles (LOG 3181P) Gain a solid foundation in the basics of supply chain and its roles within organizations. This course reviews supply chain management and the various domains within supply chain, such as customer service, manufacturing and service operations, order management, procurement and supply management... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions MAY 16, 2022 - MAY 15, 2023 Register by NOV 30, 2023 Online $350 Course Details Supply Chain Fundamentals: Supply Management and Procurement (LOG 3184P) This course prepares you in the basics of supply management and procurement operations and the role of procurement within an organization’s overall supply chain. You will discover the key elements of sourcing and procurement, including strategic sourcing, supplier management, negotiation... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions MAY 16, 2022 - MAY 15, 2023 Register by NOV 30, 2023 Online $350 Course Details Supply Chain Fundamentals: Transportation Operations (LOG 3182P) This course prepares you for the basics of transportation operations and the role of transportation within an organization’s overall supply chain. The course includes review of the key elements of transportation such as modes of transportation, transportation technology, company roles an... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions MAY 16, 2022 - MAY 15, 2023 Register by NOV 30, 2023 Online $350 Course Details Supply Chain Fundamentals: Warehousing Operations (LOG 3180P) This course is structured to prepare entry-level and supervisory-level employees in warehouse operations with a fundamental understanding of the supply chain. You will review the physical, technological, process, and safety considerations of warehouse/distribution operations. Additionally, you... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions MAY 16, 2022 - MAY 15, 2023 Register by NOV 30, 2023 Online $350 Course Details Supply Chain Fundamentals: Warehousing Operations in Spanish (LOG 3180S) This course, delivered in Spanish, is structured to prepare entry-level and supervisory-level employees in warehouse operations with a fundamental understanding of the supply chain. You will review the physical, technological, process, and safety considerations of warehouse/distribution operat... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions MAY 16, 2022 - MAY 15, 2023 Register by NOV 30, 2022 Online $350 Course Details More The purpose of taking these courses was to advance my career and gain and greater understanding of the role that I am in with my employer. Our group was diverse in all of their roles and came from various industries, so I was able to get information they shared, and I can apply that to what I am doing in my own role. - Roz Nero Procurement Negotiator and Proposal Specialist Supply Chain Education for Veterans The Supply Chain Project Management track, through the VET2 program, gives veterans the opportunity to gain management skills within the orientation of the supply chain. Learn More TRAIN AT YOUR LOCATION Georgia Tech-Savannah provides tailored corporate training programs to help companies improve employee skils in supply chain domain knowledge, innovation, and leadership development. Save Money Flexible Schedule Group Training Customize Content On-Site Training Earn a Certificate Learn More SUPPLY CHAIN NEWS AND RESOURCES Industry Trends: Supply Chain and Logistics The newest supply chain trends range from AI to omnichannel distribution. Read how these industry trends will impact future supply chains. Learn More Always Improving: Philosophy as a Procurement Specialist Roz Nero reflects on her experience with GTPE and how it has helped shape her career thus far. Learn More Freight Expectations: Growing Port Seeks Logistic Expertise Georgia Tech is using its world-class supply chain expertise to analyze data and anticipate problems on the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project. Learn More Want to learn more about our supply chain courses? Contact Us Resources Programs Browse by Subject Courses Certificates Degrees Military Programs ESL Georgia Tech Online Train at Your Location Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conferences About Us Executive Leadership Leadership Searches Impact Reports Savannah Campus The Language Institute Accreditation Contact Us FAQs Visit Us Georgia Tech Global Learning Center 84 5th St NW Atlanta GA 30308 USA Get Directions Phone: 404-385-3500 Emergency Information Legal and Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Report Website Issue © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology