Skip to main content Tech Moving Forward: Learn more about GTPE's health and safety guidelines for in-person learning and events as well as our expanded virtual course offerings and virtual event services. Menu Home Subjects Browse By Subject Area Business Computing Defense Technologies Digital Media Engineering Exam Prep K-12 Programs Languages Management Manufacturing Mathematics Occupational Safety & Health Personal Development Supply Chain & Logistics Programs All Program Offerings Courses Degrees Graduate Certificates Professional Certificates Boot Camps Savannah Campus Workplace Learning & Professional Development Partner With Us Corporate Education Train at Your Location Featured FinTechU Georgia Tech Summer K-12 Programs Military Programs ESL (English as a Second Language) Georgia Film Academy Georgia Tech Online All Online Offerings Online Courses Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) Savannah Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events In-Person Meetings Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conference Management Blog Georgia Tech Main Site Give Directory Sign In My Cart Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Mailing List YouTube Search Select Search Category Everything Courses & Programs Degree Programs Articles & News GTPE Website Search this site Home Blog Education & Innovation Georgia Tech Professional Education Receives Two Awards from the Association for Educational Communications and Technology Education & Innovation Georgia Tech Professional Education Receives Two Awards from the Association for Educational Communications and Technology Sep 28, 2020 | By GTPE Communications georgia-tech-arial-1900x930.jpg Georgia Tech Professional Education (GTPE) was recently honored with two of the three 2020 Distance Education Crystal Awards given this year by the Association for Educational Communications and Technology’s Division of Distance Learning. First place was awarded to GTPE’s Veterans Education Training and Transition (VET2) program: Military Transition to the Workforce, which is based at the Georgia Tech-Savannah campus. Additionally, third place was awarded for a course from Georgia Tech’s Online Master of Science in Analytics (OMS Analytics) degree: Industrial and Systems Engineering 6501: Introduction to Analytics Modeling. The purpose of the Association for Educational Communications and Technology (AECT) Crystal Award, which is an international honor, is to recognize innovative and outstanding multimedia-based distance education courses or multimedia-based distance learning projects. AECT is the premier organization for those actively involved in the design of instruction and systematic approaches to learning. It is the most recognized association of information concerning a wide range of instructional and educational technology. AECT is the professional home for this field of interest and promotes high standards in both scholarship and practice. GTPE, which has been providing distance and online learning for nearly 45 years, is a long-standing leader in high-quality, affordable, and accessible online education. GTPE offers professional development courses, certificate programs, bootcamps, conferences, webinars and online master’s degrees through a variety of cutting-edge platforms to career-focused individuals in STEM, business, and leadership fields worldwide. The Veterans Education Training and Transition (VET2) program is among the first of its kind in the U.S. As a military transition program, it provides education for veterans and job opportunities to help active-duty service members, veterans and military spouses translate military values and experience into a successful civilian career. VET2 courses are led by several instructors including James Wilburn, Ph.D., director of military programs and partnered with instructional designer Fatimah Wirth. The program combines classroom and/or online instruction with internship opportunities to provide skill development in sought-after subjects such as lean six sigma, supply chain and logistics management, and project management. Upon completion of the program, veterans receive a professional certificate from a world-renowned academic institution and are better positioned to enter the challenging civilian job market. The Industrial and Systems Engineering 6501: Introduction to Analytics Modeling course, was designed to help students gain an intuitive understanding of fundamental models and methods of analytics while practicing how to implement them using common industry tools. The course is led by instructor Joel Sokol and, like VET2, was instructionally designed by Fatimah Wirth. The OMS Analytics program was the second of Georgia Tech’s ground-breaking online degrees based on a Massive Open Online Course (MOOC) delivery format and offers global access at a fraction of the cost of on-campus programs. “Recognition by the leading instructional and educational design association with these two awards is an honor, and a testament to our long-standing commitment to lifetime learning and the development of innovative educational options that support the needs of working professionals and industry partners,” said Nelson Baker, dean, Professional Education. You May Also Like Education & Innovation Georgia Tech-Savannah Expands its Reach to Rural Communities Dec 23, 2021 | GTPE Communications Georgia Tech-Savannah has a strong mission to not only be an educational hub for learners of all ages, but to extend its reach beyond its walls to support the development of our region, state and... Read Article > Industry & Trends Partnering for Success Mar 28, 2022 | GTPE Communications Training, reskilling, and equipping management for the future are all hot topics for organizations today. Just as it is important for individual managers to equip themselves with the skills to grow... Read Article > Join Our List The latest insights in tech, business, and leadership straight to your inbox each month. Sign Up Connect With Us Join the conversation on the latest industry news and academic offerings. Resources Programs Browse by Subject Courses Certificates Degrees Military Programs ESL Georgia Tech Online Train at Your Location Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conferences About Us Executive Leadership Leadership Searches Impact Reports Savannah Campus The Language Institute Accreditation Contact Us FAQs Visit Us Georgia Tech Global Learning Center 84 5th St NW Atlanta GA 30308 USA Get Directions Phone: 404-385-3500 Emergency Information Legal and Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Report Website Issue © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology