Skip to main content Tech Moving Forward: Learn more about GTPE's health and safety guidelines for in-person learning and events as well as our expanded virtual course offerings and virtual event services. Menu Home Subjects Browse By Subject Area Business Computing Defense Technologies Digital Media Engineering Exam Prep K-12 Programs Languages Management Manufacturing Mathematics Occupational Safety & Health Personal Development Supply Chain & Logistics Programs All Program Offerings Courses Degrees Graduate Certificates Professional Certificates Boot Camps Savannah Campus Workplace Learning & Professional Development Partner With Us Corporate Education Train at Your Location Featured FinTechU Georgia Tech Summer K-12 Programs Military Programs ESL (English as a Second Language) Georgia Film Academy Georgia Tech Online All Online Offerings Online Courses Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) Savannah Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events In-Person Meetings Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conference Management Blog Georgia Tech Main Site Give Directory Sign In My Cart Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Mailing List YouTube Search Select Search Category Everything Courses & Programs Degree Programs Articles & News GTPE Website Search this site Home Echoes of Each Other Workplace Learning Echoes of Each Other The role female mentorship has played in experience, working, learning and researching Mar 24, 2022 | By Workplace Learning & Professional Development echoes-of-each-other-1900x930.jpg Mentorship is an essential part of personal and professional growth, as it allows us to self-reflect, seek advice, and visualize a pathway toward the future. For National Women’s Month, the Georgia Tech News Center highlighted three inspiring female mentor relationships at Georgia Tech and explored the ways that mentorship has enriched their working, learning, and researching experiences. One female mentorship pair, Natasha Carter and Christy Kelley, became connected through the MentorTech program, sharing lessons learned from the mentorship back to other women on their team. LaTrese Ferguson, director of Workplace Learning and Professional Development, offered her insights about the benefits of professional mentorship for women. “Mentorship is about finding someone who can help you grow into the best version of yourself,” Ferguson said. “What’s exciting about mentorship is you have a partner to walk with you as you navigate. It is also nice being able to see an example of the possibilities.” To encourage more mentorship building within Georgia Tech, she and her team developed MentorTech, a program for faculty and staff to seek and build mentoring connections. Read the full article on Georgia Tech News Center to learn more about the inspiring stories of mentorship at Georgia Tech. You May Also Like Workplace Learning New Tool Guides People Leaders Feb 10, 2022 | Workplace Learning & Professional Development The arrival of a new year ushers in a season of refreshed and new ambitions. As a people leader, it is vital to prioritize your goals and review your professional roadmap. This year, the Workplace... Read Article > Workplace Learning 2022 Cohort of Aspiring Leaders Announced Feb 10, 2022 | Workplace Learning & Professional Development This semester, Workplace Learning & Professional Development kicked off their third cohort of APSPIRE, one of their signature programs designed for aspiring leaders. The latest cohort consists... Read Article > Join Our List The latest insights in tech, business, and leadership straight to your inbox each month. Sign Up Connect With Us Join the conversation on the latest industry news and academic offerings. Resources Programs Browse by Subject Courses Certificates Degrees Military Programs ESL Georgia Tech Online Train at Your Location Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conferences About Us Executive Leadership Leadership Searches Impact Reports Savannah Campus The Language Institute Accreditation Contact Us FAQs Visit Us Georgia Tech Global Learning Center 84 5th St NW Atlanta GA 30308 USA Get Directions Phone: 404-385-3500 Emergency Information Legal and Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Report Website Issue © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology