Skip to main content Tech Moving Forward: Learn more about GTPE's health and safety guidelines for in-person learning and events as well as our expanded virtual course offerings and virtual event services. Menu Home Subjects Browse By Subject Area Business Computing Defense Technologies Digital Media Engineering Exam Prep K-12 Programs Languages Management Manufacturing Mathematics Occupational Safety & Health Personal Development Supply Chain & Logistics Programs All Program Offerings Courses Degrees Graduate Certificates Professional Certificates Boot Camps Savannah Campus Workplace Learning & Professional Development Partner With Us Corporate Education Train at Your Location Featured FinTechU Georgia Tech Summer K-12 Programs Military Programs ESL (English as a Second Language) Georgia Film Academy Georgia Tech Online All Online Offerings Online Courses Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) Savannah Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events In-Person Meetings Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conference Management Blog Georgia Tech Main Site Give Directory Sign In My Cart Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Mailing List YouTube Search Select Search Category Everything Courses & Programs Degree Programs Articles & News GTPE Website Search this site Home Global Learning Center In-Person Events Meeting Package Complete Meeting Package We take the guesswork out of your event. No hidden fees or costs. GLC Events Virtual & Hybrid Events In-Person Events Meeting Package Dining Options Food Breaks Meeting Spaces A/V and Technology Attendee Guide Accommodations Directions to GLC Parking and Transportation Request a Proposal Our complete meeting package means you pay a fixed, per-person, per-day rate, so you can rest assured you'll have no surprises when you get the bill. Unlike hotels, we do not add on room tax, food and beverage tax, or A/V tax. You can also expect to pay no service charge for day meetings, which sets us apart from other hospitality venues. While other facilities often offer a standard package with rigid requirements, our all-inclusive meeting package is designed to meet your specific needs. You'll never be locked into catering or guest minimums. Meeting Space We have 32,000 square feet of flexible meeting space to house groups from 10 to 400. Our facility features five-tiered amphitheaters, 15 meeting and conference rooms, and two dedicated computer labs. All meeting spaces are equipped with built-in technology, free Wi-Fi, and comfortable, ergonomic seating for optimal learning. A general session room is included in the Complete Meeting Package, with additional charges for breakout rooms. Learn More About Meeting Spaces Event Planning Energetic and experienced event managers provide start-to-finish personal and technical support to ensure a seamless meeting. Our event managers partner with you, eliminating the cost of hiring a separate event manager. Plus, our business concierge can help secure Atlanta dining or event reservations and assist with transportation or other needs. All of this is included in the Complete Meeting Package. Learn More About Event Planning The Premium Technology A/V Package Enjoy a delay- and distraction-free meeting with our built-in technology and in-house support package. Audio and visual systems, drop-down screens, desktop computers with Internet access, wireless microphones, and free Wi-Fi are effortless for you and your guests to use and included in the Complete Meeting Package. Learn More About Our Premium Technology A/V Package Continuous Food Breaks From our continental breakfast to snacks and refreshments, your attendees can continually recharge themselves throughout the day. No need to choose a menu, we offer a rotating and fresh display, and our breaks are constantly replenished and offered in a comfortable setting to limit in-room interruptions. Available to you and your guests with the Complete Meeting Package. Learn More About Continuous Food Breaks The facilities at Georgia Tech Learning Center are among the very best in the market in terms of quality, spaciousness, and cleanliness of the rooms. Also, the audiovisual equipment provided in the rooms is the best in the market. All this, combined with their customer-oriented service, provided for a more than welcoming and pleasant experience for our class. - Julio Vergara Training America Request For Proposal Let us help plan your next event, meeting training, or conference today! Contact Us Resources Programs Browse by Subject Courses Certificates Degrees Military Programs ESL Georgia Tech Online Train at Your Location Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conferences About Us Executive Leadership Leadership Searches Impact Reports Savannah Campus The Language Institute Accreditation Contact Us FAQs Visit Us Georgia Tech Global Learning Center 84 5th St NW Atlanta GA 30308 USA Get Directions Phone: 404-385-3500 Emergency Information Legal and Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Report Website Issue © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology