Skip to main content Tech Moving Forward: Learn more about GTPE's health and safety guidelines for in-person learning and events as well as our expanded virtual course offerings and virtual event services. Menu Home Subjects Browse By Subject Area Business Computing Defense Technologies Digital Media Engineering Exam Prep K-12 Programs Languages Management Manufacturing Mathematics Occupational Safety & Health Personal Development Supply Chain & Logistics Programs All Program Offerings Courses Degrees Graduate Certificates Professional Certificates Boot Camps Savannah Campus Workplace Learning & Professional Development Partner With Us Corporate Education Train at Your Location Featured FinTechU Georgia Tech Summer K-12 Programs Military Programs ESL (English as a Second Language) Georgia Film Academy Georgia Tech Online All Online Offerings Online Courses Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) Savannah Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events In-Person Meetings Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conference Management Blog Georgia Tech Main Site Give Directory Sign In My Cart Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Mailing List YouTube Search Select Search Category Everything Courses & Programs Degree Programs Articles & News GTPE Website Search this site Home Event Services Event Services Innovative and flexible solutions for groups of all sizes to connect across the globe High-tech, high-touch professional event experiences While meetings and events may look and feel different for the foreseeable future, Georgia Tech Professional Education (GTPE) is quickly adapting to anticipate your ever-changing needs. Our comprehensive professional meeting and event offerings are agile and innovative, delivered by trained staff who will consult with you to determine the right delivery, technology, and services for exceptional experiences that fit both your budget and wellbeing. Whether your meeting is virtual or in-person — or a hybrid of both — our meeting and event services team has you covered, every step of the way. Your health and safety are also our top priority. Professional meetings, events, and trainings held in-person at the Georgia Tech Global Learning Center (GLC) or at Georgia Tech's Savannah Campus have been modified to include enhanced safety and sanitization procedures recommended by the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and the Georgia Department of Public Health (GDPH) to help keep our visitors safe. NEW! Virtual and Hybrid Event Experiences Safely host your meeting, conference, or livestream remotely using the high-tech, high-touch event experts you're used to. Plan Your Next Virtual Event Global Learning Center Located in the heart of Midtown Atlanta in Tech Square, the Georgia Tech Global Learning Center (GLC) is a one-stop shop for all your needs whether you're streaming on-site conferences to remote attendees or holding an intimate in-person seminar. With more than 32,000 square feet of flexible meeting space, the GLC is the space for high-end, high-tech events. Plan Your Event at the GLC Savannah Campus Georgia Tech-Savannah offers more than just a meeting space. We provide the dedicated facilities and services that will bring your upcoming meeting, banquet, event, or conference to life. From event planning to technology, you'll experience an abundance of amenities, at the Georgia Tech quality you expect. Plan Your Event at Georgia Tech-Savannah Academic Conference Management We offer a suite of conference services for Georgia Tech faculty and staff. Learn More 14k+ The GLC and Savannah Campus host 14K+ guests and 150+ events per year. 100+ 100+ organizations trust the GLC for their learning-focused events per year. 400 The GLC can house groups from 10 to 400 in their 15-room high-tech facility. I keep going back to the GLC because the experience is always a positive one. The staff are consistently professional and accommodating. - Gregg S. Lauer, CMP Sr. Director, Event Management, Equifax Inc. Plan Your Next Event Learn more about hosting your event virtually or in-person with Georgia Tech Professional Education. Contact Us Resources Programs Browse by Subject Courses Certificates Degrees Military Programs ESL Georgia Tech Online Train at Your Location Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conferences About Us Executive Leadership Leadership Searches Impact Reports Savannah Campus The Language Institute Accreditation Contact Us FAQs Visit Us Georgia Tech Global Learning Center 84 5th St NW Atlanta GA 30308 USA Get Directions Phone: 404-385-3500 Emergency Information Legal and Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Report Website Issue © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology