Skip to main content Tech Moving Forward: Learn more about GTPE's health and safety guidelines for in-person learning and events as well as our expanded virtual course offerings and virtual event services. Menu Home Subjects Browse By Subject Area Business Computing Defense Technologies Digital Media Engineering Exam Prep K-12 Programs Languages Management Manufacturing Mathematics Occupational Safety & Health Personal Development Supply Chain & Logistics Programs All Program Offerings Courses Degrees Graduate Certificates Professional Certificates Boot Camps Savannah Campus Workplace Learning & Professional Development Partner With Us Corporate Education Train at Your Location Featured FinTechU Georgia Tech Summer K-12 Programs Military Programs ESL (English as a Second Language) Georgia Film Academy Georgia Tech Online All Online Offerings Online Courses Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) Savannah Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events In-Person Meetings Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conference Management Blog Georgia Tech Main Site Give Directory Sign In My Cart Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Mailing List YouTube Search Select Search Category Everything Courses & Programs Degree Programs Articles & News GTPE Website Search this site Home Blog Creating High-Demand Careers in Georgia's Film and Creative Industries GTPE News Creating High-Demand Careers in Georgia's Film and Creative Industries Georgia Tech-Savannah and Georgia Film Academy offer film course Jan 09, 2021 | By GTPE Communications georgia-film-academy-1900x930.jpg With a mission to put Georgians to work in all aspects of the state’s multibillion-dollar entertainment industry all across the state, the Georgia Film Academy (GFA), in coordination with Georgia Tech-Savannah, announced plans to offer a course in Savannah that would introduce students to on-set film production. Georgia Tech-Savannah will host the course on its campus on Saturdays. “After the success of our first foray into Savannah this fall, we’re thrilled to offer this game-changing initiative with Georgia Tech-Savannah,” GFA Executive Director Jeffrey Stepakoff said. “Students of all ages and backgrounds can gain real-world experience, which leads to jobs in Georgia’s film and entertainment industry. Affordable, accessible, and public, the GFA is fast becoming the state’s entertainment arts conservatory.” The course is the first of an 18-credit-hour certificate program that will introduce the skills used in on-set film production, including all forms of narrative media, which utilizes film-industry standard organizational structure, professional equipment and on-set procedures. In addition to topical information, the course will include demonstrations of equipment and set operations as well as hands-on learning experiences. Students will learn film production organizational structure, and job descriptions and duties in various film craft areas as well as the names, uses and protocols related to various pieces of professional on-set film equipment. Students also will learn, through lectures and exercises, how the various film crafts relate to each other on a working set, as well as how and why they all must operate in coordination. In addition, students will learn crucial skills related to networking and self-marketing. The course is the pre-requisite for all GFA courses and one of the classes required to earn a Georgia Film Academy Production Certification. It is part of the GFA’s collaboration with the University System of Georgia and the Technical College System of Georgia, created by state leadership to meet education and work force needs for high demand careers in Georgia’s film and creative industries. According to the Savannah Economic Development Authority, the Savannah region has been home to 185 productions, generating $125.6 million in direct spending by entertainment companies. “We are very excited about this new collaboration with the Georgia Film Academy,” Diane Lee, executive director of the Georgia Tech-Savannah campus, said. “It’s clear the film industry is a major economic driver in our region, and the opportunity to train our local work force for a career in this dynamic industry is a win-win for Savannah and Georgia Tech.” Georgia Tech-Savannah is following all guidelines, including all those related to the response to COVID-19, outlined by Georgia Tech for the overall safety and wellness of students, faculty, and staff. For more information, visit GFA: Introduction to On-Set Film Production. About the Georgia Film Academy The Georgia Film Academy is a collaboration of the University System of Georgia and the Technical College System of Georgia created by state leadership to meet education and work force needs for high-demand careers in Georgia’s film and creative industries. Founded in 2015, the GFA higher education program offers rigorous professional training and leads to union-covered film and television production craft internships and placement in creative industries, apprenticeships and jobs. Classes are offered for college credit through 22 University System of Georgia and Technical College System of Georgia partner institutions. Students can take film and entertainment-oriented arts, craft and career coursework through continuing education programs at several partner institutions and/or directly through the GFA as professional education. The GFA also offers training to high school teachers in GFA-developed courses, which serve as DOE-approved English language arts and theater standards. You May Also Like GTPE News GTPE Forms Digital First Task Force Dec 01, 2021 | GTPE Communications Since the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic, organizations and working professionals are using digital tools and automation more than ever. ... Read Article > Industry & Trends Partnering for Success Mar 28, 2022 | GTPE Communications Training, reskilling, and equipping management for the future are all hot topics for organizations today. Just as it is important for individual managers to equip themselves with the skills to grow... Read Article > Join Our List The latest insights in tech, business, and leadership straight to your inbox each month. Sign Up Connect With Us Join the conversation on the latest industry news and academic offerings. Resources Programs Browse by Subject Courses Certificates Degrees Military Programs ESL Georgia Tech Online Train at Your Location Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conferences About Us Executive Leadership Leadership Searches Impact Reports Savannah Campus The Language Institute Accreditation Contact Us FAQs Visit Us Georgia Tech Global Learning Center 84 5th St NW Atlanta GA 30308 USA Get Directions Phone: 404-385-3500 Emergency Information Legal and Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Report Website Issue © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology