Skip to main content Tech Moving Forward: Learn more about GTPE's health and safety guidelines for in-person learning and events as well as our expanded virtual course offerings and virtual event services. Menu Home Subjects Browse By Subject Area Business Computing Defense Technologies Digital Media Engineering Exam Prep K-12 Programs Languages Management Manufacturing Mathematics Occupational Safety & Health Personal Development Supply Chain & Logistics Programs All Program Offerings Courses Degrees Graduate Certificates Professional Certificates Boot Camps Savannah Campus Workplace Learning & Professional Development Partner With Us Corporate Education Train at Your Location Featured FinTechU Georgia Tech Summer K-12 Programs Military Programs ESL (English as a Second Language) Georgia Film Academy Georgia Tech Online All Online Offerings Online Courses Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) Savannah Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events In-Person Meetings Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conference Management Blog Georgia Tech Main Site Give Directory Sign In My Cart Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Mailing List YouTube Search Select Search Category Everything Courses & Programs Degree Programs Articles & News GTPE Website Search this site Home Georgia Tech-Savannah Military Programs Education for Veterans Education for Veterans Maximize your transition with the first active duty military internship-to-employment program Home Courses Boot Camps OSHA Training Project Management Supply Chain & Logistics Programs Georgia Film Academy K-12 Programs Leadership Training Military Meetings Request for Proposal Coastal Impact Veterans Education Training and Transition (VET2) sav-military-badge-MFS21-Silver-150x150.png Among the first of its kind in the U.S., the Veterans Education Training and Transition (VET2) is a fully-funded military transition program that provides education and job opportunities to help transitioning active duty service members in the state of Georgia, unemployed veterans, and military spouses (in designated regions of the state of Georgia) translate military values and experience into a successful civilian career. Combining classroom and/or online instruction with internship opportunities, the program provides skill development in sought-after subjects such as lean six sigma, supply chain and logistics management, and project management. Upon completion of the program, veterans receive a professional certificate from a world-renowned academic institution and are better positioned to enter the challenging civilian job market. Among the companies that hosted or hired veterans and service members in the state of Georgia are Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation, Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems, Northrop Grumman, Amazon, Wayfair, Booz Allen Hamilton, Lockheed Martin, Georgia Port Authority, Georgia Power, and U.S. Customs and Border Protection. Integrating veterans into the workplace Graduates of the program find that they have an easier transition into the civilian workforce after participating in the program. Watch the video Program Overview How You Benefit How It Works Program Schedule How You Benefit Receive real-world course content directly to your corporate sponsor. Receive valuable work experience in your field of interest. Gain an important credential from a highly-ranked university. Learn from an expert in the field of veteran employment (and fellow veteran). Gather crucial feedback on resume preparation, interviewing skills, and marketability. Build education and experience for your resume. Gain access to a program with the febrility to align with your separation date. Network with cohort members and employers. More How It Works Cost The VET2 program is funded by the U.S. Department of Labor Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act and the Georgia Department of Economic Development (GDEcD) and is approved as a state workforce development program by the GDEcD. All active duty, National Guard, and Reserve personnel; unemployed veterans; and military spouses who are transitioning to a civilian career are eligible to participate at no cost. Registration Select a military program track of interest and review the course details and time commitments. All interested participants will need to fill out a registration form. After the form is submitted, a member of our military programs staff will contact you via email or phone within three to five business days to discuss the programs that best fit your professional transition and provide upcoming program dates. Completion Program duration varies by each track, typically around two to five weeks. Participants first receive classroom instruction, where customized content is provided by employers. After the classroom experience, participants receive on-the-job training by completing either an internship or project with a corporate sponsor. After successful completion of the program, participants will earn a Georgia Tech Program Certificate. More Program Schedule Course Dates Days Times Delivery Application Deadline VET2 Lean Six Sigma Black Belt (LSSBB) September 13-24, 2021 M-F 8 am - 5 pm Classroom July 29, 2021 October 18-29, 2021 M-F 8 am - 5 pm Live Virtual Online October 1, 2021 VET2 Project Management Professional (PMP) September 13-24, 2021 M-F 8 am - 5 pm Classroom July 29, 2021 More Browse Veteran Education Program Offerings VET² - Military Transitions to the Workforce (PD 1011P) The transition into a new career is one of the most challenging and stressful times in the professional lives of service members and veterans. Transitions are a period of acute vulnerability, because new employees lack established working relationships and a detailed understanding of how their... View Course Details » VET² - Project Management Professional (PMP) Program (PD 1013P) Develop the skills necessary to successfully secure post-service employment while earning a Georgia Tech Project Management certification. Combining the foundation of the Project Management Body of Knowledge Guide (PMBOK® Guide), the VET² – Workforce Integration course View Course Details » VET² - Supply Chain and Logistics Management Program (PD 1009P) The Georgia Tech VET2 Supply Chain and Logistics Management Program will provide you the fundamental knowledge, skills, and tools to transition to the civilian workplace with a career supply chain and logistics management. You’ll begin by developing an understanding of warehouse and distributi... View Course Details » VET² Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Program (PD 1020P) Discover a new career after the service with the Georgia Tech Veterans, Education, Training, and Transition (VET2) Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certificate. This program will give service members and veterans a deep understanding of a proven and high-demand skill set, Lean Six Sigma. View Course Details » VET² Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Program Final Project (PD 1021P) The Black Belt final project is a multifaceted assignment that is a long-term investigative endeavor which culminates in a final presentation to the instructor. It serves to give students the ability to take knowledge and theory they have learned in class and apply in a real-world setting. ... View Course Details » More The Lean Six Sigma Black Belt certification from Georgia Tech through the VET2 program put me ahead of other job seekers and has helped with my studies at Havard Business School. It helped me to look at things strategically and technically from a process standpoint. - Charles Hudson National Security Advisor 900+ Georgia veterans have graduated from the program since 2013. 87% of graduates receive full-time job offers from partner companies. 94% of veterans who enroll in the program successfully graduate. Hire a Veteran Over the next three years, as many as 60,000 military members are expected to return to Georgia. Corporate sponsors of the VET2 program play an integral part of its success story. Partner With Us VET2 NEWS AND SUCCESS STORIES The Value of Hiring a Military Veteran An introduction to the first-of-its-kind military transition program helping veterans become qualified candidates in the competitive civilian job market. Learn More Military Officer to Organization Services Coordinator Read how a veteran used Georgia Tech's military transition program to become an exceptionally qualified candidate in the civilian workforce. Learn More Georgia Tech-Savannah Hosts Largest Career Fair for Military Personnel Twenty Savannah companies connected with transitioning service members, veterans, and military spouses at the largest career fair to date. Learn More Military Programs Receive Statewide Recognition VET2 program acknowledged for positive impact on community as ACT Workforce Champion. Learn More VET2 Program Receives Malcolm Knowles Award Program recognized for outstanding adult education program leadership. Learn More Vincent J. Hoover From infantry officer to VET2 graduate, Hoover has the skills for success. Learn More Alphonso Bynes After 12 years in the army, Bynes is building a stellar career in the IT field. Learn More Dan LaRubio LaRubio did two tours in Afghanistan. Now he's a corporate recruiter in Savannah. Learn More Want to learn more about our veteran education program? Contact Us Resources Programs Browse by Subject Courses Certificates Degrees Military Programs ESL Georgia Tech Online Train at Your Location Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conferences About Us Executive Leadership Leadership Searches Impact Reports Savannah Campus The Language Institute Accreditation Contact Us FAQs Visit Us Georgia Tech Global Learning Center 84 5th St NW Atlanta GA 30308 USA Get Directions Phone: 404-385-3500 Emergency Information Legal and Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Report Website Issue © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology