Skip to main content Tech Moving Forward: Learn more about GTPE's health and safety guidelines for in-person learning and events as well as our expanded virtual course offerings and virtual event services. Menu Home Subjects Browse By Subject Area Business Computing Defense Technologies Digital Media Engineering Exam Prep K-12 Programs Languages Management Manufacturing Mathematics Occupational Safety & Health Personal Development Supply Chain & Logistics Programs All Program Offerings Courses Degrees Graduate Certificates Professional Certificates Boot Camps Savannah Campus Workplace Learning & Professional Development Partner With Us Corporate Education Train at Your Location Featured FinTechU Georgia Tech Summer K-12 Programs Military Programs ESL (English as a Second Language) Georgia Film Academy Georgia Tech Online All Online Offerings Online Courses Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) Savannah Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events In-Person Meetings Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conference Management Blog Georgia Tech Main Site Give Directory Sign In My Cart Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Mailing List YouTube Search Select Search Category Everything Courses & Programs Degree Programs Articles & News GTPE Website Search this site Home Global Learning Center Virtual & Hybrid Events Virtual and Hybrid Meetings Your partner for professional and engaging virtual experiences GLC Events Virtual & Hybrid Events In-Person Events Meeting Package Dining Options Food Breaks Meeting Spaces A/V and Technology Attendee Guide Accommodations Directions to GLC Parking and Transportation Request a Proposal Connect With Your Attendees. Wherever They Are. Thanks to social distancing, the landscape of events and meetings today is rapidly changing. With decades of experience in virtual and online delivery systems, Georgia Tech Professional Education can help you navigate this new environment. In order to continue to offer the high-tech, high-touch event experiences you have come to expect in-person at the Georgia Tech Global Learning Center (GLC), we have upgraded our event services and capabilities to include new virtual and hybrid solutions, available to attendees around the globe. From intimate virtual meetings to hybrid trainings and live broadcasts, we have the technology and event expertise to create a one-stop shop for your next digital event. Our virtual and hybrid meeting features and capabilities include: Amplified audience engagement. Turnkey event technology and hosting platforms. Personalized support from start to finish. Increased audience reach. Interactive networking experiences. PLAN YOUR NEXT VIRTUAL EVENT Basic Virtual Event Best suited for smaller groups where your goal is to foster a highly interactive attendee experience. Event audio, video, and content will be delivered to fully remote attendees and presenter(s) via a virtual meeting platform. Event services will include technical moderator support for the duration of the event. Livestream Event You're less concerned with attendee interactivity and more focused on maximizing reach. Event audio, video, and content is transmitted from the presenter(s) onsite at the GLC to virtual, offsite attendees either in real-time or through recorded video. Event services will include camera and A/V support. Hybrid Event Complement a face-to-face event with the flexibility of virtual components. Event audio, video, and content is transmitted from the presenter(s) and attendees onsite at the GLC to virtual, offsite attendees in real-time. Event services will Include technical moderator support for the duration of the event. Premium Virtual Event Provide the most interactive and immersive virtual experience with multiple, concurrent sessions, including video networking and break out rooms. All event content is housed in a single website hub that allows for attendee flexibility and the ability to scale your event to a larger audience. Request For Proposal Let us help plan your next virtual and hybrid event, meeting, training, or conference today! Contact Us Resources Programs Browse by Subject Courses Certificates Degrees Military Programs ESL Georgia Tech Online Train at Your Location Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conferences About Us Executive Leadership Leadership Searches Impact Reports Savannah Campus The Language Institute Accreditation Contact Us FAQs Visit Us Georgia Tech Global Learning Center 84 5th St NW Atlanta GA 30308 USA Get Directions Phone: 404-385-3500 Emergency Information Legal and Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Report Website Issue © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology