Skip to main content Tech Moving Forward: Learn more about GTPE's health and safety guidelines for in-person learning and events as well as our expanded virtual course offerings and virtual event services. Menu Home Subjects Browse By Subject Area Business Computing Defense Technologies Digital Media Engineering Exam Prep K-12 Programs Languages Management Manufacturing Mathematics Occupational Safety & Health Personal Development Supply Chain & Logistics Programs All Program Offerings Courses Degrees Graduate Certificates Professional Certificates Boot Camps Savannah Campus Workplace Learning & Professional Development Partner With Us Corporate Education Train at Your Location Featured FinTechU Georgia Tech Summer K-12 Programs Military Programs ESL (English as a Second Language) Georgia Film Academy Georgia Tech Online All Online Offerings Online Courses Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) Savannah Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events In-Person Meetings Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conference Management Blog Georgia Tech Main Site Give Directory Sign In My Cart Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Mailing List YouTube Search Select Search Category Everything Courses & Programs Degree Programs Articles & News GTPE Website Search this site Home Global Learning Center Attendee Guide Parking and Transportation Directions & Parking Finding us is easy. GLC Events Virtual & Hybrid Events In-Person Events Meeting Package Dining Options Food Breaks Meeting Spaces A/V and Technology Attendee Guide Accommodations Directions to GLC Parking and Transportation Request a Proposal Where We're Located The Georgia Tech Global Learning Center (GLC) is located in Midtown Atlanta at the intersection of 5th and Spring Streets in the heart of Tech Square — Atlanta's thriving innovation community. We are easily accessible from Interstates 75/85 and just 15 miles from Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport. Parking The Tech Square parking deck, attached to the GLC, is accessible from Spring Street. Hourly rates range from $3.00 for less than an hour to $18 per day. The GLC can be accessed from the second level of the parking deck. Our parking garage address is 770 Spring St. NW, Atlanta, GA 30308-1031. Global Learning Center 84 5th St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 Tel: 404-385-6203 Map Directions Directions to the GLC South of Atlanta NE or NW of Atlanta East or West of Atlanta Map Directions South of Atlanta From south of Atlanta or Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport (Interstate 75/85 north) Take Interstate 75/85 north to Exit 250 (10th Street/14th Street/Georgia Tech). Merge onto Williams Street and turn right onto 10th Street. You will make an immediate right onto Spring Street. Travel approximately 0.4 miles on Spring Street to 5th Street. Proceed half a block further and turn right at the next light into the parking deck. More NE or NW of Atlanta From northeast or northwest of Atlanta (Interstate 75/85 south)* Take Interstate 75 south to Exit 250 (14th Street/10th Street) or Interstate 85 south to Exit 84 (14th Street/10th Street). Continue straight onto Techwood Drive and use the left two lanes to turn left onto 14th Street. Turn right at the second cross street onto Spring Street. Continue on Spring Sreet for 0.7 miles to 5th Street. Proceed a half block further and turn right at the next light into the parking deck. *If you are coming from north Atlanta, take Georgia 400 south to Interstate 75/85 More East or West of Atlanta From east or west of Atlanta (Interstate 20) Take Interstate 20 to Interstate 75/85 north to Exit 250 (10th Street/14th Street/Georgia Tech). Merge onto Williams Street and turn right onto 10th Street. You will make an immediate right onto Spring Street. Travel approximately 0.4 miles on Spring Street to 5th Street. Proceed half a block further and turn right at the next light into the parking deck. More Map Directions Public Transportation MARTA (Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid Transit Authority) and Tech Trolley MARTA trains are available from Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport and from multiple locations throughout the metro Atlanta area. Take the red or gold rail lines (northbound) to the Midtown MARTA station. Exit the station at Peachtree Place and board the free Tech Trolley. We’re the first stop before the trolley enters the main Georgia Tech campus. View route maps and estimated arrivals. Contact Us Let us help plan your next event, meeting, training, or conference today! Contact Us Resources Programs Browse by Subject Courses Certificates Degrees Military Programs ESL Georgia Tech Online Train at Your Location Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conferences About Us Executive Leadership Leadership Searches Impact Reports Savannah Campus The Language Institute Accreditation Contact Us FAQs Visit Us Georgia Tech Global Learning Center 84 5th St NW Atlanta GA 30308 USA Get Directions Phone: 404-385-3500 Emergency Information Legal and Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Report Website Issue © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology