Skip to main content Tech Moving Forward: Learn more about GTPE's health and safety guidelines for in-person learning and events as well as our expanded virtual course offerings and virtual event services. Menu Home Subjects Browse By Subject Area Business Computing Defense Technologies Digital Media Engineering Exam Prep K-12 Programs Languages Management Manufacturing Mathematics Occupational Safety & Health Personal Development Supply Chain & Logistics Programs All Program Offerings Courses Degrees Graduate Certificates Professional Certificates Boot Camps Savannah Campus Workplace Learning & Professional Development Partner With Us Corporate Education Train at Your Location Featured FinTechU Georgia Tech Summer K-12 Programs Military Programs ESL (English as a Second Language) Georgia Film Academy Georgia Tech Online All Online Offerings Online Courses Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) Savannah Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events In-Person Meetings Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conference Management Blog Georgia Tech Main Site Give Directory Sign In My Cart Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Mailing List YouTube Search Select Search Category Everything Courses & Programs Degree Programs Articles & News GTPE Website Search this site Home Programs K-12 Programs K12 STEM Programs Ensuring tomorrow's innovators and educators have the skills to succeed in the workplace High-Quality STEM Learning Experiences Education in science and technology is crucial to prepare students with the skills they need to be part of the next workforce generation. According to the World Economic Forum, 65% of children now entering primary school will hold jobs that don't currently exist. Automation and technological disruption are drastically changing the employment landscape. Now, more than ever, it is crucial to equip future generations with the skills needed to keep up with the rapid changes. Workforce readiness is a top priority for Georgia Tech Professional Education (GTPE). From summer camps to teacher programs and distance math classes, we offer programs specifically engineered to give students the tools to solve real-world problems while also building their critical thinking skills. By providing opportunities to K12 students in science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) subjects, we are investing in our future workforce. Distance Math Program The Georgia Tech Dual Enrollment program provides high school students the opportunity to take advanced math courses online. Classes are taught on-campus to Georgia Tech students while being delivered via live video or internet feed to partner high schools across Georgia. The highly competitive program allows for students to gain extra experience in college-level material while further preparing them for a successful college experience. Learn More STEM Outreach in Savannah From intensive, innovative professional development for educators to highly engaging STEM in-school and extracurricular STEM experiences for kindergarten through high school (K-12) students, Georgia Tech-Savannah's K12 programs impact more than 1,000 students and 80 teachers annually, while serving schools in the Bryan, Chatham, Effingham, and Liberty counties. Learn More Online Courses for Educators Georgia Tech is committed to equipping the teachers in K-12 classrooms with the latest best practices, innovative educational methodology and the skills necessary to execute on them. Our project-based inquiry learning (PBIL) is an online course that equips educators with the tools necessary to transform their classrooms. Learn More Master Money Management and Investing Tools This one-week day camp for high school students covers four key areas of finance to prepare them for a financially fit future. Learn More RECENT K12 PROGRAM NEWS Savannah Students Put Their Heads Together for K-12 InVenture Prize Competition Dozens of students competed in the area's first regional qualifier for the K-12 InVenture Prize at Georgia Tech-Savannah. Learn More Students Get Creative During FIRST Lego Robotics Competition Children ages 9 to 16 participated in a "Into Orbit" competition during a FIRST Lego League regional meet. Learn More Saturday STEMlabs launched at Georgia Tech-Savannah From virtual reality to Internet of Things, Georgia Tech-Savannah brings STEM to the coastal region. Learn More Roadmap for the Future of Higher Education The Institute unveiled roadmap for the future of higher education based and lifetime education is focus. Learn More Want to learn more about our K12 programs? Learn More Resources Programs Browse by Subject Courses Certificates Degrees Military Programs ESL Georgia Tech Online Train at Your Location Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conferences About Us Executive Leadership Leadership Searches Impact Reports Savannah Campus The Language Institute Accreditation Contact Us FAQs Visit Us Georgia Tech Global Learning Center 84 5th St NW Atlanta GA 30308 USA Get Directions Phone: 404-385-3500 Emergency Information Legal and Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Report Website Issue © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology