Skip to main content Tech Moving Forward: Learn more about GTPE's health and safety guidelines for in-person learning and events as well as our expanded virtual course offerings and virtual event services. Menu Home Subjects Browse By Subject Area Business Computing Defense Technologies Digital Media Engineering Exam Prep K-12 Programs Languages Management Manufacturing Mathematics Occupational Safety & Health Personal Development Supply Chain & Logistics Programs All Program Offerings Courses Degrees Graduate Certificates Professional Certificates Boot Camps Savannah Campus Workplace Learning & Professional Development Partner With Us Corporate Education Train at Your Location Featured FinTechU Georgia Tech Summer K-12 Programs Military Programs ESL (English as a Second Language) Georgia Film Academy Georgia Tech Online All Online Offerings Online Courses Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) Savannah Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events In-Person Meetings Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conference Management Blog Georgia Tech Main Site Give Directory Sign In My Cart Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Mailing List YouTube Search Select Search Category Everything Courses & Programs Degree Programs Articles & News GTPE Website Search this site Home Courses Courses STEM, business, and industry-specific professional development courses 108,000+ learners benefit from GTPE’s offerings Overview Classroom Online Open Online Overview Overview We offer training courses in a variety of STEM, business, leadership, and industry-specific subject areas for both degree and non-degree programs. Offerings include short courses and open online classes in more than 15 subject areas leading to continuing education units (CEUs) and course or program completion certificates. Whether you are upgrading your skill set, sharpening your expertise, or future-proofing your career, what you learn in a GTPE continuing education course can be applied to your job or your life immediately. Classroom Classroom We offer courses and programs in a variety of science, technology, engineering, and other specialized topic areas. Most in-classroom sessions take place at Georgia Tech’s Global Learning Center in Atlanta’s Tech Square or at Georgia Tech-Savannah. Some courses and programs are also offered at venues across the country, or at partner locations worldwide. You will learn from Georgia Tech faculty and instructors who are among the most accomplished educators, researchers, and subject matter experts in their fields. Online Online Tap into Georgia Tech's expertise and resources even if you can't attend classes on campus. Choose from our selection of online courses in STEM, business and leadership, and special interest subjects. Learn on your own terms and your own pace. Develop new skills, earn career-boosting credentials, and expand your professional network. Online learning at Georgia Tech is thriving, and the Institute continues to be a leader in high-quality, affordable, and accessible online education. Open Online Open Online Open Online learning options provide a flexible and often cost-effective way to update skills and gain new credentials from anywhere in the world. These online courses that are available to anyone, anywhere, at no cost, to online degree programs that are offered at a fraction of the cost of campus programs, Georgia Tech has partnered with leading providers of online learning platforms to deliver many of our world-class programs to learners around the globe. Receive world-class instruction in topics ranging from engineering to computing to ESL and more. Explore the options, and seize this opportunity to learn from Georgia Tech's expert faculty. Looking for our Massive Open Online Course (MOOC) offerings? Georgia Tech has partnered with leading platform providers to offer popular courses at low or no cost to learners around the world. View all MOOCs » Now Online: In-Person Courses Transitioned to Virtual Format For the safety of our community, we have transitioned many of our in-person professional course offerings to a virtual format to support efforts to keep you learning, progressing, and connected. Choose from more than 100 online courses in 10 subject areas and enjoy the flexibility and convenience of online learning. View Online Courses Course Offerings Narrow your course search by using any combination of the search filters below. Course Title Subject Business Apply Business filter Computing Apply Computing filter Defense Technologies Apply Defense Technologies filter Engineering Apply Engineering filter Languages Apply Languages filter Management Apply Management filter Manufacturing Apply Manufacturing filter Occupational Safety and Health Apply Occupational Safety and Health filter Supply Chain and Logistics Apply Supply Chain and Logistics filter Interest Area Location Atlanta, GA Apply Atlanta, GA filter Denver, CO Apply Denver, CO filter Lake Buena Vista, FL Apply Lake Buena Vista, FL filter Las Vegas, NV Apply Las Vegas, NV filter Online Remove Online filter Savannah, GA Apply Savannah, GA filter Shalimar, FL Apply Shalimar, FL filter Start Date Date E.g., 07/01/2022 End Date Date E.g., 07/01/2022 Clear 50001 CP EnMS Virtual Training (ENER 3112P) The virtual 6-week (two webinars each week) 50001 Certified Practitioner in Energy Management Systems (50001 CP EnMS) course provides critical technical assistance to industrial and commercial facilities that want to implement an energy management system that conforms to ISO 50001. The 50001 CP... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions Sep 13, 2022 - Oct 20, 2022 Register by Sep 6, 2022 Online $1,895 Mar 21, 2023 - Apr 27, 2023 Register by Mar 14, 2023 Online $1,895 Sep 12, 2023 - Oct 19, 2023 Register by Sep 5, 2023 Online $1,895 Course Details Additive Manufacturing as a Secondary Process (MFG 2017P) Additive Manufacturing as a Secondary Process provides a comprehensive overview of the way in which manufacturers can use additive manufacturing (AM) as a secondary or indirect process. AM methods can make a variety of tooling, such as molds and patterns, for use in several different casting,... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions Jul 6, 2021 - Jun 14, 2022 Register by Jun 7, 2022 Online $150 Jul 5, 2022 - Jun 13, 2023 Register by Jun 6, 2023 Online $150 Course Details Advance Product Quality Planning (APQP) and Control Plan (MFG 1100P) This virtual instructor-led course will help you gain an understanding of basic industry requirements for achieving part approval from your customer. Control Plan will also be taught during this course. A control plan is a document describing the critical to quality characteristics, the critical... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions Sep 27, 2022 - Sep 27, 2022 Register by Sep 16, 2022 Online, $750 Course Details Applications for Robots (MFG 2018P) The Applications for Robots course will cover the most common applications of industrial robots from spot welding to material handling and assembly. You'll walk away with the knowledge of why manufacturers use robots and their basic capabilities so you can implement them in your own organization... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions Jul 6, 2021 - Jun 14, 2022 Register by Jun 7, 2022 Online $150 Jul 5, 2022 - Jun 13, 2023 Register by Jun 6, 2023 Online $150 Course Details Automated Systems and Control (MFG 2021P) The Automated Systems and Control course identifies common methods of industrial automation. It describes the available technologies and explains how they are applied in manufacturing. View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions Jul 6, 2021 - Jun 14, 2022 Register by Jun 7, 2022 Online $150 Jul 5, 2022 - Jun 13, 2023 Register by Jun 6, 2023 Online $150 Course Details Basic Electromagnetic Warfare Modeling (DEF 4006P) In the Basic Electromagnetic Warfare Modeling course, you will develop techniques for modeling and simulation (M&S) of radio-frequency (RF) electronic warfare (EW) systems. You will be introduced to the three “pillars” of EW: Electronic Attack (EA) systems, Electronic Protection (EP)... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions Sep 13, 2022 - Sep 16, 2022 Register by Sep 11, 2022 Online $2,095 Course Details Better Business Writing in English (ESL 0005M) In this course, you will learn specific English writing skills for different types of business communications, including cover letters, mission/vision statements, proposals, processes, and reports. The course will also help you learn how to organize, design, and write clear text for powerful... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions Jun 6, 2022 - Dec 16, 2022 Register by Nov 18, 2022 Online $175 Course Details Business Case Development for Operations and Supply Chain Management (LOG 3170P) The ability to write a compelling business case is a core competency for effective leaders. A business case is a critical requirement before committing to projects, new products, or other investments. It is also an argument that needs to convince the recipient to invest in this undertaking... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions Oct 26, 2022 - Oct 27, 2022 Register by Oct 24, 2022 Online $1,500 Course Details Category Management and Sourcing Leadership (LOG 3700P) Category Management and Sourcing Leadership is designed to deepen your knowledge base of core activities in the procurement and supply management function. The program covers the sourcing process, specifications gathering, common bid package alternatives, cross-functional collaboration, and... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions Sep 12, 2022 - Sep 15, 2022 Register by Sep 10, 2022 Online $1,200 Course Details Contracting and Legal Oversight (LOG 3701P) Contracting and Legal Oversight provides you with a holistic and integrated understanding of contract law, contract types, key industry standard contract terms, and contract structure to improve your confidence when creating or modifying contract documents. The program is geared to reinforce... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions Sep 15, 2022 - Sep 21, 2022 Register by Sep 13, 2022 Online $1,200 Course Details Creating Metrics to Drive Performance (MFG 2013P) Learn how to create metrics to drive performance! In this course, you will have the opportunity to translate business and manufacturing information in a way that improves decision-making and guides the organization towards achieving its strategic objectives. Discover what to measure, what not to... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions Jun 7, 2022 - Jun 10, 2022 Register by May 31, 2022 Online $850 Oct 3, 2022 - Oct 4, 2022 Register by Sep 26, 2022 Atlanta, GA $850 Course Details Current Good Manufacturing Practices (MFG 2100P) Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) provide a foundation for any food safety system. They are a series of hygiene rules, product handling guidelines, sanitation procedures, and operational conditions required to produce safe foods. The FDA’s Food Safety Modernization Act (FSMA) has elevated... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions Jul 6, 2021 - Jun 14, 2022 Register by Jun 7, 2022 Online $195 Jul 5, 2022 - Jun 13, 2023 Register by Jun 6, 2023 Online $195 Course Details Digital Forensics for Incident Response (DEF 4611P) Designed as an introduction to digital forensics and incident response, this course explores forensic investigation using freely redistributable, open-source software tools. The course will focus on an analysis of equipment encountered in the enterprise as well as introductory recommendations... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions Jul 18, 2022 - Jul 20, 2022 Register by Jul 15, 2022 Online $1,295 Course Details Electronic Combat Flight Testing From a Systems Engineering Perspective (DEF 5004P) Discover how to best execute the test and evaluation of airborne electronic combat (EC) systems. In this Electronic Combat Flight Testing course, explore threats and EC defensive systems, the EC test process, test monitoring equipment and test facilities, the role of modeling and analysis, and... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions Dec 5, 2022 - Dec 9, 2022 Register by Dec 5, 2022 Online $1,995 Course Details Engineering the Warehouse (LOG 3130P) The requirement for high levels of customer service, increasing numbers of Stock Keeping Units (SKUs), and high labor costs have dramatically increased the complexity of warehouse operations. It is no longer sufficient to manage a warehouse based on a simple, arbitrary “ABC” classification of... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions Aug 8, 2022 - Aug 11, 2022 Register by Aug 6, 2022 Online $3,750 Course Details Essentials of Negotiations and Stakeholder Influence (LOG 3702P) Essentials of Negotiations and Stakeholder Influence level-sets your understanding of negotiation influence and strengthens preparation, planning, and execution activities involved with both simple and complex negotiations. The program includes industry techniques and tools for traditional... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions Sep 22, 2022 - Sep 29, 2022 Register by Sep 20, 2022 Online $1,450 Course Details Executive Introduction ISO 9001:2015 (QUAL 1105P) Do you need an executive introduction to ISO 9001:2015? This course will give you an overview of the standard, examine the requirements, and provide information on registration. You’ll have the opportunity to study at your own pace or use the course as an awareness training tool for your staff... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions Jul 6, 2021 - Jun 14, 2022 Register by Jun 7, 2022 Online $195 Jul 5, 2022 - Jun 13, 2023 Register by Jun 6, 2023 Online $195 Course Details Failure Mode and Effects Analysis (FMEA) (MFG 1101P) This virtual instructor-led course covers the analytical methodology used to ensure that potential problems have been considered and addressed throughout the product and process development process. The AIAG Automotive Quality Core Tools Manuals (student is responsible for purchasing)... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions Oct 4, 2022 - Oct 11, 2022 Register by Sep 23, 2022 Online, $750 Course Details Failure Prevention – Designing to Prevent Mechanical Failure (DEF 5010P) “Failure is not an option” is how the famous expression goes. But how exactly do you prevent failure? This course will explore how to ensure your parts don’t fail during usage. Especially applicable to those working in disciplines where the penalty for failure is high, such as aerospace and... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions Oct 3, 2022 - Oct 3, 2022 Register by Sep 30, 2022 Online $800 Course Details Food Allergens (MFG 2101P) Food allergens are considered an important hazard that need to be controlled during food and beverage manufacturing. While more than 160 foods can cause allergenic reactions in people with food allergies, 90% of food allergenic reactions come from just eight allergens: dairy, egg, fish,... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions Jul 5, 2022 - Jun 13, 2023 Register by Jun 6, 2022 Online $195 Course Details More Featured Courses GTPE offers 300+ professional development courses and 60+ MOOCs in STEM, business and leadership, and special interest topics Georgia Tech’s First MOOC on Accessibility Wins Innovation Award The MOOC addresses the importance of developing an inclusive workplace for employees and customers with disabilities. Learn More Students leave coding boot camp with real projects Coding Boot Camp program is giving aspiring techies the crucial hands on experience needed to help fill the local job shortage. Learn More Hot New Programs We Love Here’s a glimpse at 20 new boot camps, certificates, and courses to bring you growth and success all year long. Learn More Are you looking for a degree? See All Degrees Frequently Asked Questions Policies and Procedures Access (ADA) The Georgia Tech Global Learning Center and Georgia Tech-Savannah campus is compliant under the Americans with Disabilities Act. Any individual who requires accommodation for participation in any course offered by GTPE should contact us prior to the start of the course. Assessment Courses that are part of certificate programs include a required assessment. Passing criteria is determined by the instructor and is provided to learners at the start of the course. Attendance CEUs are awarded to participants who attend a minimum of 80% of the scheduled class time. Citizenship Georgia Tech’s Office of Research Security and Compliance requires citizenship information be maintained for those participating in most GTPE courses. Citizenship information is obtained directly from the learner at the time of registration and is maintained in the Georgia Tech Student System. Code of Conduct Learners enrolled in any of Georgia Tech Professional Education's programs are considered members of the Georgia Tech community and are expected to comply with all policies and procedures put forth by the Institute, including the Student Code of Conduct. Failure to do so may result in removal from your program, as well as forfeiture of all registration fees paid. Unacceptable learner behavior includes, but is not limited to: Disruption of teaching or learning in the classroom; Disorderly conduct and/or disturbing the peace; Dishonesty, both in the classroom and during correspondence with instructors, fellow learners and administrative staff; Refusal to comply with instructors’ parameters for course requirements as stated in a syllabus, course description, or explained in the classroom; Physical abuse; intimidation, harassment, threatening behavior directed toward instructors, fellow learners or administrative staff; Unauthorized attendance in courses or paid events without proper registration; Sexual misconduct of any kind. Code violation reporting should be addressed to "Associate Dean, Academic Affairs, Georgia Tech Professional Education" and emailed to peregistration@gatech.edu. Course Cancellations GTPE reserves the right to substitute instructors, change course dates and locations, or cancel a course due to insufficient enrollment or unforeseen events. If GTPE cancels a course, participants will be notified via email or phone and will be given the option for a full refund or to transfer their registration and any fees paid to another course. It is the responsibility of the student to pay any difference in price, if applicable, when a transfer is made. GTPE is not responsible for nonrefundable plane tickets, hotel and rental car deposits, nor any other expenses incurred. Data Collection and Storage Participants in GTPE courses are required to complete an online profile that meets the requirements of Georgia Tech Research Security. Information collected is maintained in the Georgia Tech Student System. The following data elements are considered directory information and are collected from each participant as part of the registration and profile setup process: Full legal name Email address Shipping address Company name This data is not published in Georgia Tech’s online directory system and therefore is not currently available to the general public. Learner information is used only as described in our Privacy Policy. GTPE data is not sold or provided to external entities. Sensitive Data The following data elements, if in the Georgia Tech Student Systems, are considered sensitive information and are only available to Georgia Tech employees with a business need-to-know: Georgia Tech ID Date of birth Citizenship Gender Ethnicity Religious preferences Social security numbers Registration information Class schedules Attendance records Academic history At any time, you can remove your consent to marketing emails as well as request to delete your personal data. Visit our GTPE EU GDPR page for more information. Inclement Weather Classes and events being held at the Georgia Tech Global Learning Center in Atlanta or Georgia Tech-Savannah campus may be impacted by closures or delays due to inclement weather. The Georgia Tech Global Learning Center will follow the guidelines of Georgia Tech main campus in Atlanta. Students, guests, and instructors should check the Georgia Tech homepage for information regarding university closings or delayed openings due to inclement weather. Please be advised that if campus is closed for any reasons, all classroom courses are also canceled. Students, guests, and instructors attending classes and events at Georgia Tech-Savannah should check the Georgia Tech-Savannah homepage for information regarding closings or delayed openings due to inclement weather. Program Completion GTPE certificates of program completion consist of a prescribed number of required and elective courses offered and completed at Georgia Tech within a consecutive six-year period. Exceptions, such as requests for substitutions or credit for prior education, can be requested through the petition form. Exceptions cannot be guaranteed. Refunds Withdrawals Classroom courses To receive a full refund, you must submit a withdrawal request 10 or more business days prior to the course start date. Final course grade will be a W. Online courses To receive a full refund, you must submit a withdrawal request prior to the course start date and have not previously accessed the course. Final course grad will be a W. Substitutions Course substitutions are allowed if for the same course and requested two or more business days prior to the start of the course. All substitution requests must be submitted via the GTPE Substitution Form. Substitutions cannot be guaranteed for classified, restricted, or approval-required courses. Transfers Course transfers are allowed if requested 10 or more business days prior to the start of the course. All transfer requests must be submitted via the GTPE Transfer Form. Smoking & Tobacco Georgia Tech is a tobacco-free and smoke-free campus. The use of cigarettes, cigars, pipes, all forms of smokeless tobacco, and any other smoking devices that use tobacco are strictly prohibited. There are no designated smoking areas on campus. Special Discounts Courses that are eligible for special discounts will be noted accordingly on the course page. Only one coupon code can be entered during the checkout process and cannot be redeemed after checkout is complete. If you have already registered and forgot to use your coupon code, you can request an eligible refund. GTPE will cancel any transaction where a coupon was misused or ineligible. If you are unsure if you can use your coupon code, please check with the course administrator. GTPE does not have a program for senior citizens. However, Georgia Tech offers a 62 or Older Program for Georgia residents who are 62 or older and are interested in taking for credit courses. This program does not pay for noncredit professional education courses. Visit the Georgia Tech Undergraduate Admissions page for more information on the undergraduate program and Georgia Tech Graduate Admissions page for more information on the graduate program. Group Registrations How do I register my group? There is no special process or form to register your group. All interested learners must create and manage their own individual profiles, accounts, and registrations. Complete a GTPE profile. Shop for a course. Add the course(s) to the cart.* Apply a group discount code (if applicable). Provide an accepted payment method to complete the order (credit card, third party credit card holder, or one accepted payment document). *Carts will remain active for 14 days, but seats are not held until the transaction is complete. How do I apply for a group discount? Courses that offer group discounts will display the discount code on the course page. Your employees will use the code during the registration process and cart totals will adjust accordingly. Group discounts can only be used if three or more employees from the company attend the same course and only one coupon code can be use per shopping cart. If you have already registered and forgot to use your coupon code, you can request an eligible refund. What are the accepted payment documents if I am unable to pay by credit card? Accepted payment documents must be uploaded during the registration process. They include: A company purchase order (PO or SF182) A letter of authorization on company letterhead A corporate education application/voucher What are the requirements for payment documents? Name of company and physical address Name of employee(s) approved for training Document number (SF-182 documents: Section C, Box 4) Billing address (SF-182 documents: Section C, Box 6) Course title and course dates Maximum disbursement amount (billing amount) Expiration date (if applicable) Authorized signature(s) Payment terms less than or equal to net 30 The employee can print of a copy of their shopping cart to submit if required for payment documents. The cart will remain active for 14 days, but the seat will not held until registration and payment is complete. Registrations cannot be processed without payment. If your employee is concerned about losing a seat in a class because of internal company processes, we suggest that they go ahead and register and pay with a personal or corporate credit card and seek reimbursement. Who can I contact for assistance? If you need assistance with your group registration or have questions on how to start the process, please feel free to contact us at 404-385-3501 or peregistration@gatech.edu. Individual Registrations Where are your courses held? Most GTPE classroom courses are held at the Georgia Tech Global Learning Center (GLC). Any courses that are held elsewhere will be clearly marked on the course page. Get information on parking, directions, and transportation to the GLC. Do you provide overnight guest rooms? We do not provide overnight rooms. However, accommodations can be made at the Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center, adjacent to us. Additional hotels can be found within walking distance. Get more information on accommodations. What if I need to transfer to another course? Learners may transfer to another course of equal or greater cost if notification is made at least 10 business days prior to the original course start date. The course to which one transfers must already be scheduled. When should I register for a course? We recommend you register for courses as early as possible. Session details will indicate when there is less than five reamining seats in a particular session. How can I make updates to my contact information? Updates to your company, address, email, phone, and passwords can be made directly on the GTPE website. Name changes and citizenship changes must be submitted to the GTPE Registrar’s Office. How can I register for a course? Complete a GTPE profile. Shop for a course. Add the course(s) to the cart.* Apply a special discount code (if applicable). Provide an accepted payment method to complete the order (credit card, third party credit card holder, or one accepted payment document). *Carts will remain active for 14 days, but seats are not held until the transaction is complete. Do you accept walk-in registrations? Walk-in registrations are accepted based on space availability but are not guaranteed for any courses. Do you offer special discounts? If available, discounts will display on the course page or will be automatically applied during the purchase process. Only one coupon code should be entered during the checkout process and will be validated by the system if applicable to items in your cart. If you have already registered and forgot to use your coupon code, you can request an eligible refund. GTPE does not have a discount program for senior citizens. However, Georgia Tech offers a 62 or Older Program for Georgia residents who are 62 or older and are interested in taking for credit courses. This program does not pay for noncredit professional education courses. Visit the Georgia Tech Undergraduate Admissions page for more information on the undergraduate program and the Georgia Tech Graduate Admissions page for more information on the graduate program. What professional education programs are eligible for veteran education benefits? The following GTPE programs are eligible for veteran education benefits: Construction Safety and Health Certificate Program (Atlanta campus courses only) Project Management Certificate Program (Atlanta campus courses only) Safety and Health Management Certificate Program (Atlanta campus courses only) View the GTPE veteran’s GI Bill benefits checklist for more information. Do you have a program for senior citizens? GTPE does not have a program for senior citizens. However, Georgia Tech offers a 62 or Older Program for Georgia residents who are 62 or older and are interested in taking for credit courses. This program does not pay for noncredit professional education courses. Visit the Georgia Tech Undergraduate Admissions page for more information on the undergraduate program and the Georgia Tech Graduate Admissions page for more information on the graduate program. What happens if my course is cancelled? In the event of a cancellation, we will provide you with a full refund or transfer to an equivalent course. Do I need a student visa to take a course? Short courses (1-5 days) and conferences do not require a student visa. A B-2 Tourist Visa, along with a copy of your registration confirmation email and a copy of your completed web registration order page, should suffice. If participation in a course is employment related, with immediate departure from the U.S., then a B-1 Temporary Business Visa will be required. We encourage you to contact your U.S. Consulate or Embassy to determine visa eligibility. Full refunds will be provided to participants who are unable to obtain an entry visa and contact our office prior to the start of the course. English as a Second Language students should contact the Language Institute for admission and visa requirements. Do you provide letters of invitations or immigration documents for student visas? We do not issue letters of invitation and cannot provide immigration documents for the issuance of a student visa. Full refunds will be provided to participants who are unable to obtain an entry visa and contact our office prior to the start of the course. Who can I contact for assistance? If you need assistance with your group registration or have questions on how to start the process, please feel free to contact us at 404-385-3501 or peregistration@gatech.edu. Payments What payment methods do you accept? Full payment is due at time of registration. Accepted payment methods include: Credit cards Purchase orders (company and government) International wire payments* Georgia Tech Workday Number (for Georgia Tech employees only) Private loans* GI Bill benefits* (Eligible Atlanta campus courses only. Off-campus and online courses are not eligible for VA Benefits.) Company checks* * Requires document upload or transaction verification during the checkout process. What information is needed for a purchase order? Purchase order documents must include the following: Name of company and physical address Name of company’s financial contact and/or ap (accounts payable) email address Name of employee(s) approved for training Document number (SF-182 documents: Section C, Box 4) Billing address (SF-182 documents: Section C, Box 6) Course title and course dates Maximum disbursement amount (billing amount) Expiration date (if applicable) Authorized signature(s) Payment terms less than or equal to net 30 Please do not include social security numbers on purchase order documents. How do I pay with a company check? Make your check payable to “Georgia Institute of Technology” and include the order number and participant name on the face of the check. Choose “Company Purchase Order” as the payment method at checkout and upload a copy of your check to your order. Mail your check to: Georgia Tech Professional Education PO Box 93686 Atlanta, GA 30377-0686 When is a payment due for a course? Full payment is due at the time of registration. How do I make a payment? General Public Payment is due at the time of purchase. Invoice payments must adhere to the Board of Regent’s business terms of net 30. Georgia Tech Employees PeopleSoft payments are processed at the time of registration. Georgia Tech employees cannot use PCards for GTPE registration charges. Are there additional fees for books, supplies, or materials? Additional fees vary by course. Be sure to review the Requirements & Materials tab on the course page for more information. My company has offered to pay for this course. Can you invoice them directly? Yes. Here are the steps to receive an invoice: Complete a GTPE profile. Shop for a course. Add the course(s) to the cart. Print your cart and submit to your employer as the cost estimate. Receive a copy of your company’s Purchase Order or payment approval document for GTPE to invoice against. Return to your cart, proceed through checkout and upload our company PO in the final payment step. The GTPE Business Office will generate an invoice 10 days prior to the start of the course at which point you are no longer eligible to withdraw with fund. Your company must: Abide by the Georgia Tech and Board of Regent’s business terms of net 30. Pay the full balance of a Georgia Tech invoice (there are no discounts for payments made early or on time). Pay the invoice if the employee fails to withdraw during the refund period and does not attend the course. What is your policy for refunding a credit card payment? Credit card refunds are processed to the original credit card. The credit card issuer is responsible for refund credit balances to the cardholder. Do you offer payment plans? We do not offer payment plans for any of our services, conferences, or courses. Payment must be made in full at time of purchase. Will participants be issued a 1098-T tax form for courses taken at GTPE? GTPE cannot issue 1098-T tax forms. If you have a payment history need for tax purposes, we are happy to provide you with receipts of payment. Please submit your requires to peregistration@gatech.edu. Be sure to include your full legal name and Georgia Tech ID which can be found within your GTPE profile. Withdrawals, Substitutions, and Transfers How do I withdraw for a course? Classroom courses To receive a full refund, you must submit a withdrawal request 10 or more business days prior to the course start date. Final course grade will be a W. Online courses To receive a full refund, you must submit a withdrawal request prior to the course start date and have not previously accessed the course. Final course grad will be a W. I can no longer attend a course. Can I send a substitute in my place? Course substitutions are allowed if for the same course and requested two or more business days prior to the start of the course. All substitution requests must be submitted via the GTPE Substitution Form. Substitutions cannot be guaranteed for classified, restricted, or approval-required courses. Can I transfer my registration to another course? Course transfers are allowed if requested 10 or more business days prior to the start of the course. All transfer requests must be submitted via the GTPE Transfer Form. Certificates, Transcripts, and Credits Are your CEUs accredited? GTPE’s use of CEU follows accepted criteria and guidelines established by the Georgia Board of Regents which follows international standards such as The International Association for Continuing Education and Training (IACET). Do you provide transcripts or certificates for Professional Development Hours or Professional Development Units? GTPE does not issue transcripts or certificates with Professional Develop Hours (PDH) or Professional Development Units (PDU), but the crosswalk here is provided for reference. One CEU = 10 contact hours of instruction One PDH = 1 contact hour of instruction (one CEU = 10 PDH) One PDU = 1 contact hour of instruction (one CEU = 10 PDU) Will I receive a course completion certificate? Upon successful completion of most GTPE courses (80% minimum attendance and a passing grade in courses that require an assessment), you may receive a certificate indicating the number of CEUs earned. Certificate issuance exceptions include courses with outstanding credentialing entities (i.e. OSHA or PADI). How do I request a transcript of my CEUs? CEUs earned are recorded in the attendee’s name and will appear on a GTPE transcript. All transcripts must be requested by the attendee via the transcript request form. Requests are typically processed within three business days. How do I petition for a program certificate audit? For an audit of your transcript for progress toward completion of a certificate, please complete the transcript request form. GTPE courses do not provide academic or degree credit. Georgia Tech academic or degree credit is only available to matriculated students taking courses that meet degree requirements. What requirements are required by my state and association? For specific information on state licensing or credit requirements, please contact your state licensing board. If you are seeking certification through a professional association, please review the specific requirements with that association. Occupational Safety and Health Program Information I’m new to the safety field. What courses should I start with? If you are interested in the Construction Industry, begin with OSHA 510: Occupational Safety and Health Standards for Construction Industry. If you are interested in the General Industry, begin with OSHA 511: Occupational Safety and Health Standards for General Industry. What are the opportunities to build my knowledge area in certain OSHA-related subjects? Our safety and health professional certificate programs are the best combination of courses for your areas of interest. Each certificate has a unique set of course requirements. What is the process to be approved for OSHA 500, 501, 502, or 503 courses? 1. Prepare the following required documents in a PDF format (uploaded during the approval process). Completed OSHA Prerequisite Verification Form Proof of completing OSHA 510 or 511 prerequisite course within the last seven years (course certificate or transcript) or a copy of trainer card Current resume 2. Create a new GTPE account or login to your existing GTPE account. 3. Search for OSHA 500, 501, 502, or 503. 4. Click on the Request approval button next to the section you wish to attend. 5. Follow the instructions on the approval form, upload required documents, and submit. You will receive a notification email from the Georgia Tech OSHA Training Institute Education Center within 3-5 business days. If approved, you will be able to register and pay for the course by clicking on the link in the notification email (you must be logged into the GTPE website). What Georgia Tech office can give me information about OSHA training regulations and policies? Please visit the Georgia Tech OSHA Training Institute Education Center or email otiec@innovate.gatech.edu. Where do I find course requirements? Requirements and approval instructions, if applicable, display on each course page under the Requirements & Materials tab. I know there are courses that require a copy of the parts of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR). How do I purchase the right code? If it is required in order to take the course, you will be given the opportunity to add it as an item during the checkout process. If purchased from Georgia Tech, our manual will be distributed during the check-in process on the first day of the course. It is not required that you purchase the manual from Georgia Tech, so you can purchase it through other methods (U.S. Government Bookstore), but must have the manual with you on the first day of the course. How do I know which courses require books? Each course page has a Requirements & Materials section. All requirements for the course will be provided there. Do I need to provide identification when I check in for an OSHA course? A driver’s license is required in order to enter any OSHA classroom. Will I get some sort of certificate when I complete an OSHA course? Georgia Tech's OSHA Training Institute Education Center distributes OSHA and HAZ certificates by mail or on the last day of class. GTPE Registrar's Office mails EST course completion documents after course grades are submitted. Does Georgia Tech offer a degree in Occupational Safety and Health? Yes. Georgia Tech offers a flexible Professional Master's in Occupational Safety and Health (PMOSH) that is tailored to working professionals who are ready to boost their careers and step into a leadership role within the OSH field. Can Georgia Tech provide training for a group of employees from just my company? Yes. GTPE can deliver established and customized training to your employees at your location, on your scheduled, and within your budget. Visit our Train At Your Location for more information. These answers are very helpful, but I’d really like to talk to someone or submit a question I don’t see on this page. Can you provide me with contact information? Website: www.oshainfo.gatech.edu Phone: 404-385-3090 Contacts: oshainfo.gatech.edu/staff.html Email: otiec@innovate.gatech.edu Occupational Safety and Health Trainer Courses Can I take the 10- or 30-hour courses at Georgia Tech? No, these courses are not taught at Georgia Tech. You may contact the Georgia Tech OSHA Outreach Training Institute Education Center for a list of trainers in your area by calling 404-385-3090, select option 5, and leave a detailed voicemail message. OSHA 510: Occupational Safety and Health Standards for Construction Industry and OSHA 511: Occupational Safety and Health Standards for General Industry are designed for safety professionals and are prerequisites to become an authorized 10- or 30-hour trainer and should be considered a step above the OSHA 30-hour course. How can I get information on my trainer card? Please visit the Georgia Tech OSHA Training Institute Education Center or email otiec@innovate.gatech.edu. I’m a trainer and need to know how to get my student cards. Who do I talk to? Please visit the Georgia Tech OSHA Training Institute Education Center or email otiec@innovate.gatech.edu. I’m a trainer and have some questions about teaching my courses. Who do I talk to? Please visit the Georgia Tech OSHA Training Institute Education Center or email otiec@innovate.gatech.edu. I would like to be a Construction Industry Authorized Outreach Trainer. Where can I find information about this? To become an authorized Construction Industry OSHA Outreach Trainer, you must take OSHA 500: Trainer Course in Occupational Safety and Health Standards for Construction Industry. Prerequisites include: Application approval from the Georgia Tech OSHA Training Office Five years of construction safety experience (a college degree in occupational safety and health, a Certified Safety Professional (CSP), or Certified Industrial Hygienist (CIH) designation, in the applicable training area, may be substituted for two years of experience) Completion of OSHA 510: Occupational Safety and Health Standards for Construction Industry* *The OSHA 510 course must have been taken within the last seven years. Construction industry outreach trainers must take OSHA 502: Update for Construction Industry Outreach Trainers every four years to maintain their status as an outreach trainer. I would like to be a General Industry Authorized Outreach Trainer. Where can I find information about this? To become an authorized Construction Industry OSHA Outreach Trainer, you must take OSHA 501: Trainer Course in Occupational Safety and Health Standards for General Industry. Prerequisites include: Application approval from the Georgia Tech OSHA Training Office Five years of construction safety experience (a college degree in occupational safety and health, a Certified Safety Professional (CSP), or Certified Industrial Hygienist (CIH) designation, in the applicable training area, may be substituted for two years of experience) Completion of OSHA 511: Occupational Safety and Health Standards for General Industry* *The OSHA 511 course must have been taken within the last seven years. Construction industry outreach trainers must take OSHA 503: Update for General Industry Outreach Trainers every four years to maintain their status as an outreach trainer. What Georgia Tech office can give me information about expiration rules for trainer cards? Please visit the Georgia Tech OSHA Training Institute Education Center or email otiec@innovate.gatech.edu. Who reviews my request for permission to take a trainer course? Registration permits are granted by the Georgia Tech OSHA Training Institute Education Center Office. Please contact them at 404-385-3090 for more details. I understand there are required prerequisites and work experience for the trainer courses. How can I request an exception? Exceptions for prerequisites and work experience cannot be granted. TRAIN AT YOUR LOCATION We enable employers to provide specialized, on-location training on their own timetables. Our world-renowned experts can create unique content that meets your staff's specific needs. We also has the ability to deliver courses via web conferencing or on-demand online videos. For 15 or more students, it is more cost-effective for us to come to you. Save Money Flexible Schedule Group Training Customize Content On-Site Training Earn a Certificate Learn More Want to learn more about our courses? Contact Us Resources Programs Browse by Subject Courses Certificates Degrees Military Programs ESL Georgia Tech Online Train at Your Location Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conferences About Us Executive Leadership Leadership Searches Impact Reports Savannah Campus The Language Institute Accreditation Contact Us FAQs Visit Us Georgia Tech Global Learning Center 84 5th St NW Atlanta GA 30308 USA Get Directions Phone: 404-385-3500 Emergency Information Legal and Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Report Website Issue © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology