Skip to main content Tech Moving Forward: Learn more about GTPE's health and safety guidelines for in-person learning and events as well as our expanded virtual course offerings and virtual event services. Menu Home Subjects Browse By Subject Area Business Computing Defense Technologies Digital Media Engineering Exam Prep K-12 Programs Languages Management Manufacturing Mathematics Occupational Safety & Health Personal Development Supply Chain & Logistics Programs All Program Offerings Courses Degrees Graduate Certificates Professional Certificates Boot Camps Savannah Campus Workplace Learning & Professional Development Partner With Us Corporate Education Train at Your Location Featured FinTechU Georgia Tech Summer K-12 Programs Military Programs ESL (English as a Second Language) Georgia Film Academy Georgia Tech Online All Online Offerings Online Courses Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) Savannah Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events In-Person Meetings Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conference Management Blog Georgia Tech Main Site Give Directory Sign In My Cart Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Mailing List YouTube Search Select Search Category Everything Courses & Programs Degree Programs Articles & News GTPE Website Search this site Home Georgia Tech-Savannah Courses Boot Camps Coding Boot Camp in Savannah Gain in-demand tech skills to excel in the digital era Home Courses Boot Camps OSHA Training Project Management Supply Chain & Logistics Programs Georgia Film Academy K-12 Programs Leadership Training Military Meetings Request for Proposal Coastal Impact Learn to Code in 24 Weeks Cutting-edge curricula to help you master the hard and soft skills needed for web development. Web development jobs are projected to grow 27% by 2024, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The expanding need for web developers, software developers, and computer programmers is vital — not just in the information technology sector — but a wide variety of industries, such as agriculture and food, aerospace, automotive, defense, and logistics and transportation. The coding boot camp, offered nights and weekends in-person at the Georgia Tech-Savannah campus or online, offers working professionals a way into this booming tech career. Over the course of 24-weeks, you can learn everything from the basics of coding, algorithms, and data structure, to intensive training in Javascript, Nod.js, HTML, CSS jQuery, and C# — all while creating a body of work for your professional portfolio and positioning yourself as a front- or back-end developer. Upon completion of the coding boot camp, you'll receive a Georgia Tech certificate in Full Stack Flex Web Development and the skills to step into Savannah's growing tech industry. Coding boot camps find success in Savannah Since its implementation in 2017, learners have participated through in-person and online formats with a total of 118 graduates of the coding boot camp in Savannah. Watch the video Boot Camps Coding Boot Camp Georgia Tech | Coding Boot Camp (COMP 3000P) Learn the tricks of the trade in both the front and back ends of web development through the Georgia Tech | Coding Boot Camp. You'll understand how to build sites with responsive layouts, how to create and program interactive games, quizzes, and more. Plus you'll learn how to present your web ... View Course Details » More After a career as a chemist and then IT professional, I was eager to get my feet wet in web development. The coding boot camp changed my life. I now work at a company where I feel supported and am thriving. I apply the skills I learned in boot camp to the work I do for our clients. - Jessie Gilligan Developer CODING BOOT CAMP NEWS AND SUCCESS STORIES Students Leave Coding Boot Camp with Real Projects Coding Boot Camp program is giving aspiring techies the crucial hands on experience needed to help fill the local job shortage. Learn More Coding Boot Camp Hosts Demo Day Aspiring coders presented a variety of projects as part of the Coding Boot Camp's demo day. Learn More Georgia Tech-Savannah Graduates First Coding Boot Camp The intense six-month program teaches the fundamentals of coding and web development. Learn More Want to learn more about our coding boot camp? Contact Us Resources Programs Browse by Subject Courses Certificates Degrees Military Programs ESL Georgia Tech Online Train at Your Location Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conferences About Us Executive Leadership Leadership Searches Impact Reports Savannah Campus The Language Institute Accreditation Contact Us FAQs Visit Us Georgia Tech Global Learning Center 84 5th St NW Atlanta GA 30308 USA Get Directions Phone: 404-385-3500 Emergency Information Legal and Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Report Website Issue © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology