Skip to main content Tech Moving Forward: Learn more about GTPE's health and safety guidelines for in-person learning and events as well as our expanded virtual course offerings and virtual event services. Menu Home Subjects Browse By Subject Area Business Computing Defense Technologies Digital Media Engineering Exam Prep K-12 Programs Languages Management Manufacturing Mathematics Occupational Safety & Health Personal Development Supply Chain & Logistics Programs All Program Offerings Courses Degrees Graduate Certificates Professional Certificates Boot Camps Savannah Campus Workplace Learning & Professional Development Partner With Us Corporate Education Train at Your Location Featured FinTechU Georgia Tech Summer K-12 Programs Military Programs ESL (English as a Second Language) Georgia Film Academy Georgia Tech Online All Online Offerings Online Courses Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) Savannah Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events In-Person Meetings Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conference Management Blog Georgia Tech Main Site Give Directory Sign In My Cart Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Mailing List YouTube Search Select Search Category Everything Courses & Programs Degree Programs Articles & News GTPE Website Search this site Home Georgia Film Academy GFA: Introduction to Film and Television Production Overview Course Content Requirements & Materials Overview GFA: Introduction to Film and Television Production Course Description Introduction to On-Set Film Production is a course which will provide an introduction to the skills used in on-set film production, including all forms of narrative media which utilize film-industry standard organizational structure, professional equipment and on-set procedures. In addition to the use of topical lectures, PowerPoint presentations, videos and hand-outs, the course will include demonstrations of equipment and set operations as well as hands-on learning experiences. You will learn the film production organizational structure; job descriptions and duties in various film craft areas; and names, uses and protocols related to various pieces of professional on-set film equipment. You will also learn how the various film crafts relate to one another on a working set, as well as how and why they all must operate in sync. In addition, you will gain skills related to networking and self-marketing. This course is the pre-requisite for all Georgia Film Academy courses. More Course Content INTRODUCTION TO COURSE AND FILM INDUSTRY The structure of the course and the overall program, student and instructor goals, expectations, and responsibilities The Film Industry - an overview of the over-all film production process, organizational structure and job descriptions including the role of film unions and guilds CRITICAL FILM PRODUCTION CONCEPTS Scene coverage and camera angles Shot composition LIGHTING AND ELECTRICAL CONCEPTS AND EQUIPMENT Three-point lighting technique Lighting theory – color temperature, intensity, angle, shadows, gels, diffusion, additional lighting techniques Fundamentals of electricity, as applied to film production and essential safety procedures GRIP GEAR AND DOLLIES Introduction to common grip equipment utilized in professional film production GFA 1000 Introduction to On-Set Film Production Introduction to dollies, jibs, sliders, and other common movement devices utilized in professional film production BASICS OF THE CAMERA, LENSES, AND OPERATION Fundamentals of cameras utilized in professional film production Theoretical concepts of lenses and settings SOUND AND MIDTERM REVIEW Theoretical concepts of sound recording Fundamentals of sound equipment utilized in professional film production ASSISTANT DIRECTORS Introduction to duties of assistant directors and production assistants, from preproduction to completion of production Process of breaking down a script PRODUCTION OFFICE AND SCRIPT SUPERVISORS Introduction to duties of the production office and accounting office staff, from pre-production to completion of production Introduction to duties of the Script Supervisor ART DEPARTMENT Introduction to Production Design process Introduction to hierarchy and responsibilities of the art department on a professional film production COSTUMES AND HAIR AND MAKEUP Introduction to duties of hair and makeup department Introduction to duties of wardrobe department LOCATIONS AND CASTING Introduction to the responsibilities of the location department Introduction to the responsibilities of the casting department CAREER DEVELOPMENT Presentations on working in the industry Concepts and techniques for self-marketing More Requirements & Materials Important Information Online Platform: Account Setup Classes will be hosted online via Desire 2 Learn (D2L). USG ITS (University System of Georgia – Internet Technology Services) will create your D2L account. You will receive an email from the USG with the subject line of “GoVIEW-Georgia Virtual Instruction Enterprise Wide: Enrollment Confirmation” which will contain your username, log-on instructions, and D2L Help Desk contact information. First Day of Class Your first class meeting will be online via teleconference during your scheduled class meeting day and time. Prior to the first day, your instructor will send you the link to join the class teleconference. Online Platform: Access To access your course section(s), you will need to log onto Georgia GoVIEW. We encourage you to make sure you are able to log on BEFORE the first day of class so the USG ITS can troubleshoot any access or technical problems. Materials Required Internet connection (DSL, LAN, or cable connection desirable) Computer (laptop or desktop) Provided All content presented in class, including the syllabus and requirements for the Georgia Film Academy (GFA) Internship program, in the D2L online learning system. Any students unable to access materials should email GFA’s Manager of Curriculum and Instruction, Dan Kelly at dan.kelly@USG.edu for access, and please include the following information: Instructor Day/Time of Class Location of Class Home Institution More COURSE ID: INTD 3100P Special Notice Informational: Georgia Film Academy Contact for course-related questions Carla Frazier Bah View Schedule Session Details Upcoming Sessions There are no sessions scheduled at this time. Please check again later. Previous Sessions AUG 20, 2021 - DEC 3, 2021 Savannah, GA $750 CRN 21425 Session Details MAY 25, 2021 - JUL 20, 2021 Savannah, GA $750 CRN 21343 Session Details FEB 13, 2021 - MAY 8, 2021 Savannah, GA $750 CRN 21224 Session Details Who Should Attend This course is designed for those who want to learn a basic set of skills and insights sufficient to be integrated onto the sets of working film productions. What You Will Learn Film production organizational structure Job descriptions and duties in various film craft areas Names, uses and protocols related to various pieces of professional on-set film equipment How the various film crafts relate to one another on a working set How and why films must operate in sync Skills related to networking and self-marketing How You Will Benefit Develop skills to be able to perform at an entry-level on a professional film set. Describe the film production process. Describe on-set, off-set, and production office personnel and organizational structure. Explain a “day on the set” workflow and schedules for all departments. Identify and demonstrate professional film behavior. Explain the duties and demonstrate the entry-level skills for onset, off-set, and production office positions. Describe the duties of the on-set and office production assistant (PA). Demonstrate knowledge of how to operate professional film equipment. Identify safety issues and identify whom and how to report safety concerns. Taught by Experts in the Field Grow Your Professional Network Related Programs GFA: Introduction to Digital Entertainment, Esports and Game Development Become oriented with the digital entertainment ecosystem and job families therein. Topics explored in this course include: game development, game publishing,... Learn more GFA: Motion Picture Set Lighting I GFA 3020: Motion Picture Set Lighting I equips you with the practical skills and knowledge of electrical distribution and operations of set lighting, as well... Learn more Learn more Frequently Asked Questions Policies Access (ADA) The Georgia Tech Global Learning Center and Georgia Tech-Savannah campus is compliant under the Americans with Disabilities Act. Any individual who requires accommodation for participation in any course offered by GTPE should contact us prior to the start of the course. Assessment Courses that are part of certificate programs include a required assessment. Passing criteria is determined by the instructor and is provided to learners at the start of the course. Attendance CEUs are awarded to participants who attend a minimum of 80% of the scheduled class time. Citizenship Georgia Tech’s Office of Research Security and Compliance requires citizenship information be maintained for those participating in most GTPE courses. Citizenship information is obtained directly from the learner at the time of registration and is maintained in the Georgia Tech Student System. Code of Conduct Learners enrolled in any of Georgia Tech Professional Education's programs are considered members of the Georgia Tech community and are expected to comply with all policies and procedures put forth by the Institute, including the Student Code of Conduct. Failure to do so may result in removal from your program, as well as forfeiture of all registration fees paid. Unacceptable learner behavior includes, but is not limited to: Disruption of teaching or learning in the classroom; Disorderly conduct and/or disturbing the peace; Dishonesty, both in the classroom and during correspondence with instructors, fellow learners and administrative staff; Refusal to comply with instructors’ parameters for course requirements as stated in a syllabus, course description, or explained in the classroom; Physical abuse; intimidation, harassment, threatening behavior directed toward instructors, fellow learners or administrative staff; Unauthorized attendance in courses or paid events without proper registration; Sexual misconduct of any kind. Code violation reporting should be addressed to "Associate Dean, Academic Affairs, Georgia Tech Professional Education" and emailed to peregistration@gatech.edu. Course Cancellations GTPE reserves the right to substitute instructors, change course dates and locations, or cancel a course due to insufficient enrollment or unforeseen events. If GTPE cancels a course, participants will be notified via email or phone and will be given the option for a full refund or to transfer their registration and any fees paid to another course. It is the responsibility of the student to pay any difference in price, if applicable, when a transfer is made. GTPE is not responsible for nonrefundable plane tickets, hotel and rental car deposits, nor any other expenses incurred. Data Collection and Storage Participants in GTPE courses are required to complete an online profile that meets the requirements of Georgia Tech Research Security. Information collected is maintained in the Georgia Tech Student System. The following data elements are considered directory information and are collected from each participant as part of the registration and profile setup process: Full legal name Email address Shipping address Company name This data is not published in Georgia Tech’s online directory system and therefore is not currently available to the general public. Learner information is used only as described in our Privacy Policy. GTPE data is not sold or provided to external entities. Sensitive Data The following data elements, if in the Georgia Tech Student Systems, are considered sensitive information and are only available to Georgia Tech employees with a business need-to-know: Georgia Tech ID Date of birth Citizenship Gender Ethnicity Religious preferences Social security numbers Registration information Class schedules Attendance records Academic history At any time, you can remove your consent to marketing emails as well as request to delete your personal data. Visit our GTPE EU GDPR page for more information. Inclement Weather Classes and events being held at the Georgia Tech Global Learning Center in Atlanta or Georgia Tech-Savannah campus may be impacted by closures or delays due to inclement weather. The Georgia Tech Global Learning Center will follow the guidelines of Georgia Tech main campus in Atlanta. Students, guests, and instructors should check the Georgia Tech homepage for information regarding university closings or delayed openings due to inclement weather. Please be advised that if campus is closed for any reasons, all classroom courses are also canceled. Students, guests, and instructors attending classes and events at Georgia Tech-Savannah should check the Georgia Tech-Savannah homepage for information regarding closings or delayed openings due to inclement weather. Program Completion GTPE certificates of program completion consist of a prescribed number of required and elective courses offered and completed at Georgia Tech within a consecutive six-year period. Exceptions, such as requests for substitutions or credit for prior education, can be requested through the petition form. Exceptions cannot be guaranteed. Refunds Withdrawals Classroom courses To receive a full refund, you must submit a withdrawal request 10 or more business days prior to the course start date. Final course grade will be a W. Online courses To receive a full refund, you must submit a withdrawal request prior to the course start date and have not previously accessed the course. Final course grad will be a W. Substitutions Course substitutions are allowed if for the same course and requested two or more business days prior to the start of the course. All substitution requests must be submitted via the GTPE Substitution Form. Substitutions cannot be guaranteed for classified, restricted, or approval-required courses. Transfers Course transfers are allowed if requested 10 or more business days prior to the start of the course. All transfer requests must be submitted via the GTPE Transfer Form. Smoking & Tobacco Georgia Tech is a tobacco-free and smoke-free campus. The use of cigarettes, cigars, pipes, all forms of smokeless tobacco, and any other smoking devices that use tobacco are strictly prohibited. There are no designated smoking areas on campus. Special Discounts Courses that are eligible for special discounts will be noted accordingly on the course page. Only one coupon code can be entered during the checkout process and cannot be redeemed after checkout is complete. If you have already registered and forgot to use your coupon code, you can request an eligible refund. GTPE will cancel any transaction where a coupon was misused or ineligible. If you are unsure if you can use your coupon code, please check with the course administrator. GTPE does not have a program for senior citizens. However, Georgia Tech offers a 62 or Older Program for Georgia residents who are 62 or older and are interested in taking for credit courses. This program does not pay for noncredit professional education courses. Visit the Georgia Tech Undergraduate Admissions page for more information on the undergraduate program and Georgia Tech Graduate Admissions page for more information on the graduate program. Group Registrations How do I register my group? There is no special process or form to register your group. All interested learners must create and manage their own individual profiles, accounts, and registrations. Complete a GTPE profile. Shop for a course. Add the course(s) to the cart.* Apply a group discount code (if applicable). Provide an accepted payment method to complete the order (credit card, third party credit card holder, or one accepted payment document). *Carts will remain active for 14 days, but seats are not held until the transaction is complete. How do I apply for a group discount? Courses that offer group discounts will display the discount code on the course page. Your employees will use the code during the registration process and cart totals will adjust accordingly. Group discounts can only be used if three or more employees from the company attend the same course and only one coupon code can be use per shopping cart. If you have already registered and forgot to use your coupon code, you can request an eligible refund. What are the accepted payment documents if I am unable to pay by credit card? Accepted payment documents must be uploaded during the registration process. They include: A company purchase order (PO or SF182) A letter of authorization on company letterhead A corporate education application/voucher What are the requirements for payment documents? Name of company and physical address Name of employee(s) approved for training Document number (SF-182 documents: Section C, Box 4) Billing address (SF-182 documents: Section C, Box 6) Course title and course dates Maximum disbursement amount (billing amount) Expiration date (if applicable) Authorized signature(s) Payment terms less than or equal to net 30 The employee can print of a copy of their shopping cart to submit if required for payment documents. The cart will remain active for 14 days, but the seat will not held until registration and payment is complete. Registrations cannot be processed without payment. If your employee is concerned about losing a seat in a class because of internal company processes, we suggest that they go ahead and register and pay with a personal or corporate credit card and seek reimbursement. Who can I contact for assistance? If you need assistance with your group registration or have questions on how to start the process, please feel free to contact us at 404-385-3501 or peregistration@gatech.edu. Individual Registrations Where are your courses held? Most GTPE classroom courses are held at the Georgia Tech Global Learning Center (GLC). Any courses that are held elsewhere will be clearly marked on the course page. Get information on parking, directions, and transportation to the GLC. Do you provide overnight guest rooms? We do not provide overnight rooms. However, accommodations can be made at the Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center, adjacent to us. Additional hotels can be found within walking distance. Get more information on accommodations. What if I need to transfer to another course? Learners may transfer to another course of equal or greater cost if notification is made at least 10 business days prior to the original course start date. The course to which one transfers must already be scheduled. When should I register for a course? We recommend you register for courses as early as possible. Session details will indicate when there is less than five reamining seats in a particular session. How can I make updates to my contact information? Updates to your company, address, email, phone, and passwords can be made directly on the GTPE website. Name changes and citizenship changes must be submitted to the GTPE Registrar’s Office. How can I register for a course? Complete a GTPE profile. Shop for a course. Add the course(s) to the cart.* Apply a special discount code (if applicable). Provide an accepted payment method to complete the order (credit card, third party credit card holder, or one accepted payment document). *Carts will remain active for 14 days, but seats are not held until the transaction is complete. Do you accept walk-in registrations? Walk-in registrations are accepted based on space availability but are not guaranteed for any courses. Do you offer special discounts? If available, discounts will display on the course page or will be automatically applied during the purchase process. Only one coupon code should be entered during the checkout process and will be validated by the system if applicable to items in your cart. If you have already registered and forgot to use your coupon code, you can request an eligible refund. GTPE does not have a discount program for senior citizens. However, Georgia Tech offers a 62 or Older Program for Georgia residents who are 62 or older and are interested in taking for credit courses. This program does not pay for noncredit professional education courses. Visit the Georgia Tech Undergraduate Admissions page for more information on the undergraduate program and the Georgia Tech Graduate Admissions page for more information on the graduate program. What professional education programs are eligible for veteran education benefits? The following GTPE programs are eligible for veteran education benefits: Construction Safety and Health Certificate Program (Atlanta campus courses only) Project Management Certificate Program (Atlanta campus courses only) Safety and Health Management Certificate Program (Atlanta campus courses only) View the GTPE veteran’s GI Bill benefits checklist for more information. Do you have a program for senior citizens? GTPE does not have a program for senior citizens. However, Georgia Tech offers a 62 or Older Program for Georgia residents who are 62 or older and are interested in taking for credit courses. This program does not pay for noncredit professional education courses. Visit the Georgia Tech Undergraduate Admissions page for more information on the undergraduate program and the Georgia Tech Graduate Admissions page for more information on the graduate program. What happens if my course is cancelled? In the event of a cancellation, we will provide you with a full refund or transfer to an equivalent course. Do I need a student visa to take a course? Short courses (1-5 days) and conferences do not require a student visa. A B-2 Tourist Visa, along with a copy of your registration confirmation email and a copy of your completed web registration order page, should suffice. If participation in a course is employment related, with immediate departure from the U.S., then a B-1 Temporary Business Visa will be required. We encourage you to contact your U.S. Consulate or Embassy to determine visa eligibility. Full refunds will be provided to participants who are unable to obtain an entry visa and contact our office prior to the start of the course. English as a Second Language students should contact the Language Institute for admission and visa requirements. Do you provide letters of invitations or immigration documents for student visas? We do not issue letters of invitation and cannot provide immigration documents for the issuance of a student visa. Full refunds will be provided to participants who are unable to obtain an entry visa and contact our office prior to the start of the course. Who can I contact for assistance? If you need assistance with your group registration or have questions on how to start the process, please feel free to contact us at 404-385-3501 or peregistration@gatech.edu. Payments What payment methods do you accept? Full payment is due at time of registration. Accepted payment methods include: Credit cards Purchase orders (company and government) International wire payments* Georgia Tech Workday Number (for Georgia Tech employees only) Private loans* GI Bill benefits* (Eligible Atlanta campus courses only. Off-campus and online courses are not eligible for VA Benefits.) Company checks* * Requires document upload or transaction verification during the checkout process. What information is needed for a purchase order? Purchase order documents must include the following: Name of company and physical address Name of company’s financial contact and/or ap (accounts payable) email address Name of employee(s) approved for training Document number (SF-182 documents: Section C, Box 4) Billing address (SF-182 documents: Section C, Box 6) Course title and course dates Maximum disbursement amount (billing amount) Expiration date (if applicable) Authorized signature(s) Payment terms less than or equal to net 30 Please do not include social security numbers on purchase order documents. How do I pay with a company check? Make your check payable to “Georgia Institute of Technology” and include the order number and participant name on the face of the check. Choose “Company Purchase Order” as the payment method at checkout and upload a copy of your check to your order. Mail your check to: Georgia Tech Professional Education PO Box 93686 Atlanta, GA 30377-0686 When is a payment due for a course? Full payment is due at the time of registration. How do I make a payment? General Public Payment is due at the time of purchase. Invoice payments must adhere to the Board of Regent’s business terms of net 30. Georgia Tech Employees PeopleSoft payments are processed at the time of registration. Georgia Tech employees cannot use PCards for GTPE registration charges. Are there additional fees for books, supplies, or materials? Additional fees vary by course. Be sure to review the Requirements & Materials tab on the course page for more information. My company has offered to pay for this course. Can you invoice them directly? Yes. Here are the steps to receive an invoice: Complete a GTPE profile. Shop for a course. Add the course(s) to the cart. Print your cart and submit to your employer as the cost estimate. Receive a copy of your company’s Purchase Order or payment approval document for GTPE to invoice against. Return to your cart, proceed through checkout and upload our company PO in the final payment step. The GTPE Business Office will generate an invoice 10 days prior to the start of the course at which point you are no longer eligible to withdraw with fund. Your company must: Abide by the Georgia Tech and Board of Regent’s business terms of net 30. Pay the full balance of a Georgia Tech invoice (there are no discounts for payments made early or on time). Pay the invoice if the employee fails to withdraw during the refund period and does not attend the course. What is your policy for refunding a credit card payment? Credit card refunds are processed to the original credit card. The credit card issuer is responsible for refund credit balances to the cardholder. Do you offer payment plans? We do not offer payment plans for any of our services, conferences, or courses. Payment must be made in full at time of purchase. Will participants be issued a 1098-T tax form for courses taken at GTPE? GTPE cannot issue 1098-T tax forms. If you have a payment history need for tax purposes, we are happy to provide you with receipts of payment. Please submit your requires to peregistration@gatech.edu. Be sure to include your full legal name and Georgia Tech ID which can be found within your GTPE profile. Withdrawals, Substitutions, and Transfers How do I withdraw for a course? Classroom courses To receive a full refund, you must submit a withdrawal request 10 or more business days prior to the course start date. Final course grade will be a W. Online courses To receive a full refund, you must submit a withdrawal request prior to the course start date and have not previously accessed the course. Final course grad will be a W. I can no longer attend a course. Can I send a substitute in my place? Course substitutions are allowed if for the same course and requested two or more business days prior to the start of the course. All substitution requests must be submitted via the GTPE Substitution Form. Substitutions cannot be guaranteed for classified, restricted, or approval-required courses. Can I transfer my registration to another course? Course transfers are allowed if requested 10 or more business days prior to the start of the course. All transfer requests must be submitted via the GTPE Transfer Form. Certificates, Transcripts, and Credits Are your CEUs accredited? GTPE’s use of CEU follows accepted criteria and guidelines established by the Georgia Board of Regents which follows international standards such as The International Association for Continuing Education and Training (IACET). Do you provide transcripts or certificates for Professional Development Hours or Professional Development Units? GTPE does not issue transcripts or certificates with Professional Develop Hours (PDH) or Professional Development Units (PDU), but the crosswalk here is provided for reference. One CEU = 10 contact hours of instruction One PDH = 1 contact hour of instruction (one CEU = 10 PDH) One PDU = 1 contact hour of instruction (one CEU = 10 PDU) Will I receive a course completion certificate? Upon successful completion of most GTPE courses (80% minimum attendance and a passing grade in courses that require an assessment), you may receive a certificate indicating the number of CEUs earned. Certificate issuance exceptions include courses with outstanding credentialing entities (i.e. OSHA or PADI). How do I request a transcript of my CEUs? CEUs earned are recorded in the attendee’s name and will appear on a GTPE transcript. All transcripts must be requested by the attendee via the transcript request form. Requests are typically processed within three business days. How do I petition for a program certificate audit? For an audit of your transcript for progress toward completion of a certificate, please complete the transcript request form. GTPE courses do not provide academic or degree credit. Georgia Tech academic or degree credit is only available to matriculated students taking courses that meet degree requirements. What requirements are required by my state and association? For specific information on state licensing or credit requirements, please contact your state licensing board. If you are seeking certification through a professional association, please review the specific requirements with that association. Train at Your Location We enable employers to provide specialized, on-location training on their own timetables. Our world-renowned experts can create unique content that meets your employees' specific needs. We also have the ability to deliver courses via web conferencing or on-demand online videos. For 15 or more students, it is more cost-effective for us to come to you. Save Money Flexible Schedule Group Training Customize Content On-Site Training Earn a Certificate Learn More Want to learn more about this course? Contact Us Resources Programs Browse by Subject Courses Certificates Degrees Military Programs ESL Georgia Tech Online Train at Your Location Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conferences About Us Executive Leadership Leadership Searches Impact Reports Savannah Campus The Language Institute Accreditation Contact Us FAQs Visit Us Georgia Tech Global Learning Center 84 5th St NW Atlanta GA 30308 USA Get Directions Phone: 404-385-3500 Emergency Information Legal and Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Report Website Issue © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology