Skip to main content Tech Moving Forward: Learn more about GTPE's health and safety guidelines for in-person learning and events as well as our expanded virtual course offerings and virtual event services. Menu Home Subjects Browse By Subject Area Business Computing Defense Technologies Digital Media Engineering Exam Prep K-12 Programs Languages Management Manufacturing Mathematics Occupational Safety & Health Personal Development Supply Chain & Logistics Programs All Program Offerings Courses Degrees Graduate Certificates Professional Certificates Boot Camps Savannah Campus Workplace Learning & Professional Development Partner With Us Corporate Education Train at Your Location Featured FinTechU Georgia Tech Summer K-12 Programs Military Programs ESL (English as a Second Language) Georgia Film Academy Georgia Tech Online All Online Offerings Online Courses Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) Savannah Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events In-Person Meetings Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conference Management Blog Georgia Tech Main Site Give Directory Sign In My Cart Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Mailing List YouTube Search Select Search Category Everything Courses & Programs Degree Programs Articles & News GTPE Website Search this site Home Programs FinTechU FinTech Education at Georgia Tech Launching Soon: New fintech program to provide skills training to working professionals Powering the Future of FinTech Education Financial technology, or FinTech, is revolutionizing the way the financial services industry operates. Financial service firms, insurance agencies, and investment banks are all increasingly at the intersection of data and technology, harnessing cybersecurity, big data, and blockchain to conduct business. To succeed in this new environment, fintech professionals will need to pursue learning and development opportunities to reskill and upskill in preparation for leadership in an ever-changing marketplace. As a collaboration between Georgia’s fintech industry and the University System of Georgia, Georgia Tech Professional Education (GTPE) is designing and developing FinTechU, a FinTech education program aimed at providing the required training to enter and be successful in the FinTech sector. Whether you’re a rising executive at a financial services firm, an entrepreneur who has launched or plans to launch a FinTech startup, or an individual working in the payments industry, the key competencies and skills being developed as part of Georgia Tech’s new fintech program will provide you the knowledge you need for any stage of your career. Who Should Attend? Job Functions Job Titles Prerequisites Sign Up for Updates Job Functions The program is appropriate for a wide range of professionals: Mid- to senior-level management in finance Senior management leading FinTech function Entrepreneurs Technology, growth, business, and innovation consultants Professionals working in payments, finance, lending, banking, financial services, IT, health IT, security, regulatory, venture capitals, startups, customer experiences More Job Titles Specific target roles for this program include: Product Managers Senior Software Engineers Solutions Consultant Senior Product Manager Project Manager Java Developer Strategy Manager FinTech Strategy Analyst Business Analyst Devops Engineer More Prerequisites The program is intended for individuals with general knowledge of the financial system and of basic finance concepts. Additionally, individuals who have a keen interest in exploring and understanding these topics will also benefit from participating in the program: Blockchain Artificial Intelligence Machine Learning IT Automation SQL Databases and Programming Product Management Cloud Solutions JavaScript and jQuery Software Development Data Science and Analysis Risk Management Edge Computing More Sign Up for Updates Learn Fundamental Financial Technology Concepts The foundations of FinTech Financial technologies Commercial banking and FinTech Financial data analytics Info security for FinTech Prepare for the Fintech Revolution Gain an overview of FinTech and its applications in financial services. Explore technology's role in reshaping FinTech businesses. Address and forecast FinTech's impact on banking. Apply modern financial data analytics used in business and FinTech applications. Understand the arenas of security of information and information systems. The financial services industry in the past is vastly different from its needs for the future. FinTech education that adapts to the pace of change will bolster the ability for workers and corporations alike to innovate and transform. - Amy Corn Academic Program Director THE LATEST NEWS AND TRENDS IN FINTECH NFTs: A Digital Token of Love If you have yet to order your mom or other Valentine flowers or a card, you’re not alone. Most of us wait until the ... Learn More FinTech Academic Program Director selected as Diversity and Inclusion Fellow The business case for cultivating a gender-diverse workforce is clear – it can lead to notable increases in... Learn More FinTech South: The Power of Human Capital Cultivating diversity in business is not just a moral responsibility, it’s a strategic imperative. Studies have shown... Learn More The Role of Diversity and Inclusion in Finance We know from research that workplace ethnic, cultural, and gender diversity not only drives resourcefulness but also... Learn More Executive Profile: Amy Corn Cultivates Atlanta's Fintech Talent With 25 years of experience in the financial technology and telecommunications field, Amy Corn is a change agent in... Learn More International Women's Day: Insights from a Woman in FinTech Since the 2008 financial crisis, growth in the financial technology, or fintech, sector has been unprecedented,... Learn More FinTech Professional Program Director Featured on Industry Podcast Amy Corn recently joined Tommy Marshall, executive director of the Georgia Fintech Academy, to discuss Georgia Tech... Learn More Industry Leader Named Director of Georgia Tech's New FinTech Program ATLANTA – February 4, 2021 – Georgia Tech Professional Education (GTPE) has selected Amy W. Corn as Academic Program... Learn More Want to receive updates about our new FinTech education program? Sign Up for Updates Resources Programs Browse by Subject Courses Certificates Degrees Military Programs ESL Georgia Tech Online Train at Your Location Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conferences About Us Executive Leadership Leadership Searches Impact Reports Savannah Campus The Language Institute Accreditation Contact Us FAQs Visit Us Georgia Tech Global Learning Center 84 5th St NW Atlanta GA 30308 USA Get Directions Phone: 404-385-3500 Emergency Information Legal and Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Report Website Issue © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology