Skip to main content Tech Moving Forward: Learn more about GTPE's health and safety guidelines for in-person learning and events as well as our expanded virtual course offerings and virtual event services. Menu Home Subjects Browse By Subject Area Business Computing Defense Technologies Digital Media Engineering Exam Prep K-12 Programs Languages Management Manufacturing Mathematics Occupational Safety & Health Personal Development Supply Chain & Logistics Programs All Program Offerings Courses Degrees Graduate Certificates Professional Certificates Boot Camps Savannah Campus Workplace Learning & Professional Development Partner With Us Corporate Education Train at Your Location Featured FinTechU Georgia Tech Summer K-12 Programs Military Programs ESL (English as a Second Language) Georgia Film Academy Georgia Tech Online All Online Offerings Online Courses Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) Savannah Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events In-Person Meetings Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conference Management Blog Georgia Tech Main Site Give Directory Sign In My Cart Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Mailing List YouTube Search Select Search Category Everything Courses & Programs Degree Programs Articles & News GTPE Website Search this site Home Certificates Cross-Cultural Communication for Professionals - English Cross-Cultural Communication for Professionals - English Overview Program Requirements Why Choose a Certificate? Overview Cross-Cultural Communication for Professionals - English Be sure to review program requirements for this certificate The ability to communicate effectively is an essential skill for the 21st century. Learn successful cross-cultural communication skills to help strengthen relationships, motivate teams, enhance collaboration and inclusion, spark creativity, and promote empathy and respect. This certificate program is for professionals who speak English as a second or third language and want to enhance their ability to communicate effectively in the language. This is a five-course certificate program, with the flexibility to customize your experience according to your interests. More Program Requirements Program Requirements Certificate Requirements All courses applied to a certificate program must be taken from Georgia Tech. This certificate does not require an application. How it works Your path to achievement is easy! Most certificate courses are offered in classroom locations around the U.S. You can also inquire about training at your location. Cost Course load determines the cost of a certificate program. Calculate your total by identifying the courses needed and tallying individual course fees. Some courses offer discounts for course bundling. Registration Select a certificate program, review the requirements, and determine your timeline for completion. Add courses to your shopping cart for purchase as you are ready to take them, or as a group if desired. Proceed to checkout to complete your registration. We accept multiple forms of payment including a third-party credit cardholder, purchase order, a private loan, and VA benefits for certain programs. Completion Certificates must be completed within six years. After successful completion of most individual courses, a Certificate of Course Completion will be sent. After successful completion of all required courses, request a transcript and program certificate audit. Upon verification, GTPE will email your transcript and mail your Certificate of Program Completion. Some programs host a certificate award ceremony during the final course. Once you earn your Georgia Tech Program Certificate, tout your success on your resume and LinkedIn profile, share with your employer, and celebrate an important career growth achievement! More Why Choose a Certificate? Why Choose a Certificate? Professional Certificates are ideal for developing new skills and building deep expertise in a specialized area to update your professional profile, advance your career, or broaden your knowledge base. Certificates are an “anytime” credential Start anytime - after graduation or later in your career - and gain deeper know-how in a specific area without the commitment to a degree. Certificates demonstrate commitment The dedication of time to earn a certificate demonstrates that you are committed to achieving a higher standard of professional knowledge in your industry. Certificates provide immediate “ROE” Georgia Tech learners master real-world skills and apply them to their career the day after completion. Certificates stand out on your resume A Georgia Tech credential carries the professional weight to give you a competitive edge. More Delivery Method Classroom, Online Program Administrator Contact for program-related questions Kim Rosero Who Should Attend This certificate is designed for professionals from any discipline seeking to advance their essential skills: communication, cross-cultural competence, teamwork and collaboration, problem-solving and leadership.  The courses will help business leaders, non-profit officers, government officials, military personnel, and entrepreneurs develop essential skills to meet the leadership and communication demands of today’s world. The program is designed for non-native speakers of English at intermediate to advanced levels. How You Will Benefit Communicate more effectively with an increasingly diverse group of stakeholders. Add essential skills such as cross-cultural communicative competence to your technical skills. Gain a competitive edge by learning and practicing skills needed in the 21st century. Differentiate yourself as a global leader. Taught by Experts in the Field Grow Your Professional Network Course Offerings Requirement A (choose three) Course Dates and Times All courses offered within the certificate take place Mondays and Wednesdays or Tuesdays and Thursdays from 4-5:30 p.m. ET or 6-7:30 p.m. ET. The exact schedule will vary by session. Please view the course details for more information. English: Professional Writing 1: Emails, E-chats, Memos and Other Digital Communication (ESL YC01L) Proficient writing represents a remarkable asset for all professions. Job recruiters agree that effective writing is a top essential skill for winning a new position. In this class, you will learn to write short forms of business communication with concise style and clear expression. You will ... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions There are no sessions scheduled at this time. Please check again later. Course Details English: Professional Presentations 1: Fundamentals for Success (ESL YC03L) Do you struggle to connect with coworkers or clients during a presentation? Do you want to feel confident in communication? In this course, you will learn the four key elements necessary for creating, preparing, and delivering a powerfully professional presentation in ... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions There are no sessions scheduled at this time. Please check again later. Course Details English: Language Mindfulness for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (ESL YC07L) The United States was built on the value of strength in diversity. The national motto “E pluribus unum,” expresses that a unified nation comes from a rich blend of cultures. In this course, you will explore the modern expression of diversity, equity, and inclusion in the U.S. workplace. ... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions There are no sessions scheduled at this time. Please check again later. Course Details English: Leadership Across Cultures (ESL YC08L) This course prepares you to lead multicultural and diverse teams to achieve strategic organizational goals. You will learn the fundamentals of cross-cultural leadership (communication, relationship development, emotional intelligence, and strategic thinking) and how these fundamentals can be i... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions There are no sessions scheduled at this time. Please check again later. Course Details Requirement B (choose two) Course Dates and Times All courses offered within the certificate take place Monday/Wednesday or Tuesday/Thursday from 4-5:30 p.m. ET or 6-7:30 p.m. ET. The exact schedule will vary by session. Please view the course details for more information. English: Professional Writing 2: Reports, Summaries and Feedback (ESL YC02L) In this course, you will continue learning to write professionally, while focusing on three different types of professional writing: reports, summaries, and feedback. The first assignment focuses on writing email proposals, where you will identify a workplace problem and propose a solution. Th... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions There are no sessions scheduled at this time. Please check again later. Course Details English: Professional Presentations 2: Leadership Through Storytelling (ESL YC04L) Anyone can give a presentation. The real question to ask yourself is, “Does the data have a story to tell?” Learn to utilize data in such a way that your audience has a deeper understanding, is more engaged, and will be able to make significant decisions based on what you present. In this cour... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions There are no sessions scheduled at this time. Please check again later. Course Details English: Improv 1: Managing in the Moment (ESL YC05L) Apply improvisational techniques to develop skills for leading dynamically, thinking on the spot, speaking with conviction, and taking risks and being flexible. In this course, you will learn strategies to think creatively and push through personal boundaries to actively communicate in English... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions There are no sessions scheduled at this time. Please check again later. Course Details English: Improv 2: Teambuilding and Creative Collaboration (ESL YC06L) Improv 2 offers an improvisational toolbox of communication strategies to engage professionals’ creativity while expanding their English verbal and nonverbal skills. You will learn and practice the right tools and apply them in concrete experiences to respond empathetically, manage negative li... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions There are no sessions scheduled at this time. Please check again later. Course Details English: Clearer Speech (ESL YC10L) Effective communication isn’t just what you say but how you say it. In this course, you’ll learn to minimize pronunciation errors that impact the delivery of your message and how to establish rapport with listeners by displaying confidence in your spoken English. Incrementall... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions There are no sessions scheduled at this time. Please check again later. Course Details English: Expanding Your Writing Power (ESL YC11L) In this course, you will expand your ability to effectively communicate beyond everyday business writing. You will identify and experiment with techniques and strategies to develop your personal voice and style, giving you increased confidence and competence in your writing power. You will app... View Course Details » Upcoming Sessions There are no sessions scheduled at this time. Please check again later. Course Details More Related Certificates Advanced Problem Solving Certificate The Advanced Problem Solving Certificate will teach you how to solve problems that can threaten not only productivity and profit, but can jeopardize... Learn More Distribution Operations Analysis and Design Certificate Establish your expertise in facility operations improvement with our Distribution Operations Analysis and Design Certificate. You’ll learn how to... Learn More Georgia Tech Data Science and Analytics Boot Camp The Data Science and Analytics Boot Camp equips you with the skills required for a high-growth career in data science and analytics. Over the course of 24... Learn More Georgia Tech Product Management Boot Camp Learn More Health & Humanitarian Supply Chain Management Certificate Develop the skills to improve your operations with our Health and Humanitarian Supply Chain Management Certificate Program. You’ll discover how to enhance... Learn More Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certificate Learn the techniques and skills that top corporations around the world use to dramatically improve their bottom line and their business processes by training... Learn More Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certificate Develop the skills and techniques that top corporations around the globe use to dramatically increase their bottom line and improve their business practices.... Learn More Logistics Fundamentals Certificate Learn about the components of supply chains including supply chain networks, supply chain facilities, transportation, and inventory management as well as how... Learn More Manufacturing Leadership Certificate Build your knowledge and skills so that you are equipped to lead, improve, and sustain your organization’s long-term operational and business performance.... Learn More Procurement and Supply Management Leadership Certificate The Procurement and Supply Management Leadership Certificate is designed to prepare sourcing, planning, and procurement professionals to lead their companies... Learn More Professional Leadership Certificate The Professional Leadership Certificate is focused on assisting emerging leaders to accelerate their careers by differentiating their leadership skills and... Learn More Project Management Certificate The Project Management Certificate gives you the essential project management skills you need to progress in your career and become a better manager.... Learn More Scrum Leadership Certificate Learn how to successfully complete and deliver complex projects and services through the Scrum framework. With our Scrum Leadership Certificate, you’ll learn... Learn More Supply and Demand Planning Certificate Gain the knowledge to improve your game with our Supply & Demand Planning Certificate. You’ll get the benefits and know-how of developing an integrated... Learn More Supply Chain Analytics Professional Certificate This certificate program will help you better understand the role of analytics in Supply Chain Management (SCM) and to experience the dynamics of SCM... Learn More Supply Chain Fundamentals Certificate Learn all about the components of supply chains including supply chain networks, procurement, demand planning, and customer services as well as how emerging... Learn More Supply Chain Management Certificate Build your expertise across the various domains of supply chains as well as delve deeper into specific areas of interest. Our Supply Chain Management... Learn More Supply Chain Project Management Certificate If you want to be a successful project manager, your knowledge needs to go beyond simply managing the supply chain. You also need to develop exceptional... Learn More Want to receive updates about certificates? Sign Up for Updates Resources Programs Browse by Subject Courses Certificates Degrees Military Programs ESL Georgia Tech Online Train at Your Location Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conferences About Us Executive Leadership Leadership Searches Impact Reports Savannah Campus The Language Institute Accreditation Contact Us FAQs Visit Us Georgia Tech Global Learning Center 84 5th St NW Atlanta GA 30308 USA Get Directions Phone: 404-385-3500 Emergency Information Legal and Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Report Website Issue © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology