Skip to main content Tech Moving Forward: Learn more about GTPE's health and safety guidelines for in-person learning and events as well as our expanded virtual course offerings and virtual event services. Menu Home Subjects Browse By Subject Area Business Computing Defense Technologies Digital Media Engineering Exam Prep K-12 Programs Languages Management Manufacturing Mathematics Occupational Safety & Health Personal Development Supply Chain & Logistics Programs All Program Offerings Courses Degrees Graduate Certificates Professional Certificates Boot Camps Savannah Campus Workplace Learning & Professional Development Partner With Us Corporate Education Train at Your Location Featured FinTechU Georgia Tech Summer K-12 Programs Military Programs ESL (English as a Second Language) Georgia Film Academy Georgia Tech Online All Online Offerings Online Courses Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) Savannah Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events In-Person Meetings Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conference Management Blog Georgia Tech Main Site Give Directory Sign In My Cart Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Mailing List YouTube Search Select Search Category Everything Courses & Programs Degree Programs Articles & News GTPE Website Search this site Home Programs All Program Offerings Degrees Online Master's Degrees Gain real-world knowledge to advance your career without interrupting it. Choose From 13 Online Master's Degrees Overview Master of Science Degrees Professional Master's Degrees Overview All Degrees Aerospace Engineering Analytics Applied Systems Engineering Computational Science and Engineering Computer Science Cybersecurity Electrical and Computer Engineering Industrial Engineering Manufacturing Leadership Mechanical Engineering Medical Physics Occupational Safety and Health Operations Research Online and Hybrid Master's Degrees from a Top-Ranked Research University For over 40 years, Georgia Tech Professional Education has delivered online learning programs to career-focused adults across the globe. Built on Georgia Tech's rigorous on-campus programs, our 10 online Master of Science degrees and three hybrid professional master's degrees are designed to provide you the STEM and leadership capabilities to be competitive in your field. In addition to a sought-after credential from a world-renowned university, you can also expect: World-class faculty Media-rich, digital learning tools High quality, rigorous courses In annual rankings from U.S. News & World Report, Georgia Tech graduate programs consistently rank in the top 10. The proven excellence of Georgia Tech graduate degrees and the convenience of online delivery make them a compelling choice for working professionals. Master of Science Degrees Master of Science Aerospace Engineering Analytics Computational Science and Engineering Computer Science Cybersecurity Electrical and Computer Engineering Industrial Engineering Mechanical Engineering Medical Physics Operations Research Master of Science Degrees Our online master's programs give you the flexibility to study where you want, whenever you want. Each course is as rigorous as its on-campus equivalent, allowing you to build real-world knowledge and skills that advance your career without interrupting it. When you participate in our distance learning programs, you access a wealth of technological and industry knowledge while building a network comprised of Georgia Tech faculty and industry professionals. A media-rich, collaborative learning environment will allow you to interact with classmates and faculty members virtually. You'll also have 24/7 access to online lectures, videos, discussion boards, and more. Upon completion of their online degrees, many students make the journey to Atlanta for Commencement ceremonies, where they can meet their peers and professors in person. Professional Master's Degrees Professional Master's Degrees Applied Systems Engineering Manufacturing Leadership Occupational Safety and Health Professional Master's Degrees With the help of GTPE, these postgraduate programs enable working professionals to earn Georgia Tech degrees while continuing to work full-time. You'll experience a level of academic rigor consistent with a top-ranked technology and engineering university. You’ll gain applied practical learning in a convenient format that combines face-to-face instruction with online learning. This hybrid approach only requires you to commit to three week-long visits to Georgia Tech’s main campus in Atlanta. You will obtain the remainder of your two-year education online via pre-recorded lectures and real-time web-conferencing sessions. Each program consists of 10 courses. You’ll focus on one class at a time, culminating with a capstone course that challenges you to apply what you’ve learned to address a real industry problem. All Degrees Aerospace Engineering Analytics Applied Systems Engineering Computational Science and Engineering Computer Science Cybersecurity Electrical and Computer Engineering Industrial Engineering Manufacturing Leadership Mechanical Engineering Medical Physics Occupational Safety and Health Operations Research "Georgia Tech was top notch and an internationally recognized institution. I knew that if I was going to go back to school, I wanted to learn from the best institution that I could." Daniel Bohannon Information Security and Compliance Analyst, Chick-fil-A "My career potential was limited, and I knew I needed better tools to take advantage of the skills I possessed. Now, I’m able to bridge the gap between customers and engineering teams to make a real impact." John Bliss Senior Project Manager, GE Oil & Gas "The classmates have a high drive for success. You’re in a network of people that keep driving to do more. It pushes you to keep learning." Rock Mendenhall Founder/Executive Director, the Writer Interface "The best thing about this degree program is we are applying as we learn. We do activities and projects in every course." Sheela Shaw Principal Analyst, Manhattan Associates Master of Science Degree vs. Professional Master’s Degree What is it? Who is it for? What's the difference? Interested in a graduate degree from Georgia Tech, but not sure which program type is right for you? Our comparison chart will allow you to explore the opportunities and requirements associated with the online degree type to help you determine which one is right for you. Learn More 10 Master of Science Degrees Earn an advanced degree from a top-ranking university online, without interrupting your life. 3 Professional Master's Degrees These unique programs provide applied practical learning in a convenient hybrid format. 21k+ Master's Degree Enrollments Thousands of learners enroll in our online master's and professional master's degree programs annually. Additional Information Accreditation Accreditation The Georgia Institute of Technology is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC) to award baccalaureate, masters, and doctoral degrees. Contact the Commission on Colleges at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, GA 30033-4097 or call 404-679-4500 for questions about the accreditation of Georgia Tech Institute of Technology. Additional information can also be found on the SACSCOC website. NC-SARA Approval The Institute has been approved by the state of Georgia to participate in the National Council for State Authorization Reciprocity Agreements (NC-SARA). NC-SARA is a voluntary, regional approach to state oversight of postsecondary distance education. The State Authorization Reciprocity Agreement (SARA) is an agreement among member states, districts, and territories that establish comparable national standards for interstate offering of postsecondary distance education courses and programs. It is intended to make it easier for students to take online courses offered by postsecondary institutions based in another state. SARA is overseen by a National Council and administered by four regional education compacts. Partners Georgia Tech Veterans Resource Center The Georgia Tech Veterans Resource Center promotes student learning and development and supports degree completion for students who are veterans, military, reservist, guard members, and dependents by providing comprehensive support services that enhance and compliment the academic experience. Visit the Georgia Tech Veterans Resource Center website for more information. Want to learn more about our online degrees? Contact Us Resources Programs Browse by Subject Courses Certificates Degrees Military Programs ESL Georgia Tech Online Train at Your Location Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conferences About Us Executive Leadership Leadership Searches Impact Reports Savannah Campus The Language Institute Accreditation Contact Us FAQs Visit Us Georgia Tech Global Learning Center 84 5th St NW Atlanta GA 30308 USA Get Directions Phone: 404-385-3500 Emergency Information Legal and Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Report Website Issue © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology