Skip to main content Tech Moving Forward: Learn more about GTPE's health and safety guidelines for in-person learning and events as well as our expanded virtual course offerings and virtual event services. Menu Home Subjects Browse By Subject Area Business Computing Defense Technologies Digital Media Engineering Exam Prep K-12 Programs Languages Management Manufacturing Mathematics Occupational Safety & Health Personal Development Supply Chain & Logistics Programs All Program Offerings Courses Degrees Graduate Certificates Professional Certificates Boot Camps Savannah Campus Workplace Learning & Professional Development Partner With Us Corporate Education Train at Your Location Featured FinTechU Georgia Tech Summer K-12 Programs Military Programs ESL (English as a Second Language) Georgia Film Academy Georgia Tech Online All Online Offerings Online Courses Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) Savannah Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events In-Person Meetings Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conference Management Blog Georgia Tech Main Site Give Directory Sign In My Cart Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Mailing List YouTube Search Select Search Category Everything Courses & Programs Degree Programs Articles & News GTPE Website Search this site Home Blog The Lifetime Learner Spotlighting the industries, trends, and skills driving disruption in education, the workforce, and the people in them Industry Trends Education & Innovation The Future of Work Working & Learning Remote Work Continued Success for a Lifetime We live in an era of disruption and it's touching all countries, industries, companies, and workers. Exposure to emerging trends and skill shifts have become essential to long-term career success in the future of work. As a leader in innovative educational delivery, Georgia Tech Professional Education (GTPE) serves as a trusted partner for working professionals in tech, business, and leadership. The Lifetime Learner, GTPE's blog, showcases individuals and industry leaders using lifelong learning to transform their careers and inspire change in their industries. Whether you're a working professional interested in the effects of digital transformation or looking for resources to support your career journey, our blog will provided an unparalleled prospective to education innovation, industry trends, the future of work, and lifelong learning. The Future of Work Future of Work: A Lifelong Learning Mindset May 20, 2022 | Jose McKinney During uncertain times, education has been a persistent and powerful tool for our individual and collective ability to manage change and foster growth. The current economic landscape is... Read Article > Working & Learning Post-Pandemic Workplaces: Take Control of Your Career Apr 21, 2022 | Kelsey Harris When the Covid-19 pandemic struck in the spring of 2020, entire industries and labor markets saw disruption seemingly overnight. From furloughs to job losses and the transition to remote work, the... Read Article > Working & Learning Keeping Workplaces Healthy and Safe Apr 14, 2022 | GTPE Communications Cara Eck is a picture of lifelong learning. Having discovered her passion for safety and health, her career and learning journeys are evidence of the value that professional education provides for... Read Article > Working & Learning Growing Through The Stages Apr 01, 2022 | Gordana Goudie For most working adults, ongoing professional education is a fact of life. Today’s workers, regardless of experience, understand the value of continued formal learning and pursue it throughout... Read Article > Industry & Trends Partnering for Success Mar 28, 2022 | GTPE Communications Training, reskilling, and equipping management for the future are all hot topics for organizations today. Just as it is important for individual managers to equip themselves with the skills to grow... Read Article > Industry & Trends Industry Trends: Data Science and Analytics Mar 25, 2022 | GTPE Communications Big data isn’t going away, and the better we understand what data reveals, the clearer the road to success. As a result, the skills involved in analytics and data science are in high demand across... Read Article > Load More Join Our List The latest insights in tech, business, and leadership straight to your inbox each month. Sign Up Connect With Us Join the conversation on the latest industry news and academic offerings. Resources Programs Browse by Subject Courses Certificates Degrees Military Programs ESL Georgia Tech Online Train at Your Location Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conferences About Us Executive Leadership Leadership Searches Impact Reports Savannah Campus The Language Institute Accreditation Contact Us FAQs Visit Us Georgia Tech Global Learning Center 84 5th St NW Atlanta GA 30308 USA Get Directions Phone: 404-385-3500 Emergency Information Legal and Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Report Website Issue © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology