Skip to main content Tech Moving Forward: Learn more about GTPE's health and safety guidelines for in-person learning and events as well as our expanded virtual course offerings and virtual event services. Menu Home Subjects Browse By Subject Area Business Computing Defense Technologies Digital Media Engineering Exam Prep K-12 Programs Languages Management Manufacturing Mathematics Occupational Safety & Health Personal Development Supply Chain & Logistics Programs All Program Offerings Courses Degrees Graduate Certificates Professional Certificates Boot Camps Savannah Campus Workplace Learning & Professional Development Partner With Us Corporate Education Train at Your Location Featured FinTechU Georgia Tech Summer K-12 Programs Military Programs ESL (English as a Second Language) Georgia Film Academy Georgia Tech Online All Online Offerings Online Courses Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) Savannah Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events In-Person Meetings Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conference Management Blog Georgia Tech Main Site Give Directory Sign In My Cart Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Mailing List YouTube Search Select Search Category Everything Courses & Programs Degree Programs Articles & News GTPE Website Search this site Home Global Learning Center In-Person Events Dining Options Dining Options GLC Events Virtual & Hybrid Events In-Person Events Meeting Package Dining Options Food Breaks Meeting Spaces A/V and Technology Attendee Guide Accommodations Directions to GLC Parking and Transportation Request a Proposal From boxed lunches for 10 or a hot buffet for 200, we have the capabilities to provide you with a variety of dining options including vegetarian, gluten-free, and health-conscious choices. You'll also find some of Atlanta's best restaurants right outside our doors, perfect for a quick bite, after-event activity, or offsite reception. The Atrium Perfect for both small and large gatherings, the atrium can accommodate 50 to 200 for seated dining, and up to 300 for a cocktail style stand reception. The two-story space overlooks our outdoor courtyard and features wall-to-ceiling windows, an abundance of natural light, state-of-the-art technology, and in-house expertise. Dining options include boxed lunches, hot buffet, or plated meal. Learn More About The Atrium DINING OPTIONS Boxed Lunches Our boxed lunch menu features a large selection of sandwiches, salads, and wraps. Made with fresh bread, crisp vegetables, and topped with classic favorites — there's something for everyone! Hot Buffets Whether for lunch or dinner, our hot buffet is a great way to enjoy an informal, but fulfilling meal. All of our buffets include a salad, protein, starch, vegetable, fresh rolls, and choice of dessert. Plated Meals Eliminate wait times and provide a uniformed meal experience to your guests with a plated meal. Menu options are the same as the hot buffet but will be served directly to your guests. Continuous Food Breaks To fuel your group and keep your attendees sharp, our Continuous Food Breaks offer a rotating and fresh display of baked items, fruit, snack bars, sweets, soft drinks, and coffee throughout the day. All of the staff at the Global Learning Center were fabulous! They went above and beyond to exceed our expectations. Their attention to detail and availability were priceless! - Anne Harman Event Architects Request For Proposal Let us help plan your next event, meeting, training, or conference today! Contact Us Resources Programs Browse by Subject Courses Certificates Degrees Military Programs ESL Georgia Tech Online Train at Your Location Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conferences About Us Executive Leadership Leadership Searches Impact Reports Savannah Campus The Language Institute Accreditation Contact Us FAQs Visit Us Georgia Tech Global Learning Center 84 5th St NW Atlanta GA 30308 USA Get Directions Phone: 404-385-3500 Emergency Information Legal and Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Report Website Issue © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology