Skip to main content Tech Moving Forward: Learn more about GTPE's health and safety guidelines for in-person learning and events as well as our expanded virtual course offerings and virtual event services. Menu Home Subjects Browse By Subject Area Business Computing Defense Technologies Digital Media Engineering Exam Prep K-12 Programs Languages Management Manufacturing Mathematics Occupational Safety & Health Personal Development Supply Chain & Logistics Programs All Program Offerings Courses Degrees Graduate Certificates Professional Certificates Boot Camps Savannah Campus Workplace Learning & Professional Development Partner With Us Corporate Education Train at Your Location Featured FinTechU Georgia Tech Summer K-12 Programs Military Programs ESL (English as a Second Language) Georgia Film Academy Georgia Tech Online All Online Offerings Online Courses Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) Savannah Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events In-Person Meetings Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conference Management Blog Georgia Tech Main Site Give Directory Sign In My Cart Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Mailing List YouTube Search Select Search Category Everything Courses & Programs Degree Programs Articles & News GTPE Website Search this site Home Programs Train at Your Location Train At Your Location Flexible training and professional education solutions to fit your company’s needs. Train Your Workforce Industry and government partners rely on Georgia Tech Professional Education to train their workforces for success in STEM, business, and leadership. We offer established and custom-designed programs delivered at partner locations globally to meet specific employer and employee professional development needs. Having the course at our location, and limiting attendance to our staff, enables free and open discussion of our specific program challenges. - BAE Systems Your Professional Education Partner With Georgia Tech Professional Education as your partner, you can deliver established and customized training to your employees at your location, on your schedule, and within your budget. Save Money Reduce costs and save on employee travel expenses and time away from the office. Flexible Schedule Schedule for the time, length, and place most convenient for you and your employees. Group Training Boost team knowledge, refine processes, and provide a team-building opportunity. Customize Content Provide expert instructors and tailored programs, unique to your organization's needs. On-Site Training Choose your preferred location and we'll deliver the training in-person, at your convenience. Earn a Certificate Enable your employees to earn a top-ranked credential and experience immediate ROI. Popular Contract Courses Principles of Modern Radar Learn radar principles, systems, techniques, phenomenology, and the basics of radar technology to take with you back into the field. Learn More OSHA 521: OSHA Guide to Industrial Hygiene Learn about industrial hygiene practices and related OSHA regulations and procedures. Learn More Cybersecurity: A Systems Approach Explore information security vulnerabilities and how to approach cybersecurity resilience as a complex system. Learn More Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Develop a deep understanding of the Six Sigma approach, discover proven tools to implement the DMAIC methodology, and receive a Green Belt Certification. Learn More OSHA 511: Occupational Safety and Health Standards for General Industry Get an overview of occupational safety and health principles and how to apply them, using OSHA standards as a guide. Learn More Request More Information First Name * Last Name * Email Address * Phone Which courses are you interested in? Company What is the size of your group? Please let us know when you need the training delivered and any other important information. * We value your privacy. We will not rent or sell your personal information. Leave this field blank Resources Programs Browse by Subject Courses Certificates Degrees Military Programs ESL Georgia Tech Online Train at Your Location Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conferences About Us Executive Leadership Leadership Searches Impact Reports Savannah Campus The Language Institute Accreditation Contact Us FAQs Visit Us Georgia Tech Global Learning Center 84 5th St NW Atlanta GA 30308 USA Get Directions Phone: 404-385-3500 Emergency Information Legal and Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Report Website Issue © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology