Skip to main content Tech Moving Forward: Learn more about GTPE's health and safety guidelines for in-person learning and events as well as our expanded virtual course offerings and virtual event services. Menu Home Subjects Browse By Subject Area Business Computing Defense Technologies Digital Media Engineering Exam Prep K-12 Programs Languages Management Manufacturing Mathematics Occupational Safety & Health Personal Development Supply Chain & Logistics Programs All Program Offerings Courses Degrees Graduate Certificates Professional Certificates Boot Camps Savannah Campus Workplace Learning & Professional Development Partner With Us Corporate Education Train at Your Location Featured FinTechU Georgia Tech Summer K-12 Programs Military Programs ESL (English as a Second Language) Georgia Film Academy Georgia Tech Online All Online Offerings Online Courses Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) Savannah Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events In-Person Meetings Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conference Management Blog Georgia Tech Main Site Give Directory Sign In My Cart Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Mailing List YouTube Search Select Search Category Everything Courses & Programs Degree Programs Articles & News GTPE Website Search this site Home Subjects Browse By Subject Area Defense Technologies Government and Defense Industry Training Learn cutting-edge defense technology from world-class experts Courses, Certificates, and Online Master's Degrees for Defense Professionals TOP RANKED. CREDIBLE. CONVENIENT. With 110+ defense technology courses and 14 professional certificates, offered in-person and virtually, diversify your skillsets with cutting-edge instruction from one of the nation’s premier public universities (ranked in the top 10 by U.S. News & World Report). As an established authority through our own cutting-edge research, as well as regular consulting work with the military, government, and a wide variety of businesses, we offer unparalleled access to renowned Georgia Tech faculty, industry leaders, and Georgia Tech Research Institute (GTRI) researchers and practicing engineers—all experts in highly specialized fields of defense technology to help you further support your companies' efforts. Whether you’d like to expand your knowledge in remote sensing for defense applications or want to gain a better understanding of radar systems, Georgia Tech's Defense Technology program will provide you the technical knowledge and power to change the course of your entire career. Industry-Specific Subject Areas Our defense technology training offers responsive and timely learning experiences that you can self-selct to grow and deepen your skills in the defense industry. Advanced Problem Solving Utilize our courses and certificates as a toolkit to overcome even the biggest challenges, regardless of industry and become an effective problem solver — a... Learn More Airborne and Space Learn the fundamentals along with the latest regarding aircraft control systems, flight control, flight simulators, navigation, wireless communication,... Learn More Antennas Gain in-depth knowledge of antenna technologies such as radar, near-field, phased-array, far-field, and more. Learn More Cybersecurity We offer in-depth training in cybersecurity principles, as well as, emerging techniques and strategies that to keep information safe. Learn More Electronic Warfare Learn the inner workings, benefits, and limitations of electronic warfare and radar-controlled weapons systems. Understand how electronic warfare systems... Learn More Industrial and Systems Discover methods used in the optimization of complex engineering systems in order to improve the efficiency of engineering processes and increase productivity. Learn More Infrared and Electro-Optical Understand how infrared and electro-optical systems work as well as how to assess their strengths and limitations. Learn More Modeling and Simulation Develop in-depth expertise of how modeling and simulation can be instrumental in helping you plan everything from technology launches to field operations. Learn More Radar Learn from leading experts in radar research and apply new knowledge to fields as varied as defense, imaging, automotive, electronic warfare, and weather. Learn More Sensor and Data Fusion The Georgia Tech Sensor & Data Fusion Certificate puts you ahead of the action by showing you how to bring together data from multiple sensors and interpret... Learn More Test and Evaluation Boost your knack for success by learning to develop better systems and products through testing and evaluation. Learn More Download the Defense Course Brochure Download Now Defense Short Courses Expand your knowledge and find the latest Defense Technology courses easily on our website. Select courses by subject, interest area, location, and start date. Learn more in our one-to-five-day short courses in-person, or virtual options. Courses ranging from Systems Engineering, Electronic Warfare and Antenna Engineering to Cybersecurity training, gain a better understanding, while acquiring specialized expertise. Search Upcoming Public Courses Defense Technology Certificates What will you master next? Georgia Tech’s Defense Technology program sets the standard in the field with 14 professional certificates widely known for their unmatched rigor and high standards of excellence. By completing a series of courses in a particular field, you can earn a Georgia Tech Defense Technology certificate. With this highly respected credential, you can increase your impact within the workplace. Search Certificates Cybersecurity Online Master's Sharpen your research and critical thinking skills with the only interdisciplinary degree in cybersecurity from a U.S. News & World Report Top 10-ranked public university that you can earn online, on your own schedule, for a tuition less than $10,000. You'll gain in-depth knowledge in your discipline of interest: information security, cyber-physical systems, or policy within two- to three-years. View Master's Degree Defense Tech Training-at-a-Glance 110+ Courses 1-5 Day Courses 14 Certificates Online and In-Person 14 Subject Areas PRIVATE DEFENSE COURSES AND TRAINING Eliminate travel expenses and foster team learning by scheduling a private offering at your location, including restricted access and classified courses. Our expert instructors will customize courses to meet your organizational needs and deliver training on your schedule. Save Money Flexible Schedule Group Training Customize Content On-Site Training Earn a Certificate Learn More Advancing Defense Technology for 50 Years Defense Technology: A proud history of looking to the future. View Timeline DEFENSE TECHNOLOGY NEWS Veteran Remote Sensing Researcher and Georgia Tech Alum Named New Director of Defense Technology Program Michael Cathcart, Ph.D. has been named director for the Defense Technology program at Georgia Tech Professional... Learn More Defense Tech Celebrates 50 Years For over five decades, Georgia Tech has been a prominent leader in defense technology training and research, led by... Learn More Family Ties: Father and Son Take Power Systems Certificate Program It’s not uncommon for multiple generations of a family to attend the same university. But at the same time? Not... Learn More Research and Instruction: A Winning Combination Principal Research Engineer Glenn Hopkins is Georgia-raised, Georgia Tech-educated and made his professional name at... Learn More Women in Tech Margaret Loper, Myrtle Turner Harris, and Barbara Fox, research scientists at Georgia Tech Research Institute and... Learn More Want to receive updates about defense training? Sign Up for Updates Resources Programs Browse by Subject Courses Certificates Degrees Military Programs ESL Georgia Tech Online Train at Your Location Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conferences About Us Executive Leadership Leadership Searches Impact Reports Savannah Campus The Language Institute Accreditation Contact Us FAQs Visit Us Georgia Tech Global Learning Center 84 5th St NW Atlanta GA 30308 USA Get Directions Phone: 404-385-3500 Emergency Information Legal and Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Report Website Issue © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology