Skip to main content Tech Moving Forward: Learn more about GTPE's health and safety guidelines for in-person learning and events as well as our expanded virtual course offerings and virtual event services. Menu Home Subjects Browse By Subject Area Business Computing Defense Technologies Digital Media Engineering Exam Prep K-12 Programs Languages Management Manufacturing Mathematics Occupational Safety & Health Personal Development Supply Chain & Logistics Programs All Program Offerings Courses Degrees Graduate Certificates Professional Certificates Boot Camps Savannah Campus Workplace Learning & Professional Development Partner With Us Corporate Education Train at Your Location Featured FinTechU Georgia Tech Summer K-12 Programs Military Programs ESL (English as a Second Language) Georgia Film Academy Georgia Tech Online All Online Offerings Online Courses Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) Savannah Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events In-Person Meetings Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conference Management Blog Georgia Tech Main Site Give Directory Sign In My Cart Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Mailing List YouTube Search Select Search Category Everything Courses & Programs Degree Programs Articles & News GTPE Website Search this site Home Global Learning Center In-Person Events In-Person Meetings From intimate trainings to complex conferences, we're here to plan, support, and impress. GLC Events Virtual & Hybrid Events In-Person Events Meeting Package Dining Options Food Breaks Meeting Spaces A/V and Technology Attendee Guide Accommodations Directions to GLC Parking and Transportation Request a Proposal If you're ready to start planning, we're ready to help. The Georgia Tech Georgia Tech Global Learning Center (GLC) is a one-stop shop dedicated to professional learning environments and next-level event services. Meetings? Trainings? Conferences? We do them all. Let us find you the perfect space, manage your audio-visual needs, and fuel your group. Our experienced, knowledgeable, and friendly staff carefully plan and coordinate each and every event from initial booking through completion. We've also enhanced our safety and sanitization procedures as recommended by the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and the Georgia Department of Public Health (GDPH). With us as your partner, everything you need to hold a world-class event is at your fingertips. Returning to the GLC As we welcome you back to our facilities, your safety, security, and well-being is still our top priority. We have proactively updated and enhanced many of our cleaning and safety protocols and will continue to take appropriate action as needed. Read What to Expect How We Can Help Complete Meeting Package Take the guesswork out of planning, with no hidden fees or costs. Our fixed, per-person, per-day rate makes it easy for your organization to plan and stay within a budget, no matter how small or large the event. Learn More Room Types and Configurations Whether you're having an intimate roundtable discussion or special speaker presentation for 250 people in an amphitheater, our event managers know how to coordinate our services and spaces to fit your needs. Learn More Technology and Audio Visual From free Wi-Fi access to video conferencing and in-house technical support, our built-in technology will make your presentations and panel discussions run seamlessly. No need to bring your own equipment or arrange for an outside provider. Learn More Continuous Food Breaks Great food is the key to every successful event. To fuel your group and keep attendees sharp, our BuzzBreak service offers a rotating and fresh display of baked items, fruit, snack bars, sweets, soft drinks, and coffee throughout the day. Learn More Concierge Services Our knowledgeable and friendly business concierge is available to assist with making dinner reservations, recommending local attractions, and more. We also offer wireless internet, printers, and convenient working spaces to keep you connected to your business. Dining Options From boxed lunches to hot buffets and plated luncheons, we have the capabilities to provide your attendees with a variety of dining options. You'll also find some of Atlanta's best restaurants right outside our doors, perfect for a quick bite or after-event activities. Learn More We travel the country giving seminars and workshops. The Global Learning Center is one of the best facilities we have used, and we have used hundreds. Anytime we come to Atlanta, we'll be using the Global Learning Center. - Harry Brooks Network Solutions Request For Proposal Let us help plan your next event, meeting, training, or conference today! Contact Us Resources Programs Browse by Subject Courses Certificates Degrees Military Programs ESL Georgia Tech Online Train at Your Location Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conferences About Us Executive Leadership Leadership Searches Impact Reports Savannah Campus The Language Institute Accreditation Contact Us FAQs Visit Us Georgia Tech Global Learning Center 84 5th St NW Atlanta GA 30308 USA Get Directions Phone: 404-385-3500 Emergency Information Legal and Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Report Website Issue © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology