Skip to main content Tech Moving Forward: Learn more about GTPE's health and safety guidelines for in-person learning and events as well as our expanded virtual course offerings and virtual event services. Menu Home Subjects Browse By Subject Area Business Computing Defense Technologies Digital Media Engineering Exam Prep K-12 Programs Languages Management Manufacturing Mathematics Occupational Safety & Health Personal Development Supply Chain & Logistics Programs All Program Offerings Courses Degrees Graduate Certificates Professional Certificates Boot Camps Savannah Campus Workplace Learning & Professional Development Partner With Us Corporate Education Train at Your Location Featured FinTechU Georgia Tech Summer K-12 Programs Military Programs ESL (English as a Second Language) Georgia Film Academy Georgia Tech Online All Online Offerings Online Courses Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) Savannah Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events In-Person Meetings Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conference Management Blog Georgia Tech Main Site Give Directory Sign In My Cart Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Mailing List YouTube Search Select Search Category Everything Courses & Programs Degree Programs Articles & News GTPE Website Search this site Home Blog Credentialing Opportunities for Soldiers GTPE News Credentialing Opportunities for Soldiers Georgia Tech expands programs for active duty service member professional development Oct 16, 2020 | By GTPE Communications army-credentialing-1900x930.jpg Georgia Tech Professional Education (GTPE) is updating its selection of Military Programs, which now includes the addition of U.S. Army Credentialing Assistance opportunities to assist active duty service members. Credentialing Assistance allows soldiers from around the nation to pursue credentials and off-duty training programs that support their professional development and prepare them for meaningful employment upon transition from service. GTPE's military programs offer skill development in sought-after subjects, such as lean six sigma and project management. Upon completion, participants receive a professional certificate from a world-renowned academic institution and are better positioned for career advancement. U.S. Army Credentialing Assistance funds training for soldiers that leads to credentials, licensure, certification and even recertification through ACCESS, ArmyU plus books, fees, materials and exams. Georgia Tech Professional Education programs are CA-eligible and available online, making it easy for service members anywhere to enroll in some of the nation’s top courses. “Georgia Tech Professional Education Military Programs have long been sought-after resources for our local service men and women, and have – over the past few years – become valuable options for military members across the nation, thanks to online platforms,” said James R. Wilburn, Ph.D., military academic program director for GTPE. “We’re pleased to diversify our offerings and provide even more ways to take advantage of them through Credentialing Assistance.” Georgia Tech has an established history of supporting military programs. The Project Management Institute (PMI), the national credentialing agency for all project management programs, was founded at Georgia Tech in 1969. Now, over 50 years later, project management programs are offered at Georgia Tech Professional Education as one of the course options eligible for Credentialing Assistance. Soldiers in any state can apply for Credentialing Assistance to help support their enrollment at GTPE by going to ArmyIgnitED. To learn more about education opportunities for service members, veterans, and their spouses, visit the Military Programs page. Among the first of its kind in the U.S., Georgia Tech's Military Programs includes a variety of options, including transition courses that provide education for veterans and job opportunities to help active-duty service members, veterans, and military spouses translate military values and experience into a successful civilian career. In addition to Credentialing Assistance, the Veterans Education Training and Transition (VET2) program is a fully-funded military transition program that combines classroom and/or online instruction with internship opportunities to provide education for veterans and job opportunities to help active duty service members, veterans, and military spouses translate military values and experience into a successful civilian career. You May Also Like GTPE News GTPE Forms Digital First Task Force Dec 01, 2021 | GTPE Communications Since the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic, organizations and working professionals are using digital tools and automation more than ever. ... Read Article > Industry & Trends Partnering for Success Mar 28, 2022 | GTPE Communications Training, reskilling, and equipping management for the future are all hot topics for organizations today. Just as it is important for individual managers to equip themselves with the skills to grow... Read Article > Join Our List The latest insights in tech, business, and leadership straight to your inbox each month. Sign Up Connect With Us Join the conversation on the latest industry news and academic offerings. Resources Programs Browse by Subject Courses Certificates Degrees Military Programs ESL Georgia Tech Online Train at Your Location Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conferences About Us Executive Leadership Leadership Searches Impact Reports Savannah Campus The Language Institute Accreditation Contact Us FAQs Visit Us Georgia Tech Global Learning Center 84 5th St NW Atlanta GA 30308 USA Get Directions Phone: 404-385-3500 Emergency Information Legal and Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Report Website Issue © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology