Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU About Events Online Resources Bienvenidos Search Visit Accessibility A Day in Harvard Square Directions and Parking Groups and Tours Host an Event Hours and Admission Exhibitions Current Exhibitions Online Exhibitions Past Exhibitions Collections & Research Search the Collection Collections Overview Conservation Engage with Collections Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act Publications Research Rights and Reproductions Learn K-12 Colleges and Universities Online Resources HOME / News Message from the Peabody Museum Director January 28, 2021 Dear Members of the Peabody Community, Founded in 1866, the Peabody Museum is intricately linked to 19th-century legacies of settler colonialism and imperialism both in the United States and around the globe. In its development as a premier research and teaching institution, the Peabody directly benefited from collecting practices that we recognize today ignore the wishes and values of families... Read more about Message from the Peabody Museum Director Stephanie Mach to Join as New Curator of North American Ethnographic Collections February 2, 2022 The Peabody Museum is delighted to announce that Stephanie Mach has accepted the position of Curator of North American Ethnographic Collections and will be starting in early April 2022. Stephanie Mach (Diné) is a citizen of the Navajo Nation and an anthropologist.... Read more about Stephanie Mach to Join as New Curator of North American Ethnographic Collections In Memoriam: Wayne A. Newell January 19, 2022 The Peabody acknowledges the passing of Passamaquoddy scholar Wayne A. Newell. Recruited to attend Harvard’s Graduate School of Education in 1970 as part of the newly established American Indian program, he dedicated his life to the preservation of the tribal language as an educator, storyteller, author and singer of Passamaquoddy music. Mr. Newell recently took part in a panel to celebrate the 50th Anniversary of the... Read more about In Memoriam: Wayne A. Newell New Collaboration on Maya Monuments and Sites December 6, 2021 The Corpus of Maya Hieroglyphic Inscriptions at the Peabody Museum is delighted to announce a new collaboration between Dumbarton Oaks Publications and the museum that will continue to bring the wealth of data and documentation on Maya monuments and sites to the public through detailed folios. The upcoming fascicle on the ancient Maya site of Yaxchilan, Mexico will mark the start of this new co-publishing collaboration. Chief Standing Bear’s Pipe Tomahawk June 23, 2021 Jointly, the Ponca Tribe of Nebraska, the Ponca Tribe of Indians of Oklahoma, and the Peabody Museum of Archaeology & Ethnology at Harvard University are in active discussion about the homecoming of Chief Standing Bear’s pipe tomahawk to the Ponca people.... Read more about Chief Standing Bear’s Pipe Tomahawk Wendel White Named 2021 Robert Gardner Fellow in Photography June 8, 2021 The Peabody Museum of Archaeology & Ethnology, Harvard University, is pleased to announce the selection of the 2021 Robert Gardner Fellow in Photography. Following an international search, the Gardner Fellowship committee awarded the fellowship to photographer Wendel White. The fellowship provides a $50,000 stipend to begin or complete a proposed project followed by the publication of a book.... Read more about Wendel White Named 2021 Robert Gardner Fellow in Photography Sarah Clunis Named Director of Academic Partnerships and Curator of African Collections May 25, 2021 The Peabody Museum of Archaeology & Ethnology at Harvard University is pleased to announce that Dr. Sarah Clunis has accepted the position of Director of Academic Partnerships and Curator of African Collections to start on August 30, 2021.... Read more about Sarah Clunis Named Director of Academic Partnerships and Curator of African Collections Tindal named director of Harvard Museums of Science and Culture April 14, 2021 Brenda Tindal has been named executive director of Harvard Museums of Science and Culture, Claudine Gay, Edgerley Family Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences (FAS), announced today. Tindal will begin her new position May 17.... Read more about Tindal named director of Harvard Museums of Science and Culture Photos and Videos by Hispanic Teens to be Featured September 10, 2020 In September 2020, Harvard Museums of Science and Culture—a consortium that includes the Harvard Museum of Natural History and the Peabody Museum of Archaeology & Ethnology—will launch Hear Me Out, a project to expand Hispanic engagement by collaborating with youth. The consortium will partner with two youth-serving agencies in Chelsea and Somerville, neighboring cities that have large Hispanic populations, and the Somerville Media Center.... Read more about Photos and Videos by Hispanic Teens to be Featured Peabody Museum to Digitize and Share Kalahari Archives with Descendant Communities in Africa September 9, 2020 The Peabody Museum begins a two-year project to catalog, digitize, and share the photographs and records of one of the most significant contributions to American anthropology: the eight Marshall Family expeditions to the northwest Kalahari region of Southern Africa (1950–1961).... Read more about Peabody Museum to Digitize and Share Kalahari Archives with Descendant Communities in Africa 1 of 2 ›› Latest News Message from the Peabody Museum Director Stephanie Mach to Join as New Curator of North American Ethnographic Collections In Memoriam: Wayne A. Newell New Collaboration on Maya Monuments and Sites Photos and Videos by Hispanic Teens to be Featured Wendel White Named 2021 Robert Gardner Fellow in PhotographySee all news Filter News by Month February 2022 (1) January 2022 (1) December 2021 (1) June 2021 (2) May 2021 (1) 1 of 3 » Harvard University 11 Divinity Avenue Cambridge, MA 02138 The Peabody Museum is one of the Harvard Museums of Science & Culture Visit About Events Bienvenidos Join Terms of Use Report a Website Problem The Peabody Museum is located on the traditional territory of the Massachusett people. Exhibitions Collections & Research Learn Online Resources Website Survey Tab Help Improve Our Website 1f69a77c2231fb4eaf16965ca0408aeb 4b7cdb578f7f96565678010216267206 Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement