Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU About Events Online Resources Bienvenidos Search Visit Accessibility A Day in Harvard Square Directions and Parking Groups and Tours Host an Event Hours and Admission Exhibitions Current Exhibitions Online Exhibitions Past Exhibitions Collections & Research Search the Collection Collections Overview Conservation Engage with Collections Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act Publications Research Rights and Reproductions Learn K-12 Colleges and Universities Online Resources HOME / VISIT / Directions and Parking Special Harvard University Commencement Notice Tuesday, May 24–Sunday, May 29, 2022 The Harvard Museums of Science & Culture will be open during Harvard University Commencement on Thursday, May 26, and Sunday, May 29, 2022 Street parking on Oxford Street and Kirkland Street is not available from Tuesday, May 24 through Sunday, May 29 Public transit is recommended Harvard Yard will be closed to guests during Commencement ceremonies Harvard Museum of Natural History grounds will be busy. Alternate access is available at the Peabody Museum, 11 Divinity Avenue Taking the MBTA Bike Share Driving Directions Off-Campus Parking Free event parking University Permit Parking Accessible Parking Tour and School Buses A Day in Harvard Square Peabody Museum and Harvard Museum of Natural History Floor Plan (PDF) Public Transportation Taking the MBTA Subway Take the Red Line to the Harvard Square stop. Walk through Harvard Yard and down Kirland Street one block to Divinity Avenue. Turn left on Divinity Avenue, and the museum will be on the left. Taking the MBTA Commuter Rail Take the Fitchburg Line to Porter Square. Walk 50 yards on Somerville Avenue, cross the tracks on the bridge, and bear right onto Oxford Street and continue to #26, the Harvard Museum of Natural History, which is connected to the Peabody Museum. (Admission is included to both museums.) The museum is less than a mile from Porter Square. Bike Share Bluebikes is Metro Boston’s public bike share program. The majority of bike-docking stations are available year-round, but in winter, it’s best to confirm station locations. See the Bluebikes map to locate the bike docking station one block away from the museum entrance. Driving Directions Off-Campus Parking There are a limited number of two-hour metered spaces located on Oxford and Kirkland Streets. These meters only accept US quarters or credit cards. After 8:00 pm the meters do not require coins but may be restricted to Cambridge residents. Parking is free on Sundays, and resident permits are not required. Please read the street signs carefully. Commercial Garages There are commercial parking garages in Harvard Square; however, the museum cannot validate parking for those businesses. Free Event Parking When noted, occasional Peabody Museum events have limited event parking at the 52 Oxford Street Garage (a Harvard University garage). Be sure to tell garage attendants the name of the event and sponsoring organization (Peabody Museum, Harvard Museums of Science and Culture) on arrival. University Permit Parking Limited parking is available for museum visitors in nearby University-operated garages including the 52 Oxford Street Garage, located at the intersection of Everett and Oxford Street. Permits must be purchased in advance. Day permits (valid until 11:00 pm) can be purchased online up to two weeks in advance and range in price from $10 to $20 per pass. All major credit cards are accepted and sales are final. For customer service related to the purchase of permits, please contact the Harvard Parking Office at (617) 496-7827 or parking@harvard.edu. Weekend permits for the 52 Oxford Street Garage may be purchased online or in person at the admission desk of the Harvard Museum of Natural History (26 Oxford St.). A license plate number is required for purchase. Be prepared to print out your permit. Go to Harvard University Online Parking Permit System (HOPPS) Register as a "Visitor." Search Parking Select the reason for your visit from the drop-down menu, such as "Museum Tour," "Event Participant," or "Other" Choose a Subcategory: "Peabody Museum" Enter the desired date and Permit Type, such as "Weekday" or "Weekend," then choose Search In the Harvard University Destination field, enter Peabody Museum of Archaeology & Ethnology Select a parking location: 52 Oxford Street Garage (52 Oxford Street) is the closest to the Peabody Museum. The 52 Oxford Street Garage is open seven days a week. Add to Cart Click the Cart icon in the upper right to pay Print out the permit Remember to bring your printed permit when you park Need more help? See more about Harvard visitor parking. Accessible Parking The 52 Oxford Street Garage has both ADA Accessible and Disability parking. For further information see Harvard University Accessible Parking. See also Peabody Museum Accessibility for general information Tour and School Buses Tour and school buses must get detailed bus parking instructions from the Education Department by calling reservations at 617-495-2341. Visit Accessibility A Day in Harvard Square Directions and Parking Groups and Tours Host an Event Hours and Admission Harvard University 11 Divinity Avenue Cambridge, MA 02138 The Peabody Museum is one of the Harvard Museums of Science & Culture Visit About Events Bienvenidos Join Terms of Use Report a Website Problem The Peabody Museum is located on the traditional territory of the Massachusett people. Exhibitions Collections & Research Learn Online Resources Website Survey Tab Help Improve Our Website 1f69a77c2231fb4eaf16965ca0408aeb 4b7cdb578f7f96565678010216267206 Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement