Skip to main content Yale Peabody Museum Main navigation (Mobile)  Explore Events About Us Education Support Special Navigation Peabody@Home Calendar Closed for Renovation Main navigation  Explore Events About Us Education Support Search this Website: Peabody Summer CampsRegistration is now open for our exciting 2022 summer camp series! Give your 6th, 7th, and 8th grade campers an unforgettable experience this year, with behind-the-scenes learning and outdoor nature adventures. Info & Registration Rebuilding DinosaursThe team at Research Casting International is busy cleaning and remounting our Brontosaurus and Stegosaurus specimens in preparation for their journey back home to the Peabody's Great Hall. Read More Renovated Peabody reopening in 2024 with free admission Read More Frozen Frogs and Climate ChangeIn our newest article, we explore local frog biology and behavior through the lens of researchers and community educators. Read More A Place for MeNew voices help the Peabody tell a more inclusive story. Read More Natural Science IllustrationNew classes are now available! Details & Registration Peabody Annual FundGet connected to everything at the Peabody. Give Today The Peabody’s galleries are currently closed for renovation. Learn More EVOLUTIONSOur afterschool program prepares local students for STEM careers. Learn More Peabody@Home More Info Online Digital Resources Peabody@Home Our doors may be closed right now, but we’re opening windows into the many digital resources available here at the Peabody and across the internet. Experience our new repository for digital resources, educational tools, and interesting online curiosities of the Peabody Museum! Explore Now The Collections More Info The Collections Browse over 14 million specimens and objects from 10 curated collections that tell the story of our Earth, its life, history, and cultures. More Info Teachers More Info Teachers Explore the Peabody’s unique offerings and resources aligned with Connecticut standards. Bring the natural sciences to your students with live online science and social studies programs. More Info Yale Community More Info Yale Community Explore exceptional object-based teaching opportunities that foster student engagement at the renovated and expanded Peabody Museum with spaces designed for Yale students. More Info Explore See What's Happening Ongoing Adult Program Natural Science Illustration Program Currently in its 10th successful year, the Yale Peabody Museum’s Natural Science Illustration Program provides opportunities to learn a wide range of art techniques focusing on nature and natural science illustration. Whether you are a beginner or professional, our skilled… More Info View Courses Registration & fee required Ongoing Adult Program Natural Science Illustration Program Currently in its 10th successful year, the Yale Peabody Museum’s Natural Science Illustration Program provides opportunities to learn a wide range of art techniques focusing on nature and natural science illustration. Whether you are a beginner or professional, our skilled… More Info View Courses Registration & fee required View All We're Evolving! Visit Peabody Evolved to learn about our transformative renovation. Learn More We're Evolving! Visit Peabody Evolved to learn about our transformative renovation. Learn More We're Evolving! Visit Peabody Evolved to learn about our transformative renovation. Learn More We're Evolving! Visit Peabody Evolved to learn about our transformative renovation. Learn More Show/Hide Sitemap Sitemap Left Explore Peabody@Home The Collections Exhibitions Virtual Exhibitions Research & News Awards & Prizes Publications Events Upcoming Events Family Programs Tours Facility Rentals Talks Sitemap Center About Us Our History Contact Peabody Places Renovation Strategic Priorities for DEAI NAGPRA Commitment Administrative Staff Curators & Collections Staff Support Give to the Peabody Membership 1866 Society Opportunities Planned Giving Our Supporters Institutional Partners Volunteer Sitemap Right Education Yale Community K-12 Teachers School & Group Programs Programs for Adults Birthday Parties EVOLUTIONS Afterschool Program Outreach Summer Camps Hours Closed for Renovation Stay in Touch Sign up for our mailing list! Contact 170 Whitney Ave., New Haven, CT 06520 +1 203 432 8987 Department List © 2021, Yale Peabody Museum of Natural History. All rights reserved. 170 Whitney Ave, New Haven, CT 06520 Footer menu Accessibility Privacy Policy Terms of Use Collections Policies User account menu Log in