Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU About Events Online Resources Bienvenidos Search Visit Accessibility A Day in Harvard Square Directions and Parking Groups and Tours Host an Event Hours and Admission Exhibitions Current Exhibitions Online Exhibitions Past Exhibitions Collections & Research Search the Collection Collections Overview Conservation Engage with Collections Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act Publications Research Rights and Reproductions Learn K-12 Colleges and Universities Online Resources HOME / VISIT / Accessibility The Peabody Museum of Archaeology & Ethnology is dedicated to accessibility for all visitors. The museum galleries are located on the first, third, and fourth floors. The second floor is offices only. Entrance The museum's front entrance at 11 Divinity Avenue is not accessible. Eight steps lead up to the front doors. An accessible entrance is located next door at the connected Tozzer Anthropology Building, 21 Divinity Avenue. Visitors may be dropped off in front. Parking Parking permits must be purchased in advance online, printed, and displayed in the vehicle. Accessible spaces are available at the 52 Oxford Street Garage (Google map). The clearance for accessible vehicles is eight feet two inches. The garage is about 630 feet feet away from the accessible entrance to the museum at Tozzer Anthropology Building. The main entrance to the museum is about 90 feet further. Before proceeding to the online parking permit purchase form, please note the following: First-time users must create a username and password You must print out your parking permit License plate number is required Request a permit for the 52 Oxford Street Garage, located at 52 Oxford Street. Select the correct date (permits are not transferable) Select "Museum Visitor" from the department drop-down list The museum's department code is 6137. Purchase a parking permit Mobility Devices The museum welcomes your personal walkers, wheelchairs, and scooters. If you would like to borrow a manual wheelchair free of charge, please contact us in advance. Restrooms Accessible restrooms are located on the ground floor, and on the third floor of the connected Harvard Museum of Natural History. Service Animals Service animals are welcome in the museum. Public Programs Assistive listening devices and wheelchair seating are available on a first-come, first-served basis for public programs in the Geological Lecture Hall. Lectures that are video-recorded have closed captions. Transcripts of video-recorded lectures are on YouTube. Please contact us in advance if an accessible entrance is required. Harvard University Disability Services For more information about accessibility services at Harvard University please contact Harvard University Disability Services. Visit Accessibility A Day in Harvard Square Directions and Parking Groups and Tours Host an Event Hours and Admission Harvard University 11 Divinity Avenue Cambridge, MA 02138 The Peabody Museum is one of the Harvard Museums of Science & Culture Visit About Events Bienvenidos Join Terms of Use Report a Website Problem The Peabody Museum is located on the traditional territory of the Massachusett people. Exhibitions Collections & Research Learn Online Resources Website Survey Tab Help Improve Our Website 1f69a77c2231fb4eaf16965ca0408aeb 4b7cdb578f7f96565678010216267206 Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement