Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU About Events Online Resources Bienvenidos Search Visit Accessibility A Day in Harvard Square Directions and Parking Groups and Tours Host an Event Hours and Admission Exhibitions Current Exhibitions Online Exhibitions Past Exhibitions Collections & Research Search the Collection Collections Overview Conservation Engage with Collections Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act Publications Research Rights and Reproductions Learn K-12 Colleges and Universities Online Resources HOME / COLLECTIONS & RESEARCH / RESEARCH / Rights and Reproductions We are pleased to announce that the Peabody Museum is implementing an Open Access Initiative. This initiative strives to facilitate increased engagement with its digital collections in order to stimulate research and innovation, encourage collaboration, and promote transparency through ethical stewardship. For the Museum, this means: Providing increased access to collections information through additional content, including historical documentation, through the website’s Collections Online portal. Removing cost, access, and other barriers for users to obtain digital assets including high resolution images, documents, and data for educational, scholarly and personal use purposes. Delivering these resources in a user-friendly way by improving the Museum’s online platform and infrastructure. Reproducing Materials Reproduction of digital media (images, audio, and film) and archival materials in the Peabody Museum's collections can be provided under use agreement for research or publication uses. Contact us via our Media and Permission Request Form or see below for policies and further information. Image: Cabinet card of Muir Glacier, part of Alaskan Views, by F. Jay Haynes, 976-62-10/100167.1.8 Archival, manuscript & photo reproductions To request copies of digital media (images, documents, audio and film) of Peabody collections for research or publication use, please fill out the Media and Permission Request Form. This will enable the Museum to fully understand the scope of the project and better assist the requestor. Please email pmresearch@fas.harvard.edu to: Request research-use, medium-resolution scan orders. The Peabody Museum Archives offers up to 30 complimentary research-use medium-resolution scans of material from paper collections. Request permission to include text from archival collections in a publication. Fee schedule Fees are charged when the Peabody incurs additional costs to fulfill a request. In these instances, costs that must be covered by the requestor are: Request requires new professional photography, digitization of audio or video files, CT scans, or for digitization of materials larger than 11 x17 inches. Special orders or requests requiring more than 25 new scans of materials less than 11 x17 inches in size. In some cases, fees may be waived or discounted for requests from descendant communities and other heritage stakeholders, Peabody Museum Research Associates, Harvard affiliates, or for large orders over 25 images. New high-resolution digital scan for orders requesting more than 25 new scans of materials smaller than 11x17 inches as quoted New professional photography (allow a minimum of 10 weeks) $200/image Additional detail shots of same object $75/detail New high-resolution digital scan larger than 11x17 inches as quoted New audio/video file as quoted CT scan as quoted On-site filming of object(s), 2-hour minimum $150/hour (non-profit use) $300/hour (commercial use) Special order as quoted As a component of the Peabody’s open access initiative and to eliminate potential cost barriers for users, the Museum does not charge additional permission or use fees. Publishing researcher images of Peabody collections The Peabody Museum provides photographs of objects in its collection for publication use. The Museum will however allow a researcher to publish his or her own photograph of a Peabody Museum object upon review and the transfer of copyright for that photo to the Peabody Museum. The procedure for seeking permission involves a review of the photograph and transfer of copyright for that photo to the Peabody Museum. Please allow four weeks for the Museum to review your request. Researchers wishing to publish their images should complete the Media and Permission Request Form and send images to pmimages@fas.harvard.edu Once approved, the Peabody Museum will provide the researcher with a Copyright Transfer Agreement for one time permission to publish the photograph and to transfer all rights, including but not limited to copyright, in the image to the President and Fellows of Harvard College. As a condition of this Agreement, the rights holder must provide the physical medium to the Peabody Museum. Digital image files (high resolution, TIFF format, 24-byte RGB or 8-byte greyscale) are the preferred media. The Peabody Museum will provide the researcher with credit line information that must be included with the publication of the photograph. Filming & Photography in the Galleries Visitors to the Museum may photograph or film in the galleries with hand-held cameras for personal non-commercial use. No flash photography, tripods, professional photography, or filming is permitted without prior permissions. The museum welcomes educational and commercial media interest in the galleries and collections, and tries to accommodate requests to photograph, video, or film in the galleries whenever possible. Researchers, media, and filmmakers may photograph objects or exhibits or use the galleries as a backdrop only with prior permission from the museum and must sign an agreement covering terms, conditions, procedures, and intellectual property rights before photographing or filming, and pay an associated fee. Policies & procedures A list of locations to be filmed must be provided to the Peabody Museum prior to filming with at least two-weeks' advance notice. Selecting these locations might require an advance visit to the Peabody by the filmmaker. Secure storage areas are not available. All logistical concerns, such as freight elevator access and availability, power supply, etc., must be arranged prior to filming. A schedule for filming must be agreed upon in advance with the Peabody Museum. Filming hours are on weekdays only. All filming days must start in the morning, even if only a half-day is anticipated. Museum artifacts may be handled only by Peabody Museum-designated personnel. A responsible staff member will be present at all times during the filming to facilitate the project. A list of artifacts to be filmed must be provided to the Peabody Museum prior to filming with at least two-weeks' advance notice. Selecting these artifacts might require an advance visit to the Peabody by the filmmaker. No equipment or weight should be placed on or against exhibit cases. Exhibit cases cannot be opened for filming without prior arrangement. Galleries may not be closed to the public during filming without prior arrangement. The third-floor galleries also serve as emergency exit routes and may not be closed under any circumstances. All personnel associated with the filming will be issued a badge that must be worn at all times. Persons found filming in the galleries without a badge will be asked to leave. The Peabody Museum will provide a contract that must be signed prior to filming. Permission to film or photograph in the Peabody Museum galleries does not extend to the galleries of the Harvard Museum of Natural History, located in the same building. The location fee for filming is $1,500 per day, or $750 per half-day. This fee is payable to the Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology upon the commencement of filming. Payment of location use or rental fees does not constitute an endorsement by the Peabody Museum of products and services portrayed in the final product. ID Badges Persons with permission to film or photograph in the galleries will be issued a special ID and will be accompanied by a Peabody staff person. Persons found filming in the galleries without a badge will be asked to leave. Examples of situations covered by these procedures include: An interviewer who wishes to photograph a faculty member in the galleries for an article A commercial or non-profit filmmaker who wishes to use the galleries as a backdrop A visiting researcher who wishes to photograph an exhibit or an object on display for publication or research use Contact Permission to photograph or film in the museum galleries may be granted only by Harvard Museums of Science & Culture. Requests of any kind from the media and all requests for photography or filming in the galleries should be directed to: Faith Sutter, Media & Communications Specialist 617-495-3397 faith_sutter@harvard.edu Please make your request at least two weeks prior to the date of filming; requests for still photography, at least one week ahead. Filming of Collections Not on View Educational or commercial media members seeking to film museum collections not currently on display must sign an agreement covering terms, conditions, procedures, and intellectual property rights before filming. Please make your request at least two weeks prior to the preferred date of filming. Policies & Procedures The fee for filming collections not currently on view is $150 (nonprofit use) or $300 (commercial use) per hour with a two-hour minimum. This fee is payable to the Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology upon commencement of filming. A list of objects to be filmed must be provided to the Peabody Museum prior to filming with at least two weeks' advance notice. Selecting these objects might require an advance visit to the Peabody by the filmmaker and/or a research request to determine which objects will be requested. A schedule for filming must be agreed in advance with the Peabody Museum. Filming hours are on weekdays only, from 9:00 am to 5:00 pm. Filming after 5:00 pm or on holidays is not permitted. All filming days must start in the morning, even if only a half-day is anticipated. Secure storage areas are not available as filming venues. All logistical concerns such as freight elevator access, power requirements, etc., must be arranged prior to filming. All museum objects are to be handled by Peabody Museum–designated personnel only. A staff member will be present at all times during the filming to facilitate the project The Peabody Museum will provide a film contract that must be signed prior to filming. Payment of location use or rental fees does not constitute an endorsement by the Peabody Museum of products and services portrayed in the final product. The Producer agrees to identify Peabody Museum staff or affiliates interviewed in the film as Peabody Museum staff or affiliates in the film in appropriate closing credits or to identify objects as being in the collections of the Peabody Museum. Permission to film in the Peabody Museum nonpublic areas does not extend to the galleries or public areas of the Peabody Museum or the Harvard Museum of Natural History in the same building. Contact Anyone seeking to film museum collections not currently on display please contact: Cynthia Mackey Office of Rights and Reproductions pmimages@fas.harvard.edu Collections & Research Collections Overview Engage with Collections Conservation Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act Research Corpus of Maya Hieroglyphic Inscriptions Featured Stories Mesoamerican Lab Paleoanthropology Lab Publications Rights and Reproductions Zooarchaeology Lab Harvard University 11 Divinity Avenue Cambridge, MA 02138 The Peabody Museum is one of the Harvard Museums of Science & Culture Visit About Events Bienvenidos Join Terms of Use Report a Website Problem The Peabody Museum is located on the traditional territory of the Massachusett people. Exhibitions Collections & Research Learn Online Resources Website Survey Tab Help Improve Our Website 1f69a77c2231fb4eaf16965ca0408aeb 4b7cdb578f7f96565678010216267206 Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement