Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU About Events Online Resources Bienvenidos Search Visit Accessibility A Day in Harvard Square Directions and Parking Groups and Tours Host an Event Hours and Admission Exhibitions Current Exhibitions Online Exhibitions Past Exhibitions Collections & Research Search the Collection Collections Overview Conservation Engage with Collections Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act Publications Research Rights and Reproductions Learn K-12 Colleges and Universities Online Resources HOME / Collections & Research Collections & Research Detail of beaded choker, 99-12-10/53017 Collections Online Collections Online provides access to approximately 700,000 object records and over 600,000 associated digital media records. Users can do a quick search, a more advanced search, or browse preselected groups of commonly requested objects. Collections Online Database Collections Overview The Peabody Museum stewards a large and historic collection of anthropological materials from across the globe. Learn more about the scope and breadth of the collections. Research Communities and individuals both on campus and further abroad engage in diverse ways with the Peabody Museum. Learn more about some of the projects and programs. Native American Graves Protection & Repatriation Act (NAGPRA) NAGPRA requires the Peabody and other museums, in consultation with Tribes, to identify and return Native American human remains, funerary objects, objects of cultural patrimony, and sacred objects. Read more about NAGPRA at the Peabody Engage with Collections Interested in learning more about a specific collection or item at the Peabody? Or working with the collections in person? The museum has staff devoted to public engagement with the collections and we’d love to hear from you! Engage Maya Corpus Program The Corpus of Maya Hieroglyhic Inscriptions Program is an active publication series, field research and archive of ancient Maya inscriptions and art, begun in 1968 at the Peabody Museum. We welcome you to browse the published monuments from twenty sites and learn more about the ongoing work. Click here for image requests. Learn More about the Corpus Publications Conservation Research Programs and Labs Behind-the-Scenes Blog Fellowships Rights and Reproductions Harvard University 11 Divinity Avenue Cambridge, MA 02138 The Peabody Museum is one of the Harvard Museums of Science & Culture Visit About Events Bienvenidos Join Terms of Use Report a Website Problem The Peabody Museum is located on the traditional territory of the Massachusett people. Exhibitions Collections & Research Learn Online Resources Website Survey Tab Help Improve Our Website 1f69a77c2231fb4eaf16965ca0408aeb 4b7cdb578f7f96565678010216267206 Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement