Skip to main content Yale Peabody Museum Main navigation (Mobile)  Explore Events About Us Education Support Special Navigation Peabody@Home Calendar Closed for Renovation Main navigation  Explore Events About Us Education Support Search this Website: Peabody@Home Welcome to Peabody@Home, your hub for digital resources, educational tools, and interesting online curiosities of the Peabody Museum! The Peabody is your neighborhood museum, changing the way you see the world. We encourage the curious and invite explorers of all ages to search our collections and engage with our programs. Our doors may be closed right now, but we’re opening windows into the many digital resources available here at the Peabody and across the internet. Explore@Home Dive into the Peabody collections from anywhere! Collections Search More Info Search the Collections Browse over 14 million catalog records in our comprehensive online catalog. Much of our collection is digitized, indexed, and full of rich multimedia. Come find objects waiting to be discovered, from dinosaurs to meteorites and everything in between! Search Now Virtual Microscopy More Info Virtual Microscopy YPM Invertebrate Zoology Browse our amazing collection of more than 50,000 microscope slides, created by the Invertebrate Zoology team, with an interactive microscope application. Hours of intricate details and tiny creatures to explore! Explore Spann Thumbnail Collection Spann "Thumbnails" Enjoy a 360-degree interactive experience captured in high resolution and explore every stunning detail of 82 mineral and gem miniatures. Browse Video Spotlight Featured Peabody webinars, programs, & more Science Café Science Café More Videos Activities and Resources Explore! Highlights Coloring Book More info Explore! Highlights Coloring Book Bring to life your favorite exhibits in the Yale Peabody Museum of Natural History galleries with these illustrations of highlights from the more than 14 million specimens and objects in the Peabody's collections. Download 15 free PDF sheets here: View now Research & News More Info Research & News Learn about the groundbreaking academic research and the brilliant scientists at Yale who help make the Peabody a world-class scientific institution. More Info Virtual Exhibitions More Info Virtual Exhibitions During our renovation, our goal is to publish as many digital experiences and archive exhibition materials here. Please check back throughout the coming months! More Info Teacher Resources More Info Teacher Resources Explore lesson plans, curricula, supporting materials for teaching, programs for educators, and more. All are developed specifically for teachers using Peabody collections and Yale research. More Info Read & Watch Frozen Frogs and Climate Change April 13, 2022 View Frogs, Climate Change, Alaska, Connecticut 26th Annual Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Celebration January 7, 2022 View Events, Family programming Renovated Peabody Museum to offer free admission—forever November 9, 2021 View More Articles Collections Blogs Learn from our community of collections managers, naturalists, and content creators! about History of Science and Technology at Peabody Museum 0 KB peabodyhsi.wordpress.com IZ Stories Stories and specimens from the Peabody's Division of Invertebrate Zoology izstories.home.blog Beyond Your Back Door Connecting with nature where you live beyondyourbackdoor.net We will be adding to Peabody@Home regularly and welcome your feedback and suggestions. Our goal is to offer you and your family resources that entertain, inspire, and provide meaningful opportunities to discover more about the world we share. Show/Hide Sitemap Sitemap Left Explore Peabody@Home The Collections Exhibitions Virtual Exhibitions Research & News Awards & Prizes Publications Events Upcoming Events Family Programs Tours Facility Rentals Talks Sitemap Center About Us Our History Contact Peabody Places Renovation Strategic Priorities for DEAI NAGPRA Commitment Administrative Staff Curators & Collections Staff Support Give to the Peabody Membership 1866 Society Opportunities Planned Giving Our Supporters Institutional Partners Volunteer Sitemap Right Education Yale Community K-12 Teachers School & Group Programs Programs for Adults Birthday Parties EVOLUTIONS Afterschool Program Outreach Summer Camps Hours Closed for Renovation Stay in Touch Sign up for our mailing list! Contact 170 Whitney Ave., New Haven, CT 06520 +1 203 432 8987 Department List © 2021, Yale Peabody Museum of Natural History. All rights reserved. 170 Whitney Ave, New Haven, CT 06520 Footer menu Accessibility Privacy Policy Terms of Use Collections Policies User account menu Log in