Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU About Events Online Resources Bienvenidos Search Visit Accessibility A Day in Harvard Square Directions and Parking Groups and Tours Host an Event Hours and Admission Exhibitions Current Exhibitions Online Exhibitions Past Exhibitions Collections & Research Search the Collection Collections Overview Conservation Engage with Collections Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act Publications Research Rights and Reproductions Learn K-12 Colleges and Universities Online Resources HOME / VISIT / A Day in Harvard Square A visit to the Peabody Museum of Archaeology & Ethnology and the connected Harvard Museum of Natural History can be the highlight of a day in lively and historic Harvard Square. Admission to Harvard Museum of Natural History is included with entry to the Peabody Museum of Archaeology & Ethnology As part of the Harvard Square community, the museums are a vibrant and valuable destination for students, families, and travelers alike. Located on the campus of Harvard University, the museums are just a short walk from Harvard Yard, the MBTA Red Line, and bike share stops. Harvard Museums of Science & Culture While you are in the area visit our partner museums, offering permanent galleries and rotating exhibits, as well as weekly free lectures. See the Harvard Museum of the Ancient Near East (across the street from the Peabody Museum) and the Collection of Historical Scientific Instruments for visiting hours. Harvard Museum of Natural History 26 Oxford Street, Cambridge, MA 02138 (Google Map) Extensive natural-science collections, including animals, minerals, and the famous Glass Flowers. Harvard Museum of the Ancient Near East 6 Divinity Avenue, Cambridge, MA 02138 (Google Map) The Harvard Museum of the Ancient Near East explores the rich history of cultures connected by the family of Semitic languages. Home to the University's collections of over 40,000 Near Eastern artifacts, the museum collection includes pottery, cylinder seals, sculpture, coins, and cuneiform tablets. The Collection of Historical Scientific Instruments 1 Oxford Street, Cambridge, MA 02138 (Google Map) Harvard has been acquiring scientific instruments for teaching and research since 1672. This collection, established in 1948, is one of the three largest university collections of its kind in the world and contains telescopes, timepieces, computers, optical equipment, and more. Peabody Museum of Archaeology & Ethnology 11 Divinity Avenue, Cambridge, MA 02138 (Google Map) View towering Native American totem poles and large Maya sculptures, examine precious artifacts of the ancient world, and take classes and attend public lectures based on the museum's world-class collections and scholarship. Among the oldest archaeological museums in the world, the Peabody contains one of the finest collections of human cultural history in existence. Boston CityPASS Sightseeing in Boston? Save 47% on admission to Harvard Museum of Natural History (including Peabody Museum admission) and three more top Boston attractions. Visit the attractions at your own pace, in any order, over a nine-day period. Purchase CityPASS online for immediate, paperless mobile ticket delivery. LEARN MORE Harvard Resources Harvard University campus map Guided tours of Harvard's historic campus Beyond Harvard Square While you’re here, explore many options for dining, shopping, film screenings, bookstores, performing arts, lodging, and more, all geared towards varied interests and budgets. See a full directory on the Harvard Square Business Association website. Visit Accessibility A Day in Harvard Square Directions and Parking Groups and Tours Host an Event Hours and Admission Harvard University 11 Divinity Avenue Cambridge, MA 02138 The Peabody Museum is one of the Harvard Museums of Science & Culture Visit About Events Bienvenidos Join Terms of Use Report a Website Problem The Peabody Museum is located on the traditional territory of the Massachusett people. Exhibitions Collections & Research Learn Online Resources Website Survey Tab Help Improve Our Website 1f69a77c2231fb4eaf16965ca0408aeb 4b7cdb578f7f96565678010216267206 Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement