Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU About Events Online Resources Bienvenidos Search Visit Accessibility A Day in Harvard Square Directions and Parking Groups and Tours Host an Event Hours and Admission Exhibitions Current Exhibitions Online Exhibitions Past Exhibitions Collections & Research Search the Collection Collections Overview Conservation Engage with Collections Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act Publications Research Rights and Reproductions Learn K-12 Colleges and Universities Online Resources HOME / NEWS / Stephanie Mach to Join as New Curator of North American Ethnographic Collections February 2, 2022 The Peabody Museum is delighted to announce that Stephanie Mach has accepted the position of Curator of North American Ethnographic Collections and will be starting in early April 2022. Stephanie Mach (Diné) is a citizen of the Navajo Nation and an anthropologist. She has a decade of museum professional experience and is currently pursuing a doctorate in Museum Anthropology at the University of Pennsylvania. She joins the Peabody Museum from the Penn Museum, where her work has focused on collections management specializing in access and engagement for university audiences as well as managing the summer internship program. She has served as the co-chair of the Penn Museum Diversity Committee since its founding in 2020. Mach has contributed to the Wampum Trail Research Project, a wide-ranging provenance research project on historic wampum belts that bridges archives, museum collections, and Indigenous communities. Mach’s dissertation project interrogates museum practices of care, highlighting the responsibilities that result from museum stewardship of Native American cultural items. Her research focuses on processes of decolonizing museum care practices and their broader implications for both Indigenous communities and the transformation of museums. “I am thrilled to be joining the Peabody Museum and the growing community of Native American faculty and staff at Harvard,” says Mach. “The Peabody is committed to seeking meaningful changes in its relationships with tribal nations and in support of Native American and Indigenous students, scholars, artists, and communities. I look forward to supporting the work of the Peabody Museum during this critical time of transformation and I am grateful for the opportunity to contribute toward healing and repair.” Senior Curator Diana Loren said, “The Peabody cares for cultural heritage from across North America, much of which came to the museum in ways that ignored the wishes of families and communities. As we advance the vital work of confronting that legacy, I am so excited to have Stephanie join us. Her deep expertise in relationship-building and experience in community-based collaborative research will be critical as we strive to be ethical stewards and address the complex history of relationships between Native American communities and museum anthropologists.” Learn more about North American collections stewarded by the Peabody Museum. Photo credit: Brooke Sietinsons See also: North America, Announcements, Press Releases Latest News Message from the Peabody Museum Director Stephanie Mach to Join as New Curator of North American Ethnographic Collections In Memoriam: Wayne A. Newell New Collaboration on Maya Monuments and Sites Photos and Videos by Hispanic Teens to be Featured Wendel White Named 2021 Robert Gardner Fellow in PhotographySee all news Filter News by Month February 2022 (1) January 2022 (1) December 2021 (1) June 2021 (2) May 2021 (1) 1 of 3 » Harvard University 11 Divinity Avenue Cambridge, MA 02138 The Peabody Museum is one of the Harvard Museums of Science & Culture Visit About Events Bienvenidos Join Terms of Use Report a Website Problem The Peabody Museum is located on the traditional territory of the Massachusett people. Exhibitions Collections & Research Learn Online Resources Website Survey Tab Help Improve Our Website 1f69a77c2231fb4eaf16965ca0408aeb 4b7cdb578f7f96565678010216267206 Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement