Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU About Events Online Resources Bienvenidos Search Visit Accessibility A Day in Harvard Square Directions and Parking Groups and Tours Host an Event Hours and Admission Exhibitions Current Exhibitions Online Exhibitions Past Exhibitions Collections & Research Search the Collection Collections Overview Conservation Engage with Collections Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act Publications Research Rights and Reproductions Learn K-12 Colleges and Universities Online Resources HOME / VISIT / Host an Event Hosting an event at the Peabody Museum of Archaeology & Ethnology is an opportunity for private groups and organizations to create an exclusive experience in a Harvard museum setting, famous for its collections of material culture from around the world. Receptions and Dinners Peabody Museum of Archaeology & Ethnology event rental offers full access to all the museum special exhibitions and galleries, including the Hall of the North American Indian and Encounters with the Americas. The museum can accommodate 200 for standing receptions and up to 100 guests for seated dinners. Events are scheduled between 6:00 and 11:30 pm, providing guests with a private viewing of the museum's world-renowned collections. We encourage you to meet with our professional event team who will give you a full tour of the galleries and work hand-in-hand with you to make your event a memorable success. Additional benefits to hosting your event at the Peabody Museum of Archaeology & Ethnology or the Harvard Museum of Natural History: • secure underground Harvard parking garage next to the museums • professional event coordinator at no additional cost • security guards and Harvard University police officers, if needed • access to two different lecture rooms with seating capacity of 75 and 300 • photographers and caterers familiar with the museum • competitive pricing Pricing Rental prices range depending on the number of guests and the nature of the event. For events that fall outside of the pricing chart please call 617-496-3479 for a quote. $2,000 $3,000 $4,000 Standing Fewer than 50 people Up to 100 people 100 or more people Seated N/A Up to 75 people 75 or more people $500 Internal Harvard discount at all price levels Guidelines For the safety of the museum's collections, dancing is not permitted. All proposed wording of notices, invitations, and/or press releases, as well as images, in relation with the event must be provided to and approved by the Peabody Museum prior to printing and circulation. A guest list including names and addresses of those planning to attend the event must be submitted to the museum within two days prior to the event. The Peabody Museum reserves the right to invite listed guests to become members of the museum. The use of audio or visual equipment, lighting, media and photography, and vendors must be approved by the museum. All photography within the museum is for private use only and may not be published or displayed publicly without explicit permission from the museum. More Information For additional information, please complete the information form. functions@hmsc.harvard.edu Phone 617-496-3479 Fax 617-495-9790 Recommended Caterers East Meets West Catering Capers Catering Jules Catering Off The Vine Catering The Catered Affair Crimson Catering Cuisine Chez Vous Visit Accessibility A Day in Harvard Square Directions and Parking Groups and Tours Host an Event Hours and Admission Resetting the Table: Food and Our Changing Tastes The Legacy of Penobscot Canoes Hall of the North American Indian See event rental opportunities in other Harvard Museums of Science & Culture galleries. Harvard University 11 Divinity Avenue Cambridge, MA 02138 The Peabody Museum is one of the Harvard Museums of Science & Culture Visit About Events Bienvenidos Join Terms of Use Report a Website Problem The Peabody Museum is located on the traditional territory of the Massachusett people. Exhibitions Collections & Research Learn Online Resources Website Survey Tab Help Improve Our Website 1f69a77c2231fb4eaf16965ca0408aeb 4b7cdb578f7f96565678010216267206 Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement