Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU About Events Online Resources Bienvenidos Search Visit Accessibility A Day in Harvard Square Directions and Parking Groups and Tours Host an Event Hours and Admission Exhibitions Current Exhibitions Online Exhibitions Past Exhibitions Collections & Research Search the Collection Collections Overview Conservation Engage with Collections Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act Publications Research Rights and Reproductions Learn K-12 Colleges and Universities Online Resources HOME / COLLECTIONS & RESEARCH / Collections Overview Collections Overview Detail of 'ahu'ula, Hawaiian feather cape, 11-65-70/84100 About the Collections Established in 1866 as one of the first museums of anthropology, the Peabody Museum currently cares for a large and historic collection of anthropological materials from across the globe, including more than 1.2 million individual cultural items, 500,000 photographic images, and associated archival records. Read more about the collections These items originate from and can teach us about peoples and cultures from across the globe, both past and present. The broad and diverse collections have come from a variety of sources since the Museum opened in 1866: archaeological excavations and scientific expeditions, individual souvenirs and collections acquired while traveling, items exchanged and traded between various individuals and groups, historic pieces passed down through families, purchased from individuals and companies, as well as from other museums. The Peabody continues to research the various histories of each piece in the vast collection and strives to transparently contextualize and care for them through its commitment to ethical stewardship and sustainable practices. In this process, the Museum welcomes the input and research of community stakeholders and the wider public. Looking for Specific Collections? Search the online database to find a specific collection item and learn more about where it came from and when and other details. Search our Collections Online Database Where do the collections come from? Today, the Peabody houses more than 1.2 million individual objects, 500,000 photographic images, and substantial archival records. The collections come a variety of sources over the Museum’s 150-year history: excavations and scientific expeditions, individual souvenirs and collections acquired while traveling, items exchanged and traded between various individuals and groups, collections found in attics and passed down through families, purchased from individuals and companies, and even from other museums when they closed. Read more about where do the collections come from The Museum continues to research the various histories of each piece in the vast collection and strives to transparently contextualize and care for them through its commitment to Ethical Stewardship (LINK). In this process, the Museum welcomes the input and research of community stakeholders and wider public. Collections records may contain language, reflecting past collecting practices and methods of analysis, that is no longer acceptable. The Peabody Museum is committed to addressing the problem of offensive and discriminatory language present in its database. Our museum staff are continually updating these records, adding to and improving content. We welcome your feedback and any questions or concerns you may want to share. Learn more about the collections Paintings, Prints & Drawings Photography Paper Archives Osteology & Paleoanthropology North America Mexico & Central America South America Africa Oceania Asia Europe Engage with Collections Interested in learning more about a specific collection or item at the Peabody? Or working with the collections in person? The museum has staff devoted to public engagement with the collections and we’d love to hear from you! Engage Harvard University 11 Divinity Avenue Cambridge, MA 02138 The Peabody Museum is one of the Harvard Museums of Science & Culture Visit About Events Bienvenidos Join Terms of Use Report a Website Problem The Peabody Museum is located on the traditional territory of the Massachusett people. Exhibitions Collections & Research Learn Online Resources Website Survey Tab Help Improve Our Website 1f69a77c2231fb4eaf16965ca0408aeb 4b7cdb578f7f96565678010216267206 Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement