Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU About Events Online Resources Bienvenidos Search Visit Accessibility A Day in Harvard Square Directions and Parking Groups and Tours Host an Event Hours and Admission Exhibitions Current Exhibitions Online Exhibitions Past Exhibitions Collections & Research Search the Collection Collections Overview Conservation Engage with Collections Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act Publications Research Rights and Reproductions Learn K-12 Colleges and Universities Online Resources HOME / VISIT / Hours and Admission The Peabody Museum is one of the four Harvard Museums of Science & Culture. We encourage you to read our Know Before You Go policies. Harvard Faculty who wish to schedule a class visit may email PMAEreserve@hmsc.harvard.edu. Can't visit? Enjoy the museum at home with new digital content, including virtual programs, tours, podcasts, and coloring pages on HMSC Connects! Please see Peabody Museum Online Resources for online exhibits, videos, 3D models, and to search the collections. Hours The Peabody Museum is open daily from 9:00 am to 5:00 pm; closed Thanksgiving Day, December 24, December 25, and January 1. General Admission General admission includes all exhibits. The Peabody Museum is connected to the Harvard Museum of Natural History, and admission to one museum admits you to both during regular hours. Adults: $15.00 Seniors (65+): $13.00 Non-Harvard students with I.D.: $10.00 Youth ages 3–18: $10.00 Youth under 3: Free Free for members Group rates available with advance reservations; Harvard College & University classes, please contact PMAEreserve@hmsc.harvard.edu Save with CityPASS Sightseeing in Boston? Boston CityPASS saves 47% on admission to Harvard Museum of Natural History (including Peabody Museum admission) and three more top Boston attractions. Visit the attractions at your own pace, in any order, over a nine-day period. CityPASS guests require advance reservations. First, purchase CityPASS online for immediate, paperless mobile ticket delivery. Next, reserve your date and time. Special Free Admission (with valid ID) Free for holders of a current Harvard ID (+1 guest); Harvard Museums of Science & Culture members, and Harvard Art Museums members. Free for Massachusetts residents every Sunday morning (year-round) from 9:00 am to 12:00 pm and on Wednesdays from 3:00 pm to 5:00 pm (September through May). Proof of residency required. This offer is not available to commercial groups. Free for Massachusetts Teachers (K–12) Free for EBT card-holder and up to five guests Free for active duty military with their families in collaboration with the National Endowment for the Humanities Blue Star Museums program. Year-round free admission is offered to the Peabody Museum and Harvard Museum of Natural History using the Blue Star Museums guidelines. Discounted Admission (with valid ID) Boston and Cambridge libraries are among the dozens of public libraries in Massachusetts that have museum passes available for $6 admission to the Peabody Museum of Archaeology & Ethnology and the adjoining Harvard Museum of Natural History. One admission includes both museums and each pass admits up to four people. Ask for passes at your local library! Please be prepared to show proof of Massachusetts residency or library/network membership. Not valid for group, institutional, or corporate visits, and cannot be combined with any other offers. (Are you a library looking to add us to the list of museum passes you offer? Libraries pay just $200 a year for 200 passes through the Library Membership Program.) Visiting with Children? Check out these resources to enhance your visit! Group Visits Advance reservations are required. Learn about admission rates and registration information for group visits and prepaid museum passes for educational institutions. School Visits See K–12 program descriptions and fees. Please call 617-495-2341 for information and reservations, email PMAEreserve@hmsc.harvard.edu. Museum Policies Enjoy your visit, and please help us keep the museum safe and comfortable for other visitors. No eating or drinking in the galleries No running in the galleries Our passages are narrow; please keep them accessible for other visitors Do not lean on glass cases; they are fragile Cell phones are permitted for phone calls in the ground- and third-floor lobbies Personal photography is allowed; however, the use of flash and tripods is not permitted in the galleries Commercial photography or video cameras is permitted with prior written permission; fees may apply. See information on commercial and educational photography and videography. Drawing is encouraged in the galleries, but the use of clay, paints, pastels, and chalk is not permitted Respect and be courteous to other patrons Respect other cultures Respect museum and others' property Follow instructions given by museum staff Attend to hours of operation Make reasonable use of facilities Harvard Museums of Science & Culture Map Find your way among the galleries of the Peabody Museum, Harvard Museum of Natural History, Harvard Museum of the Ancient Near East, and the Collection of Historical Scientific Instruments. See how close all four Harvard Museums of Science & Culture are to each other, all within a five-minute walk. Visit Accessibility A Day in Harvard Square Directions and Parking Groups and Tours Host an Event Hours and Admission Harvard University 11 Divinity Avenue Cambridge, MA 02138 The Peabody Museum is one of the Harvard Museums of Science & Culture Visit About Events Bienvenidos Join Terms of Use Report a Website Problem The Peabody Museum is located on the traditional territory of the Massachusett people. Exhibitions Collections & Research Learn Online Resources Website Survey Tab Help Improve Our Website 1f69a77c2231fb4eaf16965ca0408aeb 4b7cdb578f7f96565678010216267206 Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement