Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU About Events Online Resources Bienvenidos Search Visit Accessibility A Day in Harvard Square Directions and Parking Groups and Tours Host an Event Hours and Admission Exhibitions Current Exhibitions Online Exhibitions Past Exhibitions Collections & Research Search the Collection Collections Overview Conservation Engage with Collections Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act Publications Research Rights and Reproductions Learn K-12 Colleges and Universities Online Resources HOME / COLLECTIONS & RESEARCH / Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act A Message from the Peabody Museum Director NAGPRA Gift presented to the Peabody Museum from the Maine Tribes in acknowledgement of repatriation during ceremonial transfer. Sept, 2021. Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act (NAGPRA) NAGPRA requires the Peabody and other museums, in consultation with Tribes, to identify and return Native American human remains, funerary objects, objects of cultural patrimony, and sacred objects. The Peabody has a dedicated staff who work on the implementation of NAGPRA and the ethical and moral imperative it represents. Learn more about NAGPRA at the Peabody Object study and documentation during NAGPRA consultation visit by the Flandreau Santee Sioux Tribe, 2016. NAGPRA at the Peabody NAGPRA Consultation Visit, Tolowa Dee-ni’ Nation, July 16-17, 2019 Inquiries, Contacts, and Forms Object study and documentation, Comanche Nation, 2016. Community Partnerships Peabody Museum NAGPRA Advisory Committee The museum’s NAGPRA Advisory Committee advises the Peabody Museum Director on issues and decisions in regard to the implementation of NAGPRA, as well as providing counsel to the Peabody Faculty Executive Committee and the Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences. NAGPRA consultation visit by the Pawnee Nation of Oklahoma, 2018. Announcement Regarding Interim Research Policy for Human Remains and Associated Funerary Objects Under NAGPRA The Peabody Museum recognizes its significant role in the colonial history of museum collecting and the ethical imperative to address that legacy and to work to repair it. The Peabody upholds NAGPRA as Federal law and promotes NAGPRA as a key mechanism to initiate such repair through dialogue with Indigenous nations. This work includes a concrete commitment to the return of individuals and their funerary belongings to fulfill the ethical and moral imperative of NAGPRA. Read the full text What is NAGPRA? NAGPRA requires the Peabody Museum and other museums to repatriate culturally affiliated Native American human remains, funerary objects, objects of cultural patrimony, and sacred objects. The statute, along with subsequent administrative regulations, sets forth a detailed administrative process that museums must follow, including the inventorying of relevant holdings, communications and consultations with tribal nations, publication of notices in the Federal Register, and eventual transfer of human remains and cultural items to tribal nations. Details of the statute, regulations and process is available at National NAGPRA, National Park Service, U.S. Department of the Interior. Harvard University 11 Divinity Avenue Cambridge, MA 02138 The Peabody Museum is one of the Harvard Museums of Science & Culture Visit About Events Bienvenidos Join Terms of Use Report a Website Problem The Peabody Museum is located on the traditional territory of the Massachusett people. Exhibitions Collections & Research Learn Online Resources Website Survey Tab Help Improve Our Website 1f69a77c2231fb4eaf16965ca0408aeb 4b7cdb578f7f96565678010216267206 Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement