Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU About Events Online Resources Bienvenidos Search Visit Accessibility A Day in Harvard Square Directions and Parking Groups and Tours Host an Event Hours and Admission Exhibitions Current Exhibitions Online Exhibitions Past Exhibitions Collections & Research Search the Collection Collections Overview Conservation Engage with Collections Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act Publications Research Rights and Reproductions Learn K-12 Colleges and Universities Online Resources HOME / COLLECTIONS & RESEARCH / Research Research Peabody Museum Research Initiatives Communities and individuals both on campus and further abroad engage in diverse ways with the Peabody Museum. Learn more about some of the projects, labs, and programs. Featured Stories Institutional Histories Initiative Gardner Fellow Wendel White's Manifest: Thirteen Colonies Harvard Yard Archaeology Project See all featured stories Research Programs and Labs Maya Corpus Program Paleoanthropology Lab Zooarchaeology Lab Mesoamerican Lab Moses Mesoamerican Archive Publications The Peabody Museum publishes a variety of print and electronic publications relating to archaeology and anthropology. Browse and purchase Peabody Museum Press books in the online Bookstore. Out-of-copyright titles are available here in electronic form. The Museum also publishes the journal RES: Anthropology and Aesthetics,available through the University of Chicago Press, and several electronic journals and newsletters. Browse Our Publications Fellowships The Peabody Museum offers several opportunities for both researchers and artists to engage with its collections. From contemporary artistry to new curatorial projects, we welcome the chance to re-engage with the complex and sometimes difficult history of the collections through the perspectives of our fellows. See All Fellowships Researching the Peabody Collections The Peabody Museum collections and associated documentation are available for teaching, research, publication, exhibition, replication of indigenous techniques, and artistic endeavors. The nature and conditions of use must be consistent with the Museum's commitment to the care of its collections. Engage with Collections Harvard University 11 Divinity Avenue Cambridge, MA 02138 The Peabody Museum is one of the Harvard Museums of Science & Culture Visit About Events Bienvenidos Join Terms of Use Report a Website Problem The Peabody Museum is located on the traditional territory of the Massachusett people. Exhibitions Collections & Research Learn Online Resources Website Survey Tab Help Improve Our Website 1f69a77c2231fb4eaf16965ca0408aeb 4b7cdb578f7f96565678010216267206 Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement