Enter your email Address Skip to content Pearce Center for Professional Communication Menu Home About Contact IWAC 2023 About IWAC Sponsorships ’41 Studio Programs Pearce Interns Visual Information Design Interns Client-Based Program Graduate WAC Fellows Professional Editing at Pearce Faculty Fellows WAC Faculty WAC/WID/CxC Resources Blog English Unbound Tiger Tales Search for: Search Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Social Share Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Search Search for: Search Scroll Improving Communication at all Levels Rooted in the belief that all students should have an opportunity to become effective communicators in their chosen disciplines, the Pearce Center has been supporting students and faculty in professional communication since 1989. Through state of the art technology and collaborative workspaces, the Pearce Center provides experiences in oral, visual and digital communication and supports faculty-led research projects. Pearce Center Services The Pearce Center offers a variety of services for undergraduate and graduate students as well as faculty. If you are looking for help with your visual design projects or need professional editing for a journal article or dissertation, check out our services below. Professional Editing at Pearce PEP is a paid professional editing service where editors work one-on-one with clients on an array of written works, including journal articles, theses, and dissertations. PEP welcomes publication-ready articles for copyediting services as well as draft versions of papers for larger editorial services. If you are interested in meeting with our editors, fill out our intake survey below or learn more about PEP. PEP Request for Services Visual Information Design The Visual Information Design program serves Clemson faculty and students who need help with their visual projects. Whether you are creating a research poster, PowerPoint presentation or flyer, our interns can help you brainstorm ideas or learn to utilize new technology. VID offers thirty minute and hour long consultations. To schedule an appointment, fill out the form below. You can also learn more about VID’s services here. Schedule an Appointment Explore Our Programs: Using cutting-edge technologies in the Class of 1941 Studio, Pearce Interns have opportunities to learn, engage and collaborate in a professional environment to create a variety of deliverables for campus and community clients. Become an Intern The Visual Information Design internship allows undergraduate students to receive training in Adobe Creative Suite products and design principles in order to assist fellow students in their visual presentations. Make an Appointment The Grad WAC Fellows program offers professional development for graduate TAs who emphasize written communication in their classrooms. The program focuses on increasing the quality and quantity of their students’ writing, as well as increasing the Fellows’ own writing skills. Become a Fellow Professional Editing at Pearce is a paid, one-on-one editing service for community and university clients to receive personalized assistance with a variety of writing projects. PEP offers multiple packages to make sure our clients get the most out of our editing services. Request PEP Services The Faculty Fellows program aims to enhance the academic profile of faculty and student research by developing strategies for effective professional communication, with an emphasis on scientific writing and digital and visual communication. Become a Faculty Fellow The Client-Based Program matches local clients with Clemson classes to produce communication deliverables. Students in these classes work in teams to create the deliverables and meet the client’s needs. Become a Client Class of 1941 Studio for Student Communication The Class of 1941 Studio for Student Communication houses many of the Pearce Center programs and initiatives. Pearce and VID interns use the studio’s collaborative work stations and cutting-edge technology to complete projects and student consultations while the spacious conference room hosts visiting speakers and events. Learn More about Class of '41 Studio Quality Professional Resources Need help starting up a project? Curious about the latest news and information for communication? The Pearce Center has a wide variety of resources available that are useful for students, faculty and professionals alike. The Pearce Center’s commitment to communication has earned Clemson the honor of being consistently cited as a top school for Writing In the Disciplines. Various initiatives elevate students’ written and oral communication skills. Learn More The Pearce Interns regularly publish blogs with up-to-date information about communication across all platforms, from quick tips to comprehensive guides. With new blogs coming every week, there is certain to be something for everyone. Visit Our Blog The Pearce Center staff works to compile a variety of resources in all areas of communication, including editing, visual design and professional communication tips. Visit our Resources page for more information. Visit our Resource Page Follow Us on Social Media Instagram Facebook Twitter Pearce Center for Professional Communication Class of 1941 Studio | Daniel Hall pearcecenter@g.clemson.edu 864-656-9351 Copyright © 2022 Pearce Center for Professional Communication | PhotoFocus by Catch Themes