Skip to Main Content Brown University Pembroke Center Secondary Navigation Navigation About News & Events Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home Academics Undergraduate Concentration Graduate Certificate Program Advisory Boards Departmental Prizes Student Research Grants Gender and Sexuality Studies Faculty Pembroke Seminar 2021-22 Pembroke Seminar Pembroke Center Research Roundtable Future Pembroke Seminar Past Pembroke Seminars How to Participate Archives Current Exhibits History of the Pembroke Center Archives Feminist Theory Archive Christine Dunlap Farnham Archive Pembroke Center Oral History Project Archives Proctorships and Training Opportunities Request an Instructional Session Plan a Research Visit Differences Journal Editorial Issues For Authors Advertise, Subscribe, Rights & Permissions About the Journal Editorial Proctorships and Professional Development Projects Publics Initiative and Lecture Series Black Feminist Theory Project LGBTQIA+ Thinking Initiative Nanjing-Brown Joint Program in Gender Studies and the Humanities Korea The 19th at 100 Seeing War Differently Funding Friends Advisory Council Friends Events Friends Newsletters Search Pembroke Center Pembroke Center Research Roundtable An annual research workshop led by Pembroke Center's postdoctoral fellows. Breadcrumb Home Pembroke Seminar Sub Navigation In This Section 2021-22 Pembroke Seminar Pembroke Center Research Roundtable Future Pembroke Seminar Past Pembroke Seminars How to Participate Pembroke Center Research Roundtable An annual research workshop led by Pembroke Center's postdoctoral fellows. The 2022 Pembroke Center Research Roundtable, "Color Crossings: Race, Affect, Aesthetics," considers color’s metaphorical, linguistic, philosophical, historical, perceptual and practical resonances at the crossroads of critical race theory and color theory. In drawing together these distinct but overlapping discourses, we ask how global histories of race, gender, sex and class are connected to structures of knowledge and power that are ordered by color. To begin to answer these questions, we turn to the work of artists, writers and other creators of color and explore how their art engages color’s aesthetic and affective affordances. We see color as a transgressive means of expression when employed by people of color, one with the potential to challenge the fixity of racial hierarchies and subvert hegemonic structures. This roundtable, led by Postdoctoral Fellows Erica Kanesaka, Bernabe Mendoza, and Allison Puglisi, and Visiting Assistant Professor of Gender Studies Maria De Simone, represents the culmination of the year-long Pembroke Center research seminar, “Color,” convened by Professor Leslie Bostrom (Art) and Professor Evelyn Lincoln (Art History). Image Credit: Lina Viktor, Yaa Asantewaa. Pure 24K Gold, Acrylic, Gouache, Print on Matte Canvas 40 x 52 in. / 101.6 x 132.08 cm. © 2016. Courtesy the Artist. Friday, April 22, 2022 5:00-7:00 p.m. Keynote Artist/Scholar Talk Kareem Khubchandani, Tufts University "The Auntology of the Senses: More Ways to be an Aunty" Saturday, April 23, 2022 10:00-11:00 a.m. Tina Post, University of Chicago “On Blackness as Race and Hue” Moderator: Maria De Simone 11:15 a.m.-12:15 p.m. Vanatta Ford, Williams College “Color Coded: Analyzing Colorist Rhetoric in Hip Hop Music” Moderator: Bernabe Mendoza 1:30-2:30 p.m. Anna Storti, Duke University “Aesthetic Motives: The Femme Alter Ego and Her Retribution” Moderator: Erica Kanesaka 2:45-3:45 p.m. Tao Leigh Goffe, Cornell University “Choreography in the Dark” Moderator: Allison Puglisi 3:45-4:15 p.m. Open discussion and closing remarks Event Program This event will take place at Pembroke Hall, Room 305. For more information, email: pembroke_center@brown.edu. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Academics Undergraduate Concentration Graduate Certificate Program Advisory Boards Departmental Prizes Student Research Grants Gender and Sexuality Studies Faculty Pembroke Seminar 2021-22 Pembroke Seminar Pembroke Center Research Roundtable Future Pembroke Seminar Past Pembroke Seminars How to Participate Archives Current Exhibits History of the Pembroke Center Archives Feminist Theory Archive Christine Dunlap Farnham Archive Pembroke Center Oral History Project Archives Proctorships and Training Opportunities Request an Instructional Session Plan a Research Visit Differences Journal Editorial Issues For Authors Advertise, Subscribe, Rights & Permissions About the Journal Editorial Proctorships and Professional Development Projects Publics Initiative and Lecture Series Black Feminist Theory Project LGBTQIA+ Thinking Initiative Nanjing-Brown Joint Program in Gender Studies and the Humanities Korea The 19th at 100 Seeing War Differently Funding Friends Advisory Council Friends Events Friends Newsletters Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About News & Events Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Pembroke Center Research Roundtable Open details for Pembroke Center Research Roundtable Bookmark this Page