Skip to Main Content Brown University Pembroke Center Secondary Navigation Navigation About News & Events Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home Academics Undergraduate Concentration Graduate Certificate Program Advisory Boards Departmental Prizes Student Research Grants Gender and Sexuality Studies Faculty Pembroke Seminar 2021-22 Pembroke Seminar Pembroke Center Research Roundtable Future Pembroke Seminar Past Pembroke Seminars How to Participate Archives Current Exhibits History of the Pembroke Center Archives Feminist Theory Archive Christine Dunlap Farnham Archive Pembroke Center Oral History Project Archives Proctorships and Training Opportunities Request an Instructional Session Plan a Research Visit Differences Journal Editorial Issues For Authors Advertise, Subscribe, Rights & Permissions About the Journal Editorial Proctorships and Professional Development Projects Publics Initiative and Lecture Series Black Feminist Theory Project LGBTQIA+ Thinking Initiative Nanjing-Brown Joint Program in Gender Studies and the Humanities Korea The 19th at 100 Seeing War Differently Funding Friends Advisory Council Friends Events Friends Newsletters Search Pembroke Center Getting here The Pembroke Center is located in Pembroke Hall at 172 Meeting Street, between Thayer and Brown Streets, on the Brown University campus. Breadcrumb Home About Sub Navigation In This Section History People Center Publications Visit the Pembroke Center Getting here The Pembroke Center is located in Pembroke Hall at 172 Meeting Street, between Thayer and Brown Streets, on the Brown University campus. Office Hours Our office is open 8:30 am – 5:00 pm throughout the academic year, and 8:00 am – 4:00 pm during the summer term. If you are planning to visit, please call ahead to assure that someone will be available to assist you. Accessibility Pembroke Hall can be accessed via a ramp on the side of the building facing the Pembroke Campus. See Brown University's Accessibility Map. By Car From the east: Follow I-195 West, exit at South Main Street (exit 2), and proceed to the traffic light at College Street (large courthouse at corner), where you will turn right. When College Street ends at Prospect Street, you will be facing the Brown campus. Turn left on Prospect. Follow Prospect until it crosses Bowen Street. Turn right on Bowen and proceed to the intersection with Thayer. Turn right on Thayer and go two blocks until you reach Meeting Street. Turn right onto Meeting Street and proceed up the block. Pembroke Hall is the red brick building with the tall chimneys on your right. From the west, north and south: Follow I-95 to I-195 East, exit at Downtown Providence (exit 1), and follow exit ramp along river. At second light (College Street), turn right. Proceed through the next light (South Main Street) and up hill as above. From the northwest: Route 146 leads to I-95 and then to I-195. Then follow above North-South directions. By Bus, Train, and Plane Kennedy Plaza, the local bus service hub, and Union Station, home to trains from Amtrak and the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority (MBTA), are both downtown, just a short walk or taxi ride from campus. T.F. Green Airport is 10 miles south, in Warwick, RI. Parking on Campus Visitor parking is available on campus. Parking meters are rigorously enforced. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Academics Undergraduate Concentration Graduate Certificate Program Advisory Boards Departmental Prizes Student Research Grants Gender and Sexuality Studies Faculty Pembroke Seminar 2021-22 Pembroke Seminar Pembroke Center Research Roundtable Future Pembroke Seminar Past Pembroke Seminars How to Participate Archives Current Exhibits History of the Pembroke Center Archives Feminist Theory Archive Christine Dunlap Farnham Archive Pembroke Center Oral History Project Archives Proctorships and Training Opportunities Request an Instructional Session Plan a Research Visit Differences Journal Editorial Issues For Authors Advertise, Subscribe, Rights & Permissions About the Journal Editorial Proctorships and Professional Development Projects Publics Initiative and Lecture Series Black Feminist Theory Project LGBTQIA+ Thinking Initiative Nanjing-Brown Joint Program in Gender Studies and the Humanities Korea The 19th at 100 Seeing War Differently Funding Friends Advisory Council Friends Events Friends Newsletters Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About News & Events Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Getting here Open details for Getting here Bookmark this Page