Skip to Main Content Brown University Pembroke Center Secondary Navigation Navigation About News & Events Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home Academics Undergraduate Concentration Graduate Certificate Program Advisory Boards Departmental Prizes Student Research Grants Gender and Sexuality Studies Faculty Pembroke Seminar 2021-22 Pembroke Seminar Pembroke Center Research Roundtable Future Pembroke Seminar Past Pembroke Seminars How to Participate Archives Current Exhibits History of the Pembroke Center Archives Feminist Theory Archive Christine Dunlap Farnham Archive Pembroke Center Oral History Project Archives Proctorships and Training Opportunities Request an Instructional Session Plan a Research Visit Differences Journal Editorial Issues For Authors Advertise, Subscribe, Rights & Permissions About the Journal Editorial Proctorships and Professional Development Projects Publics Initiative and Lecture Series Black Feminist Theory Project LGBTQIA+ Thinking Initiative Nanjing-Brown Joint Program in Gender Studies and the Humanities Korea The 19th at 100 Seeing War Differently Funding Friends Advisory Council Friends Events Friends Newsletters Search Pembroke Center Wendy Allison Lee Associate Director of the Pembroke Center, Director of the Undergraduate Program in Gender and Sexuality Studies wendy_lee@brown.edu 401-863-3585 Alumnae Hall #202 Biography Wendy Allison Lee is a scholar of Asian American literature and culture as well as race in US popular culture. She is the associate director of the Pembroke Center, where she also directs the undergraduate program in gender and sexuality studies. Dr. Lee received her PhD in English from Brown University and her B.A. in English from the University of California, Los Angeles. She comes to the Pembroke Center from Skidmore College, where she was an assistant professor of English and served on the advisory boards of the Gender Studies and Media & Film Studies programs. Dr. Lee has taught widely in American literature, American studies, ethnic studies, gender and sexuality studies, and film and media studies. Her research and writing focus on Asian American literature and culture, as well as race in US popular culture. As a graduate student at Brown, she was a member of the editorial staff at the journal Novel: A Forum on Fiction. Prior to graduate school, she worked in arts administration at the San Francisco Symphony and consulted for numerous other performing arts organizations. In the spring of 2022, Dr. Lee will teach the GNSS course "Strange Things: Race, Gender, and Objecthood." This course investigates the blurry divisions between persons and things, animate and inanimate beings, and human and non-human life in U.S. literature and media. This class brings together feminist theory, ethnic studies, queer theory, literary criticism, and film and media studies to explore how distinctions between the human and non-human are variously shaped and unsettled by race, gender, sexuality, class, and ability. What role do different media and technology play in producing, estranging, and transforming the meanings of persons and things? And how have these differences been structured by histories and legacies of empire and settler colonialism? To address these questions, students will read and view texts in a range of media from the nineteenth century through the present, with primary emphasis on African American and Asian American literary and cultural production from the late twentieth and early twenty-first centuries. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Academics Undergraduate Concentration Graduate Certificate Program Advisory Boards Departmental Prizes Student Research Grants Gender and Sexuality Studies Faculty Pembroke Seminar 2021-22 Pembroke Seminar Pembroke Center Research Roundtable Future Pembroke Seminar Past Pembroke Seminars How to Participate Archives Current Exhibits History of the Pembroke Center Archives Feminist Theory Archive Christine Dunlap Farnham Archive Pembroke Center Oral History Project Archives Proctorships and Training Opportunities Request an Instructional Session Plan a Research Visit Differences Journal Editorial Issues For Authors Advertise, Subscribe, Rights & Permissions About the Journal Editorial Proctorships and Professional Development Projects Publics Initiative and Lecture Series Black Feminist Theory Project LGBTQIA+ Thinking Initiative Nanjing-Brown Joint Program in Gender Studies and the Humanities Korea The 19th at 100 Seeing War Differently Funding Friends Advisory Council Friends Events Friends Newsletters Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About News & Events Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Wendy Allison Lee Open details for Wendy Allison Lee Bookmark this Page