Skip to Main Content Brown University Pembroke Center Secondary Navigation Navigation About News & Events Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home Academics Undergraduate Concentration Graduate Certificate Program Advisory Boards Departmental Prizes Student Research Grants Gender and Sexuality Studies Faculty Pembroke Seminar 2021-22 Pembroke Seminar Pembroke Center Research Roundtable Future Pembroke Seminar Past Pembroke Seminars How to Participate Archives Current Exhibits History of the Pembroke Center Archives Feminist Theory Archive Christine Dunlap Farnham Archive Pembroke Center Oral History Project Archives Proctorships and Training Opportunities Request an Instructional Session Plan a Research Visit Differences Journal Editorial Issues For Authors Advertise, Subscribe, Rights & Permissions About the Journal Editorial Proctorships and Professional Development Projects Publics Initiative and Lecture Series Black Feminist Theory Project LGBTQIA+ Thinking Initiative Nanjing-Brown Joint Program in Gender Studies and the Humanities Korea The 19th at 100 Seeing War Differently Funding Friends Advisory Council Friends Events Friends Newsletters Search Pembroke Center Breadcrumb Home Funding Opportunities for Researchers Tags External Ph.D.s Postdoctoral Research Fellowships Funding Opportunities Postdoctoral research fellows play a critical role in the Pembroke Center's intellectual community. In residence for one year, postdoctoral fellows undertake original research, teach undergraduate courses of their own design, participate in the Pembroke Seminar's rigorous interdisciplinary scholarly community; collaborate on research and programming, and develop professionally through faculty mentorship. Applications for the 2022-23 Pembroke Center Postdoctoral Research Fellow positions are open. For the 2022-23 academic year, the Pembroke Center is awarding one-year residential postdoctoral research fellow positions to scholars from any field whose research relates to the theme of the seminar "In the Afterlives and Aftermaths of Ruin." This seminar is about living in and through disastrous (global, political, pandemic) times, taking as its backdrop sociocultural, economic, political, environmental, and ecological ruin wrought by the global Covid-19 pandemic; climate crisis; right-wing radicalization within and across national borders; the popularization of racist, nationalist and xenophobic discourses and policies; the denigration of scientific, academic, and subaltern knowledges; and invigorated assaults on the lives and life chances of black and brown people the world over. Over the course of one year, seminar partcipants will study and conceptualize ruin along with modalities of survival and persistence, epistemologies of emergence and immanence, praxes of rupture and critique, maneuvers of sustenance and suture. Fellows are required to participate weekly in the Pembroke Seminar, teach one undergraduate course, and pursue individual research. Candidates are selected on the basis of their scholarly potential and the relevance of their work to the research theme. Recipients must have a PhD and may not hold a tenured position. Fellowships are awarded to postdoctoral scholars who have received their degrees from institutions other than Brown within the last five (5) years. Brown University is an EEO/AA employer. The Center strongly encourages underrepresented minority and international scholars to apply. The term of appointment is July 1, 2022-June 30, 2023. The stipend is $50,004 plus $1,500 for research expenses. Postdoctoral Research Fellows are eligible to participate in the Brown University health and dental benefit plan. For full consideration, applications must be submitted by 11:59 pm (EST) on Tuesday, December 7, 2021. Selections will be announced in March. Questions should be directed to Donna_Goodnow@brown.edu or phone 401-863-2643. Complete applications must include: Cover letter One page document including title and 250-word abstract of proposed research project Project statement of five typed pages (double-spaced) Brief representative bibliography for research proposal Curriculum vitae Course syllabus with a course description and schedule of assigned readings* Three confidential recommendation letters *The course should be designed as an undergraduate seminar, meeting once or twice a week. The topic need not intersect with the seminar theme. It should be related to your own discipline and training. It would be listed in Gender and Sexuality Studies and should involve in some way questions of gender and/or sexuality, though those need not be the primary focus. 2021/22 Postdoctoral Fellows Past Postdoctoral Fellows Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Academics Undergraduate Concentration Graduate Certificate Program Advisory Boards Departmental Prizes Student Research Grants Gender and Sexuality Studies Faculty Pembroke Seminar 2021-22 Pembroke Seminar Pembroke Center Research Roundtable Future Pembroke Seminar Past Pembroke Seminars How to Participate Archives Current Exhibits History of the Pembroke Center Archives Feminist Theory Archive Christine Dunlap Farnham Archive Pembroke Center Oral History Project Archives Proctorships and Training Opportunities Request an Instructional Session Plan a Research Visit Differences Journal Editorial Issues For Authors Advertise, Subscribe, Rights & Permissions About the Journal Editorial Proctorships and Professional Development Projects Publics Initiative and Lecture Series Black Feminist Theory Project LGBTQIA+ Thinking Initiative Nanjing-Brown Joint Program in Gender Studies and the Humanities Korea The 19th at 100 Seeing War Differently Funding Friends Advisory Council Friends Events Friends Newsletters Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About News & Events Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Postdoctoral Research Fellowships Open details for Postdoctoral Research Fellowships Bookmark this Page