Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Wellness Making a game of it: Contests help new moms increase their steps A Penn Medicine study used wearable tech to foster activity in high-risk, diverse populations, specifically postpartum women to reduce their cardiovascular risk. Brandon Lausch ・ April 26, 2022 Feeling foggy? Your head is in the clouds for a reason It may be because you’re languishing—a feeling of stagnation or emptiness. And naming it is a first important step to bringing clarity to one’s experiences, says Wharton’s Adam Grant. March 16, 2022 How to safeguard your sleep from insomnia over COVID-19 worry Penn Medicine research have tips for helping insomnia, which has seen an increase throughout the pandemic. It’s not just the disease—worrying about COVID has contributed to lack of sleep. Hannah Messinger ・ March 4, 2022 People and Places at Penn: Winter solace From the Class of 1923 Ice Skating Rink to La Casa Latina, four students speak to what motivates them through the season. Kristina García ・ March 2, 2022 Why are alcohol- and drug-related deaths rising in the U.S. and not elsewhere? With insights from anthropology and neuroscience, Penn researchers Michael Platt and Peter Sterling find that, in comparison, 16 other wealthy nations offer communal assistance at every life stage, support that protects individuals and families long term. Michele W. Berger ・ February 2, 2022 LG Health’s Food Farmacy pairs nutrition counseling with access to healthy food Food Farmacy aims to improve health outcomes, nutrition-related knowledge and skills, and dietary habits among patients who are experiencing food insecurity through a combination of one-on-one meetings with a registered dietitian and access to healthy food options. January 31, 2022 Gratitude is the attitude at Wharton Gratitude@Wharton is a student-created platform to express thanks and appreciation toward one another in order to create a more caring culture at the Wharton School. Dee Patel ・ January 14, 2022 Wearables can predict near-term blood sugar control in prediabetes patients Penn researchers find that using wearable devices, especially those on the wrist, and machine learning approaches could predict blood sugar control. From Penn Medicine News ・ January 13, 2022 Hospitalizations for eating disorder increased during pandemic Researchers can’t yet pinpoint definitive reasons, though they surmise it was a combination of factors, including stress, an outsized focus on weight gain and personal appearance, and maybe even symptoms of COVID-19 itself. Michele W. Berger ・ December 17, 2021 Four things to know about COVID-19 vaccine boosters Amidst concerns about increased positivity rates and new variants, Penn Today shares expert insights on the importance of COVID-19 vaccine boosters during the current phase of the pandemic. Erica K. Brockmeier ・ December 15, 2021 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Next page ›› Last page Last » In the News The Washington Post No, you don’t need a detox juice cleanse. Here’s why Nitin Ahuja of the Perelman School of Medicine weighed in on detox diets. “In general, the idea that you would need to actively remove by-products of digested food in a normal gastrointestinal system is false,” he said. FULL STORY → USA Today 5 things you and your college-bound daughter need to know about campus sexual assault Susan Sorenson of the School of Social Policy & Practice wrote an opinion piece about how parents can talk to their daughters about avoiding and/or surviving campus sexual assault. “If this conversation makes you uncomfortable now, imagine what it would be like to talk to her after a sexual assault,” she wrote. FULL STORY → The Washington Post Be well: Leading with purpose with Neil Blumenthal, Ursula Burns & Erika James Wharton School Dean Erika James spoke on a panel about wellness in the workplace and corporate responsibility. FULL STORY → Philadelphia Inquirer Testing, testing, and more testing on college campuses this spring as coronavirus concerns remain Chief Wellness Officer Benoit Dubé said Penn has budgeted $20 million for COVID-related safety measures, including testing. The University plans to conduct 40,000 saliva-based tests per week. FULL STORY → The Washington Post You don’t have to be great right now. ‘Good enough’ will do In an op-ed, Lisa Servon of the Stuart Weitzman School of Design wrote about letting go of perfectionism during the coronavirus pandemic and just striving to be “good enough” instead. FULL STORY → Penn Nursing What is self-care? How to cut through the marketing noise and actually practice it Barbara Riegel of the School of Nursing spoke about the concept of self-care, which “goes all the way back to Hippocrates.” “Self-care centers upon the idea of being aware of yourself every single day and asking yourself questions like, ‘Did I get enough sleep? Did I eat right? Did I get in some exercise?’” she said. FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement