Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Announcement Penn COVID-19 Response Learn More → Cosmic Writers brings free creative writing education to school-aged children May graduates Rowana Miller and Manoj Simha lead Cosmic Writers, a project supported by President’s Engagement Prize that provides free creative writing instruction to K-12 students virtually throughout the world. Lighting the way for rare disease Weitzman team helps protect and interpret Lincoln Memorial Announcement Penn COVID-19 Response Learn More → Baseball history, American history An arms race that plays out in a single genome What I’ve learned: Wharton’s Anita Summers Soft ‘rotini’ robots navigate with a snap Undergraduate research projects look at migration from multiple angles Engaging in intersectional conversations on race and racism A Penn Vet tale: Olive, the tiny little fighter EVENTS → NEWS ARCHIVES → The Latest A vigil in response to recent losses to gun violence In the shadow of the LOVE sculpture, campus ministers and artists offered prayers, readings, and songs, supporting the community and imploring action in the wake of the lives lost in the mass shootings in Buffalo, New York, in Laguna Woods, California, and in Uvalde, Texas. Amanda Mott ・ May 25, 2022 A one-stop shop for student-founded impact startups College Green Ventures, a recipient of Penn’s 2022 President’s Engagement Prize, finds and supports student-founded impact startups. The organization aims to be a national hub for social impact on college campuses. Greg Johnson ・ May 25, 2022 Women’s rowing team revs up for first NCAA tourney This weekend in Sarasota, Florida, the Quakers will compete in the NCAA Division I Rowing Championship tournament for the first time as a full team. Penn Today Staff ・ May 25, 2022 Streamlining the health care supply chain William Danon and Luka Yancopoulos, winners of the 2022 President’s Innovation Prize, will offer a software solution to make the health care supply chain more efficient. Brandon Baker ・ May 24, 2022 Reimagining the corner store to promote food justice With a 2022 President’s Sustainability Prize, Eli Moraru and Alexandre Imbot will take raw ingredients payable with EBT and turn them into hot, heathy meals while providing nutritional education resources. Kristina García ・ May 23, 2022 Inside Penn Michael Glick named ADI International Dentist of the Year for 2021 From Penn Dental Medicine Positive neighborhood social perceptions linked to lower parental stress From Leonard Davis Institute Perelman School of Medicine partners with HBCUs to increase student diversity in medicine From Penn Medicine News New Penn Medicine center will advance diversity in cardiovascular disease clinical trials From Penn Medicine News APPC welcomes 19 distinguished research fellows From Annenberg Public Policy Center More From Inside Penn → Upcoming Events See all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual Multimedia Gallery Philly Goat Project “The Philly Goat Project celebrates the dynamic & delightful capacities of goats by building community, while creating sustainable, engaging, and educational opportunities.” SEE MORE → Campus & Community Celebrating the newest President’s Engagement, Innovation, and Sustainability Prize winners Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences A multidisciplinary approach to considering the Earth’s changing systems Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences The changing face of portraiture at Penn Featured Campus & Community A celebration of the ‘resilient creativity’ of the Class of 2022 Penn’s 266th Commencement showcased graduates who Interim President Wendell Pritchett said demonstrated an ‘advanced ability to roll with the challenges.’ Big Ideas Climate Change Coronavirus Research Cryptocurrency Racial Justice Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences A multidisciplinary approach to considering the Earth’s changing systems Bringing expertise from each of their disciplines, the School of Arts & Sciences’ Kathleen Morrison and Joseph Francisco and the Environmental Innovations Initiative’s Melissa Brown Goodall infused chemistry, anthropology, policy, and more into an introductory course on climate and the environment. Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Islands on the climate front line Perry World House’s Global Shifts Colloquium looked at how islands can protect their people, build resilient communities, and safeguard their environment in the climate crisis. Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Turning Latin America green Santiago Cunial, a doctoral candidate in political science, investigates issues surrounding green energy in Chile and Argentina. Science & Technology Four solutions to mitigate climate change, from the IPCC The latest assessment offers both a harsh reality check and a path forward. Experts William Braham, Peter Psarras, and Michael Mann offer their thoughts. Health Sciences Genomic differences selected through evolution may offer clues as to why COVID-19 outcomes vary widely A team from the University of Pennsylvania analyzed genomic data from global populations, including thousands of ethnically diverse Africans, to identify genetic variants that may be associated with clinical COVID-19 outcomes. Health Sciences COVID mortality age patterns changed significantly during pandemic Between March 2020 and October 2021, death rates from the virus decreased for those 80 and older and increased for those 25 to 54, results that held across racial and ethnic groups. Health Sciences DNA analysis finds links between severe COVID and other conditions Through analyzing human DNA samples in a large biobank, Penn Medicine researchers found associations between genetic variants with severe COVID and conditions involving blood clots and respiratory issues. Health Sciences COVID in a cat A new report led by Elizabeth Lennon of the School of Veterinary Medicine and colleagues has confirmed what is believed to be the first published account of the delta variant of SARS-CoV-2 in a house cat. Education, Business, & Law Wharton expert explains the crashing crypto market What does the cryptocurrency crash mean for investors? Wharton expert, Sarah Hammer talks with Penn Today about the digital asset. Education, Business, & Law A beginner’s guide to cryptocurrency What is cryptocurrency? Sarah Hammer from The Wharton School breaks down the basics of the digital currency. Science & Technology Taking a closer look at cryptocurrency Experts across the University share their thoughts on how cryptocurrency has globally transformed businesses, research, and the environment. Education, Business, & Law What’s all the buzz about Bitcoin? What’s all the buzz about Bitcoin? Mauro Guillén, a professor of international management at the Wharton School answers the questions surrounding the sudden interest. Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Engaging in intersectional conversations on race and racism In the spring, students engaged with complex topics, both intellectually and civically, as part of American Race: A Philadelphia Story, a Stavros Niarchos Foundation Paideia Program course. Campus & Community Defining leadership Lucas Monroe, a political science major from Abington, Pennsylvania, combines athletics and introspection to take on a leadership role in social justice work on campus and beyond. Education, Business, & Law America as it actually was “Teaching Independence: Bridging the Communications Gap,” took an in-depth look at the challenges of teaching the Declaration of Independence, the American Revolution, and the nation’s founding in the current political climate. Campus & Community An interfaith commemoration of MLK The annual event on March 23 was part of the Penn MLK Commemorative Symposium on Social Change. Penn in the NewsSee all → Axios Coping tips for parents and teachers after the Uvalde school shooting Howard Stevenson of the Graduate School of Education provides tips on coping in the aftermath of the shootings in Uvalde, Texas. FULL STORY → “PBS NewsHour” Share on Facebook Share on Twitter The coronavirus will likely evade Paxlovid eventually. What that will mean for the pandemic is unclear Sara Cherry of the Perelman School of Medicine argues that researchers weren’t monitoring enough rebound cases of COVID for possible resistance. FULL STORY → Politico.com How Elon Musk’s Twitter takeover may help change stock market rules Jill Fisch of the Law School comments on allegations that Elon Musk ripped off Twitter shareholders to the tune of $143 million. FULL STORY → The New York Times Brittney Griner’s supporters have a new strategy to free her: Make noise Ph.D. candidate& Kimberly St. Julian-Varnon of the School of Arts & Sciences is quoted on the need to put pressure on Russia to release a detained W.N.B.A. player. FULL STORY → “Midday,” WYPR Radio (Baltimore) Dorothy Roberts’ “Torn Apart” calls out racial disparities in foster care PIK Professor Dorothy Roberts discusses her new book that argues that the nation’s foster care system deprives Black parents of fundamental rights and leads to traumatic consequences for Black children. FULL STORY → Politico.com Inside America’s biased flood program Carolyn Kouskyof the Wharton School comments on FEMA’s mitigation efforts against flooding and the disparities in its grantmaking process. FULL STORY → Forbes.com Resilience should not be a solitary pursuit Angela Duckworth of the School of Arts & Sciences contends that success is about far more than innate ability and it needs long-term adherence and an acceptance that setbacks can be overcome with hard work. FULL STORY → Philadelphia Inquirer Philly hosts a robot lollapalooza, attracting 4,500 roboticists and showing off devices that fly, swim, and enter the body Vijay Kumar of the School of Engineering and Applied Science is quoted on the International Conference on Robotics and Automation and how robotics has become a fundamental discipline in engineering education. FULL STORY → Technical.ly Philly What can Philly do to make a home for robotics to flourish? Scenes from ICRA 2022’s mad dash Dean Vijay Kumar and Avik De of the School of Engineering and Applied Science and Laurie Actman of the Penn Center for Innovation are quoted on their participation in the International Conference on Robotics and Automation. FULL STORY → USA Today There’s a name for the feeling that nothing you do matters Martin Seligman of the School of Arts & Sciences says that learned helplessness is a mental state that occurs when people find out that nothing they do matters. FULL STORY → Get Penn Today delivered straight to your inbox. Newsletter Email Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement