Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Health Sciences Urging caution but not panic on monkeypox Building Penn Medicine’s Pavilion helped launch his career. Now, William Griffin is going places Lighting the way for rare disease Research identifies changes in neural circuits underlying self-control, decision-making during adolescent brain development A Penn study shows developing brain networks support cognition in youth, from decision-making and self-control to complex thought. Penn Today Staff Blending art and science with virtual reality Frozen testicular tissue still viable after 20 years Many pediatric cancer treatments, though lifesaving, can compromise future fertility. In a new study in rodents, researchers from the School of Veterinary Medicine showed that testicular tissue frozen for more than 20 years could give rise to sperm. Genetic variant largely found in patients of African descent increases risk for heart failure A new study, led by Penn Medicine, reveals that this genetic cause of heart failure, which is now treatable, is significantly underdiagnosed. Penn Today Staff Travel tips for breastfeeding mothers As the traveling season gets underway, experts Diane Spatz and Elizabeth Froh offer advice for breastfeeding and pumping on trains, planes, and automobiles. Michele W. Berger , Michele W. Berger A Quarter-century of Community Partnerships Glen Casey will be the first to admit it: He wasn’t the perfect student in high school. “I was always doing the dumbest things; getting into fights, getting arrested,” he says. A student then at University City High, Casey failed ninth grade, and barely passed 10th. “I just really wasn’t into school,” he says. Pagination First page « First Previous page ‹‹ … Page 292 Page 293 Page 294 Page 295 Page 296 Page 297 Page 298 Page 299 Current page 300 In the News “PBS NewsHour” Share on Facebook Share on Twitter The coronavirus will likely evade Paxlovid eventually. What that will mean for the pandemic is unclear Sara Cherry of the Perelman School of Medicine argues that researchers weren’t monitoring enough rebound cases of COVID for possible resistance. FULL STORY → Reuters Fact Check-Monkeypox is not the same as AIDS or ‘VAIDS’ caused by the COVID-19 vaccine Stephen Gluckman& of the Perelman School of Medicine says there is no evidence of immunodeficiency being related to COVID-19 vaccines. FULL STORY → TechiLive Bystander CPR more likely in states requiring teen training Victoria Vetter of the Perelman School of Medicine comments on how state laws mandating CPR training in high schools were associated with a higher likelihood of bystander CPR for out-of-hospital cardiac arrest. FULL STORY → Marketplace (NPR) Evusheld offers vulnerable Americans protection from COVID. But getting it has been complicated Aimee Payne of the Perelman School of Medicine comments on the decision to get a COVID vaccine amongst patients with rare autoimmune diseases. FULL STORY → The New York Times After stroke, doctors look at Fetterman’s campaign trail prospects Rajat Deo of the Perelman School of Medicine agreed with the use of defibrillators in the care of Senate nominee John Fetterman and suspects he has a damaged heart. FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement