Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Business A one-stop shop for student-founded impact startups College Green Ventures, a recipient of Penn’s 2022 President’s Engagement Prize, finds and supports student-founded impact startups. The organization aims to be a national hub for social impact on college campuses. Greg Johnson ・ May 25, 2022 Wharton expert explains the crashing crypto market What does the cryptocurrency crash mean for investors? Wharton expert, Sarah Hammer talks with Penn Today about the digital asset. Dee Patel ・ May 20, 2022 Can the U.S. avoid a recession? Many economists are warning of a recession, while Wall Street bulls are saying those fears are overblown. Wharton experts weigh in on what’s ahead for the U.S. economy. From Knowledge at Wharton ・ April 29, 2022 Tangen Hall brings together aspiring entrepreneurs across the University At seven stories and 68,000 square feet, the Wharton-led Tangen is the largest student entrepreneurship hub in the world. Dee Patel ・ April 11, 2022 How to have more successful conversations Whether negotiating a salary increase or chatting with a co-worker, people have more productive conversations when they identify their motives and goals. Wharton’s Maurice Schweitzer offers a tool for doing just that. From Knowledge at Wharton ・ April 6, 2022 How sanctions on Russia and the invasion of Ukraine affect the U.S. economy Wharton’s Nikolai Roussanov speaks with Penn Today about the impact of the Russian invasion of Ukraine on the U.S. economy. Dee Patel ・ March 29, 2022 A Wharton expert examines cybersecurity hiring best practices A new book by Leeza Garber of the Wharton School tackles the problem of cyber threats, with a focus on how employers can find and hire the right people. Dee Patel ・ March 25, 2022 How gig workers are managing risk during the pandemic New research from Wharton management professor Lindsey Cameron reveals tactics that gig workers are using to mitigate health risks while managing their reputation with demanding customers during the pandemic. From Knowledge at Wharton ・ March 10, 2022 Through the metaverse, and what can be found there The Wharton School’s Sarah Hammer sheds light on how the metaverse may impact education, health care, diversity initiatives—and may even help people reduce their reduce carbon footprint. Dee Patel ・ March 8, 2022 Highlighting gender and race is effective when requesting career help A Wharton research team found that when seeking advice, women and racial/ethnic minorities benefit from explicitly stating their identities. Dee Patel ・ February 25, 2022 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Next page ›› Last page Last » Media Contact From Wharton Magazine In the News MarketWatch Drug companies are making an accounting change after the SEC cracked down on Biogen Francine McKenna of the Wharton School says that the pharmaceutical industry has a lot of focus on regulatory issues by its trade associations and industry forums. FULL STORY → Philadelphia Inquirer A $90 million Wharton and Wall Street partnership will prep students of color for careers in finance Dean Erika James of the Wharton School is included on this highlight of the appointment of Daniel Young as head of the Wharton-AltFinance initiative. FULL STORY → Fortune 90% of long-haul trucking may soon be self-driving. Are you ready to share the road with an autonomous 18-wheeler? Steve Viscelli of the School of Arts & Sciences weighed in on the rise of automation in trucking. “A self-driving truck’s job is going to be fundamentally different,” Viscelli said. “We have a ton of pent-up demand for additional transportation services, and that starts with e-commerce.” FULL STORY → Seattle Times French firms hesitate amid growing pressure to leave Russia Witold Henisz of the Wharton School spoke about the pressure on French firms to divest from Russia. These companies “will have to pay the cost of looking the other way as Russia signaled its intent to leave the international system,” he said. “Their shareholders and some EU customers will suffer. It is only a question of time.” FULL STORY → CNBC ‘There’s a long way to go in gender equity,’ says Wharton’s Erika James Dean Erika James of the Wharton School discussed gender diversity in corporate America and the pipeline to leadership roles. In addition to empowering women to pursue these careers, James says, “we also have to also look at the organizational structures themselves that make it challenging for women and young people to succeed.” FULL STORY → The New York Times Yuri Milner’s Russian clapback In Kara Swisher’s newsletter, Adam Grant of the Wharton School answered four questions about the transition back to in-person work and how to promote equity in the workplace. FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement