Search... Initiatives Publications Instruction Events People About Press Room Support PennIUR PENN INSTITUTE for URBAN RESEARCH facebook twitter vimeo linkedin Search... About Press Room Support Home Initiatives Publications Instruction Events People SPECIAL ISSUE New Ideas in Urban Research A special issue of Urban Link featuring graduating doctoral students’ urban-focused research. Read More FEATURED Five Steps for Financing Urban Adaptation Eugénie L. Birch and Mauricio Rodas discuss takeaways from a workshop on financing urban adaptation to climate change. Read More Deadline: May 27 Undergrad Fellowship in Urban Research Penn IUR Fellows in Urban Research meet with Anne Fadullon, Director of Philadelphia's Department of Planning and Development Apply Now FEATURED Nussdorf Urban Leadership Awardees Congratulations to Emilia Saiz Carrancedo, Secretary General, UCLG, and Claudio Orrego, Governor, Santiago Metropolitan Region, Chile! Read More The Penn Institute for Urban Research (Penn IUR) is dedicated to advancing cross-disciplinary urban-focused research, instruction, and civic engagement on issues relevant to cities around the world. As the global population becomes increasingly urban, understanding cities is vital to informed decision-making and public policy at the local, national, and international levels. Bring our latest initiatives, publications and events to your inbox. email address... Events panel 6/23 11:00 AM EDT Special Briefing on States Cutting Taxes: Relief Now, Shortfalls Later? panel 5/19 past event Special Briefing on the Deployment of the $1 Trillion Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act by States and Localities panel 5/17 past event Federal Programs to Advance Homeownership Opportunity to Narrow Racial Disparities lecture 4/26 past event Investing in Arts & Culture to Build Community panel 4/21 past event Special Briefing on Inflation and Recession Risks for States and Cities presentation 4/20 past event 17th Annual Urban Leadership Forum conferences 4/15 past event Third Annual Wharton Future of Cities Conference panel 4/5 past event Revisiting Spatially Targeted Policies for Regional Development conferences 3/23 past event Financing Urban Adaptation to Address Climate Change panel 3/17 past event Special Briefing on Work from Home: What it Means for State and Local Economies and Revenues View All Events Active Initiatives LocalRegionalNationalGlobalSustainable Cities Cities and Contagion: Lessons from COVID-19 The Cities and Contagion: Lessons from COVID-19 initiative brings together experts across scholarly disciplines who can help interpret the coronavirus pandemic’s implications for urbanization and the subsequent responses to its human and economic dimensions. This work will inform public and private decision-makers as t... Initiative for State and Local Fiscal Stability The Initiative for State and Local Fiscal Stability draws its inspiration from the efforts of Richard Ravitch, former Lieutenant Governor of New York State, who will serve as Chair, and William Glasgall, the Initiative’s lead, who created the Truth and Integrity in Government Finance Initiative at the Volcker Alliance. City Climate-Resilient Infrastructure Financing Initiative C2IFI is a new initiative of Penn IUR and Perry World House to enable mayors to create inclusive and prosperous cities by locking in climate-resilient infrastructure investments that yield economic, social and environmental benefits for decades. GlobalSustainable CitiesUrban Development StrategiesAnchor Institutions Global Urban Commons The Global Urban Commons (the Commons), is a publicly-accessible, global directory of university-based urban research centers.The Commons, which includes more than 200 urban-research focused organizations from around the world, is a platform to build awareness about the breadth and depth of global urban research. The site i... View All Initiatives off the press New Towns for the Twenty-First Century: A Guide to Planned Communities Worldwide Richard Peiser and Ann Forsyth Perspectives on Fair Housing Vincent J. Reina, Wendell E. Pritchett, and Susan M. Wachter How Ideas Shape Urban Political Development Richardson Dilworth and Timothy P. R. Weaver Life Among Urban Planners: Practice, Professionalism, and Expertise in the Making of the City Jennifer Mack and Michael Herzfeld Penn IUR 2019-20 Annual Report: Cities and Shocks Penn IUR View All Publications top headlines 2022 Penn Undergraduate Urban Research Colloquium Findings May 31, 2022 The Case for Going Big With Infrastructure Spending May 19, 2022 Muni bonds still have role amid federal infrastructure dollars May 19, 2022 What Inflation Means for State and Local Budgets April 25, 2022 View All Press "It’s been decades since rates rose so quickly, so it’s kind of a shock," says Penn IUR Advisory Board Member Tom M… twitter.com/i/web/status/1… © The University of Pennsylvania. All Rights Reserved Contact Us Join eMailing List Meyerson Hall, G-12 210 South 34th Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-6311 ph 215-573-8386 penniur@pobox.upenn.edu PennIUR PENN INSTITUTE for URBAN RESEARCH Connect with us: facebook twitter vimeo linkedin