Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Penn Global Exploration awaits as Penn Abroad ramps up student trips Two years after the pandemic forced Penn Abroad to brings students home, trips are back on and a busier-than-normal abroad schedule is coming in fall 2022. Kristen de Groot ・ March 23, 2022 In Peru and the U.S., considering the factors that drive public health By comparing and contrasting the two nations’ approaches to controlling infectious diseases, students in Parallel Plagues deepened their appreciation of how these diseases emerge, cause harm, and might be effectively controlled. Katherine Unger Baillie ・ December 21, 2021 Perry World House turns 5 In a photo essay, Penn Today highlights some of the center’s memorable guests and events from over the half decade. Kristen de Groot ・ September 27, 2021 ‘Dreaming of Jerusalem’ Penn’s Peter Decherney and Sosena Solomon make a documentary film about a Jewish community in Ethiopia waiting to emigrate to Israel. Louisa Shepard ・ July 20, 2021 Game-changing gift announced at inaugural Penn Africa Research Symposium The $5 million gift creates the Holman Africa Initiative, expanding financial aid and enhancing opportunities for faculty and students to engage in research and teaching in and on Africa. Kristen de Groot ・ May 24, 2021 From insightful courses to traveling and teaching, reflecting on Penn’s ‘unending opportunities’ Hyacinthe Uwizera came to Penn with an interest in science and engineering. During the past four years, she’s also fostered an interest in Africana studies and discovered a passion for traveling and teaching. Erica K. Brockmeier ・ May 12, 2021 Connecting students with Indigenous leaders People of the Land, a new Penn Global seminar taught by political science Professor Tulia Falleti, enables students to learn from Indigenous community members in South America. Kristina García ・ April 26, 2021 Communicating change in a ‘land of extremes’ In Aurora MacRae-Crerar’s Penn Global Seminar, students are grappling with the impacts of a shifting and unpredictable climate in Mongolia. Katherine Unger Baillie ・ April 5, 2021 Narratives of COVID-19 in China and the world The two-day symposium brought together scholars to discuss a broad range of topics, from racism against Chinese students studying in the United States to digital workplace surveillance of Chinese workers. Kristen de Groot ・ March 23, 2021 Academic freedom in an age of global digital delivery During a virtual forum, Penn experts across disciplines discussed specific implications online learning can present for international students and their freedom of expression. Lauren Hertzler ・ November 24, 2020 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Next page ›› Last page Last » Media Contact Amanda Mott Associate Director for News ammott@upenn.edu In the News The Wall Street Journal How the U.S. surrendered to China on scientific research In an op-ed, PIK Professor Ezekiel Emanuel, Amy Gadsden, and Scott Moore, all of Penn Global, said America’s “lead in science and technology fields has been significantly eroded.” The authors say the U.S. needs to “meet [China’s] strength with strength” by investing in innovation. FULL STORY → CNN Joe Biden to offer contrast to Trump in London foreign policy speech Joseph Biden of the Penn Biden Center for Diplomacy and Global Engagement challenged the current administration’s approach to foreign policy when he spoke on campus last month. “The worst thing in the world we can have is this new naked nationalism America first. I believe making America first, in the way we're doing it, will make America last,” he said. FULL STORY → NBC News What Is NATO? And What Do Trump and Russia Think About It? Rebecca Lissner of Perry World House provided historical context for NATO’s continued value. In response to criticism of the alliance, Lissner proposed modernization over dissolution. FULL STORY → Philadelphia Business Journal How to Watch Joe Biden's Conversation with Penn President Amy Gutmann Former Vice President Joe Biden is returning to campus this afternoon to join President Amy Gutmann for a conversation focusing on the Penn Biden Center for Diplomacy and Global Engagement. It will be livestreamed on March 29th, 2018 from 3 to 4 p.m. (EDT). FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement