Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Announcements Campus-wide communications from University administration. Displaying 1 - 10 of 156 University Announcement A message to the Penn community about masking and COVID testing COVID screening testing will continue to be available on campus at no cost throughout the summer, and wearing a mask in indoor public settings is encouraged. May 25, 2022 University Announcement A message to the Penn community regarding ongoing COVID precautions We look forward to seeing you, in the days ahead, at the joyful celebrations of our graduates and gatherings of our community and alumni. May 11, 2022 University Announcement An update on campus masking in indoor spaces We are very pleased to let you know that, in alignment with the changes announced earlier today by the City of Philadelphia, our campus will now operate at Protective Measures Level 1. This level means that masks are no longer required in indoor public spaces on campus. April 22, 2022 University Announcement An update on campus masking policy Beginning April 18, Penn will again require all members of and visitors to the Penn community to wear masks while indoors in public or shared spaces, and encourage masking now in all campus buildings April 13, 2022 University Announcement Regular Decision admissions to the Class of 2026 Penn’s 270th class will welcome 2,400 students across four undergraduate schools, and is the most diverse group of students in the University’s history. March 31, 2022 University Announcement An update on classroom masking We announced last week that masking would be required in classrooms until March 28. We are now extending the requirement of masks in classrooms beyond March 28, following consultations with students and faculty across campus. This is a provisional decision, consistent with guidance at peer universities, that we will continue to reassess in an ongoing consultative process. Our highest priority is to maximally protect the health of our community as we all head into the closing weeks of the semester, final exams, and Commencement. March 24, 2022 University Announcement Message to the Penn community about updated COVID-19 protocols We are very pleased to welcome back our faculty and students from Spring Break and to look ahead to the second half of the semester. It has now been two years since our community first experienced the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. This has been one of the most challenging periods in Penn’s long history, yet it has also been a time of extraordinary resilience, perseverance, and partnership. Together, we have sustained our historic university missions of teaching and research, while striving to keep each other safe and supported through many unpredictable changes. March 15, 2022 University Announcement Penn and Penn Medicine commit matching funds to UNICEF and the International Red Cross The invasion of Ukraine has marshaled Penn’s powerful sense of solidarity to help communities who are suffering, near or far. Time and again, we are inspired by the efforts of our students, faculty, and staff to find ways to help others—to comfort, heal, and bring hope in times of the greatest struggles. March 4, 2022 University Announcement A message in support of Ukraine Recent events in Ukraine have generated great concern around the world and on our campus, especially for those in our community with personal ties to the region. We are writing to express our condemnation of the violence in Ukraine and our solidarity with those who are suffering as a result of the incursion. This is an uncertain situation, and we do not know how events will unfold over the coming weeks and months, but we urge community members to seek out the support resources you may need during this time. February 28, 2022 University Announcement A message to the Penn community about masking on campus We continue to monitor our shared progress in lowering the COVID positivity rate on campus. We are very pleased that the campus positivity rate, as posted today on the University Dashboard, is now at a remarkably low 0.97%. February 22, 2022 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Next page ›› Last page Last » Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement