Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Cosmic Writers brings free creative writing education to school-aged children Weitzman team helps protect and interpret Lincoln Memorial Baseball history, American history Dean’s Forum with filmmaker Jon Chu Chu joined David Eng of the School of Arts & Sciences in the 2022 Stephen A. Levin Family Dean’s Forum to discuss art and the power of representation. Kristina García ・ March 23, 2022 Ph.D. candidate’s initiative brings refugees out of Ukraine and supplies in When Sam Finkelman’s yearlong research trip to Russia, Hungary, and Ukraine was interrupted by war, he went into action. Kristen de Groot ・ March 23, 2022 Oscars 2022, predicted Penn Cinema and Media Studies and Theatre Arts faculty make their predictions about this year’s Oscar winners—organized by category. Brandon Baker ・ March 22, 2022 Public media can improve our ‘flawed’ democracy A new study finds that countries with well-funded public media have healthier democracies, and explains why investment in U.S. public media is an investment in the future of journalism and democracy alike. Alina Ladyzhensky ・ March 18, 2022 Pulitzer-winning author Viet Thanh Nguyen speaks on migration and ‘multitudes’ In a wide-ranging conversation sponsored by the Wolf Humanities Center, author and professor Viet Thanh Nguyen visited Penn to discuss his work, representation, and more. Brandon Baker ・ March 18, 2022 New COVID-19 roadmap: Four takeaways A report spearheaded by PIK Professor Ezekiel Emanuel, with input from other Penn experts, lays out a dozen priorities for the federal government to tackle in the next 12 months. The aim: to help guide the U.S. to the pandemic’s “next normal.” Michele W. Berger ・ March 17, 2022 Asian American Studies’ 25th anniversary The Asian American Studies program is celebrating its 25th anniversary with a podcast miniseries, weekly alumni events, and a March 19 conference. Kristina García ・ March 17, 2022 Classroom, meet gallery; gallery, meet classroom For seven weeks, the ICA will be transformed into an experiential classroom environment, welcoming artists and the public to challenge what ‘infrastructure’ means in the world of art. Brandon Baker ・ March 15, 2022 Sweden’s ex-Prime Minister talks Ukraine, effects on Europe In a Perry World House chat with New York Times reporter Clay Risen, former Swedish Prime Minister Carl Bildt offers his assessment on everything from the history of the conflict to the effects of IKEA leaving Russia. Kristen de Groot ・ March 15, 2022 Climate scientist Michael Mann to join Penn faculty Mann is the first new faculty member to be recruited as part of the recently announced Energy and Sustainability Initiative as a Presidential Distinguished Professor in the Department of Earth and Environmental Science. Katherine Unger Baillie ・ March 15, 2022 Pagination First page « First Previous page ‹‹ … Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Current page 7 Page 8 Page 9 Page 10 Page 11 … Next page ›› Last page Last » In the News The New York Times Brittney Griner’s supporters have a new strategy to free her: Make noise Ph.D. candidate& Kimberly St. Julian-Varnon of the School of Arts & Sciences is quoted on the need to put pressure on Russia to release a detained W.N.B.A. player. FULL STORY → Forbes.com Resilience should not be a solitary pursuit Angela Duckworth of the School of Arts & Sciences contends that success is about far more than innate ability and it needs long-term adherence and an acceptance that setbacks can be overcome with hard work. FULL STORY → The Hill The kids are not all right—copycat cannabis edibles risk their safety Andy Tan of the Annenberg School for Communication co-writes an article about how copycat cannabis edibles, which have colorful packages that mimic popular snacks and candy, have come under scrutiny. FULL STORY → USA Today There’s a name for the feeling that nothing you do matters Martin Seligman of the School of Arts & Sciences says that learned helplessness is a mental state that occurs when people find out that nothing they do matters. FULL STORY → Voice of America Controversial Russian opera star takes stage in Paris Kevin Platt of the School of Arts & Sciences does not support a blanket boycott of Russian artists. FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement