Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Reactions to leaked SCOTUS decision on the future of Roe v. Wade Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Education, Business, & Law Reactions to leaked SCOTUS decision on the future of Roe v. Wade According to a leaked draft published by Politico, the Supreme Court has voted to overturn abortion rights. University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School faculty and students offer perspectives. According to a leaked draft published by Politico, the Supreme Court has voted to overturn abortion rights. Members of the University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School community share their reactions. A crowd of people gather outside the Supreme Court on Monday, May 2, 2022 in Washington. A draft opinion circulated among Supreme Court justices suggests that earlier this year a majority of them had thrown support behind overturning the 1973 case Roe v. Wade that legalized abortion nationwide, according to a report published Monday night in Politico. (Image: AP Photo/Anna Johnson) Referencing gay rights decisions, Kermit Roosevelt, David Berger Professor for the Administration of Justice, cautions “if there are five justices who endorse this draft, it’s unlikely that they will stop with Roe [v. Wade].” Roosevelt recently served on President Joe Biden’s Supreme Court Commission and has written that Supreme Court expansion “may be the only thing that will save our democracy for the next generation. … I think it’s unlikely that anyone can do anything to influence the Justices. They don’t like to appear to be influenced, which is why the leak makes more sense as a method of locking in the result.” Tobias Barrington Wolff, Jefferson B. Fordham Professor of Law and deputy dean of Equity & Inclusion, says that “the fact that this draft opinion was leaked to the press—an unprecedented breach, to my knowledge—is an assault on the institutional legitimacy of the Court, a naked political act that disregards the rule of law and the integrity of the Court’s decision-making process. We should not have this draft in front of us. But we do, and if the final opinion looks substantially like this draft, it is a grave moment in our constitutional history.” Annie Blackman is a student at Penn Law and co-leader of If/When/How, a student pro bono project dedicated to lawyering for reproductive justice. “The Guttmacher Institutes estimates that once Roe falls, 26 states in the country are likely to ban abortion services,” she says. “If Justice Alito’s majority opinion becomes final, the rights of marginalized people in at least over half of states in the country will be shattered.” Isabella Hernandez, another student at Penn Law and co-chair of If/When/How, says “I’m not surprised by the decision, but it hurts nonetheless. Wealthy individuals, especially white individuals, will always have access to safe abortions regardless of what their state chooses to do when this decision is finalized. I fear for the people in this country who depend on Roe and Casey [v. Planned Parenthood] to access abortion care and who depend on the reasoning undergirding those cases and others like Lawrence [v. Texas] and Obergefell [v. Hodges] for fundamental rights protections.” Read more at Penn Law News. Credits From Penn Law Writer Date May 3, 2022 Subtopics Law Schools Penn Law Share Twitter Facebook Twitter Facebook Read Next Class of 2023 celebrates Hey Day Campus & Community A celebration of the ‘resilient creativity’ of the Class of 2022 Penn’s 266th Commencement showcased graduates who Interim President Wendell Pritchett said demonstrated an “advanced ability to roll with the challenges.” Campus & Community Ben Franklin: A voice from the past that speaks to our time At the 2022 Silfen Forum, Penn Interim President Wendell Pritchett chatted with filmmaker Ken Burns about his new two-part documentary on Benjamin Franklin. Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Inspiring the next generation of archive scholars Through Inside the Archive, a course taught by Liliane Weissberg of the School of Arts & Sciences, Penn students explore what an archive is, how history gets written, and what is ahead in a digital future. Campus & Community Exploration awaits as Penn Abroad ramps up student trips Two years after the pandemic forced Penn Abroad to brings students home, trips are back on and a busier-than-normal abroad schedule is coming in fall 2022. Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement