Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Ready to run Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Campus & Community Ready to run Over 30 students from Young Quakers Community Athletics, a collaboration between the Netter Center for Community Partnerships, Penn Athletics, and West Philadelphia public schools, will compete in the Penn Relays. The Young Quakers train for the 2022 Penn Relays. On a windy Thursday afternoon on Franklin Field, grade-school students are spread out around the track, poised for take-off. The runners are watching their teammates sprint toward them, waiting for their moment. These are the Young Quakers, practicing for the April 29 4x100 relay event in the Penn Relays. They’re part of Young Quakers Community Athletics, an after-school program run by the Netter Center for Community Partnerships and Penn Athletics. The program pairs “Big Quakers,” Penn student athletes, in track, lacrosse, and basketball, with fourth- through eighth-grade students from three public schools in West Philadelphia, the “Young Quakers.” It is first time that the Young Quakers will participate in the Penn Relays since 2019’s pre-pandemic event. Three middle school teams qualified for the 4x100 relay this year—two from Henry C. Lea Elementary School and one from Andrew Hamilton School. In addition to the three 4x100 Relay teams that qualified, fourth- through sixth-grade students from Hamilton, Lea, and Benjamin B. Comegys will participate in the 300 yard shuttle run. Students from Hamilton and Lea warm up during practice. The students have been practicing, says Paige Lombard, the program’s associate director. Many of the track students have been doing extra work, coming on the lacrosse days in addition to their own practices, she says. “We’re very lucky because their home field is the track that they will run on in Penn Relays, so they got lots of practice,” says Lombard. Running is all about focus, says Isaiah Green, an eighth-grade student at Lea Elementary. “I just block out everything, around, you know? Being fast to me is about moving your legs and arms.” Green, along with his classmate Kynnedy Taylor, have been involved with the Young Quakers since the fourth grade, participating in both track and basketball. “It feels great,” says Taylor. “We gon’ run!” Ajee’ Wilson, two-time Olympian and 2022 indoor 800 meters world champion, chats with the Lea girls 4x100 team. “The Relays are a highlight for our Young Quakers and something they look forward to all year long,” says Jennifer Chu, the program’s director. “We are delighted that, with the support of Penn Athletics, Steve Dolan, Penn Track & Field Head Coach and Director of the Penn Relays, Penn Track & Field head coach and director of the Penn Relays, and the Track & Field Big Quaker volunteers, the Young Quakers program has been able to enter West Philadelphia students in the Penn Relays since 2014.” The program creates “opportunities for our middle school students to be in the Penn Relays, to be playing lacrosse games, getting to be on the Palestra floor,” Chu says. “Just getting to see both Young Quakers and Big Quakers grow alongside each other is awesome.” The Young Quakers warming up on the track. “Effective partnerships between Penn and our local community are extraordinarily important,” says Ira Harkavy, associate vice president and founding director at the Netter Center. “Young Quakers is an inspiring example of how, by working together, university students and public school students in West Philadelphia can both benefit.” Caleb Johnson, a pole vaulter on the men’s track and field team, is one of the Big Quaker volunteers. A junior from Willow Grove, Pennsylvania, majoring in cognitive neuroscience, sports were “a big part of my life,” he says. “I know how influential [sports] can be. It opened a lot of doors for me.” Twenty-some track and field athletes serve as Big Quakers, he says, meeting the students at Franklin Field on Thursday afternoons. “We always need more volunteers,” Johnson says. “There’s always more kids to reach. We’re looking for help, whether or not you see a sign.” “The kids love this. They really have a good time and look forward to it each week,” Johnson says. “We have a responsibility to the kids, to give back to the community.” Airborne, a student practices their long jump. Credits Kristina García Writer Eric Sucar Photographer Date April 27, 2022 Subtopics Student Athletes, Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion, Penn Relays, Netter Center for Community Partnerships Share Twitter Facebook Twitter Facebook Read Next Class of 2023 celebrates Hey Day Campus & Community A celebration of the ‘resilient creativity’ of the Class of 2022 Penn’s 266th Commencement showcased graduates who Interim President Wendell Pritchett said demonstrated an “advanced ability to roll with the challenges.” Campus & Community Ben Franklin: A voice from the past that speaks to our time At the 2022 Silfen Forum, Penn Interim President Wendell Pritchett chatted with filmmaker Ken Burns about his new two-part documentary on Benjamin Franklin. Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Inspiring the next generation of archive scholars Through Inside the Archive, a course taught by Liliane Weissberg of the School of Arts & Sciences, Penn students explore what an archive is, how history gets written, and what is ahead in a digital future. Campus & Community Exploration awaits as Penn Abroad ramps up student trips Two years after the pandemic forced Penn Abroad to brings students home, trips are back on and a busier-than-normal abroad schedule is coming in fall 2022. Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement