Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Symposium highlights range and reach of Penn Global research Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Symposium highlights range and reach of Penn Global research The Penn Global Research and Engagement Grant is supporting 21 faculty-led projects that span research, capacity-building, and development efforts across Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean, India, China, and beyond. The 2022 Launch Symposium at Perry World House brought together faculty from eight of Penn’s 12 schools to share presentations on their projects that span the globe. From using computer vision to improve sustainability of Chinese pig farmers to addressing the benefits of clean cookstoves in East Africa, the range and reach of 21 new faculty-led projects being supported by the Penn Global Research and Engagement Grant Program was on display at a symposium. The 2022 Launch Symposium at Perry World House brought together faculty from eight of Penn’s 12 schools to share five-minute presentations on their projects that span research, capacity-building, and development efforts across Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean, India, China, and beyond. The symposium shined a light on Penn’s commitment to integrate knowledge across disciplines toward addressing global challenges and to global engagement in a post-pandemic world. In remarks at the symposium’s start, Vice Provost for Global Initiatives Ezekiel Emanuel told the in-person and virtual audience that, when he arrived at Penn a little more than a decade ago, he inherited “a fledgling thing called the Global Engagement Fund.” “It was tiny, it was unfocused, and there was no strategic plan behind it,” he said. “And I can safely say 10 years has made a huge difference.” Now, the grant program consists of the Global Engagement Fund, China and India Research and Engagement Funds, and the new Holman Africa Research and Engagement Fund. Penn Vice Provost for Global Initiatives Ezekiel Emanuel addresses the audience at the start of the symposium. (Image: Courtesy of Penn Global) He also noted how when Penn Global got started globalization was “all the rage,” but now the world has been retreating from globalization, even before the pandemic put physical barriers between nations. Despite all this, Penn is not retreating from engaging with the world, he said. “This is a moment where understanding other countries, understanding what’s happening in other places, creating bonds among academics, here and in other countries are essential,” Emanuel said. Penn Global relaunched its competitive research and engagement grant program in fall 2021, after a two-year hiatus due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In April, Penn Global announced it would support 21 new faculty-led projects at a funding level of $1.2 million. The five panels at the symposium focused on human development and education; climate change and climate justice; India in the 21st century; global intersections of mobility, sustainability, and health; and engaging partners, communities, and institutions. The engaging partners, communities, and institutions panel, which spotlighted projects supported by the Holman Africa Research and Engagement Fund, was moderated by Wale Adebanwi, the Presidential Penn Compact Professor of Africana Studies. Lee Cassanelli, associate professor of history in the School of Arts and Sciences, discussed his research on local histories of climate change in the Horn of Africa. He will organize a series of virtual workshops that will put local African experts in dialogue with natural and social scientists from Penn to raise awareness and establish a collective research agenda to promote joint research projects that integrate indigenous knowledge with regional and international expertise. Wale Adebanwi, the Presidential Penn Compact Professor of Africana Studies, moderates the engaging partners, communities, and institutions panel, which was the Holman Africa Research and Engagement Fund Spotlight. Associate professor Sunday Akintoye of the School of Dental Medicine presented his project, the PENN/UNILAG Collaboration on Racial Disparities in Ameloblastoma Recurrence. He will leverage ongoing research collaborations with the University of Lagos to access the largest tumor bank of ameloblastoma samples from Black racial populations to elucidate biological indicators of tumor recurrence. Akintoye will also provide training and research capacity building for junior faculty at the University of Lagos. Dario Sidhu, director of research at the Penn Development Research Initiative (PDRI), presented details on the PDRI Fellowship for African Scholars that he will co-lead with political science professor Guy Grossman. Grossman, founder and co-director of PDRI, and Sidhu are launching a competitive fellowship for international development scholars from sub-Saharan Africa with P.h.Ds to spend a semester in residence at Penn during the fall 2023 semester. The last presenter in this panel was David Amponsah, Presidential Assistant Professor of Africana Studies, discussing his research Enchanted Geography: India in the West African Popular Imagination. Enchanted Geography is a book project that explores the cultural history of how Ghanaians and Nigerians came to construct India as a repository of the most powerful magic, deities, and spirits. The book further examines how the idea of India is summoned in everyday secular and religious spaces. “Growing up in Ghana, there are these mythologies that people tell about India and Indians. So, I grew up hearing the stories about India as this mystically enchanted space, as well as Indians specifically as people endowed with supernatural abilities and powers,” he told the audience. “I was interested in trying to figure out the origins of these stories, these mythologies that people have constructed.” In closing remarks, Amy Gadsden, associate vice provost for global initiatives, noted the last time a research and engagement symposium was held in person was in January of 2020, with the China Research and Engagement Fund. Wuhan had just been shut down and there was much discussion about SARS-CoV-2 and how it would impact China, much less other places around the world. “Of course, we all know what happened from there, so it is just such a delight to be here and to say that we’re back,” she said. “We’re not just back in this room together, we are back in the world, and your discussions of your research study really demonstrate how we are roaring back as a university to engage and to think meaningfully about the work we do around the world.” The pandemic put up barriers between us, she said, as neighbors, as citizens, and as countries. “It also underscored global interconnectedness in indisputable ways,” Gadsden said. “As we move into a post-COVID world, we will be examining that interconnectedness and hopefully taking down those barriers.” The Penn Global Research and Engagement Grant Program funds research, teaching, service, and other activities around the world to promote interdisciplinary collaboration and strengthen equitable partnerships toward developing new insights on global issues. Credits Kristen de Groot Writer Eric Sucar Photographer Date May 2, 2022 Subtopics Dental Medicine, Medicine, Veterinary Medicine, Political Science, Public Health Schools School of Arts & Sciences, Stuart Weitzman School of Design, School of Dental Medicine, School of Veterinary Medicine, Wharton School, Graduate School of Education, Perelman School of Medicine, School of Engineering & Applied Science Share Twitter Facebook Twitter Facebook Read Next Class of 2023 celebrates Hey Day Campus & Community A celebration of the ‘resilient creativity’ of the Class of 2022 Penn’s 266th Commencement showcased graduates who Interim President Wendell Pritchett said demonstrated an “advanced ability to roll with the challenges.” Campus & Community Ben Franklin: A voice from the past that speaks to our time At the 2022 Silfen Forum, Penn Interim President Wendell Pritchett chatted with filmmaker Ken Burns about his new two-part documentary on Benjamin Franklin. Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Inspiring the next generation of archive scholars Through Inside the Archive, a course taught by Liliane Weissberg of the School of Arts & Sciences, Penn students explore what an archive is, how history gets written, and what is ahead in a digital future. Campus & Community Exploration awaits as Penn Abroad ramps up student trips Two years after the pandemic forced Penn Abroad to brings students home, trips are back on and a busier-than-normal abroad schedule is coming in fall 2022. Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement