Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Five Penn faculty named 2021 Sloan Research Fellows Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Science & Technology Five Penn faculty named 2021 Sloan Research Fellows The fellowship recognizes extraordinary U.S. and Canadian researchers whose creativity, innovation, and research accomplishments make them stand out as the next generation of scientific leaders. Five faculty from Penn (top left, clockwise) Ishmail Abdus-Saboor, Bo Zhen, Marc Miskin, Ziyue Gao, and Bhaswar B. Bhattacharya have been selected to receive a 2021 Sloan Research Fellowship. Ishmail Abdus-Saboor and Bo Zhen from the School of Arts & Sciences, Bhaswar B. Bhattacharya from the Wharton School, Ziyue Gao from the Perelman School of Medicine, and Marc Miskin from the School of Engineering and Applied Science are among the 128 recipients of the 2021 Sloan Research Fellowship. As one of the most prestigious awards available to young researchers, the Fellowship recognizes early-career scholars in the United States and Canada. Each recipient will receive a two-year, $75,000 Fellowship for their research. Abdus-Saboor is the Mitchell J. and Margo K. Blutt Presidential Assistant Professor of Biology in the Department of Biology. Focused on the genes and nervous system pathways involved in translating tactile sensations to the brain, Abdus-Saboor has taken a particular interest in the perception of acute and chronic pain. He has previously been recognized for his pioneering work with the Rita Allen Foundation Scholar in Pain Award, the NIH Mitchell Max Award for Pain Research, an NIH Pathway to Independence Award, and a Burroughs Wellcome Fund PDEP Fellowship, among other honors. Bhattacharya is an assistant professor in the Department of Statistics. His research interests include nonparametric statistics, network inference, combinatorial probability, and discrete and computational geometry. Working at the intersection of probability and combinatorics, Bhattacharya studies how methods from graph theory can be used to analyze large and complex datasets in a computationally efficient way. These types of methods can be used to addressing problems in natural language processing and high-dimensional data analysis. Gao is an assistant professor in the Department of Genetics. She is investigating genetics and accumulated mutations using computational methods to better understand how mutation, demographic history, and natural selection shape genetic variation within and between populations and to use this knowledge to learn about human biology, history, and evolution. Gao’s lab is also a member of the Penn Center for Global Genomics and Health Equity. Miskin is an assistant professor in the Department of Electrical and Systems Engineering who specializes in the design and control of microscopic robots. Miskin’s research involves adapting techniques used in the manufacture of computer chips to make tens of thousands of these robots at a time on a standard silicon wafer. Once separated, these robots can move by means of legs consisting of nanoscale strips of platinum, which flex when a current is applied. The next steps for this research involve coordinating the activity of these robots into swarms, allowing them to collectively act as an adaptable, “smart” material. Zhen is an assistant professor in the Department of Physics and Astronomy. His research lab works at the intersection of condensed matter physics and quantum electrodynamics with an interest in developing practical application. This includes research on nanophotonics, devices with features at the nanometer-scale that imbue them with unique properties, and finding ways to reduce energy use in optical communications using energy-efficient design and developing new types of materials. Since the first Sloan Research Fellowships in 1955, 125 faculty from Penn have received awards. These Fellows are often seen as a marker of the quality of an institution’s science faculty and proof of an institution’s success in attracting the most promising junior researchers to its ranks. Open to scholars in eight scientific and technical fields—chemistry, computational and evolutionary molecular biology, computer science, Earth system science, economics, mathematics, neuroscience, and physics—the Sloan Research Fellowships are awarded in close coordination with the scientific community. Candidates must be nominated by their fellow scientists, and winning Fellows are selected by independent panels of senior scholars on the basis of research accomplishments, creativity, and potential to become a leader in their field. Credits Erica K. Brockmeier Media Contact Date February 16, 2021 Subtopics Physics, Genetics, Electrical and Computer Engineering, Robotics, Biology, Math Schools School of Arts & Sciences, Wharton School, Perelman School of Medicine, School of Engineering & Applied Science Share Twitter Facebook Twitter Facebook Read Next Class of 2023 celebrates Hey Day Campus & Community A celebration of the ‘resilient creativity’ of the Class of 2022 Penn’s 266th Commencement showcased graduates who Interim President Wendell Pritchett said demonstrated an “advanced ability to roll with the challenges.” Campus & Community Ben Franklin: A voice from the past that speaks to our time At the 2022 Silfen Forum, Penn Interim President Wendell Pritchett chatted with filmmaker Ken Burns about his new two-part documentary on Benjamin Franklin. Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Inspiring the next generation of archive scholars Through Inside the Archive, a course taught by Liliane Weissberg of the School of Arts & Sciences, Penn students explore what an archive is, how history gets written, and what is ahead in a digital future. Campus & Community Exploration awaits as Penn Abroad ramps up student trips Two years after the pandemic forced Penn Abroad to brings students home, trips are back on and a busier-than-normal abroad schedule is coming in fall 2022. Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement