Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Wharton School Cosmic Writers brings free creative writing education to school-aged children May graduates Rowana Miller and Manoj Simha lead Cosmic Writers, a project supported by President’s Engagement Prize that provides free creative writing instruction to K-12 students virtually throughout the world. Louisa Shepard ・ May 31, 2022 What I’ve learned: Wharton’s Anita Summers Professor emeritus Anita Summers talks about her groundbreaking career in economics and public policy, and why integrity and evidence go hand in hand. From Knowledge at Wharton ・ May 27, 2022 A one-stop shop for student-founded impact startups College Green Ventures, a recipient of Penn’s 2022 President’s Engagement Prize, finds and supports student-founded impact startups. The organization aims to be a national hub for social impact on college campuses. Greg Johnson ・ May 25, 2022 How price shocks in formative years scar consumption for life Teens who experienced gas price shocks of the 1970s drive less in later years, according to experts at Wharton and the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia. From Knowledge at Wharton ・ May 23, 2022 Why more companies are standing up on social issues From the war in Ukraine to anti-LGBTQ+ legislation in Florida, companies are increasingly speaking out on social issues. Wharton management professor Stephanie Creary explains why silence is no longer golden for firms. From Knowledge at Wharton ・ May 20, 2022 Wharton expert explains the crashing crypto market What does the cryptocurrency crash mean for investors? Wharton expert, Sarah Hammer talks with Penn Today about the digital asset. Dee Patel ・ May 20, 2022 Both nature and nurture contribute to signatures of socioeconomic status in the brain In the first study of its kind, Penn researchers and an international team of collaborators found that genetics and environmental factors contribute to how socioeconomic status shapes the architecture of the brain. Katherine Unger Baillie ・ May 18, 2022 NROTC graduates transition from students to leaders For three May graduates, Commencement also marks the transition from personal development to military leadership. Kristina García ・ May 18, 2022 City planning students gain critical perspective on the carceral state The Carceral State, a course offered through Penn’s Netter Center for Community Partnerships, explores the issue of mass incarceration in Pennsylvania. From the Weitzman School of Design ・ May 17, 2022 27 students and recent graduates awarded 2022 Fulbright grants Twenty-seven Penn students and alumni have been awarded Fulbright grants for the 2022-23 academic year, including 18 seniors who will be graduating May 16. Louisa Shepard ・ May 13, 2022 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Next page ›› Last page Last » In the News Politico.com Inside America’s biased flood program Carolyn Kouskyof the Wharton School comments on FEMA’s mitigation efforts against flooding and the disparities in its grantmaking process. FULL STORY → Marketplace (NPR) Reading the Federal Reserve minutes can feel like hours, but Fed watchers still pore over them Peter Conti-Brown of the Wharton School says that Federal Reserve meeting minutes are deliberately written in code. FULL STORY → Neuroscience Both nature and nurture contribute to signatures of socioeconomic status in the brain Gideon Nave of the Wharton School and Martha Farah of the School of Arts & Sciences are quoted on their work that found evidence that both genetics and environmental influences contribute to the impact of socioeconomic status in a complex interplay with effects that span a variety of brain regions. FULL STORY → The New York Times The rich are not who we think they are. And happiness is not what we think it is, either Matthew Killingsworth of the Wharton School has debunked a popular myth that there is no effect of money on happiness beyond $75,000 per year, but he did confirm a law of diminishing returns to money. FULL STORY → The Wall Street Journal Elon Musk’s belated disclosure of Twitter stake triggers regulators’ probes Daniel Taylor of the Wharton School discusses the prospect of a regulatory lawsuit against Elon Musk. FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement