Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Awards Cosmic Writers brings free creative writing education to school-aged children May graduates Rowana Miller and Manoj Simha lead Cosmic Writers, a project supported by President’s Engagement Prize that provides free creative writing instruction to K-12 students virtually throughout the world. Louisa Shepard ・ May 31, 2022 Class of 2022 Ivy Day Continuing a tradition spanning nearly 150 years, the Class of 2022 Ivy Day Ceremony celebrated leadership, service, and scholarship, with a special emphasis on resilience and perseverance. Kristina García ・ May 17, 2022 Penn junior Ha-Nam Yoon named a Udall Scholar Ha-Nam Yoon, a junior in the College of Arts and Sciences, has been named a 2022 Udall Scholar by the Udall Foundation, recognized for leadership, public service, and a commitment to issues related to the environment. Louisa Shepard ・ May 13, 2022 27 students and recent graduates awarded 2022 Fulbright grants Twenty-seven Penn students and alumni have been awarded Fulbright grants for the 2022-23 academic year, including 18 seniors who will be graduating May 16. Louisa Shepard ・ May 13, 2022 Handley named Ivy League Player of the Year The senior midfielder is just the fourth player in the history of the men’s lacrosse program to be selected conference Player of the Year, and the first in 31 years. Greg Johnson ・ May 11, 2022 Double champs On Sunday, the men’s lacrosse team won its second consecutive Ivy League Tournament title and the women’s track & field team earned its third straight Outdoor Ivy Heps Championship. Greg Johnson ・ May 9, 2022 Six from Penn elected to American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2022 Faculty from the Perelman School of Medicine, School of Arts & Sciences, Graduate School of Education, and Law School join more 260 honorees recognized for contributions to academia, the arts, industry, public policy, and research. Michele W. Berger ・ April 28, 2022 2022 Models of Excellence awards salute notable Penn staff Since 1999, Penn’s Models of Excellence Awards program has recognized the remarkable staff contributions to the University’s mission as a global leader in education, research, and public service. Dee Patel ・ April 28, 2022 A toast to dear old Penn student-athletes At the Quaker’s Choice Awards on Wednesday evening at the Palestra, Penn Athletics presented its major intercollegiate senior awards to five student-athletes. Greg Johnson ・ April 21, 2022 Burkinshaw, Henseler awarded weekly Ivy honors Patrick Burkinshaw of the men’s lacrosse team has been named Ivy League Player of the Week and Wyatt Henseler of the baseball team has been selected conference Rookie of the Week. Greg Johnson ・ April 19, 2022 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Next page ›› Last page Last » In the News Art Newspaper Curator Meg Onli wins inaugural prize aimed at advancing racial equity in the arts The inaugural Figure Skating Prize, aimed at Black artists, curators and contemporary art scholars who are advancing equity and racial justice within the arts, has been awarded to Meg Onli of the Institute of Contemporary Art. FULL STORY → Philadelphia Inquirer Penn hoops star Princess Aghayere is using her passion for teamwork to save girls’ lives in Liberia The senior leader of Penn’s 2019 regular season Ivy Champions left Philadelphia after graduation, and traveled 4,600-mile to Liberia. With Penn friends Summer Kollie and Oladunni Alomaja, Aghayere started Rebound Liberia, a youth program whose goal is to use basketball to empower girls in the small West African country. FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement