Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo A passion for addressing ‘meaningful causes’ with data Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Campus & Community A passion for addressing ‘meaningful causes’ with data Senior Angelina Heyler, a systems science and engineering major who is submatriculating in Penn’s data science accelerated master’s program, spent her time at Penn fostering a passion for applied problem solving, building community, and playing Ultimate Frisbee. Angelina Heyler, a senior in the School of Engineering and Applied Science from Hong Kong, discovered a passion for data science and applied statistics while majoring in systems science and engineering. In addition to fostering community engagement within Penn Engineering as well as with students in West Philadelphia, she’s also thankful for the connections she made on campus through Ultimate Frisbee. Angelina Heyler, a senior from Hong Kong, came to Penn to pursue a degree in engineering in a setting with opportunities for personal and academic growth. Now, reflecting back on the past four years, Heyler says she is thankful for how her time on campus provided her with “the opportunity to explore cool classes” and, in the process, helped her discover a passion for applied problem solving through data science. The intersection of math and real-world problem solving Heyler started her academic career in the School of Engineering and Applied Science as a chemical and biomolecular engineering major, but was inspired to switch to systems engineering after taking Math 114, part of Penn’s four-semester calculus series, during her freshman year. “Professor Robert Ghrist always included systems examples of problems and that inspired me to look into the major,” she says. Heyler’s interests in this area grew while taking her favorite class from her major, ESE 301 (Engineering Probability), where she has also worked as a teaching assistant for the past two years. “It’s a beautiful intersection of math concepts being applied to really interesting everyday problems. You learn about why tennis rankings stay surprising stable for long times, optimal jury sizes, why polls work, and why lethal genes persist,” she says about the course. “The problems were niche and very connected to the real world.” ESE 301 was also Heyler’s first hint at her interest in “the statistical side of things” and using applied mathematics to address real-world problems, which led her to choose to submatriculate in Penn Engineering’s Master of Science in Engineering accelerated data science program. “I really enjoy how applicable data science is; it’s a field that tackles not only technical engineering problems but also issues in health, sustainability, transportation, and many other areas in society,” she says. Two of Heyler’s favorite classes outside her major include NETS 312, Theory of Networks, which goes into detail on how to analyze networks, and ECON 039, The Economics and Financing of Healthcare Delivery, a healthcare management class. “I really like those classes, where there's something so niche, and they are definitely something I only would have been able to take here at Penn,” she says. As part of her undergraduate degree, Heyler spent the past year working on a senior design project. She and a team of five systems engineering, electrical engineering, and computer science majors were given the Societal Impact Award from the ESE department for their collaborative senior design project and were one of the three teams, out of 26 total, from their department to advance to the School’s senior design competition. Their project aims to improve breast cancer screening precision by providing a quantitative approach to calculate breast tissue density, which is a strong indicator of breast cancer risk. The final version of MammoDL includes a state-of-the-art deep learning model that can predict breast density, a generalizable method to train models on diverse datasets, and a user-friendly interface. Their results have also been incorporated into a computational radiology framework developed at Penn Medicine so that other researchers can use this new tool. Along with integrating the project’s various technical components and working seamlessly as a team, Heyler says that looking at the big picture was key to MammoDL’s success. “We spent a lot of time thinking about the technical details of our project, but we also thought a lot about the clearest message to showcase the impact of our work,” she explains. “Overall, senior design has been one of the most meaningful projects I’ve done here at Penn.” Fostering connections on campus During the early days of her academic career at Penn, Heyler established personal connections on campus through the Society of Women Engineers (SWE), where she attended mentorship events that, in addition to her coursework, helped her figure out her ideal major. She later went on to serve as SWE’s community development co-director, hosting social and professional events to “help create community among women in Penn Engineering.” Heyler has also been active in community service outside of Penn. She served as the president of the Penn Music Mentoring Program, in which Penn students provide music lessons to kids from West Philadelphia at Platt House and Comegys Elementary School. “Because we would pair off with students one on one, we could see our mentees grow over the course of the semester. It was very heartwarming,” she says. One of Heyler’s personal, “just for fun” highlights from her time at Penn was being part of the women’s Ultimate Frisbee team, Venus, which she joined during her sophomore year. “The team had a really incredible energy. It always made me happy to be there,” says Heyler. She describes one of her most memorable moments as being a member of B-team during their first tournament of the spring season, when she and her teammates, many of whom like her were new to the sport, trained hard and ended up finishing the tournament with eight wins. “It was very special feeling to see our team come together like that, especially since most of us had never played before,” Heyler says. A future of addressing ‘meaningful causes’ After graduation, Heyler is interested in applying her data science skills to “meaningful causes in the world.” So far, she has explored careers while working with an energy-efficiency company in Hong Kong, as an intern at a defense company in Maryland last year, and this summer she will be interning at Merck, where she hopes to learn more about using data science for drug discovery. “I’m interested in applying data science to sustainability, medicine, defense, and tech. The common thread among these areas is that they create good in the world,” she says. Looking back on the past four years, including coursework that inspired her to study data science, playing Ultimate Frisbee, and enjoying trips to Chinatown with her friends during her free time, Heyler says that her time at Penn has been filled with “lots of surprises—in a very good way.” Credits Erica K. Brockmeier Writer Eric Sucar Photographer Date May 11, 2022 Subtopics Undergraduate Students Schools School of Engineering & Applied Science Share Twitter Facebook Twitter Facebook Read Next Class of 2023 celebrates Hey Day Campus & Community A celebration of the ‘resilient creativity’ of the Class of 2022 Penn’s 266th Commencement showcased graduates who Interim President Wendell Pritchett said demonstrated an “advanced ability to roll with the challenges.” Campus & Community Ben Franklin: A voice from the past that speaks to our time At the 2022 Silfen Forum, Penn Interim President Wendell Pritchett chatted with filmmaker Ken Burns about his new two-part documentary on Benjamin Franklin. Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Inspiring the next generation of archive scholars Through Inside the Archive, a course taught by Liliane Weissberg of the School of Arts & Sciences, Penn students explore what an archive is, how history gets written, and what is ahead in a digital future. Campus & Community Exploration awaits as Penn Abroad ramps up student trips Two years after the pandemic forced Penn Abroad to brings students home, trips are back on and a busier-than-normal abroad schedule is coming in fall 2022. Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement