Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo A multidisciplinary approach to considering the Earth’s changing systems Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences A multidisciplinary approach to considering the Earth’s changing systems Bringing expertise from each of their disciplines, the School of Arts & Sciences’ Kathleen Morrison and Joseph Francisco and the Environmental Innovations Initiative’s Melissa Brown Goodall infused chemistry, anthropology, policy, and more into an introductory course on climate and the environment. A poster session represented the culmination of the course Humans and the Earth System: How it Works, How We Got Here, and How to Save Our Planet. An introduction to climate change and other environmental challenges, the course navigated a broad range of topics, relying on the expertise of its three professors and several guest speakers. In the bright, newly open Anthropology Commons on the third floor of the Penn Museum, professional-looking posters hang on the walls as groups of students discuss their research, occasionally pulling down a mask to take a sip of seltzer. On one side of the room, professors Kathleen Morrison and Joseph Francisco chat animatedly with senior Kerry Hsu about her poster on minimizing greenhouse gas emissions related to food. On the side opposite, Fernando Manrique, a junior economics major from Lima, Peru, talks with peers about his project, on the environmental and economic impacts of chemical fertilizer runoff. The energized poster presentation represents the culmination of a highly multidisciplinary course offered for the first time this spring, Humans and the Earth System: How it Works, How We Got Here, and How to Save Our Planet, co-taught by Morrison, an anthropologist, Francisco, an atmospheric chemist, and Melissa Brown Goodall, an expert on environmental policy. Senior Kerry Hsu, an economics major from Hong Kong, discusses a project on minimizing emissions in the food sector with professors Kathleen Morrison, an anthropologist, and Joseph Francisco, an atmospheric chemist. As their final project, Hsu, an economics major from Hong Kong, Manrique, and the other 22 students in the course, each selected a topic that sparked their interest and delved into research. The projects, like the course as a whole, invited multiple viewpoints and perspectives on climate and environmental science. “We bring our different points of views to the table and the result has been amazing,” says Francisco, a President’s Distinguished Professor in the departments of Earth and Environmental Science and Chemistry in the School of Arts & Sciences. “Kathy bringing her insights into how people intersect with the environment, Melissa with her policy background, and me bringing the chemistry—it’s been awesome.” A course to fill a need The course emerged from discussions the three instructors had as leaders of Penn’s Environmental Innovations Initiative, an effort supported by the Provost’s Office and launched in late 2019 to bring together faculty and students to generate scholarship that addresses environmental challenges. Francisco and Morrison serve as the Initiative’s faculty co-leads, with Brown Goodall its senior director. In the past, Penn’s Sustainability Office had compiled a list of courses that touched on elements of sustainability. In reviewing that inventory, “we saw that there really weren’t any introductory courses to climate change,” says Brown Goodall. And from the Initiative’s early work, there seemed to be a need. “We heard over and over again that undergraduates wanted some kind of basic climate literacy course,” says Morrison, the Sally and Alvin V. Shoemaker Professor of Anthropology and department chair. “Many argue it should be required.” We heard over and over again that undergraduates wanted some kind of basic climate literacy course. Many argue it should be required. Kathleen Morrison Twitter Facebook Morrison encouraged her co-leads to develop a course—and then to co-teach it. Francisco and Brown Goodall agreed, and together they submitted their course description just before the deadline. Initially, Francisco, Morrison, and Brown Goodall thought they could divide the semester into three parts, each taking ownership of one segment: science, human interactions, and policy and solutions. “But it’s impossible to separate them,” Morrison notes. Instead, they took a collaborative approach. The class met each Wednesday afternoon for three hours in the Penn Museum’s Rainey Auditorium, and generally at least two if not all three of the instructors attended each meeting. “None of us is exactly a wallflower, so we’ll all jump in during one another’s presentations,” says Brown Goodall. “We’ll defer to each other and pose questions to each other.” Their lectures and discussions were complemented by a bevy of guest speakers. “It’s so energizing to hear what people are working on and learn from experts who have such deep knowledge in their fields,” says Brown Goodall. The Earth from all angles In April, one of those guest speakers, Erin Sikorsky, a Perry World House visiting fellow and director of the Center for Climate and Security, told the auditorium of students, “We’re entering a world that has no analogue.” Based off her years of experience in the national intelligence community, Sikorsky described for students the ways in which national security is increasingly taking into account the changing climate. “Climate change is at the top of our national security concerns,” she says. During the same class meeting, Dorit Aviv, an assistant professor of architecture in the Stuart Weitzman School of Design, shared her work on novel passive cooling systems that can regulate building environments. Other guest speakers have included the Water Center’s Ellen Kohler, Eugenie Birch of the Penn Institute for Urban Research, Sustainability Director Nina Morris along with Sustainability Coordinator Natalie Walker, Jon Hawkings of the Department of Earth and Environmental Science, Farah Hussain of the Perelman School of Medicine, and Koko Warner, another Perry World House Fellow, with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Economics major Fernando Manrique, a junior from Lima, Peru, drew connections between the course and his other studies at Penn, sharing findings with Xime Trujillo, research coordinator for the Environmental Innovations Initiative. Manrique’s final project examined the effect of chemical fertilizers on waterways, including economic impacts from reductions in recreational opportunities and property values. Leah Hopf, a first-year student from Nazareth, Pennsylvania, enjoyed these diverse perspectives, and particularly valued learning the scientific details of how climate change is happening. Speaking of Hawkings’ guest lecture, which delved into how different chemicals can be toxic and also have roles in contributing to climate change, she says, “I now have this deeper understanding—it’s not just a vague concept of ‘chemicals are bad.’ It’s ‘here’s how chemicals are good and bad, and here’s why we know that these ones are bad.’” Christy Choo, a sophomore environmental studies major from Leonia, New Jersey, also enjoyed the complementary backgrounds of the teaching trio and guest speakers. “If they wanted to cover a subject they were not experts in, they would bring in a guest,” Choo says. “One person explored environmental justice issues, like how low-income countries have to face the consequences of the actions we take as a larger society. We talked about mitigating that and how that ties into urbanization, how that ties into green infrastructure, and how we can create cities that are resilient to climate change.” We heard over and over again that undergraduates wanted some kind of basic climate literacy course. Many argue it should be required. Kathleen Morrison Twitter Facebook Though Choo herself came into the course with a background in natural science, she feels it’s accessible, even to non-science students. “This class has definitely helped me inform a holistic approach to how I see the environment, looking at it from different perspectives, which I really value,” says Choo. “Studying something like the environment or climate change is so multifaceted that I think it’s important to approach it from a multifaceted, interdisciplinary point of view. I think more people should be taking this course.” An evolving focus Morrison, Francisco, and Brown Goodall hope many more students will get that chance. In Morrison’s view, the course may shift and change with student interest and faculty disciplinary expertise upon repeated teachings. “I think the ethos of the course works very well,” she says, “the idea of a team-taught operation that brings in different faculty who are able to contribute from their own interests and experiences.” RELATED ‘The climate girl’ at Penn Four solutions to mitigate climate change, from the IPCC Learn, reflect, and act during Climate Week An investment in energy and sustainability ‘for the survival of humanity’ Progress toward a more sustainable University And from a pre- and post-survey the instructors gave to the students, they have evidence that their goal of improving climate literacy is working. For example, when asked “How sure are you that global warming (AKA climate change) is happening?” the percentage of students who answered “extremely sure” rose from 82% in January to 100% by the course’s completion. Developed by the course’s TA, Karla Terroba, the survey will be issued throughout Penn next year, so the class gave the Initiative and Penn Sustainability the chance to beta-test it while also measuring the course’s impact. No matter which field the students who complete the class go into, an understanding of climate change will resonate. “You can go your whole life without knowing the details of certain academic fields,” says Manrique, the student who researched chemical fertilizer pollution. “But you really can’t ignore the environment. It’s where we live.” (Homepage image) Touching on a broad range of topics from climate’s impact on national security to resilient building design to emissions related to food production, the course aimed to boost students’ understanding of earth systems and climate literacy. (Image: NASA) Credits Katherine Unger Baillie Writer Eric Sucar Photographer Date May 11, 2022 Subtopics Anthropology, Climate Change, Earth and Environmental Science, Penn Museum, Sustainability Schools School of Arts & Sciences Share Twitter Facebook Twitter Facebook Read Next Class of 2023 celebrates Hey Day Campus & Community A celebration of the ‘resilient creativity’ of the Class of 2022 Penn’s 266th Commencement showcased graduates who Interim President Wendell Pritchett said demonstrated an “advanced ability to roll with the challenges.” Campus & Community Ben Franklin: A voice from the past that speaks to our time At the 2022 Silfen Forum, Penn Interim President Wendell Pritchett chatted with filmmaker Ken Burns about his new two-part documentary on Benjamin Franklin. Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Inspiring the next generation of archive scholars Through Inside the Archive, a course taught by Liliane Weissberg of the School of Arts & Sciences, Penn students explore what an archive is, how history gets written, and what is ahead in a digital future. Campus & Community Exploration awaits as Penn Abroad ramps up student trips Two years after the pandemic forced Penn Abroad to brings students home, trips are back on and a busier-than-normal abroad schedule is coming in fall 2022. Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement