Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Pulitzer-winning author Viet Thanh Nguyen speaks on migration and ‘multitudes’ Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Pulitzer-winning author Viet Thanh Nguyen speaks on migration and ‘multitudes’ In a wide-ranging conversation sponsored by the Wolf Humanities Center, author and professor Viet Thanh Nguyen visited Penn to discuss his work, representation, and more. From left: Josephine Park, Viet Thanh Nguyen, and Dagmawi Woubshet, pictured in conversation on March 16, 2022. As part of its “Migrations” theme year, the Wolf Humanities Center welcomed Pulitzer Prize-winning author and University of California Professor Viet Thanh Nguyen for a conversation with Dagmawi Woubshet, the Ahuja Family Presidential Associate Professor of English and topics director for Wolf Humanities, and Josephine Park, a professor of English. “When we were curating the series of public events, we immediately thought about Viet because both his fiction and non-fiction writings address the topic of war and migration with complexity and rigor, fearlessness and compassion, and wild imagination,” says Woubshet of why Wolf Humanities thought to invite Nguyen. “His work is all the more resonant today with what’s taking place not just in Ukraine but many other parts of the word where wars are raging and, as a result, millions of people are being forcibly displaced.” Following an introduction by Jamal J. Elias, director of Wolf Humanities, Nguyen read two excerpts from his novels “The Committed,” released in 2021, and its predecessor “The Sympathizer,” which won the Pulitzer Prize for fiction in 2016. The novels follow an unnamed double agent during and following the Vietnam War who is the son of a Vietnamese mother and French father; the protagonist works for the South Vietnamese army while spying for revolutionary North Vietnam, all the while navigating close friendships he’s made with those he’s meant to oppose. Though “The Sympathizer” is often described as a war novel, it’s also undeniably wry. Fielding a question from Park about the sense of humor in the novel, Nguyen addressed how he was able to merge his academic self—critical, knowledgeable, and “repressed,” as he lightheartedly put it—with his creative self. “Everything that I’ve learned in academia in terms of critical theory, research, war, literature, and everything we know that’s interesting to us, and not necessarily outside of academia, I was able to turn into a fictional set of devices in these novels, and that’s where the humor comes from,” Nguyen said. From left: Josephine Park, Viet Thanh Nguyen, and Dagmawi Woubshet discuss Nguyen's work as part of the Dr. S.T. Lee Distinguished Lecture in the Humanities. The event was co-sponsored by the Department of English and the Asian American Studies Program. “My attempt is to try to apply our critical thinking to situations both tragic and absurd, because that’s what I think war can [be], what these experiences are: They’re tragedies but also absurd. What’s happening in Ukraine is absurd, but also horrifying and tragic at the same time.” The story is also, Nguyen said, one of multitudes. He wanted to create a character who could represent himself as both “an individual and as a collective,” he said. “On one hand, [Asian people] are perceived by the so-called majority as multitudinous: there are too many of you out here, and yet you’re all the same,” he said. “So, I wanted a character who was the embodiment of multitudes and yet uniquely singular.” He explained that he created a persona in the novels who could play out the theoretical thinking of academia in fictional settings—albeit historical ones. “The Sympathizer” takes place in Vietnam and the United States, while “The Committed” sees the character confront his French-colonial roots in Paris. Part of this decision to set the novel in France was personal, he explains, because of his own family’s Vietnamese and French backgrounds. Nguyen and his family were Vietnamese refugees during the Vietnam War; Nguyen arrived in the U.S. at 4 years old. “I wanted to confront my own mental colonization under French culture,” Nguyen said. “My parents were born in the 1930s and my father is still alive, but he had a French education, and even at 88 years old he can still remember some French songs he had to sing from that period—and will torture me with them over dinner.” He recalled the feeling of growing up “under the shadow of [French colonization] as a French Vietnamese person,” noting that French influences can be found everywhere in Vietnamese culture and language. He noted that this is true of other imperial powers as well, including the former Great Britain and the U.S. In offering advice to writers, he recommended always having another project lined up after one is completed—and staying true to your convictions. Viet Thanh Nguyen, at right, speaking to an audience inside the Harrison Auditorium at the Penn Museum. “I think what’s important for me to say about ‘The Sympathizer’ is that it’s a novel written completely and purely out of my passions, and out of my refusal to heed expectations of others,” he said, citing how his book differed from other accounts of the Vietnam War—and that 13 out of 14 publishers rejected his manuscript. Finally, he advocated for remembering the historical contexts surrounding conflicts happening in places like Ukraine and Afghanistan. He described this as a tension between short-term and long-term memory. He also cautioned against the “highly politicized” treatment of refugees, noting that the portrayal of Ukrainian refugees has been different from that of Afghani refugees after the American withdrawal in summer 2021. Moving forward, Nguyen said he’s working on a third novel in his “Sympathizer” trilogy, a memoir, and is currently reading scripts for the HBO adaptation of “The Sympathizer.” Credits Brandon Baker Writer Eric Sucar Photographer Date March 18, 2022 Subtopics History, Asian Studies, English Schools School of Arts & Sciences Share Twitter Facebook Twitter Facebook Read Next Class of 2023 celebrates Hey Day Campus & Community A celebration of the ‘resilient creativity’ of the Class of 2022 Penn’s 266th Commencement showcased graduates who Interim President Wendell Pritchett said demonstrated an “advanced ability to roll with the challenges.” Campus & Community Ben Franklin: A voice from the past that speaks to our time At the 2022 Silfen Forum, Penn Interim President Wendell Pritchett chatted with filmmaker Ken Burns about his new two-part documentary on Benjamin Franklin. Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Inspiring the next generation of archive scholars Through Inside the Archive, a course taught by Liliane Weissberg of the School of Arts & Sciences, Penn students explore what an archive is, how history gets written, and what is ahead in a digital future. Campus & Community Exploration awaits as Penn Abroad ramps up student trips Two years after the pandemic forced Penn Abroad to brings students home, trips are back on and a busier-than-normal abroad schedule is coming in fall 2022. Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement