Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Climate Change NROTC graduates transition from students to leaders For three May graduates, Commencement also marks the transition from personal development to military leadership. Kristina García ・ May 18, 2022 Prioritizing environmental justice while capturing carbon from the air The Clean Energy Conversions Lab’s mission is to minimize the environmental and climate impacts of the world’s dependence on fossil fuels through carbon management. From Penn Engineering ・ May 16, 2022 Facing climate change with optimism In the course titled Climate Change & the Energy Evolution, University of Pennsylvania Carey Law students learn how to use their legal skills to decarbonize the world’s economy. From Penn Law ・ May 12, 2022 A multidisciplinary approach to considering the Earth’s changing systems Bringing expertise from each of their disciplines, the School of Arts & Sciences’ Kathleen Morrison and Joseph Francisco and the Environmental Innovations Initiative’s Melissa Brown Goodall infused chemistry, anthropology, policy, and more into an introductory course on climate and the environment. Katherine Unger Baillie ・ May 11, 2022 Islands on the climate front line Perry World House’s Global Shifts Colloquium looked at how islands can protect their people, build resilient communities, and safeguard their environment in the climate crisis. Kristen de Groot ・ April 25, 2022 Turning Latin America green Santiago Cunial, a doctoral candidate in political science, investigates issues surrounding green energy in Chile and Argentina. April 15, 2022 Solutions to mitigate climate change, from the IPCC The latest assessment offers both a harsh reality check and a path forward. Experts William Braham, Peter Psarras, and Michael Mann offer their thoughts. Michele W. Berger ・ April 11, 2022 Protecting a singular ecosystem in the Galápagos Michael Weisberg, the Bess W. Heyman President's Distinguished Professor of Philosophy, students, and Ecuador's Ambassador to the United States reflect on the momentous expansion of the Galápagos Marine Reserve. Blake Cole ・ March 29, 2022 Climate scientist Michael Mann to join Penn faculty Mann is the first new faculty member to be recruited as part of the recently announced Energy and Sustainability Initiative as a Presidential Distinguished Professor in the Department of Earth and Environmental Science. Katherine Unger Baillie ・ March 15, 2022 Unlocking the potential of ‘smart’ water in responding to climate change Assistant Professor of City and Regional Planning Allison Lassiter researches unlocking the potential of ‘smart’ water in responding to climate change. From the Weitzman School of Design ・ March 8, 2022 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Next page ›› Last page Last » Media Contact Amanda Mott Associate Director for News ammott@upenn.edu In the News Scientific American Where rising seas threaten drinking water, scientists look for affordable solutions Research led by Allison Lassiter of the Stuart Weitzman School of Design aims to identify water systems along the Atlantic and Gulf coasts that are vulnerable to saltwater intrusion. “Besides being unpleasant to drink, salinized water can harm vulnerable populations, including people with hypertension and pregnant women,” she said. FULL STORY → The Conversation The seas are coming for us in Kiribati. Will Australia rehome us? Perry World House Distinguished Global Leader-in-Residence Anote Tong, former president of the Republic of Kiribati, co-wrote an article about the uncertain future of Kiribati amid rising sea levels. “What we need is a model where displaced people can migrate to host nations when their homes become uninhabitable,” Tong and co-author Akka Rimon wrote. “Countries like Australia need workers—and we will soon need homes.” FULL STORY → ABC News How climate change can harm your skin Misha Rosenbach of the Perelman School of Medicine spoke about climate change’s effects on the skin, saying wildfire smoke can worsen eczema and increased sun exposure can heighten risk for skin cancer. “I think you would be very hard pressed to find someplace in the country that is completely unaffected,” he said. FULL STORY → The New York Times When bad news about the climate is good for green stock Robert F. Stambaugh of the Wharton School said that by driving up the price of green stocks investors may be inadvertently increasing the expected returns for less environmentally friendly stocks. Stambaugh co-authored a paper on the dynamic with Wharton colleague Lucian Taylor. FULL STORY → “Here & Now with Robin Young and Jeremy Hobson,” WBUR-Radio (Boston) How insurance is protecting a coral reef from climate impacts in Mexico Carolyn Kousky of the Wharton School discussed how “parametric insurance” benefits people after natural disasters. “With a parametric policy, the payout is only related to some independent measure of the disaster itself,” she said. FULL STORY → Marketplace (NPR) Lots of homeowners are dropping flood insurance, study shows Carolyn Kousky of the Wharton School said the lack of detailed data on dropped flood insurance policies makes it difficult to determine why homeowners made the decision. FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement