Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Graduate School of Education Indicators report shows escalating disparities for students of color and poor students Report from The Pell Institute and PennAHEAD highlights stark differences in debt burden and benefits of higher education among ethnic groups that has significantly widened in recent years. From Penn GSE ・ May 25, 2022 27 students and recent graduates awarded 2022 Fulbright grants Twenty-seven Penn students and alumni have been awarded Fulbright grants for the 2022-23 academic year, including 18 seniors who will be graduating May 16. Louisa Shepard ・ May 13, 2022 Symposium highlights range and reach of Penn Global research The Penn Global Research and Engagement Grant is supporting 21 faculty-led projects that span research, capacity-building, and development efforts across Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean, India, China, and beyond. Kristen de Groot ・ May 2, 2022 Supporting education in Ghana The Graduate School of Education’s Sharon Wolf is leading a research project on reaching parents in remote and impoverished regions of Ghana with supportive text messages to share information on helping their children, especially girls, succeed in school. Louisa Shepard ・ April 25, 2022 ‘Groundbreaking future for groundbreaking educators’ A groundbreaking ceremony kicked off a $35.6 million Graduate School of Education expansion project that includes the renovation of two 1965 buildings. The new spaces are expected to open in August 2023. Louisa Shepard , Kat Stein ・ April 21, 2022 America as it actually was “Teaching Independence: Bridging the Communications Gap,” took an in-depth look at the challenges of teaching the Declaration of Independence, the American Revolution, and the nation’s founding in the current political climate. From Penn GSE ・ April 14, 2022 Penn and Lea School celebrate signing of $4.1 million commitment The Henry C. Lea Elementary School, the University of Pennsylvania, Penn GSE, the Philadelphia Federation of Teachers, and the School District of Philadelphia celebrated the formalization of Penn’s deepened commitment to supporting the West Philadelphia K-8 school. From Penn GSE ・ April 12, 2022 Absenteeism actively harms everybody—even the students who show up A new brief co-authored by Penn GSE associate professor Michael Gottfried breaks down the issue of absenteeism and introduces a three-tier strategy for administrators, teachers, and parents to employ. From Penn GSE ・ April 7, 2022 Du Bois College House celebrates 50 years For five decades, the living and learning space has served as a home away from home for students, and the community has evolved into a family. Lauren Hertzler ・ April 6, 2022 Panel headlines Women of Color in Higher Education Summit The seventh annual Women of Color in Higher Education Summit provided information, perspectives, practical advice, and networking and mentorship opportunities exclusively to women and nonbinary people of color from Penn GSE and SP2. From Penn GSE ・ April 4, 2022 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Next page ›› Last page Last » In the News Axios Coping tips for parents and teachers after the Uvalde school shooting Howard Stevenson of the Graduate School of Education provides tips on coping in the aftermath of the shootings in Uvalde, Texas. FULL STORY → The Washington Post Momentum builds behind a three-year degree to lower college costs Robert Zemsky of the Graduate School of Education is quoted on the worries that speeding up curriculum to graduate from college in three years would “cheapen the degree.” FULL STORY → Philadelphia Inquirer Black and brown women are underrepresented in STEM fields. This program works with K-12 girls to fix that Janine Remillard of the Graduate School of Education spoke about a local program that prepares Black girls for careers in STEM fields. “Black girls need to be in an environment where they can thrive by being supported as learners, and by being able to look around and see others like themselves,” she said. FULL STORY → Philadelphia Inquirer Scores on Pa. standardized tests fell in 2021, but many students didn’t take them Jonathan Supovitz of the Graduate School of Education commented on the drop in Pennsylvania students’ standardized testing scores. Given the pandemic and the challenges of virtual learning, Supovitz said the scores are “not surprising, and it is also entirely consistent with other places in the country.” FULL STORY → Christian Science Monitor ‘If you want my advice, don’t take my advice.’ When the host isn’t an expert Sigal Ben-Porath of the Graduate School of Education spoke about how information spreads outside conventional news sources. “You have a really open [media] landscape where people like Joe Rogan can hustle,” she said. “The incentive structure is built around rage rather than thoughtful engagement. At the same time, society’s values are changing. Societies are not like atomic clocks. We change and evolve over time.” FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement