Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo The promise of transcranial magnetic stimulation Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Health Sciences The promise of transcranial magnetic stimulation Research led by Penn Medicine shows that transcranial magnetic stimulation might help stimulate brain repair by helping the brain ‘reorganize’ signals around the damaged area. Aphasia is the loss or impairment of the ability to speak or write, and it can result from damage in the area of the brain that controls language expression and comprehension. Damage can be a result of stroke, head injury, brain tumor, infection, or dementia. Roy Hamilton, associate professor of neurology and physical medicine and rehabilitation, and director of the brainSTIM Center. (Image: Penn Medicine News) For now, the only treatment for aphasia is speech and language therapy, which helps patients learn other ways to communicate. However, research led by Penn Medicine shows that transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) might help stimulate brain repair by helping the brain “reorganize” signals around the damaged area. TMS is a non-invasive technique that excites neurons in the brain via magnetic pulses passed through the scalp from coils of wires. It has been approved by the FDA to treat major depression since 2008, and pain associated with certain migraine headaches since 2013. In 2020, Penn launched the Brain Science, Translation, Innovation, and Modulation (brainSTIM) Center, which brings together a team of leading neuroscientists, neurologists, psychiatrists, psychologists, and engineers at Penn using neuromodulation techniques to research, repair, and enhance human brain function—the first multidisciplinary translational center of its kind in the region. Currently, TMS is only approved to treat a limited number of conditions. While not yet available to patients, researchers at Penn Medicine are hopeful that their ongoing studies will illustrate broader applications for this innovative, noninvasive treatment method, and emphasize the importance of continued funding for further research. “Imaging reveals that people tend to rely on the left side of their brain for language, but patients with aphasia actually use both. This tells us that brain functions are a lot more flexible than we previously thought,” says Roy Hamilton, an associate professor of neurology and physical medicine and rehabilitation, and director of the brainSTIM Center in the Perelman School of Medicine. “Our research, which is currently under a phase II clinical trial, shows promising evidence that when we use TMS to target the damaged areas of a patient’s brain that is causing aphasia, the brain is able to recruit different, healthy parts of itself, and create new pathways, bypassing the injured area,” he explains. This story is by Kelsey Odorczyk. Read more at Penn Medicine News. Credits From Penn Medicine News Writer Date April 13, 2022 Subtopics Neuroscience, Medicine Schools Perelman School of Medicine Share Twitter Facebook Twitter Facebook Read Next Class of 2023 celebrates Hey Day Campus & Community A celebration of the ‘resilient creativity’ of the Class of 2022 Penn’s 266th Commencement showcased graduates who Interim President Wendell Pritchett said demonstrated an “advanced ability to roll with the challenges.” Campus & Community Ben Franklin: A voice from the past that speaks to our time At the 2022 Silfen Forum, Penn Interim President Wendell Pritchett chatted with filmmaker Ken Burns about his new two-part documentary on Benjamin Franklin. Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Inspiring the next generation of archive scholars Through Inside the Archive, a course taught by Liliane Weissberg of the School of Arts & Sciences, Penn students explore what an archive is, how history gets written, and what is ahead in a digital future. Campus & Community Exploration awaits as Penn Abroad ramps up student trips Two years after the pandemic forced Penn Abroad to brings students home, trips are back on and a busier-than-normal abroad schedule is coming in fall 2022. Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement