Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Education, Business, & Law What I’ve learned: Wharton’s Anita Summers Indicators report shows escalating disparities for students of color and poor students Streamlining the health care supply chain Five things to know about rising house prices Wharton real estate and finance professor Benjamin Keys talks about why the red-hot U.S. real estate market isn’t a bubble that’s ready to burst. Dee Patel ・ November 24, 2021 When police forces grow, homicides drop and low-level arrests increase Research from Penn criminologist Aaron Chalfin and others found that an additional 10 to 17 officers prevented one homicide annually, but each extra officer added up to 22 arrests for crimes like drug possession. Michele W. Berger ・ November 23, 2021 Rereleasing ‘Red’: On Taylor Swift’s latest album and music copyright Cynthia Dahl, a professor at the University of Pennsylvania Carey School of Law and director of the Detkin Intellectual Property and Technology Legal Clinic, discusses music copyright and the Swift controversy. Kristen de Groot ・ November 19, 2021 Abortion rights in the Supreme Court are ‘in grave jeopardy’ Serena Mayeri, a professor of law and history, argues that the Texas abortion law SB8 has already had devastating short- and long-term consequences, with dire effects on reproductive justice in this country. From Penn Law ・ November 19, 2021 Into the metaverse: Can Facebook rebrand itself? Wharton marketing professor Patti Williams isn’t sold on the stated reasons behind Facebook’s recent name change— to Meta—or the timing. From Knowledge at Wharton ・ November 18, 2021 ‘Black Families Matter’ In a lecture organized by the Penn Program on Regulation, PIK Professor Dorothy E. Roberts argued that the U.S. child welfare system is designed to police Black families, not to protect children, and must be abolished and replaced with a new vision of family support and child safety. Kristen de Groot ・ November 18, 2021 Taking a closer look at cryptocurrency Experts across the University share their thoughts on how cryptocurrency has globally transformed businesses, research, and the environment. Michele W. Berger, Erica K. Brockmeier, Kristen de Groot, Dee Patel ・ November 17, 2021 Sharon Wolf’s work in Ghana expands to address pandemic-related inequalities The assistant professor at Penn GSE applies research of children, their primary caregiver, and teachers throughout the pandemic about their experiences with remote schooling to a new approach in controlling learning opportunities before gaps in learning form. From Penn GSE ・ November 11, 2021 Practical tools to help you bring your conscience to work A new book by Wharton professor G. Richard Shell serves as a guide to help you stand by your values and create a more ethical workplace. Dee Patel ・ November 11, 2021 Centering Black students in language education Ensuring equity for Black students in language education was the focus of a conference co-organized by the Graduate School of Education’s Nelson Flores, an expert in bilingual education. Louisa Shepard ・ November 9, 2021 Pagination First page « First Previous page ‹‹ … Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Current page 9 Page 10 Page 11 Page 12 Page 13 … Next page ›› Last page Last » In the News Axios Coping tips for parents and teachers after the Uvalde school shooting Howard Stevenson of the Graduate School of Education provides tips on coping in the aftermath of the shootings in Uvalde, Texas. FULL STORY → Politico.com How Elon Musk’s Twitter takeover may help change stock market rules Jill Fisch of the Law School comments on allegations that Elon Musk ripped off Twitter shareholders to the tune of $143 million. FULL STORY → Politico.com Inside America’s biased flood program Carolyn Kouskyof the Wharton School comments on FEMA’s mitigation efforts against flooding and the disparities in its grantmaking process. FULL STORY → “Midday,” WYPR Radio (Baltimore) Dorothy Roberts’ “Torn Apart” calls out racial disparities in foster care PIK Professor Dorothy Roberts discusses her new book that argues that the nation’s foster care system deprives Black parents of fundamental rights and leads to traumatic consequences for Black children. FULL STORY → TheHill.com Mass shootings highlight our failure in mental health Stephen N. Xenakis of the Law School writes that effective mental health services in our communities are woefully lacking yet is fundamental to our safety, security, and productivity. FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement