Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Elucidating the developmental origin of life-sustaining adrenal glands Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Health Sciences Elucidating the developmental origin of life-sustaining adrenal glands Research led by the School of Veterinary Medicine reveals that adrenal development proceeds differently in humans than it does in mice. The adrenal glands, which pump out crucial hormones, develops differently in mice compared to primates, including humans, according to new research led by the School of Veterinary Medicine. At at early stage of development, the primate adrenogenic coelomic epithelium, which eventually gives rise to the adrenal glands, expresses genes (NR5A1 in red, and GATA1 in blue) in a pattern that diverged with expectations. (Image: Kotaro Sasaki) Sitting atop each kidney and measuring only around two centimeters long, the adrenal glands are tiny but mighty. These glands produce steroid hormones, including those involved in stress response, blood pressure maintenance, and fertility. When their development goes awry, it can cause a life-threatening condition called primary adrenal insufficiency, also known as Addison’s disease. Many of the genetics involved in this and other adrenal gland disorders remain unknown. Research on adrenal glands has often relied on insights made using mouse models. Now, a new study led by the School of Veterinary Medicine’s Kotaro Sasaki, which examined the developmental origin of the glands in humans and nonhuman primates, finds key developmental differences. This new understanding may inform diagnostics and treatment for Addison’s disease and other endocrine system disorders. The work was published in the journal Science Advances. “While some genetic causes of primary adrenal insufficiency have been identified, the mechanism has remained poorly understood,” says Sasaki. “Our findings help in identifying genes involved in adrenal development and could lead to new targets for therapeutic intervention.” Sasaki’s investigations have centered around studied gonadal development, how cells become ovaries or testes, organs that, like the adrenal gland, release hormones. Given this background, the adrenal gland was a natural next focus, especially because it has a shared origin with the gonads. In their recent work, Sasaki and colleagues looked at some of the earliest developmental stages to see how precursor cells and tissues evolve to give rise to the adrenal gland. Scientists have long known that both the gonads and adrenal gland develop from a tissue known as the coelomic epithelium (CE), which is present at an early stage of embryonic development. In mice, for example, this tissue develops into the adrenogonadal primordium, which later divides to form both the adrenal primordium and the gonadal progenitor. The adrenal primodium goes on to become the adrenal gland, and the gonadal progenitor develops into either ovaries or testes. Using immunofluorescence and in situ hybridization analyses, in which markers enable scientists to track cells’ descendants, Sasaki and his team found that primate CE expressed different genes than mouse CE. Whereas mice expressed the WT1, GATA4, and NR5A1 genes within the adrenogonadal primordium, primates did not express GATA4 in a parallel stage of development, a surprise to the researchers. What’s more, while one portion of the primate CE led to the gonadal precursor, the other developed into the adrenal gland precursors, a division that wasn’t present in mice. “It takes place in a way that’s totally different from the mouse,” says Sasaki. “It appears that the portion of the coelomic epithelium that gives rise to the gonads is spatially separated from the part that gives rise to the adrenal gland.” Kotaro Sasaki Single-cell sequencing further revealed different patterns of gene expression between the adrenal and gonadal cell lineages, as well as a clear divergence between humans and mice. Some of these differentially expressed genes, Sasaki notes, are likely important in the process of deriving adrenal or gonadal tissues from CE. Certain genes, Sasaki says, could also be examined in the context of adrenal insufficiency. Currently, people with Addison’s disease are treated with a lifelong steroid replacement therapy, using synthetic hormones to substitute for those that their bodies can’t make on their own. “It’s not a cure and comes with serious side effects,” Sasaki says. In future work, he and colleagues hope to lay the groundwork in the lab to generate the adrenal cortex, employing inducible pluripotent stem cells, cells derived from blood or skin that can be induced to become a variety of different cell types. With such an approach, they could coax the stem cells to follow the normal developmental pathway toward becoming adrenal tissue. While in its early stages, this could enable a cell-based therapy for primary adrenal insufficiency, ideally avoiding some of the drawbacks of hormone replacement therapy. “We’re pursuing in vitro studies to continue mapping out a blueprint that could be applicable to humans,” Sasaki says. Kotaro Sasaki is an assistant professor in the Department of Biomedical Sciences at the University of Pennsylvania School of Veterinary Medicine. Sasaki’s coauthors were Penn Vet’s Keren Cheng, Yasunari Seita, Taku Moriwaki, Yuka Sakata, and Young Sun Hwang; Kiwamu Noshiro, Hidemichi Watari, and Takeshi Umazume of Hokkaido University; Toshihiko Torigoe of Sapporo Medical University; Mitinori Saitou of Kyoto University; Hideaki Tsuchiya and Chizuru Iwatani of Shiga University of Medical Science; Masayoshi Hosaka of the Fukuzumi Obstetrics and Gynecology Hospital; and Toshihiro Ohkouchi of Ohkouchi Obstetrics and Gynecology Hospital. Sasaki was corresponding author and Cheng, Seita, and Moriwaki were co-first authors of the work, which was supported in part by the Japanese Science and Technology Agency (grants JPMJCE1301 and JPMJER1104), Silicon Valley Community Foundation, and Good Ventures Foundation. Credits Katherine Unger Baillie Writer Date May 19, 2022 Subtopics Medicine, Veterinary Medicine, Research Schools School of Veterinary Medicine Share Twitter Facebook Twitter Facebook Read Next Class of 2023 celebrates Hey Day Campus & Community A celebration of the ‘resilient creativity’ of the Class of 2022 Penn’s 266th Commencement showcased graduates who Interim President Wendell Pritchett said demonstrated an “advanced ability to roll with the challenges.” Campus & Community Ben Franklin: A voice from the past that speaks to our time At the 2022 Silfen Forum, Penn Interim President Wendell Pritchett chatted with filmmaker Ken Burns about his new two-part documentary on Benjamin Franklin. Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Inspiring the next generation of archive scholars Through Inside the Archive, a course taught by Liliane Weissberg of the School of Arts & Sciences, Penn students explore what an archive is, how history gets written, and what is ahead in a digital future. Campus & Community Exploration awaits as Penn Abroad ramps up student trips Two years after the pandemic forced Penn Abroad to brings students home, trips are back on and a busier-than-normal abroad schedule is coming in fall 2022. Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement