Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Campus & Community Lighting the way for rare disease Cosmic Writers brings free creative writing education to school-aged children A vigil in response to recent losses to gun violence Q&A with Penn’s Interim President Wendell Pritchett Pritchett, who will serve as the University’s leader until the end of June, discusses his background, his goals, and what he is looking forward to most this semester. Lauren Hertzler ・ February 22, 2022 Improving college access for Philadelphia’s Latinx community A collaboration between Penn and the nonprofit Centro de Cultura Arte Trabajo y Educación aims to enhance a thriving post-secondary success program, create mentoring opportunities, and more. Michele W. Berger ・ February 16, 2022 Penn announces new tuition-free program to recruit, train, and deploy nurse practitioners to underserved communities across the U.S. $125 million gift from Leonard A. Lauder to transform nursing care Ed Federico, Ron Ozio ・ February 14, 2022 After completing drawing ‘marathon,’ Mark Stockton displays 100 portraits in Arts Lounge The Arts Lounge, a collaboration between The Sachs Program for Arts Innovation and Penn Live Arts, will display works by West Philadelphia artist Mark Stockton. Brandon Baker ・ February 14, 2022 A hearty thank you from Penn’s longtime leader Former President Amy Gutmann offered gratitude for and bid farewell to the Penn community who she says has become her family throughout the years. Lauren Hertzler ・ February 11, 2022 Mehek Boparai on ‘Jeopardy’s National College Championship’ Twenty-five thousand people tried out for this year’s “Jeopardy National College Championship,” which began Feb. 8. Of those, 36 were chosen, including Penn senior Mehek Boparai. Kristina García ・ February 10, 2022 Inspiring people, place, and purpose Penn President Amy Gutmann’s record tenure of nearly 18 years is the University’s most transformative. Penn Today Staff ・ February 8, 2022 Penn Lions in the Year of the Tiger The Penn Lions spreads good luck and blessings for Lunar New Year, a reminder of rebirth and new beginnings. Kristina García ・ February 7, 2022 Virtual workshops offer resilience training to Penn community Penn’s Division of Human Resources, in collaboration with the Positive Psychology Center, is hosting virtual workshops as a part of a six-part series presenting core resilience during COVID. Dee Patel ・ February 4, 2022 A message from University of Pennsylvania Board of Trustees Chair Scott L. Bok Bok today announced that former Provost Wendell Pritchett has been selected to serve as Interim President of the University, effective at such time as Amy Gutmann may be confirmed and resign to serve as Ambassador to Germany. Ron Ozio ・ February 4, 2022 Pagination First page « First Previous page ‹‹ … Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Current page 7 Page 8 Page 9 Page 10 Page 11 … Next page ›› Last page Last » In the News Philadelphia Inquirer Finally, the Class of 2020 gets its in-person commencement ceremonies at Penn, Haverford, and Penn State On Sunday, 3,500 members of the University of Pennsylvania’s undergraduate class of 2020 as well as 2021 master’s and doctoral graduates marched onto Franklin Field to whooping cheers from family and friends in the crowd of 12,000. FULL STORY → Foreign Policy The tragedy of Robert McFarlane Perry World House Fellow John Gans writes, “During his two years as then-President Ronald Reagan’s third national security advisor, [Robert] McFarlane aspired to wield power on the level of his most famous predecessor, Henry Kissinger. But McFarlane proved both too ambitious and too ineffective to wield it in accordance with the law, and instead he became embroiled in the Iran-Contra scandal.” FULL STORY → Inside Higher Ed Record applications, record rejections Admissions Dean Whitney Soule comments on students engaged in academic research during their time in high school, many earning national and international accolades for research. FULL STORY → Forbes Princeton, Cornell, University of Pennsylvania withhold Class of 2026 acceptance rates Princeton University, Cornell University and the University of Pennsylvania have also decided to refrain from releasing detailed admissions statistics. The remaining five Ivy League universities—Harvard, Yale, Columbia, Brown and Dartmouth—have made their traditional admissions announcements. FULL STORY → The Wall Street Journal Some Ivy League colleges to play down how selective they are Admissions Dean Whitney Soule said drawing attention to the acceptance rate of Ivy League schools like Penn does more harm than good, distressing applicants and their parents. “We’re focusing not on how hard we are to get into but on who these young people are that we chose,” she said. FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement