Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Education Policy Indicators report shows escalating disparities for students of color and poor students Report from The Pell Institute and PennAHEAD highlights stark differences in debt burden and benefits of higher education among ethnic groups that has significantly widened in recent years. From Penn GSE ・ May 25, 2022 Supporting education in Ghana The Graduate School of Education’s Sharon Wolf is leading a research project on reaching parents in remote and impoverished regions of Ghana with supportive text messages to share information on helping their children, especially girls, succeed in school. Louisa Shepard ・ April 25, 2022 America as it actually was “Teaching Independence: Bridging the Communications Gap,” took an in-depth look at the challenges of teaching the Declaration of Independence, the American Revolution, and the nation’s founding in the current political climate. From Penn GSE ・ April 14, 2022 Absenteeism actively harms everybody—even the students who show up A new brief co-authored by Penn GSE associate professor Michael Gottfried breaks down the issue of absenteeism and introduces a three-tier strategy for administrators, teachers, and parents to employ. From Penn GSE ・ April 7, 2022 Anti-LGBTQ measures Penn Law’s Tobias Wolff discusses the Florida “Don’t Say Gay” bill and a Texas directive on transgender children. Kristen de Groot ・ March 24, 2022 Pandemic shifts: Oliver Kaplan on outing and education policy The pandemic led Oliver Kaplan, a senior in the College of Arts and Sciences, to reconsider his academic path. He changed his major to philosophy and now hopes to shape educational policy for LGBTQ+ students. Kristina García ・ March 3, 2022 Six takeaways from two years of online learning As two full years of this explosion in virtual learning approaches, Penn GSE associate professor and director of the Penn Center for Learning Analytics Ryan Baker shares some thoughts on best practices, and which practices should be avoided. From Penn GSE ・ March 2, 2022 Briana Nichols focuses her work not on migrants, but on the people who stay When Briana Nichols, a joint doctoral candidate in Penn GSE and anthropology, started working within communities of extensive migration, she says the thing they cared about the most was what it took to not migrate. From Penn GSE ・ January 21, 2022 Public schools, COVID-19, and addressing education’s aging infrastructure Urban planners and architects are working to address one of the many challenges faced by public schools by designing healthy and engaging outdoor educational spaces. Erica K. Brockmeier ・ November 23, 2021 Sharon Wolf’s work in Ghana expands to address pandemic-related inequalities The assistant professor at Penn GSE applies research of children, their primary caregiver, and teachers throughout the pandemic about their experiences with remote schooling to a new approach in controlling learning opportunities before gaps in learning form. From Penn GSE ・ November 11, 2021 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Next page ›› Last page Last » Media Contact Louisa Shepard Senior News Officer lshepard@upenn.edu In the News The Washington Post Momentum builds behind a three-year degree to lower college costs Robert Zemsky of the Graduate School of Education is quoted on the worries that speeding up curriculum to graduate from college in three years would “cheapen the degree.” FULL STORY → Philadelphia Inquirer Scores on Pa. standardized tests fell in 2021, but many students didn’t take them Jonathan Supovitz of the Graduate School of Education commented on the drop in Pennsylvania students’ standardized testing scores. Given the pandemic and the challenges of virtual learning, Supovitz said the scores are “not surprising, and it is also entirely consistent with other places in the country.” FULL STORY → WHYY (Philadelphia) Advocates urge action on bill to establish Asian American and Pacific Islander curriculum in N.J. schools Jessica Kim, a doctoral student in the School of Social Policy & Practice, is organizing a demonstration in support of a bill to require New Jersey schools to teach students about the history and contributions of Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders in the U.S. “Education is critical,” she said. FULL STORY → Philadelphia Inquirer Should Penn allow professors to teach all-remote this semester? Suvir Kaul of the School of Arts & Sciences and Jonathan Zimmerman of the Graduate School of Education debate returning to the classroom or remaining online for the fall semester. FULL STORY → Philadelphia Inquirer What won’t the infrastructure plan do? Repair our crumbling schools Nell Williams, a Ph.D. student in the Graduate School of Education, wrote an op-ed in support of the Biden administration’s infrastructure plan, which allocates funds to repair school buildings. “As the infrastructure plan undergoes further negotiation in the House and Senate, I urge policymakers note the gaping hole that was left when most U.S. schools went virtual last year,” she said. FULL STORY → The Hechinger Report Black teachers ground down by racial battle fatigue after a year like no other Richard Ingersoll of the Graduate School of Education and the School of Arts & Sciences spoke about the pandemic’s impact on the teaching workforce and suggested that the economy’s recovery could increase teacher turnover and retirements. FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement