Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Cosmic Writers brings free creative writing education to school-aged children Weitzman team helps protect and interpret Lincoln Memorial Baseball history, American history Senior Eleanor Shemtov is designing a career The design major in the College of Arts and Sciences co-founded a new student publication, t-art, and created a campus community focused on technology, art, and design. Louisa Shepard ・ May 5, 2022 Drivers licensed at 18 crash more than younger drivers with driver training New drivers licensed before age 18 who are subject to mandatory driver education that includes behind-the-wheel training, in addition to Graduated Driver Licensing restrictions, are less likely to crash than drivers licensed at age 18 who are exempt from these requirements. From the Annenberg Public Policy Center ・ May 4, 2022 Moving away from ‘average,’ toward the individual In a course from Annenberg’s David Lydon-Staley, seven graduate students conducted single-participant experiments. This approach, what’s known as an “n of 1,” may better capture the nuances of a diverse population than randomized control trials can. Michele W. Berger , Julie Sloane ・ May 3, 2022 Symposium highlights range and reach of Penn Global research The Penn Global Research and Engagement Grant is supporting 21 faculty-led projects that span research, capacity-building, and development efforts across Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean, India, China, and beyond. Kristen de Groot ・ May 2, 2022 Trailblazing Penn alumna Sadie T.M. Alexander gets posthumous honor The American Economic Association named Alexander, who earned economics and law degrees at Penn a century ago, a 2022 Distinguished Fellow. Kristen de Groot ・ May 2, 2022 ‘The Cold War’s Long Shadow’ As a visiting fellow at the Center for Advanced Studies in India (CASI), Swagato Ganguly gave a talk on “The Cold War’s Long Shadow: Indian Foreign Policy and the Current State of Play of Indo-Pacific Geopolitics.” Kristina García ・ May 2, 2022 Rounding the bases and finding home at the Kelly Writers House Former Major League Baseball centerfielder Doug Glanville spoke with students about his life and career in the seminar created and taught by English Professor Al Filreis and during a public reading and conversation. Louisa Shepard ・ April 29, 2022 Six from Penn elected to American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2022 Faculty from the Perelman School of Medicine, School of Arts & Sciences, Graduate School of Education, and Law School join more 260 honorees recognized for contributions to academia, the arts, industry, public policy, and research. Michele W. Berger ・ April 28, 2022 Philip Gressman thinks mathematics can make for fairer elections The professor of mathematics wants to make elections fairer through the application of computational mathematics to redistricting maps. From OMNIA ・ April 28, 2022 Course shows students how Washington really works Penn and George Mason University students traveled to Washington, D.C. every Friday this spring for a class that gives the inside scoop on policymaking inside the Beltway. Kristen de Groot ・ April 26, 2022 Pagination First page « First Previous page ‹‹ Page 1 Page 2 Current page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Next page ›› Last page Last » In the News The New York Times Brittney Griner’s supporters have a new strategy to free her: Make noise Ph.D. candidate& Kimberly St. Julian-Varnon of the School of Arts & Sciences is quoted on the need to put pressure on Russia to release a detained W.N.B.A. player. FULL STORY → Forbes.com Resilience should not be a solitary pursuit Angela Duckworth of the School of Arts & Sciences contends that success is about far more than innate ability and it needs long-term adherence and an acceptance that setbacks can be overcome with hard work. FULL STORY → USA Today There’s a name for the feeling that nothing you do matters Martin Seligman of the School of Arts & Sciences says that learned helplessness is a mental state that occurs when people find out that nothing they do matters. FULL STORY → The Hill The kids are not all right—copycat cannabis edibles risk their safety Andy Tan of the Annenberg School for Communication co-writes an article about how copycat cannabis edibles, which have colorful packages that mimic popular snacks and candy, have come under scrutiny. FULL STORY → Billy Penn No pressure: PA’s Josh Shapiro is being painted as the potential savior of democracy Daniel Hopkins of the School of Arts & Sciences says that the Pennsylvania governor’s race is not politics as usual. FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement