Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Olive, the tiny little fighter Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Health Sciences Olive, the tiny little fighter When Olive, the four-month-old Shih Tzu mix, became critically ill with respiratory distress, clinicians at Penn Vet’s Ryan Hospital spent a week collaborating on intensive treatment. In 2021, the Martino family welcomed a new puppy named Olive. But despair soon followed when the four-month-old Shih Tzu mix became critically ill. On an otherwise normal Thursday afternoon, the family heard Olive crying from her hiding place under the sofa. She was breathing rapidly and had coughed up small droplets of blood. Olive, the brave Shi Tzu. (Image: Penn Vet News) Their primary care veterinarian ruled out toxicity and parvovirus, but chest X-rays showed fluid in Olive’s lungs—the clinical diagnosis is non-cardiogenic pulmonary edema—and air leaking from her lungs in her chest cavity. Called a pneumothorax, air surrounding one or both lungs can be a life-threatening condition that keeps the lungs from expanding and an animal from getting enough oxygen. The veterinarian referred Olive to Penn Vet’s Ryan Hospital, where she would be one of 9,000 small animals to come through the hospital’s Emergency Services last year and one of 1,200 cases to receive intensive care. Selimah Harmon, an emergency and critical care resident, was primary clinician on Olive’s case, working with supervising clinician Deborah Silverstein, professor of emergency and clinical care. Olive arrived at Emergency Services (ES) just in time. Those first hours were critical. “Olive was in severe respiratory distress by the time she got to ES,” says Silverstein. “The team was limited in what they could do diagnostically because she needed oxygen and was placed in an oxygen cage. She remained on oxygen overnight and was transferred to the ICU in the morning. Her breathing remained labored even with extra oxygen. When I met her in the morning, I knew her prognosis was grave unless we placed her on a ventilator. But the pneumothorax complicated her case. The pressurized air entering her lungs from the ventilator could cause further air leakage into her chest.” Over two days, Olive’s care team made regular adjustments to her medications and ventilator settings. “She spiked a fever at one point, and we worried about an infection so we started her on IV antibiotics,” says Harmon. “By the third day, Sunday, she was showing improvement. Her fever resolved and lung functions were closer to normal. We took her off the ventilator and placed her back in the oxygen cage. By Tuesday, now the fifth day of her stay, she no longer needed oxygen support. The next day, on Wednesday, nearly a week after arriving at Penn Vet, Olive went home. She came in for a follow-up a week later, and we were thrilled with her progress.” Olive’s care team sites the collaborative environment at Ryan Hospital for Olive’s progress. “It takes a lot of collaborative effort to get an animal like this stabilized for thorough diagnostics and appropriate treatment,” says Silverstein. “The entire process is a well-oiled machine of fine tuning and close monitoring. Young animal patients can be so resilient; they’re little fighters. If I have one motto for pediatrics, it’s don't ever give up on a puppy or a kitten. They can have such amazing recoveries from what appears to be severe, life-threatening disease. These tiny animals will fight to survive if we can help them.” Read more at Penn Vet News. Credits Sacha Adorno Writer Date May 26, 2022 Subtopics Veterinary Medicine Schools School of Veterinary Medicine Share Twitter Facebook Twitter Facebook Read Next Class of 2023 celebrates Hey Day Campus & Community A celebration of the ‘resilient creativity’ of the Class of 2022 Penn’s 266th Commencement showcased graduates who Interim President Wendell Pritchett said demonstrated an “advanced ability to roll with the challenges.” Campus & Community Ben Franklin: A voice from the past that speaks to our time At the 2022 Silfen Forum, Penn Interim President Wendell Pritchett chatted with filmmaker Ken Burns about his new two-part documentary on Benjamin Franklin. Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Inspiring the next generation of archive scholars Through Inside the Archive, a course taught by Liliane Weissberg of the School of Arts & Sciences, Penn students explore what an archive is, how history gets written, and what is ahead in a digital future. Campus & Community Exploration awaits as Penn Abroad ramps up student trips Two years after the pandemic forced Penn Abroad to brings students home, trips are back on and a busier-than-normal abroad schedule is coming in fall 2022. Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement