Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Louisa Shepard Senior News Officer Louisa Shepard covers several subject areas in the School of Arts and Sciences including History of Art, Music, and English, which includes Cinema and Media Studies, Center for Creative Writing, and Kelly Writers House. She also supports coverage at the Graduate School of Education, PennDesign, the Libraries, the Penn Museum, the Arthur Ross Gallery, the Institute for Contemporary Art and the Center for Undergraduate Research and Fellowships. lshepard@upenn.edu 215-573-8151 Cosmic Writers brings free creative writing education to school-aged children May graduates Rowana Miller and Manoj Simha lead Cosmic Writers, a project supported by President’s Engagement Prize that provides free creative writing instruction to K-12 students virtually throughout the world. Louisa Shepard ・ May 31, 2022 ‘Oft-delayed but never deterred,’ Class of 2020 and 2021 grads celebrate Embodying adaptability and persistence, themes of the speech by Angela Duckworth, alums from the classes of 2020 and 2021 returned to campus to make up for a missed milestone. Katherine Unger Baillie, Brandon Baker, Michele W. Berger, Lauren Hertzler, Louisa Shepard ・ May 22, 2022 Penn junior Ha-Nam Yoon named a Udall Scholar Ha-Nam Yoon, a junior in the College of Arts and Sciences, has been named a 2022 Udall Scholar by the Udall Foundation, recognized for leadership, public service, and a commitment to issues related to the environment. Louisa Shepard ・ May 13, 2022 27 students and recent graduates awarded 2022 Fulbright grants Twenty-seven Penn students and alumni have been awarded Fulbright grants for the 2022-23 academic year, including 18 seniors who will be graduating May 16. Louisa Shepard ・ May 13, 2022 Design on display For the first time since design became a major two years ago in the College of Arts and Sciences, 15 seniors created an in-person exhibition to showcase their final projects, interpreting the theme “in search of” in a variety of media. Louisa Shepard ・ May 9, 2022 Senior Eleanor Shemtov is designing a career The design major in the College of Arts and Sciences co-founded a new student publication, t-art, and created a campus community focused on technology, art, and design. Louisa Shepard ・ May 5, 2022 Rounding the bases and finding home at the Kelly Writers House Former Major League Baseball centerfielder Doug Glanville spoke with students about his life and career in the seminar created and taught by English Professor Al Filreis and during a public reading and conversation. Louisa Shepard ・ April 29, 2022 Supporting education in Ghana The Graduate School of Education’s Sharon Wolf is leading a research project on reaching parents in remote and impoverished regions of Ghana with supportive text messages to share information on helping their children, especially girls, succeed in school. Louisa Shepard ・ April 25, 2022 ‘Groundbreaking future for groundbreaking educators’ A groundbreaking ceremony kicked off a $35.6 million Graduate School of Education expansion project that includes the renovation of two 1965 buildings. The new spaces are expected to open in August 2023. Louisa Shepard , Kat Stein ・ April 21, 2022 Ukraine’s ambassador to the United Nations speaks at Perry World House The fight against Russian aggression in Ukraine is also a fight to protect Europe and democracy globally, said Sergiy Kyslytsya, Ukraine’s representative to the UN, speaking with Philadelphia Inquirer columnist Trudy Rubin at Perry World House. Louisa Shepard ・ April 15, 2022 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Next page Next › Last page Last » Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement