Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Celebrating the newest President’s Engagement, Innovation, and Sustainability Prize winners Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Campus & Community Celebrating the newest President’s Engagement, Innovation, and Sustainability Prize winners Interim President Wendell Pritchett noted at the luncheon how this year’s recipients represent the biggest cohort yet—a testament to the ‘incredible strength of our applicant pool.’ The 2022 cohort of PEP, PIP, and PSP winners smile for a photo with Interim President Wendell Pritchett and Interim Provost Beth Winkelstein. Last week, on a sunny spring day, the 2022 President’s Engagement, Innovation, and Sustainability Prize winners were recognized at a special luncheon, a momentous occasion that hasn’t taken place in-person since 2019. The 12 Prize recipients and their advisers, as well as past Prize winners and Penn leadership, joined together at the University Meeting and Guest House for a meal, good conversation, and celebration. To the group, as well as family members tuning in through Zoom, Interim President Wendell Pritchett described this year’s winners as exemplifying creativity and leadership. “They epitomize why these prizes are central to the vision we share for Penn,” he said, before distributing handcrafted certificates to each of the six teams. Eli Moraru, who earned one of the inaugural President’s Sustainability Prizes for his nonprofit The Community Grocer, said the event was uplifting for two main reasons: The first being that he got to network with his fellow PEP/PIP/PSP cohort, and the second being his connection with past Prize winners. Rowana Miller and Manoj Simha, who earned a President’s Engagement Prize for their nonprofit Cosmic Writers, enjoy the event alongside their mentor Al Filreis, the Kelly Family Professor of English in the School of Arts and Sciences. “It’s a real community,” Moraru said, sharing, as an example, how Christina Miranda from Be Body Positive Philly—a winner in the 2021 cohort—approached him expressing her interest in serving as a resource to his team in any way possible. “It’s just one more reason showcasing how we aren’t alone in this,” Moraru said. Chosen from an applicant pool of 71 people, the two other President’s Sustainability Prize-winning teams include Saif Khawaja for Shinkei Systems and Sarah Beth Gleeson, Shoshana Weintraub, and Julia Yan for EcoSPIN. Earning a President’s Innovation Prize, which was founded in 2016, is William Kohler Danon and Lukas Achilles Yancopoulos for Grapevine. In 2015, the very first President’s Engagement Prizes were announced. This year, Penn awarded this honor to two teams: Seungkwon Son, Max Strickberger, and Sam Strickberger for College Green Ventures and Manoj Simha and Rowana Miller from Cosmic Writers. Each team receives $100,000 to help get their projects off the ground, plus a $50,000 living stipend post-graduation per person. (In the coming weeks, stay tuned as Penn Today will unveil in-depth stories on each team and their unique missions.) This year’s Prize-winning plans emerged as the strongest and most promising, which is really saying something because the competition is so fierce, the caliber of ideas so high. Interim President Wendell Pritchett Twitter Facebook “This year’s Prize-winning plans emerged as the strongest and most promising, which is really saying something because the competition is so fierce, the caliber of ideas so high,” said Pritchett, who also added how the 2022 Prize cohort is the biggest thus far—a testament to “the incredible strength of our applicant pool.” Talking after the lunch, Miller of Cosmic Writers detailed the moment she got the call from Pritchett, telling her about the Prize. “He asked me how I was doing on that lovely day, then he told me he was about to make my day a whole lot better,” she said, with a laugh. “It was really sweet.” Pritchett, using the luncheon to get to know all the Prize winners even better, speaks with Max Strickberger of College Green Ventures. Winning a President’s Engagement Prize is just another key to Cosmic Writers’ growing success. The initiative, which provides high-quality, accessible creative writing education to kids, and officially launched as a nonprofit in January, already received a Sachs Program for Arts Innovation grant. “It has been so good to have support from multiple entities within the University,” Miller said, talking on behalf of herself as well as her project partner Simha. Moraru, talking after the event, too, said he has largely felt boosted by Penn for his initiative The Community Grocer, which is reimagining nutritional assistance and reinventing the corner store. “At Penn, we have all the resources, the education, and the support to make the changes we want to see in the world,” Moraru said. “We come to Penn not to do the safe thing but to change how we see the world. These President’s Prizes encourage students to take those risks and do something big.” Moraru’s parents, Eldad and Jodi Moraru, who both attended the luncheon virtually, said “proud is an understatement” when describing how they feel about their son. RELATED Class of 2022 President’s Engagement, Innovation, and Sustainability Prize winners announced Seeking justice, support for incarcerated Pennsylvanians Changing lives in refugee communities through access to clean water Body Empowerment Project is a health-centered approach to self-care Improving access to at-home health care From wearable light to tech startup “It’s been a long journey, and it will continue to be a long journey, but Eli is committed,” Jodi Moraru said. “To see that people are recognizing his efforts is a huge reward.” Most of all, Eldad Moraru said he is delighted to see his son “following his heart.” “Eli has become so entrenched in the community he is serving,” Eldad Moraru said. “This is very personal for him. He is really going down a path that is true to himself.” Noting how he would have pursued The Community Grocer even without the President’s Sustainability Prize, Eli Moraru said he knows it will help catapult him and his team to the next level. “Without the award, I would be doing TCG regardless,” he said, “but now we have legitimacy and the push to make it a reality. That is really exciting.” Homepage image: Pritchett addresses this year’s Prize winners in-person, as well as their family members who tuned in via Zoom. Credits Lauren Hertzler Writer Eddy Marenco Photographer Date May 5, 2022 Subtopics President's Engagement Prizes, President's Innovation Prize, President’s Sustainability Prize Share Twitter Facebook Twitter Facebook Read Next Class of 2023 celebrates Hey Day Campus & Community A celebration of the ‘resilient creativity’ of the Class of 2022 Penn’s 266th Commencement showcased graduates who Interim President Wendell Pritchett said demonstrated an “advanced ability to roll with the challenges.” Campus & Community Ben Franklin: A voice from the past that speaks to our time At the 2022 Silfen Forum, Penn Interim President Wendell Pritchett chatted with filmmaker Ken Burns about his new two-part documentary on Benjamin Franklin. Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Inspiring the next generation of archive scholars Through Inside the Archive, a course taught by Liliane Weissberg of the School of Arts & Sciences, Penn students explore what an archive is, how history gets written, and what is ahead in a digital future. Campus & Community Exploration awaits as Penn Abroad ramps up student trips Two years after the pandemic forced Penn Abroad to brings students home, trips are back on and a busier-than-normal abroad schedule is coming in fall 2022. Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement