Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Education, Business, & Law What I’ve learned: Wharton’s Anita Summers Indicators report shows escalating disparities for students of color and poor students Streamlining the health care supply chain Engaging Minds event continues ‘pushing knowledge to new frontiers’ Penn’s annual Engaging Minds event featured three faculty experts whose innovative research is changing the way we think and talk about policing, immigration, and suicides. Lauren Hertzler ・ December 14, 2021 Drivers in the gig economy Lindsey Cameron, assistant professor of management at Wharton School, discusses key findings from her research on how drivers in the gig economy create ‘workplace games’ to find control and meaning in their work. From Wharton Stories ・ December 13, 2021 Should employers rethink what they’re offering workers? Wharton’s Peter Cappelli talks about what we’re getting wrong about the Great Resignation and how the pandemic has rewired worker preferences. From Knowledge at Wharton ・ December 10, 2021 How a perfect storm of factors led to ‘the mother of all supply chain disruptions’ Penn experts reflect on the global supply chain snags that have stressed systems during the fall and holiday season. Brandon Baker ・ December 9, 2021 How to drive energy efficiency in low-income countries Credit market failures could slow energy efficiency adoption in low-income countries, according to a new Wharton research paper. From Knowledge at Wharton ・ December 7, 2021 Penn senior and two alumni named Schwarzman Scholars Daniel Ruiz de la Concha is a senior in the College of Arts and Sciences; Shuxi (Shirley) Liu and Heather Tang graduated in 2019 from the Wharton School. They are each awarded a one-year master’s degree in global affairs at Tsinghua University in Beijing Louisa Shepard ・ December 6, 2021 Spike in child marriages may be ‘the most disturbing fallout of the Taliban takeover’ Rangita De Silva de Alwis explains why there has been an increase in marriages of underage girls in Afghanistan and what could be done to improve girls’ lives. From Penn Law ・ December 3, 2021 Therapy dogs help students relax and relieve stress The Wharton School’s Undergraduate Division invited students to take a break from studying and enjoy therapy dogs on campus. Dee Patel ・ December 2, 2021 Why do we hold on to things we never use? Wharton’s Jonah Berger talks about his research on how nonconsumption can turn ordinary products into perceived ‘treasures.’ From Knowledge at Wharton ・ December 2, 2021 Anita Allen on Facebook, facial recognition, and privacy The expert on privacy and data protection law explains why Facebook’s decision to shut down its facial-recognition system is good for privacy rights. From Penn Law ・ November 30, 2021 Pagination First page « First Previous page ‹‹ … Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Current page 8 Page 9 Page 10 Page 11 Page 12 … Next page ›› Last page Last » In the News Axios Coping tips for parents and teachers after the Uvalde school shooting Howard Stevenson of the Graduate School of Education provides tips on coping in the aftermath of the shootings in Uvalde, Texas. FULL STORY → Politico.com How Elon Musk’s Twitter takeover may help change stock market rules Jill Fisch of the Law School comments on allegations that Elon Musk ripped off Twitter shareholders to the tune of $143 million. FULL STORY → Politico.com Inside America’s biased flood program Carolyn Kouskyof the Wharton School comments on FEMA’s mitigation efforts against flooding and the disparities in its grantmaking process. FULL STORY → “Midday,” WYPR Radio (Baltimore) Dorothy Roberts’ “Torn Apart” calls out racial disparities in foster care PIK Professor Dorothy Roberts discusses her new book that argues that the nation’s foster care system deprives Black parents of fundamental rights and leads to traumatic consequences for Black children. FULL STORY → TheHill.com Mass shootings highlight our failure in mental health Stephen N. Xenakis of the Law School writes that effective mental health services in our communities are woefully lacking yet is fundamental to our safety, security, and productivity. FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement