Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo An interfaith commemoration of MLK Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Campus & Community An interfaith commemoration of MLK The annual event on March 23 was part of the Penn MLK Commemorative Symposium on Social Change. (Left to right): Donna Frisby-Greenwood, Matthew Goldshore, Yoonhee Patricia Ha, Luke Coleman, Ala Stanford, Kent D.W. Bream, Maureen Rush, and Glenn D. Bryan. The annual Interfaith Commemoration of the Life of the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., held on Wednesday, March 23 in Houston Hall, has been a mainstay on Penn’s campus since the 1990s. The moving and meaningful event is part of the Penn MLK Commemorative Symposium on Social Change. For years, the event has been held in January in tandem with MLK day, and follows a day of service in the community. Like so many events, the omicron surge of the COVID-19 virus in late winter postponed the event, and this year, the ceremony preceded the service day. This year’s event was sponsored by the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Symposium Committee, the Office of the Chaplain, the Office of the President, and the Urban Studies Program, with keynote speaker Liz Theoharis. A reverend and Penn alumna, Theoharis is co-chair of The Poor People’s Campaign and director of the Kairos Center for Religion, Rights, & Social Justice at Union Theological Seminary. The annual event, hosted by The President’s Office, The Office of the Chaplain, and the Urban Studies Program, was postponed in January due to COVID limitations. The Community Involvement Awards followed an opening performance by Indian dance team Penn Raas, welcome greetings by undergraduates Lynn Larabi and Benjamin Moss-Horwitz, and remarks by Penn’s Interim President Wendell Pritchett. Each year, the program awards members of the Penn community who embody and enact the vision, courage, and service of Martin Luther King Jr., and each speaker reflects on how the words and actions of King are especially prescient to themselves and the current state of the world. The power of empathy and connection were invoked repeatedly, as speakers reflected on the challenges to connect and feel compassion amidst war, poverty, a pandemic, and a climate crisis. Citing the lack of connectivity during the pandemic alongside the artificial connection that Zoom meetings and social media forces on us, sophomore Larabi said, “empathy allows us to become a link in the great chain of humanity. Only if we extend grace and kindness can we elevate our connection through intentionality. Use our digital tools to connect and also put them away to manifest love and connection.” Liz Theoharis is co-chair of The Poor People’s Campaign, the director of the Kairos Center for Religion, Rights, & Social Justice at Union Theological Seminary, and a Penn graduate. Pritchett reflected that when King received his Nobel Peace Prize in 1964, the country was at war in Vietnam and mired in unrest; it was the year the Civil Rights Act was signed into law. In 2022, there are wars happening throughout the world—Afghanistan, Myanmar, Syria, and Ukraine, to name a few. Invoking King’s words, Pritchett said, “returning hate for hate only multiplies hate. There have been white supremacist marches, an insurrection, ongoing poverty, and racism. We are here today in opposition of that darkness. This is the greatest challenge of our time. A challenge as old as humankind itself.” The awards ceremony honored members of the Penn community who actively work for peace and the greater good, for justice, love, and peace in the model of King. Introducing the 26th annual award recipients, sophomore Emma Koskovich invoked King’s embrace of radical love, calling it “revolutionary.” Senior Aisha Khalique, president of Penn’s Muslim Student Association, said, “faith groups in particular need to reconnect and embrace each other’s struggles, and clear our own hearts of hate and division. Speak truth to power and privilege in service of humanity.” The Penn Shabbatones perform “Umacha.” Before University Chaplain Chaz Howard introduced the keynote speaker, the Jewish a cappella group Shabbatones sang a hymn called “Umacha.” Visibly moved, Howard quipped, “you get me every time,” following the performance. Howard reflected on the timing of the event, having had to postpone the original January date until March, so that Penn can celebrate a champion of peace “while a war is happening on the other side of the planet.” “These are extraordinary times,” he continued. “And extraordinary times call for extraordinary leaders.” Keynote speaker Theoharis followed, and spoke to the heart of her life’s work and mission: “The only way we are going to solve basic problems like poverty and inequality is by restructuring society. If we look at what’s going on in these yet-to-be-United States, 43% of our population are one storm, one emergency, one health care crisis away from economic ruin.” Theoharis addressed the accumulation of wealth in a few hands, and contrasted it with the fact that during the pandemic, 8 million more people fell under the poverty line in the U.S. Community service is not enough, she continued. King represented a real incendiary reality of his time, and the struggle for justice is not over. “Fifty-three years ago, he spoke to a lifetime of building a beloved community. An edifice that produces beggars needs restructuring. In this celebration of Dr. King’s life, keep asking his questions, and keep doing his work. We need moral analysis, moral articulation, and moral action.” Theoharis called for voting rights, economic justice, and living wages, and implored moral movements to come up with solutions. She also cited the staggering cost that poverty has on the country. “Poverty costs the country more. It’s cheaper to adjust economic inequality. Remedying the problem of poverty and inequality far outweighs paying for them. The only scarcity this country has is the political will and moral consciousness to change.” She concluded by inviting the audience to “have faith that we can take action together and have the courage to follow through on Dr. King’s mission.” The program closed with remarks by Valerie Dorsey Allen, the director of the African-American Resource Center, and a performance by Penn’s Christian a cappella group, Full Measure. Credits Tina Rodia Writer Tina Rodia Photographer Date March 28, 2022 Subtopics Outreach, President, Racial Justice, Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Share Twitter Facebook Twitter Facebook Read Next Class of 2023 celebrates Hey Day Campus & Community A celebration of the ‘resilient creativity’ of the Class of 2022 Penn’s 266th Commencement showcased graduates who Interim President Wendell Pritchett said demonstrated an “advanced ability to roll with the challenges.” Campus & Community Ben Franklin: A voice from the past that speaks to our time At the 2022 Silfen Forum, Penn Interim President Wendell Pritchett chatted with filmmaker Ken Burns about his new two-part documentary on Benjamin Franklin. Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Inspiring the next generation of archive scholars Through Inside the Archive, a course taught by Liliane Weissberg of the School of Arts & Sciences, Penn students explore what an archive is, how history gets written, and what is ahead in a digital future. Campus & Community Exploration awaits as Penn Abroad ramps up student trips Two years after the pandemic forced Penn Abroad to brings students home, trips are back on and a busier-than-normal abroad schedule is coming in fall 2022. Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement