Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo People and Places at Penn: Winter solace Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Campus & Community People and Places at Penn: Winter solace From the Class of 1923 Ice Skating Rink to La Casa Latina, four students speak to what motivates them through the season. (Homepage image) From the Class of 1923 Ice Skating Rink to La Casa Latina, four Penn students speak to what motivates them through the season. Clockwise from top left: Abdul-Rakeem Yakubu, a junior majoring in math and biology; Gloria Lee, a junior in the Vagelos Integrated Program in Energy Research; Ángel Gutiérrez, a sophomore majoring in philosophy and anthropology; and Emma Ronzetti, a graduate student in the Master of Behavioral and Decision Science Program. Ángel Gutiérrez has three homes: Texas, Mexico, and Philadelphia, they say. “To me, home is a place where I feel both belonging and care.” For the latest installment of People and Places at Penn, Penn Today spoke with Gutiérrez and three other students about where they feel at home, what motivates them, where they seek solace, and how they unwind during the colder months on campus. From the Class of 1923 Ice Skating Rink, where figure skater Gloria Lee likes to practice, to Makuu: the Black Cultural Center, where math TA Abdul-Rakeem Yakubu holds office hours, to the behavioral sciences section of Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center, where Emma Ronzetti escapes to, these students picks offer a sense of calm, or in some cases, inspiration. Ángel Gutiérrez As an anthropology major, Ángel Gutiérrez is often found in the Penn Museum Library or La Casa Latina, where they like to unwind, eat lunch, and talk. Ángel Gutiérrez is from Pittsburg, the one in rural east Texas. Gutiérrez’s parents immigrated from Michoacán, Mexico, and the sophomore is exploring their relationship to the environment, an interest furthered by their studies in anthropology and philosophy. “What are my obligations to the lands? Who am I in kin with, and how can I be in better relations with the many beings around me?” they ask. At Penn, La Casa Latina has become a home away from home. “I mean, everyone says that, but it’s true,” Gutiérrez says. It’s a place where they can unwind and talk with director Krista Cortez, who “provides sincerity and a fresh breath of air,” Gutiérrez says. As an anthropology major, Gutiérrez is often found in the Penn Museum Library, which they discovered last semester. “I appreciate a quiet space on campus to decompress before or after class,” they say. This summer, Gutiérrez plans to conduct a research and film project in their parents’ home village. Michoacán leads Mexico’s avocado export industry, creating a sharp contrast between industrial companies, rural farming traditions, and Indigenous land practices, Gutiérrez says. They are hoping to archive stories, songs and traditions “to create an archive of brown joy” of their family’s history and resistance to colonial violence. Gloria Lee With its cozy, orange banquettes, the Law Library is one of Gloria Lee’s favorite places to study. When she’s not busy with academics, the junior likes to frequent the Class of 1923 Ice Skating Rink, where she is a member of Penn’s figure skating club. Originally from Highlands Ranch, Colorado, Gloria Lee discovered the Biddle Law Library early on, while walking around with friends. “We were freshman and wanted to explore the campus,” she explains. “I found all these booths downstairs and it looked like a good place to do work.” Plus, she adds, not many people seem to know about it, so there is “always a booth open,” she says. “I could spread out as much as I needed.” Gloria Lee, a junior in Penn’s Vagelos Integrated Program in Energy Research and a member of Penn’s Figure Skating Club, at the Class of 1923 Ice Skating Rink. (Image: Eric Sucar) Lee is now a junior in Penn’s Vagelos Integrated Program in Energy Research, which combines her interest in research along with a focus on sustainability and environmental activism. When not studying, Lee can be found at the Class of 1923 Ice Skating Rink, where she is a member of the Figure Skating Club. Lee has been figure skating since age 8, and says the tight-knit community has sustained her interest. “It’s really fun to practice with your friends,” she says. “I taught a couple of friends how to skate and we do lessons as part of the club. “What I like about figure skating is that it’s a very athletic thing, but it also requires a lot of showmanship, making sure you have the right balance and are able to do your jumps,” Lee says. Abdul-Rakeem Yakubu Abdul-Rakeem Yakubu has been working as a math TA since sophomore year, dividing his time between the David Rittenhouse Laboratory and Makuu: The Black Cultural Center, where he hosts office hours. “People regard you as this big math guy even though it’s not that,” Yakubu says. “It’s fun, helping the teachers, helping the students.” One of Abdul-Rakeem Yakubu’s favorite spots is the David Rittenhouse Laboratory, home to the mathematics and physics and astronomy departments. “It’s a cool innovative building to walk through,” Yakubu says. “There’s a math library not a lot of people know about and a math lounge” with coffee and tea. The original red brick structure has “old elementary school vibes” that remind Yakubu of the movie “Good Will Hunting.” “It motivates me a lot, seeing the math work on the wall,” he says. Currently a junior, Yakubu has been a math TA since his sophomore year, hosting office hours at Makuu: The Black Cultural Center, his “No. 1 favorite spot.” He likes helping out the professors and students, and Makuu has become a place to relax and see familiar faces, Yakubu says. Growing up in Mooresville, North Carolina, Yakubu originally wanted to be a race car driver. Now majoring in math and biology, he’s on a pre-dental track. Dentistry is “a huge field with lots of impact,” Yakubu says. On the big scale, dentistry is involved in initiatives like the COVID-19 saliva test, he says. “On a small scale, just making people smile.” Emma Ronzetti Emma Ronzetti, who has worn hearing aids since middle school, wants to study the behavioral economics of people with disabilities. Van Pelt Library inspires her; to relax, she frequents a bench outside of Fisher Fine Arts Library. Emma Ronzetti has always been fascinated by what makes people tick. Ronzetti, who has worn hearing aids since middle school, wants to study the behavioral economics of people with disabilities. Currently a student in the Master of Behavioral and Decision Science Program, Ronzetti graduated in December 2021 with a bachelor’s degree in economics and minors in statistics and American Sign Language (ASL). A person with a disability often follows one of two tracks, she says—either hiding or embracing the disability, making it part of their cultural identity. Those who embrace their identity are often faced with the uncomfortable issue of workplace disclosure or societal bias, which Ronzetti says will take decades to counteract. “How do we positively change how society perceives disability?” she asks. That’s the question she wants to address with her behavioral science research. For motivation, she turns to the fourth floor of Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center, specifically section HB74.b8, the behavioral sciences section. “It really helps me with inspiration and getting on track with what really motivates me and gets me up in the morning,” Ronzetti says. It was in this section that Ronzetti realized she wanted to study behavioral economics. “It’s a very personally significant place for me,” she says. As Ronzetti closes out her last semester at Penn, she’s reflecting on “what really impacted me here, especially in the winter months,” she says. One of those spots is a bench right outside the Fisher Fine Arts Library, which she found in her sophomore year. Ronzetti and her best friend would meet up on the bench for coffee after enduring an early morning math class, where “we were both kind of dying,” Ronzetti says. After graduating this spring, Ronzetti hopes to gain experience in research before hopefully moving the needle on centuries of bias towards differently abled people. Deaf people are far more visually oriented than the average person, she says. Why not focus on the advantages rather than thinking, “what can they not do?” she asks. RELATED People and Places at Penn People and Places at Penn: Homecoming The stories trees tell Nature as a refuge in unsettling times Credits Kristina García Writer Eric Sucar Photographer Date March 2, 2022 Subtopics Undergraduate Students, Wellness, Libraries Share Twitter Facebook Twitter Facebook Read Next Class of 2023 celebrates Hey Day Campus & Community A celebration of the ‘resilient creativity’ of the Class of 2022 Penn’s 266th Commencement showcased graduates who Interim President Wendell Pritchett said demonstrated an “advanced ability to roll with the challenges.” Campus & Community Ben Franklin: A voice from the past that speaks to our time At the 2022 Silfen Forum, Penn Interim President Wendell Pritchett chatted with filmmaker Ken Burns about his new two-part documentary on Benjamin Franklin. Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Inspiring the next generation of archive scholars Through Inside the Archive, a course taught by Liliane Weissberg of the School of Arts & Sciences, Penn students explore what an archive is, how history gets written, and what is ahead in a digital future. Campus & Community Exploration awaits as Penn Abroad ramps up student trips Two years after the pandemic forced Penn Abroad to brings students home, trips are back on and a busier-than-normal abroad schedule is coming in fall 2022. Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement