Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Political Science Undergraduate research projects look at migration from multiple angles The Wolf Undergraduate Humanities forum takes on the topic of migration, with individual research projects ranging from slavery debates within the Jewish Orthodox community to Southeast Asian refugee youth. Kristina García ・ May 26, 2022 NROTC graduates transition from students to leaders For three May graduates, Commencement also marks the transition from personal development to military leadership. Kristina García ・ May 18, 2022 ‘Abortion and Women’s Rights 1970’: A film that’s newly timely Five decades ago, ahead of the landmark ruling Roe v. Wade, political scientist Mary Summers worked on a documentary film. That film is gaining new viewers through a recently launched website. Kristen de Groot ・ May 16, 2022 Penn junior Ha-Nam Yoon named a Udall Scholar Ha-Nam Yoon, a junior in the College of Arts and Sciences, has been named a 2022 Udall Scholar by the Udall Foundation, recognized for leadership, public service, and a commitment to issues related to the environment. Louisa Shepard ・ May 13, 2022 How Lucas Monroe defines leadership Lucas Monroe, a political science major from Abington, Pennsylvania, combines athletics and introspection to take on a leadership role in social justice work on campus and beyond. Kristina García ・ May 3, 2022 ‘The Cold War’s Long Shadow’ As a visiting fellow at the Center for Advanced Studies in India (CASI), Swagato Ganguly gave a talk on “The Cold War’s Long Shadow: Indian Foreign Policy and the Current State of Play of Indo-Pacific Geopolitics.” Kristina García ・ May 2, 2022 Symposium highlights range and reach of Penn Global research The Penn Global Research and Engagement Grant is supporting 21 faculty-led projects that span research, capacity-building, and development efforts across Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean, India, China, and beyond. Kristen de Groot ・ May 2, 2022 Philip Gressman thinks mathematics can make for fairer elections The professor of mathematics wants to make elections fairer through the application of computational mathematics to redistricting maps. From OMNIA ・ April 28, 2022 Course shows students how Washington really works Penn and George Mason University students traveled to Washington, D.C. every Friday this spring for a class that gives the inside scoop on policymaking inside the Beltway. Kristen de Groot ・ April 26, 2022 Turning Latin America green Santiago Cunial, a doctoral candidate in political science, investigates issues surrounding green energy in Chile and Argentina. April 15, 2022 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Next page ›› Last page Last » Media Contact Kristen de Groot News Officer krisde@upenn.edu Experts Presidential Election in Mexico Tulia Falleti Director of Latin American and Latino Studies Program Professor of Political Science University of Pennsylvania Tulia Falleti, a nationally recognized researcher in comparative politics, can discuss the July 1 Mexican presidential election in the context of current regional Latin American politics. Her areas of expertise include Latin American politics, democratization, authoritarianism, federalism, decentralization, community participation, historical institutionalism, and qualitative research methods. She’s the author of “Decentralization and Subnational Politics in Latin America,” and “A Sequential Theory of Decentralization: Latin American Cases in Comparative Perspective.” She is fluent in Spanish. Read more In the News Billy Penn No pressure: PA’s Josh Shapiro is being painted as the potential savior of democracy Daniel Hopkins of the School of Arts & Sciences says that the Pennsylvania governor’s race is not politics as usual. FULL STORY → MSNBC Why Trump’s guy winning the primary for Pennsylvania governor should worry the GOP Brian Rosenwald of the School of Arts & Sciences points out that, for Republicans to win statewide in Pennsylvania, everything needs to break their way. FULL STORY → Diverse Education Will primary races in Pennsylvania forecast the political agenda for the fall? Marc Meredith of the School of Arts & Sciences says that, for education in Pennsylvania the more consequential primary election on Tuesday was about the governorship. FULL STORY → London School of Economics and Political Science Much more than meh: The 2022 Northern Ireland Assembly Elections Brendan O’Leary of the School of Arts & Sciences discuss the results of this year's Northern Ireland Assembly election. FULL STORY → Governing Pennsylvania’s crowded field of Republican gubernatorial candidates Daniel Hopkins of the School of Arts & Sciences comments on the likelihood of Democrat Josh Shapiro winning the Pennsylvania governorship in a Republican-leaning year. FULL STORY → Philadelphia Inquirer Elected officials shouldn’t do redistricting John Kromer of the School of Arts & Sciences wrote an opinion piece arguing that redistricting should be managed by an independent commission and not elected officials, who, he says, “have a built-in conflict of interest with respect to the reshaping of election districts.” FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement