Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Quakers ante up for postseason play Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Sports Quakers ante up for postseason play The baseball team and the men’s lacrosse team will be in action this weekend in the Ivy League Championship Series and NCAA Division I Men’s Lacrosse Championship, respectively. Images: Penn Athletics School may be out for summer, but student-athletes are still all in, still putting in work as their seasons play on. On Saturday at noon in Hempstead, New York, the third-seeded men’s lacrosse team (11-4) will tussle with sixth-seeded Rutgers (14-3) in the quarterfinals of the 2022 NCAA Division I Men’s Lacrosse Championship. Thanks to the heroics of freshman attacker Ben Smith, the Quakers have advanced to the NCAA quarterfinals for the second straight year. The season was on the brink last Saturday in the first round against Richmond; the Red & Blue trailed 10-9 with less than a minute remaining. Smith scored a super-clutch game-tying goal with 29 seconds left in regulation, and then netted an even clutcher game-winning goal mere seconds into overtime. Senior midfielder Sam Handley is six points shy of breaking Peter Hollis’s 45-year-old single-season school record. (Image: Penn Athletics) Penn and Rutgers are meeting for the 35th time overall and for the first time since 1986. Offensively, the Red & Blue are led by senior midfielder Sam Handley and senior attacker Dylan Gergar. Handley, the Ivy League Player of the Year and an Inside Lacrosse First-Team All-American, leads the Quakers with 70 points, six points shy of breaking Peter Hollis’s 45-year-old single-season school record. Gerger, a Second-Team All-Ivy honoree, has scored 48 goals, the second-highest single-season total in school history. Rutgers is led by Second-Team All-American Ethan Rall, a long-stick midfielder, and Third-Team All-American Brennan Kamish, a midfielder. The winner will advance to Championship Weekend over Memorial Day weekend in East Hartford, Connecticut, and play either Delaware or seventh-seeded Cornell. Image: Penn Athletics On Saturday and Sunday, the baseball team battles Columbia in the Ivy League Championship Series, a best-of-three showdown at Meiklejohn Stadium. Game 1 is on Saturday at 1 p.m., Game 2 is on Sunday at noon, and Game 3, if necessary, will be on Sunday at 3 p.m. Penn has won a school-record 32 games so far this season, including a 2-1 series win over the Lions in late March. Both teams finished the regular season with identical 17-4 conference records and shared the Ivy League title, but the Quakers won the right to host the game due to the head-to-head tiebreaker. Sophomore third baseman Wyatt Henseler is one of only two players in school history to reach 50-plus RBIs in a season. (Image: Penn Athletics) Sophomore third baseman Wyatt Henseler has been on a tear for the Quakers. On Wednesday against Bucknell, he hit a game-altering three-run homerun in the bottom of the seventh inning, his 13th blast of the season, a new school record. Henseler ranks second in the conference in batting average (.379), first in runs (53), second in hits (67), first in homeruns (13), and first in RBIs (50). He is only the second player in school history to reach 50-plus RBIs in a season, and the first since Chris May in 2001. Columbia is playing in its third consecutive Ivy League Championship Series. They defeated Yale in 2018 and lost to Harvard in 2019. Lions outfielder Hayden Scott is second in the conference in homeruns (11) and RBIs (47). The victor will earn an automatic spot in the NCAA Division I Baseball Championship and Men’s College World Series. Credits Greg Johnson Writer Date May 19, 2022 Subtopics Student Athletes, Lacrosse, Baseball Share Twitter Facebook Twitter Facebook Read Next Class of 2023 celebrates Hey Day Campus & Community A celebration of the ‘resilient creativity’ of the Class of 2022 Penn’s 266th Commencement showcased graduates who Interim President Wendell Pritchett said demonstrated an “advanced ability to roll with the challenges.” Campus & Community Ben Franklin: A voice from the past that speaks to our time At the 2022 Silfen Forum, Penn Interim President Wendell Pritchett chatted with filmmaker Ken Burns about his new two-part documentary on Benjamin Franklin. Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Inspiring the next generation of archive scholars Through Inside the Archive, a course taught by Liliane Weissberg of the School of Arts & Sciences, Penn students explore what an archive is, how history gets written, and what is ahead in a digital future. Campus & Community Exploration awaits as Penn Abroad ramps up student trips Two years after the pandemic forced Penn Abroad to brings students home, trips are back on and a busier-than-normal abroad schedule is coming in fall 2022. Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement