Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Education, Business, & Law What I’ve learned: Wharton’s Anita Summers Indicators report shows escalating disparities for students of color and poor students Streamlining the health care supply chain Building off years of success, Penn and Lea School formalize partnership The University and its Graduate School of Education will contribute more than $4 million to the West Philadelphia K-8 school throughout the next five years. Amanda Mott ・ January 28, 2022 Former Justice Breyer law clerks share perspectives on his retirement Statements from Ted Ruger, University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School Dean and Bernard G. Segal Professor of Law, and Jacques deLisle, Stephen A. Cozen Professor of Law & Professor of Political Science. From Penn Law ・ January 27, 2022 A beginner’s guide to cryptocurrency What is cryptocurrency? Sarah Hammer from The Wharton School breaks down the basics of the digital currency. Dee Patel ・ January 26, 2022 In Wordle, a case for ‘pure’ play In a Q&A with Penn Today, Cait Lamberton of the Wharton School discusses some possible reasons for Wordle’s popularity. Brandon Baker ・ January 25, 2022 Briana Nichols focuses her work not on migrants, but on the people who stay When Briana Nichols, a joint doctoral candidate in Penn GSE and anthropology, started working within communities of extensive migration, she says the thing they cared about the most was what it took to not migrate. From Penn GSE ・ January 21, 2022 Who’s at greatest risk to encounter the criminal legal system in the U.S.? New work from Penn, Princeton, and Washington University in St. Louis finds that for young people of color, contact with the system begins early and is incredibly widespread. Michele W. Berger ・ January 18, 2022 Law experts unpack SCOTUS decision that blocks OSHA vaccine mandate On the SCOTUS decisions that block Biden’s OSHA vaccine mandate but allow the rule for health care workers, Penn Law professor Allison Hoffman and Eric Feldman weigh in on what its impact will be. From Penn Law ・ January 14, 2022 Gratitude is the attitude at Wharton Gratitude@Wharton is a student-created platform to express thanks and appreciation toward one another in order to create a more caring culture at the Wharton School. Dee Patel ・ January 14, 2022 How to close the Guantánamo Bay detention facility On the 20th anniversary of the arrival of detainees at the U.S. prison, Penn’s Center for Ethics and the Rule of Law releases 13 recommendations on how to shutter the facility. From Center for Ethics and the Rule of Law ・ January 13, 2022 Prosecutorial misconduct and the criminal justice system, examined The Quattrone Center’s review of prosecutorial misconduct claims finds a lack of transparency and accountability throughout the Pennsylvania criminal justice system. January 11, 2022 Pagination First page « First Previous page ‹‹ … Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Current page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 Page 10 … Next page ›› Last page Last » In the News Axios Coping tips for parents and teachers after the Uvalde school shooting Howard Stevenson of the Graduate School of Education provides tips on coping in the aftermath of the shootings in Uvalde, Texas. FULL STORY → Politico.com How Elon Musk’s Twitter takeover may help change stock market rules Jill Fisch of the Law School comments on allegations that Elon Musk ripped off Twitter shareholders to the tune of $143 million. FULL STORY → Politico.com Inside America’s biased flood program Carolyn Kouskyof the Wharton School comments on FEMA’s mitigation efforts against flooding and the disparities in its grantmaking process. FULL STORY → “Midday,” WYPR Radio (Baltimore) Dorothy Roberts’ “Torn Apart” calls out racial disparities in foster care PIK Professor Dorothy Roberts discusses her new book that argues that the nation’s foster care system deprives Black parents of fundamental rights and leads to traumatic consequences for Black children. FULL STORY → TheHill.com Mass shootings highlight our failure in mental health Stephen N. Xenakis of the Law School writes that effective mental health services in our communities are woefully lacking yet is fundamental to our safety, security, and productivity. FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement