Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Campus & Community Lighting the way for rare disease Cosmic Writers brings free creative writing education to school-aged children A vigil in response to recent losses to gun violence Leonard A. Lauder talks game-changing gift to Penn Nursing, and more Lauder, a Penn alumnus and emeritus Trustee, donated $125 million to the University, establishing a new program for aspiring nurse practitioners who intend to work in underserved communities. Penn Today Staff ・ March 15, 2022 A charter bus to Chinatown Launched in 2021 by a student-led initiative, the biweekly bus service connects students with local businesses in Philadelphia’s Chinatown. Kristina García ・ March 14, 2022 A Ukrainian watches their country at war Ph.D. student Alice Sukhina watched on their computer at Penn as their hometown of Zaporizhzhia, Ukraine, was invaded by Russian troops. While their parents were able to leave Ukraine, the rest of their family remains; Sukhina has been working nonstop to provide aid from afar. Tina Rodia ・ March 10, 2022 With open arms, a hearty welcome to Penn’s incoming president M. Elizabeth ‘Liz’ Magill was confirmed as the University’s ninth president at a March 4 Trustees meeting. A cheerful procession down Locust Walk followed. Lauren Hertzler ・ March 4, 2022 Pandemic shifts: Oliver Kaplan on outing and education policy The pandemic led Oliver Kaplan, a senior in the College of Arts and Sciences, to reconsider his academic path. He changed his major to philosophy and now hopes to shape educational policy for LGBTQ+ students. Kristina García ・ March 3, 2022 Penn Trustees approve 2022-2023 undergraduate charges and financial aid budget The University of Pennsylvania Board of Trustees has approved a 2.9% increase in tuition and a $288 million undergraduate financial aid budget for the coming year. Amanda Mott ・ March 3, 2022 People and Places at Penn: Winter solace From the Class of 1923 Ice Skating Rink to La Casa Latina, four students speak to what motivates them through the season. Kristina García ・ March 2, 2022 Award-winning documentary filmmaker Ken Burns to speak at Penn’s 266th Commencement Award-winning documentary filmmaker Ken Burns will deliver the address at the 2022 University of Pennsylvania Commencement on Monday, May 16. The announcement was made today by Vice President and University Secretary Medha Narvekar. Amanda Mott ・ March 1, 2022 Solidarity walk for Ukraine More than 100 members of the University community joined a student-led walk in support of Ukraine, rallying awareness and calling for action. Katherine Unger Baillie ・ February 28, 2022 Body Empowerment Project is a health-centered approach to self-care Supported by the President’s Engagement Prize, two 2021 graduates founded a nonprofit focused on eating disorder prevention, bringing workshops to Philadelphia public schools, taught by Penn student volunteers. Louisa Shepard ・ February 28, 2022 Pagination First page « First Previous page ‹‹ … Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Current page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 Page 10 … Next page ›› Last page Last » In the News Philadelphia Inquirer Finally, the Class of 2020 gets its in-person commencement ceremonies at Penn, Haverford, and Penn State On Sunday, 3,500 members of the University of Pennsylvania’s undergraduate class of 2020 as well as 2021 master’s and doctoral graduates marched onto Franklin Field to whooping cheers from family and friends in the crowd of 12,000. FULL STORY → Foreign Policy The tragedy of Robert McFarlane Perry World House Fellow John Gans writes, “During his two years as then-President Ronald Reagan’s third national security advisor, [Robert] McFarlane aspired to wield power on the level of his most famous predecessor, Henry Kissinger. But McFarlane proved both too ambitious and too ineffective to wield it in accordance with the law, and instead he became embroiled in the Iran-Contra scandal.” FULL STORY → Forbes Princeton, Cornell, University of Pennsylvania withhold Class of 2026 acceptance rates Princeton University, Cornell University and the University of Pennsylvania have also decided to refrain from releasing detailed admissions statistics. The remaining five Ivy League universities—Harvard, Yale, Columbia, Brown and Dartmouth—have made their traditional admissions announcements. FULL STORY → Inside Higher Ed Record applications, record rejections Admissions Dean Whitney Soule comments on students engaged in academic research during their time in high school, many earning national and international accolades for research. FULL STORY → The Wall Street Journal Some Ivy League colleges to play down how selective they are Admissions Dean Whitney Soule said drawing attention to the acceptance rate of Ivy League schools like Penn does more harm than good, distressing applicants and their parents. “We’re focusing not on how hard we are to get into but on who these young people are that we chose,” she said. FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement