Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Campus & Community Lighting the way for rare disease Cosmic Writers brings free creative writing education to school-aged children A vigil in response to recent losses to gun violence M. Elizabeth Magill nominated to become President of the University of Pennsylvania Magill, who currently serves as Executive Vice President and Provost of the University of Virginia, will assume the Penn Presidency on July 1, 2022. She succeeds Dr. Amy Gutmann. Penn Today Staff ・ January 13, 2022 Pre-arrival and gateway testing for the start of the spring semester Penn Today provides details on COVID-19 testing requirements for students, postdocs, faculty, and staff who are either enrolled in courses this spring or are coming to campus regularly. Erica K. Brockmeier ・ January 13, 2022 Penn receives pivotal gift to expand support for first-generation to college and modest-income undergraduates The gift, from Scott and Elena Shleifer, will increase its support and critical resources for students who are in the first generation of their family to attend college and/or from households of modest or limited income. Amanda Mott ・ January 12, 2022 A virtual day of service Penn’s annual Martin Luther King Jr. Commemorative Symposium on Social Change will be virtual this year, offering events for adults and children of all ages. Kristina García ・ January 11, 2022 Empowering community engagement through theory and practice This fall, students applied community participation and stakeholder involvement processes to conduct their own outreach activities on campus as part of Participatory Cities, a Stavros Niarchos Foundation Paideia Program course. Erica K. Brockmeier ・ January 6, 2022 Math education and engagement in West Philadelphia This fall, students in Math 123 applied the skills they learned about math education and communication while working with 10th graders at Paul Robeson High School. Erica K. Brockmeier ・ December 23, 2021 Penn-led nonprofit helps students with career advancement A Wharton senior talks to Penn Today about how a nonprofit virtual platform, HowToStudent, is dedicated to helping students advance in their education and career regardless of their economic background. Dee Patel ・ December 23, 2021 Making time off a time for side gigs for good Penn Today profiles four faculty and staff members who use their time and talents to help others. Michele W. Berger, Katherine Unger Baillie ・ December 22, 2021 Fighting food insecurity Students from the Fox Leadership Program have lent their time and expertise to hunger organizations for more than a decade, and during the pandemic they’ve upped their involvement to meet the growing need. Kristen de Groot ・ December 20, 2021 A first-of-its-kind academic social entrepreneurship lab The Eidos LGBT+ Health Initiative, anchored in the School of Nursing, is part of a $750 million University investment in science, engineering, and medicine. Michele W. Berger ・ December 16, 2021 Pagination First page « First Previous page ‹‹ … Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Current page 9 Page 10 Page 11 Page 12 Page 13 … Next page ›› Last page Last » In the News Philadelphia Inquirer Finally, the Class of 2020 gets its in-person commencement ceremonies at Penn, Haverford, and Penn State On Sunday, 3,500 members of the University of Pennsylvania’s undergraduate class of 2020 as well as 2021 master’s and doctoral graduates marched onto Franklin Field to whooping cheers from family and friends in the crowd of 12,000. FULL STORY → Foreign Policy The tragedy of Robert McFarlane Perry World House Fellow John Gans writes, “During his two years as then-President Ronald Reagan’s third national security advisor, [Robert] McFarlane aspired to wield power on the level of his most famous predecessor, Henry Kissinger. But McFarlane proved both too ambitious and too ineffective to wield it in accordance with the law, and instead he became embroiled in the Iran-Contra scandal.” FULL STORY → Inside Higher Ed Record applications, record rejections Admissions Dean Whitney Soule comments on students engaged in academic research during their time in high school, many earning national and international accolades for research. FULL STORY → Forbes Princeton, Cornell, University of Pennsylvania withhold Class of 2026 acceptance rates Princeton University, Cornell University and the University of Pennsylvania have also decided to refrain from releasing detailed admissions statistics. The remaining five Ivy League universities—Harvard, Yale, Columbia, Brown and Dartmouth—have made their traditional admissions announcements. FULL STORY → The Wall Street Journal Some Ivy League colleges to play down how selective they are Admissions Dean Whitney Soule said drawing attention to the acceptance rate of Ivy League schools like Penn does more harm than good, distressing applicants and their parents. “We’re focusing not on how hard we are to get into but on who these young people are that we chose,” she said. FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement