Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Sunny days and cool nights bring color to campus Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Campus & Community Sunny days and cool nights bring color to campus Fall on Penn’s campus, as ever, is awash in a majestic spread of gold, red, and orange. The beauty highlights the necessity of mitigating climate change, which could lead to less stunning foliar color. As urban campuses go, Penn has always been a rare green oasis. And now, an oasis of deep orange, bright red, and vibrant gold—the traditional markings of peak fall in the mid-Atlantic. It’s the shift to cooler nights, and a good dose of sunlight, that trigger leaves to turn, breaking down the chlorophyll that gives leaves their green color, and shutting down their metabolism of photosynthesis to prepare for winter. The drop in chlorophyll levels bring out the yellow and orange pigments, and synthesize a new red pigment. The result is a stunning canvas for a camera lens. The timing of COP26 coincided with Penn’s peak leaf-peeping timeline—which helps emphasize the urgency of the climate crisis. “Leaf color displays may be less stunning if the climate changes, for example by causing warmer fall nights in the Northeast and mid-Atlantic regions,” says Doris Wagner, the Robert I. Williams Term Professor of Biology in the School of Arts & Sciences. “Another factor that can impinge on the fall foliar color display is premature leaf drop triggered by summer droughts, storms in early fall with high winds and rain, or early frost.” But why do some trees—such as broadleaf trees—drop their leaves in the fall to begin with? “Leaves lose a lot of water to the atmosphere during photosynthesis, with broad, fleshy leaves incurring much larger water losses than pine needles or small scaly leaves,” Wagner explains. “The lost water is replenished from the soil via water uptake in the roots and water transport through the tree trunk and branches to the leaves. If photosynthesis were triggered in broadleaf trees on a sunny winter day, the water lost not could not be replenished if the ground and the water in the tree is frozen.” But with prolonged droughts becoming more common, like in California in recent years, trees cannot replenish water lost from leaves via the soil. The result is a loss of foliage and even tree death. While Penn’s trees are carefully maintained, so well to earn Tree Campus USA accolades year after year, the larger picture of fall foliage is in a delicate balance with the climate crisis. Enjoying the beauty and majesty of a campus awash in color can also serve as a call to action to tread lightly and consciously. RELATED The stories trees tell Penn at COP26: By the numbers A ‘human-focused approach’ to sustainability By the numbers: The FY20 climate and sustainability annual report Credits Tina Rodia Writer Eric Sucar Photographer Date November 23, 2021 Subtopics Facilities and Real Estate, West Philadelphia Share Twitter Facebook Twitter Facebook Read Next Class of 2023 celebrates Hey Day Campus & Community A celebration of the ‘resilient creativity’ of the Class of 2022 Penn’s 266th Commencement showcased graduates who Interim President Wendell Pritchett said demonstrated an “advanced ability to roll with the challenges.” Campus & Community Ben Franklin: A voice from the past that speaks to our time At the 2022 Silfen Forum, Penn Interim President Wendell Pritchett chatted with filmmaker Ken Burns about his new two-part documentary on Benjamin Franklin. Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Inspiring the next generation of archive scholars Through Inside the Archive, a course taught by Liliane Weissberg of the School of Arts & Sciences, Penn students explore what an archive is, how history gets written, and what is ahead in a digital future. Campus & Community Exploration awaits as Penn Abroad ramps up student trips Two years after the pandemic forced Penn Abroad to brings students home, trips are back on and a busier-than-normal abroad schedule is coming in fall 2022. Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement