Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Systemic racism and its impact on health and wellness Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Health Sciences Systemic racism and its impact on health and wellness The fifth of 13 conversations in Penn’s ‘Racism and Anti-Racism in Contemporary America’ preceptorial highlighted racial health disparities and discussed policies that could support a more equitable future. The “Racism and Anti-Racism in Contemporary America” preceptorial is focused on how institutional racism is embedded in different systems in America. The first panel hosted in 2021 focused on public health and wellness. (Image: Gabriel Ben-Jakov/Penn IUR) In the fifth of 13 interdisciplinary conversations in the “Racism and Anti-Racism in Contemporary America” preceptorial, a panel of Penn experts discussed the wide-ranging impacts of systemic racism on physical and psychological health. The virtual discussion led by Michael Delli Carpini of Penn’s Stavros Niarchos Foundation (SNF) Paideia Program highlighted racial health disparities and policies that could support a more equitable future. Panelists included Chief Wellness Officer Benoit Dubé; Ezekiel Emanuel, vice provost for global initiatives and Penn Integrates Knowledge (PIK) Professor; PIK Professor Risa Lavizzo-Mourey; Jennifer Prah Ruger, Amartya Sen Professor of Health Equity, Economics, and Policy; and Eugenia South, assistant professor of emergency medicine and faculty director of the Urban Health Lab. Reflecting on vaccine rollouts and a new administration Delli Carpini asked each panelist to share thoughts on current events, with early efforts of the Biden-Harris administration and the ongoing COVID-19 vaccine rollout top of mind. Emanuel discussed the White House health equity task force, whose goal is to ensure that care and treatments for COVID-19 are distributed equally. “Equity is going to become pivotal,” said Emanuel, who emphasized that this focus on equity could become a major legacy of the new administration. Lavizzo-Mourey echoed this point and added that, beyond forming task forces and working groups, there’s also been a visible shift to implementing equitable policies and plans. Biden has “gone even further than saying, ‘We have to address these things,’ to putting language in that says, ‘We’ve got to measure it and make sure that we’re actually closing those equity gaps,’” she said. “I think that it’s a time to be optimistic and to put our shoulders to the wheel.” For Prah Ruger, restoring trust in the government is key, with a successful federal-led pandemic response an essential step towards rebuilding and maintaining that trust. “In a democracy, we need to trust our government and the people that surround our leaders, that they will take the measures that are necessary to protect the people,” she said. South has been thinking a lot about the COVID-19 vaccine, especially after seeing enormous racial disparities in uptake. “This is incredibly alarming that the communities and people who are hardest hit by COVID are the least likely to be getting vaccinated,” said South, who recently authored an op-ed about vaccine hesitancy. If vaccine mistrust in Black communities is left unaddressed, South said, it could further perpetuate racial health disparities. In the context of vaccine hesitancy, Dubé echoed the importance of understanding why people are distrustful and how a trauma-informed lens can support better community outreach. “What that means very practically is to get rid of ‘What's wrong with you?’ as an initial reaction and replace it with ‘What happened to you?’” said Dubé. In a conversation moderated by Michael Delli Carpini (top left), panelists (from top middle) Zeke Emanuel, Eugenia South, Jennifer Prah Ruger, Risa Lavizzo-Mourey, and Benoit Dubé discussed existing racial health disparities and policies that could support a more equitable future. A glimpse of existing disparities Revisiting a question asked during the first health and wellness preceptorial conversation in December, which featured J. Margo Brooks Carthon, John Jemmott, Lisa Lewis, Quayshawn Spencer, and Howard Stevenson, Delli Carpini asked the panelists to share insights into the current state of racial disparities in health and wellness. Continuing the conversation Additional information on the “Racism and Anti-Racism in Contemporary America” preceptorial As part of Penn’s Year of Civic Engagement, this ongoing preceptorial series is focused on how institutional racism is embedded in different systems in America, including economic, political, social, and cultural. For a complete list of previous and upcoming events, with recordings from past presentations and registration links for future panels, visit the SNF Paideia Preceptorial website. All of the virtual panels are open to the public. The Criminal Justice System Feb. 11: “Incarceration and the Law” Featuring Penn professors Regina Austin and Dorothy Roberts and the University of Texas at Austin’s Hannah L. Walker. Feb. 24: “Policing and Public Safety” Panelists will include Yale University’s Monica Bell, Rashawn Ray from the University of Maryland, Penn’s David Rudowsky, and Vesla Weaver from Johns Hopkins University. The Education System March 2: “Preschool, Elementary School, and High School” Featuring Penn’s Vivian Gadsen, Jessie Harper, and Leah Gillion, with Janel George from The Learning Policy Institute. March 16: “Higher Education” With discussions from panelists Camille Charles, Amalia Z. Dache, Valerie Swain-Cade McCoullum, and Brian Peterson from Penn and James Earl Davis from Temple University. Lavizzo-Mourey shared stark statistics between Philadelphia County, with a majority Black and Brown population, and Montgomery County, which is predominantly white. These data highlight differences in life expectancy (76 years in Philadelphia versus 80 in Montgomery), high school graduation rates (79% versus 87%), and childhood poverty (34% versus 7%). In addition, data from January show that COVID-19 death rates were twice as high in Philadelphia compared to Montgomery. “Social factors that make it relatively easy to have a healthy lifestyle—getting the education you need, having access to employment that pays a living wage—are the things that, in addition to access to health care, make such a huge difference in the disparities that we see in race,” said Lavizzo-Mourey. Emanuel shared another statistic illustrating how large health disparities are between Black and white Americans: “If you look at the average across the country, [Black populations] live 3.6 years less than [white populations] do. To put it in context, if you cure all the people suffering from cancer in the country, that would add fewer years to the average life expectancy than the disparity between [white and Black people],” he said. For South, the answer to the causes of health disparities in America was simple: racism. “We can't forget that that is the root cause,” she said. “We make choices on how we are going to spend our money in this country, and we make choices that demonstrate that we still do not value Black lives in the way that we value white lives.” Through her research on health in urban areas, South has seen the staggering impacts of neighborhood quality and long-term disinvestment in Black neighborhoods on health, citing the 20-year mortality gap between residents of the Philadelphia neighborhoods of Society Hill and Strawberry Mansion as one example. “We can’t talk about neighborhood conditions without talking about residential segregation,” she said. “And that is because of racist federal, state, and local policies, like redlining, the way public housing has been implemented, as well as things like discriminating lending practices, which is an ongoing problem.” What policies and actions could make public health more equitable? “What we really need to do is get in underneath racism and change core values and the norms that we have in society,” said Prah Ruger, emphasizing how racism is a form of hierarchy and domination with roots in American slavery that have created systems that continue to exacerbate racial inequality. “Policies that focus on changing values and norms, that provide a much more stable foundation for equity, I think is what this country desperately needs,” she said. “The conversation surrounding universal health care needs to continue. You shouldn’t go bankrupt because you get sick,” said Dubé about other necessary next steps towards addressing health care disparities. “I do think that looking at health care as a priority, and as something that is a basic human right, is still a conversation that needs to continue.” Several panelists discussed the importance of early childhood investment, including South’s support of “baby bonds” as a way to reduce the wealth gap in America, and Emanuel shared a few examples of the power of early interventions. “That’s government investment in the future, and I think that’s where we have to begin thinking about getting rid of the disparities in this country,” he said. “We need more of that mental framework, seeing these things not as spending more but as investments in the future.” The “Racism and Anti-Racism in Contemporary America” Preceptorial is a collaboration of the SNF Paideia Program, the Office of the Vice President for Social Equity & Community, the Office of the Provost, the Andrea Mitchell Center, Civic House, and New Student Orientation and Academic Initiatives as part of the Year of Civic Engagement. Credits Erica K. Brockmeier Writer Date January 29, 2021 Subtopics Racial Justice, Coronavirus Schools School of Arts & Sciences, Perelman School of Medicine, School of Social Policy & Practice Share Twitter Facebook Twitter Facebook Read Next Class of 2023 celebrates Hey Day Campus & Community A celebration of the ‘resilient creativity’ of the Class of 2022 Penn’s 266th Commencement showcased graduates who Interim President Wendell Pritchett said demonstrated an “advanced ability to roll with the challenges.” Campus & Community Ben Franklin: A voice from the past that speaks to our time At the 2022 Silfen Forum, Penn Interim President Wendell Pritchett chatted with filmmaker Ken Burns about his new two-part documentary on Benjamin Franklin. Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Inspiring the next generation of archive scholars Through Inside the Archive, a course taught by Liliane Weissberg of the School of Arts & Sciences, Penn students explore what an archive is, how history gets written, and what is ahead in a digital future. Campus & Community Exploration awaits as Penn Abroad ramps up student trips Two years after the pandemic forced Penn Abroad to brings students home, trips are back on and a busier-than-normal abroad schedule is coming in fall 2022. Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement