Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Management Why more companies are standing up on social issues From the war in Ukraine to anti-LGBTQ+ legislation in Florida, companies are increasingly speaking out on social issues. Wharton management professor Stephanie Creary explains why silence is no longer golden for firms. From Knowledge at Wharton ・ May 20, 2022 How immigrant employees boost performance Wharton’s Britta Glennon discusses how employing skilled immigrants can give organizations a competitive edge. From Knowledge at Wharton ・ December 16, 2021 Drivers in the gig economy Lindsey Cameron, assistant professor of management at Wharton School, discusses key findings from her research on how drivers in the gig economy create ‘workplace games’ to find control and meaning in their work. From Wharton Stories ・ December 13, 2021 Should employers rethink what they’re offering workers? Wharton’s Peter Cappelli talks about what we’re getting wrong about the Great Resignation and how the pandemic has rewired worker preferences. From Knowledge at Wharton ・ December 10, 2021 Practical tools to help you bring your conscience to work A new book by Wharton professor G. Richard Shell serves as a guide to help you stand by your values and create a more ethical workplace. Dee Patel ・ November 11, 2021 Are teams better than individuals at getting work done? New research by Wharton’s Duncan Watts finds that simple tasks are best accomplished by individuals, while difficult ones are more efficiently completed by a group. From Knowledge at Wharton ・ October 20, 2021 How employees can become better organizational citizens A new Wharton paper on employee culture proves that both supervisors and peers can be powerful agents of change when they are allowed to intervene at different times of the change process. From Knowledge at Wharton ・ October 14, 2021 Bad bosses: What’s wrong with labor algorithms Wharton’s Lindsey Cameron discusses why policymakers and labor leaders contend that algorithms that allow companies to monitor an employee’s every move are unfair and dangerous. From Knowledge at Wharton ・ October 7, 2021 How language boosts customer satisfaction Wharton’s Jonah Berger talks about his new research on how using more concrete language can improve customer satisfaction. From Knowledge at Wharton ・ September 28, 2021 What the U.S. economy will look like after the pandemic It has been a long pandemic, from which the country is still emerging, but the U.S. economy is working its way back. Dee Patel ・ August 18, 2021 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Next page ›› Last page Last » In the News The Washington Post Hating hybrid work? Here’s how to make it less painful Stew Friedman of the Wharton School is featured in a story about the changing way in how, when, and where people work. FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement