Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon English Cosmic Writers brings free creative writing education to school-aged children May graduates Rowana Miller and Manoj Simha lead Cosmic Writers, a project supported by President’s Engagement Prize that provides free creative writing instruction to K-12 students virtually throughout the world. Louisa Shepard ・ May 31, 2022 Toni Morrison and the adventure of the 21st century In Herman Beavers’ English 101 class, students take an in-depth look at Toni Morrison, reading her 11 novels, writing thesis papers, and presenting on topics of interest to the class. Kristina García ・ May 10, 2022 Rounding the bases and finding home at the Kelly Writers House Former Major League Baseball centerfielder Doug Glanville spoke with students about his life and career in the seminar created and taught by English Professor Al Filreis and during a public reading and conversation. Louisa Shepard ・ April 29, 2022 ‘In These Times: The Intricate Riddle of Life’ The first three episodes of the Omnia podcast’s fourth season discuss the link between making art and making meaning, and how creativity shines a light on the way out of adversity in tough times, past and present. April 25, 2022 Four Penn faculty awarded Guggenheim Fellowships Four faculty have been named 2022 Guggenheim Fellows—Daniel Barber in architecture in the Weitzman School of Design and Kimberly Bowes in classical studies, Guthrie Ramsey in music, and Paul Saint-Amour in English in the School of Arts & Sciences. Louisa Shepard , Louisa Shepard ・ April 8, 2022 Exploring Asian American athletes: Stereotypes and success Asian Americans are competing at the highest levels of sport, a topic discussed in David Eng’s Introduction to Asian American Literature and Culture course in the School of Arts & Sciences. Kristina García ・ April 5, 2022 Nobel Prize winner Wole Soyinka on art and culture Wole Soyinka, the first African to win the Nobel Prize for Literature, spoke as the inaugural guest for the Distinguished Lecture in African Studies. Louisa Shepard ・ March 24, 2022 Dean’s Forum with filmmaker Jon Chu Chu joined David Eng of the School of Arts & Sciences in the 2022 Stephen A. Levin Family Dean’s Forum to discuss art and the power of representation. Kristina García ・ March 23, 2022 Oscars 2022, predicted Penn Cinema and Media Studies and Theatre Arts faculty make their predictions about this year’s Oscar winners—organized by category. Brandon Baker ・ March 22, 2022 Pulitzer-winning author Viet Thanh Nguyen speaks on migration and ‘multitudes’ In a wide-ranging conversation sponsored by the Wolf Humanities Center, author and professor Viet Thanh Nguyen visited Penn to discuss his work, representation, and more. Brandon Baker ・ March 18, 2022 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Next page ›› Last page Last » Media Contact Louisa Shepard Senior News Officer lshepard@upenn.edu In the News KYW Newsradio (Philadelphia) Writer, activist Lorene Cary preserves history through storytelling Lorene Cary of the School of Arts & Sciences was interviewed about her passion for writing and her commitment to preserving Black history through storytelling. FULL STORY → WHYY (Philadelphia) Philadelphian Alain LeRoy Locke, the Father of the Harlem Renaissance, gets new historical marker in Philly Dagmawi Woubshet of the School of Arts & Sciences spoke about the impact of “The New Negro,” an anthology edited by Alain LeRoy Locke at the onset of the Harlem Renaissance. FULL STORY → Philadelphia Inquirer Penn professor awarded MacArthur genius grant Emily Wilson of the School of Arts and Sciences spoke about being named a recipient of the MacArthur Foundation Fellowship. “I’m excited about the publicity it potentially brings—not to me personally, but to the fields of translation, poetics, history,” she said. “And I hope it’s a way to get other people to engage in those fields.” FULL STORY → Radio Times with Marty Moss-Coane (WHYY-FM) Lorene Cary’s ‘Ladysitting’ Lorene Cary of the School of Arts and Sciences spoke about her new memoir, “Ladysitting: My Year with Nana at the End of Her Century.” FULL STORY → NPR ‘Ladysitting’ offers candor and a singular take on a tale familiar to many Lorene Cary of the School of Arts and Sciences has published a new memoir called Ladysitting: My Year with Nana at the End of Her Century. The book explores complex family relationships and the history and effects of American racism. FULL STORY → The New York Times Bollingen Prize in American Poetry and nominees for the National Book Critics Circle and Edgar Allan Poe Awards are announced Charles Bernstein of the School of Arts and Sciences has been awarded the Bollingen Prize in American Poetry. “I am overwhelmed at being in the company of my fellow Bollingen winners,” Bernstein said. “How great that ‘Near/Miss’ has been so warmly welcomed into the world.” FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement