Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Perry World House turns 5 Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Campus & Community Perry World House turns 5 In a photo essay, Penn Today highlights some of the center’s memorable guests and events from over the half decade. Students, faculty, dignitaries, and special guests came out for the grand opening of Perry World House on Sept. 20, 2016. This month marks the fifth anniversary of Perry World House (PWH), the University’s hub for global engagement. In the five years since President Amy Gutmann cut the ribbon in front of the just-completed building, PWH has hosted dozens of world leaders and cutting-edge practitioners and convened high-level workshops, conferences and engagements, establishing Penn as a global agenda setter. “Perry World House has achieved so much over the past five years,” says Michael C. Horowitz, PWH’s director and Richard Perry Professor. “In addition to building a network of policy experts that stretches across the world, it’s become a real cornerstone of the Penn experience here on campus. It’s a place where everyone from first-year students to our most senior faculty spend time and share their ideas and insights about the world’s biggest issues. We’re so excited to see what the next five years bring.” PWH’s mission is to bring the academic knowledge of the University to bear on some of the world’s most pressing global policy challenges, and to foster international policy engagement within and beyond the Penn community. RELATED What do variants and vaccines mean for COVID-19’s ‘new normal’? Haiti in turmoil Locked down: Global mobility and COVID-19 In the midst of COVID-19, Penn sustains a global mission Michael Horowitz named director of Perry World House and Richard Perry Professor Located in the heart of campus at 38th Street and Locust Walk, PWH draws on the expertise of Penn’s 12 schools and numerous globally oriented research centers to educate the Penn community and prepare students to be well-informed, contributing global citizens. At the same time, PWH connects Penn with leading policy experts from around the world to develop and advance innovative policy proposals. Their experts include Distinguished Global Leaders-in-Residence; visiting fellows and scholars, and postdoctoral fellows. Undergraduate and graduate students from across the University are offered a number of opportunities to use PWH to connect on urgent global affairs and policy issues, including through the World House Student Fellows Program and Graduate Associates Program. PWH was established through a gift from Richard C. Perry, a Penn alumnus and a member of the University’s Board of Trustees, and his wife, Lisa Perry. “When Perry World House opened back in 2016, it was the culmination of almost a decade of planning,” says Richard Perry. “In the five years since, it’s been incredible to see those plans come alive on Locust Walk and online. I’ve watched global leaders meet with students in the World Forum. I’ve sat in on debates about the latest research in the conference room. And I’ve seen undergraduates and graduates trying to reshape the world in policy projects and presentations. “I’d like to thank Penn’s President, Amy Gutmann, for the opportunity to be part of this institution, and the Perry World House team—including William Burke-White [inaugural director from 2014-19], Michael Horowitz, and [PWH Deputy Director] LaShawn Jefferson—for all their hard work over the years to make it the unique place it is. We’ve brought Penn to the world, and the world to Penn, and everyone is better for it.” In honor of this fifth anniversary, Penn Today is highlighting some of the center’s memorable guests and events. President Joseph R. Biden takes a selfie with students at Perry World House’s Global Order Colloquium on Sept. 25, 2018. Former U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry meets with Perry World House Student Fellows and Graduate Associates on Sept. 24, 2019. Former Secretary of State Madeline Albright discusses a new approach to the Middle East at a Perry World House event on March 1, 2017. Former national security advisor and United Nations ambassador Susan Rice discussed her book “Tough Love” in a talk with Provost Wendell Pritchett on Jan. 22, 2020. President Joseph R. Biden chats with Nick Clegg, former U.K. deputy prime minister, during the Global Order Colloquium on Sept. 25, 2018. Students meet classmates, catch up with friends and celebrate international communities at Global Quakers Night at Perry World House on Sept. 13, 2019. University of Pennsylvania President Amy Gutmann celebrates after the ribbon cutting at the grand opening of Perry World House on Sept. 20, 2016. Also pictured, (from left) Richard Perry and Lisa Perry; William Burke-White, inaugural director of Perry World House; Robert Gates, former U.S. Secretary of Defense; Navanethem Pillay, former UN High Commissioner for Human Rights. Credits Kristen de Groot Writer Date September 27, 2021 Subtopics Perry World House, Penn Global, Facilities and Real Estate, Penn Compact Share Twitter Facebook Twitter Facebook Read Next Class of 2023 celebrates Hey Day Campus & Community A celebration of the ‘resilient creativity’ of the Class of 2022 Penn’s 266th Commencement showcased graduates who Interim President Wendell Pritchett said demonstrated an “advanced ability to roll with the challenges.” Campus & Community Ben Franklin: A voice from the past that speaks to our time At the 2022 Silfen Forum, Penn Interim President Wendell Pritchett chatted with filmmaker Ken Burns about his new two-part documentary on Benjamin Franklin. Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Inspiring the next generation of archive scholars Through Inside the Archive, a course taught by Liliane Weissberg of the School of Arts & Sciences, Penn students explore what an archive is, how history gets written, and what is ahead in a digital future. Campus & Community Exploration awaits as Penn Abroad ramps up student trips Two years after the pandemic forced Penn Abroad to brings students home, trips are back on and a busier-than-normal abroad schedule is coming in fall 2022. Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement