Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Weitzman Plaza dedicated as ‘one of Penn’s great gathering places’ Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Weitzman Plaza dedicated as ‘one of Penn’s great gathering places’ The plaza, named for Stuart Weitzman, Wharton Class of 1963, was extensively renovated in 2021 and celebrated on May 13 with a ceremony. Weitzman dean Fritz Steiner, Stuart Weitzman, OLIN CEO and Weitzman faculty member Cindy Sanders, and senior executive vice president Craig Carnaroli. (Image: Weitzman News) Stuart Weitzman Plaza, the popular gathering place for students, faculty, and visitors from across the Penn campus that was extensively renovated in 2021, was celebrated on May 13 with a ceremony on the plaza between Meyerson Hall and the Fisher Fine Arts Library. Scheduled during Alumni Weekend, when the University welcomes graduates back to campus for class reunions and other events, the program underscored just how closely connected to their alma mater they remain. The plaza is named for Stuart Weitzman, Wharton Class of 1963, in recognition of a series of transformational gifts to the University and for whom the School of Design was named in 2019. “We are here today because Stuart Weitzman, as prescient as he is generous, shared our vision for the ground we’re standing on to become one of Penn’s great gathering places,” said Dean and Paley Professor Fritz Steiner. The ceremony brought together alumni of all ages, and in remarks during the ceremony, Mr. Weitzman said he hoped it would become a center of campus life. “If I knew that this plaza would create such excitement, I would have built two,” he said. Craig Carnaroli, senior executive vice president at Penn, said Weitzman Plaza represents the “completion” of the campus landscape master plan that was begun under former Penn President Martin Meyerson, for whom Meyerson Hall is named. The plaza enhances the campus’s greatest strength, which is its interconnectedness, Carnaroli said. The plaza was designed by a team at OLIN, the Philadelphia-based landscape architecture firm founded by Practice Professor Emeritus Laurie Olin, who worked on the campus master plan as a young faculty member. It features a long, high-backed wooden bench made with heat-treated ash, and the removal of a brick wall that formerly split up the space has made space for a wide staircase and gathering space coming up to campus from 34th street. The plaza was envisioned as “a much-needed, spacious outdoor living room on campus,” said OLIN CEO Cindy Sanders, an adjunct professor of landscape architecture at the Weitzman School who also spoke. The designers who worked on the project shared more than five decades of experience in the School of Design, Sanders said. They included Richard Newton, Anneliza Kaufer, Moya Sun, and Jessica M. Henson. The renovation included the installation of several yellowwood trees, a reference to historic student protests over the removal of several of the same species when Meyerson Hall was being built in the 1960s. More than a reinterpretation of the space for a multitude of users, the project was “an act of deep love” by its designers, Sanders said. Earlier in the day on Friday, the University announced that the Morgan Building across 34th Street from Meyerson Hall would be renamed Stuart Weitzman Hall based on Stuart Weitzman’s enthusiastic support for the project to renovate the historic structure, adding a new wing to its south side. The building, which currently houses studios and offices for the Department of Fine Arts, will be expanded and redesigned by KieranTimberlake, the award-winning architecture firm founded by alumni and former faculty members Stephen Kieran and James Timberlake. Friday’s celebration also featured a short documentary video about the plaza’s history and OLIN’s design that is available to watch on the School’s Vimeo channel. Credits Amanda Mott Media Contact Date May 19, 2022 Subtopics Design, Alumni Schools Stuart Weitzman School of Design Share Twitter Facebook Twitter Facebook Read Next Class of 2023 celebrates Hey Day Campus & Community A celebration of the ‘resilient creativity’ of the Class of 2022 Penn’s 266th Commencement showcased graduates who Interim President Wendell Pritchett said demonstrated an “advanced ability to roll with the challenges.” Campus & Community Ben Franklin: A voice from the past that speaks to our time At the 2022 Silfen Forum, Penn Interim President Wendell Pritchett chatted with filmmaker Ken Burns about his new two-part documentary on Benjamin Franklin. Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Inspiring the next generation of archive scholars Through Inside the Archive, a course taught by Liliane Weissberg of the School of Arts & Sciences, Penn students explore what an archive is, how history gets written, and what is ahead in a digital future. Campus & Community Exploration awaits as Penn Abroad ramps up student trips Two years after the pandemic forced Penn Abroad to brings students home, trips are back on and a busier-than-normal abroad schedule is coming in fall 2022. Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement