Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Racial Justice Engaging in intersectional conversations on race and racism In the spring, students engaged with complex topics, both intellectually and civically, as part of American Race: A Philadelphia Story, a Stavros Niarchos Foundation Paideia Program course. Erica K. Brockmeier ・ May 26, 2022 Exploring racism’s health impact in a VA renal clinic A new study by Penn LDI’s Kevin Jenkins provides new insights into how structural racism impacts Black patients’ lives and treatment experience for chronic kidney disease. Hoag Levins ・ May 24, 2022 Reimagining the corner store to promote food justice With a 2022 President’s Sustainability Prize, Eli Moraru and Alexandre Imbot will take raw ingredients payable with EBT and turn them into hot, heathy meals while providing nutritional education resources. Kristina García ・ May 23, 2022 How Lucas Monroe defines leadership Lucas Monroe, a political science major from Abington, Pennsylvania, combines athletics and introspection to take on a leadership role in social justice work on campus and beyond. Kristina García ・ May 3, 2022 America as it actually was “Teaching Independence: Bridging the Communications Gap,” took an in-depth look at the challenges of teaching the Declaration of Independence, the American Revolution, and the nation’s founding in the current political climate. From Penn GSE ・ April 14, 2022 Higher rates of chemical sedation among Black psychiatric patients points to inequities Penn Medicine researchers also find that white patients are more likely to be chemically sedated in emergency departments at hospitals that treat high proportion Black patients, suggesting that hospital demographics can impact practice patterns. From Penn Medicine News ・ April 7, 2022 An interfaith commemoration of MLK The annual event on March 23 was part of the Penn MLK Commemorative Symposium on Social Change. Tina Rodia ・ March 28, 2022 35th annual Women of Color at Penn award The Women of Color at Penn held their 35th annual award ceremony with a virtual celebration hosted by the African American Resource Center. This year’s awards honored six women who have fostered and supported community. Kristina García ・ March 21, 2022 The Black Lives Matter movement, but not COVID encouraged voters toward Biden As swing voters registered more awareness about discrimination against Black Americans, they became more likely to vote for the party they felt would best rectify that—Democrats. Julie Sloane ・ March 7, 2022 Black histories and Black futures Professors and students reflect on 50 years of Black studies at Penn. Kristina García ・ February 23, 2022 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Next page ›› Last page Last » In the News Oprah Daily A cemetery in Minneapolis pays tribute to thousands of Black victims of police violence School of Arts & Sciences graduates Connor Wright and Anna Barber are quoted on their art installation in response to police violence and their work to make it permanent. FULL STORY → Philadelphia Inquirer Philly hospitals and key insurers plan novel effort with the city to improve health equity Raina Merchant of the Perelman School of Medicine spoke about Accelerate Health Equity, a public health coalition aiming to improve racial equity in health care in Philadelphia. FULL STORY → WHYY (Philadelphia) Advocates urge action on bill to establish Asian American and Pacific Islander curriculum in N.J. schools Jessica Kim, a doctoral student in the School of Social Policy & Practice, is organizing a demonstration in support of a bill to require New Jersey schools to teach students about the history and contributions of Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders in the U.S. “Education is critical,” she said. FULL STORY → WHYY (Philadelphia) Yelp reviews may provide key insights into patient experiences with racism Jason Tong and Anietie Andy of the Perelman School of Medicine studied Yelp reviews of hospitals to better understand racial disparities in health care. “Racism within health care can be pervasive and can occur in a variety of both clinical and nonclinical spaces,” said Tong. “Hopefully [we] can create a composite metric of racism that can be used for targeted quality improvement initiatives for hospitals.” FULL STORY → Philadelphia Inquirer Yelp reviews could help hospitals target racism, Penn study finds Perelman School of Medicine researchers found that online reviews of hospitals could help evaluate patients’ experiences with racism. “It’s powerful because it’s anonymous—it reduces the fear of reporting, it’s familiar, and it’s open-ended,” general surgery resident Jason Tong said. “It allows consumers to comment on what matters to them.” FULL STORY → Times Higher Education US medical schools found to be falling short on equity promises In an analysis of inequality in medical education, Penn experts, including UPHS CEO Kevin Mahoney, said, “courage is needed to move forward. This courage, though, is most needed from leaders and colleagues in positions of privilege.” FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement