Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Graduate Students ‘Oft-delayed but never deterred,’ Class of 2020 and 2021 grads celebrate Embodying adaptability and persistence, themes of the speech by Angela Duckworth, alums from the classes of 2020 and 2021 returned to campus to make up for a missed milestone. Katherine Unger Baillie, Brandon Baker, Michele W. Berger, Lauren Hertzler, Louisa Shepard ・ May 22, 2022 A celebration of the ‘resilient creativity’ of the Class of 2022 Penn’s 266th Commencement showcased graduates who Interim President Wendell Pritchett said demonstrated an “advanced ability to roll with the challenges.” Brandon Baker ・ May 16, 2022 27 students and recent graduates awarded 2022 Fulbright grants Twenty-seven Penn students and alumni have been awarded Fulbright grants for the 2022-23 academic year, including 18 seniors who will be graduating May 16. Louisa Shepard ・ May 13, 2022 Centuries of Penn Med student stories Medicine has changed immensely throughout the school’s more than 250 years of history, and so has the process of becoming a doctor. From Penn Medicine News ・ May 5, 2022 Moving away from ‘average,’ toward the individual In a course from Annenberg’s David Lydon-Staley, seven graduate students conducted single-participant experiments. This approach, what’s known as an “n of 1,” may better capture the nuances of a diverse population than randomized control trials can. Michele W. Berger , Julie Sloane ・ May 3, 2022 Running to shine a light on mental health Earlier this week, Penn’s Samantha Roecker competed in the Boston Marathon. In the process, she raised more than $45,000 to help nurses struggling as a result of the pandemic, and she broke the world record for fastest marathon in scrubs. Michele W. Berger ・ April 20, 2022 Earth Week offers immersive opportunities to connect with nature Organized by Penn Sustainability, Earth Week, with nearly 50 events running April 17-24, offers a diverse slate of both in-person and online chances to learn about and engage with the environment. Katherine Unger Baillie ・ April 15, 2022 The problem solvers: Student Intervention Services Founded in the wake of 9/11, Student Intervention Services is now a national model that works across the University to support students in times of crisis. Kristina García ・ April 14, 2022 Two Penn affiliates named 2022 Soros Fellows Rishi Goel, a second-year Perelman School of Medicine student, and Kingson Lin, who graduated with bachelor’s and master’s degrees in 2017, are among the 30 recipients of the Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowship for New Americans. Louisa Shepard ・ April 13, 2022 Inspiring the next generation of archive scholars Through Inside the Archive, a course taught by Liliane Weissberg of the School of Arts & Sciences, Penn students explore what an archive is, how history gets written, and what is ahead in a digital future. Brandon Baker ・ April 4, 2022 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Next page ›› Last page Last » In the News Philadelphia Inquirer Don’t let reports of racist acts by Ukrainians against Africans distract from what’s at stake Kimberly St. Julian-Varnon, a Ph.D. candidate in the School of Arts & Sciences, spoke about reports of anti-Black racism in Ukraine and the influence of Russian disinformation. “This idea that Ukraine is solely a white country is false, and it’s harmful. Black and brown people will die in this invasion, and people really need to understand that,” she said. FULL STORY → NPR A closer look at racist biases in the coverage of Ukraine Kimberly St. Julian-Varnon, a Ph.D. student in the School of Arts & Sciences, was interviewed about the mistreatment of Ukraine’s Black residents as they attempt to flee the country. “This is a multi-country problem we’re looking at,” she said. FULL STORY → Axios Leaders decry reported mistreatment of Africans fleeing Ukraine Kimberly St. Julian-Varnon, a doctoral candidate in the School of Arts & Sciences, said there are thousands of Black Ukrainians living in the country’s major cities. FULL STORY → The Washington Post The Ottawa trucker convoy is rooted in Canada’s settler colonial history Taylor Dysart, a Ph.D. candidate in the School of Arts & Sciences, wrote an opinion piece about the legacy of settler colonialism and white supremacy in Canada. “Canada’s history of freedom then, was founded in the unfreedom of Indigenous people,” she said. “This dynamic has been unnoticed and misconstrued by organizers, attendees, and supporters of the Freedom Convoy.” FULL STORY → BuzzFeed.com Congress is trying to figure out what to do about crypto’s colossal carbon footprint Zane Griffin Talley Cooper, a doctoral candidate in the Annenberg School for Communication, said “proof of work” algorithms used to mine and trade cryptocurrencies need to be “intensely regulated.” FULL STORY → Wired The biggest deep fake abuse site is growing in disturbing ways Sophie Maddocks, a doctoral student in the Annenberg School for Communication, said society and law enforcement need to have a zero-tolerance policy for websites that sell fake nude photos of real people. “This harm is going to become part of the sex industry and is going to become profitable; it's going to become normalized,” she said. FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement