Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Amani Carter develops a new study on unmasking coded bias Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Education, Business, & Law Amani Carter develops a new study on unmasking coded bias The Class of 2022 law student works to identify biases and ‘stereotype threat’ in AI and help provide context for the conversation around mitigating those biases. Amani Carter in the Law School’s AI and Bias Lab, taught by Senior Adjunct Professor of Global Leadership Rangita de Silva de Alwis, has developed a new study on Unmasking Coded Bias. Amani Carter (Image: Penn Law News) The mission of the Lab is to identify a new generation of biases and “stereotype threat” in AI and help provide context and nuance to the conversation to mitigate those biases. Unmasking Coded Bias highlights AI and stereotype threat in a new generation of Black students and professionals. It questions how AI can reify and reconstruct bias based on our gender, age, race, and class and creates a new toolbox to be shared with industry leaders and policymakers. “What we find in Amani’s field work is that even when the respondents may not yet have direct experience of bias in AI, the threat itself or what the social psychologist Claude Steele has named “stereotype threat” can profoundly affect our use of AI, threatening to undermine performance and participation, causing both emotional and intellectual reactions affecting our career choices,” says law professor Rangita de Silva de Alwis. “Amani’s work helps us recognize these algorithmic threats shared among a new generation of professionals and points us in the direction of new mitigation tools needed to address these threats.” To assess Black professionals’ and students’ perceptions, Carter surveyed eighty-seven Black professionals and students coupled with an analysis of three-hundred and sixty online professional profiles with the goal of understanding how AI-powered platforms reflect, recreate, and reinforce anti-Black bias. Read more at Penn Law News. Credits From Penn Law Writer Date July 1, 2021 Subtopics Law, Racial Justice, Artificial Intelligence, Research Schools Penn Law Share Twitter Facebook Twitter Facebook Read Next Class of 2023 celebrates Hey Day Campus & Community A celebration of the ‘resilient creativity’ of the Class of 2022 Penn’s 266th Commencement showcased graduates who Interim President Wendell Pritchett said demonstrated an “advanced ability to roll with the challenges.” Campus & Community Ben Franklin: A voice from the past that speaks to our time At the 2022 Silfen Forum, Penn Interim President Wendell Pritchett chatted with filmmaker Ken Burns about his new two-part documentary on Benjamin Franklin. Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Inspiring the next generation of archive scholars Through Inside the Archive, a course taught by Liliane Weissberg of the School of Arts & Sciences, Penn students explore what an archive is, how history gets written, and what is ahead in a digital future. Campus & Community Exploration awaits as Penn Abroad ramps up student trips Two years after the pandemic forced Penn Abroad to brings students home, trips are back on and a busier-than-normal abroad schedule is coming in fall 2022. Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement