Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Stuart Weitzman School of Design Weitzman team helps protect and interpret Lincoln Memorial The Lincoln Memorial is the subject of a new report commissioned by the National Park Service from the Urban Heritage Project at Weitzman. From the Weitzman School of Design ・ May 31, 2022 Weitzman Plaza dedicated as ‘one of Penn’s great gathering places’ The plaza, named for Stuart Weitzman, Wharton Class of 1963, was extensively renovated in 2021 and celebrated on May 13 with a ceremony. Amanda Mott ・ May 19, 2022 City planning students gain critical perspective on the carceral state The Carceral State, a course offered through Penn’s Netter Center for Community Partnerships, explores the issue of mass incarceration in Pennsylvania. From the Weitzman School of Design ・ May 17, 2022 Penn announces plan for Stuart Weitzman Hall at the Stuart Weitzman School of Design The renovation and expansion of historic Morgan Building will create a state-of-the-art facility. Amanda Mott, Michael Grant ・ May 13, 2022 The Sachs Program celebrates fifth year of supporting arts innovation at Penn The Sachs Program for Arts Innovation announced its 2022 cycle of grantees, with new funding for alumni and community partnership projects. Brandon Baker ・ May 10, 2022 Design on display For the first time since design became a major two years ago in the College of Arts and Sciences, 15 seniors created an in-person exhibition to showcase their final projects, interpreting the theme “in search of” in a variety of media. Louisa Shepard ・ May 9, 2022 Senior Eleanor Shemtov is designing a career The design major in the College of Arts and Sciences co-founded a new student publication, t-art, and created a campus community focused on technology, art, and design. Louisa Shepard ・ May 5, 2022 Symposium highlights range and reach of Penn Global research The Penn Global Research and Engagement Grant is supporting 21 faculty-led projects that span research, capacity-building, and development efforts across Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean, India, China, and beyond. Kristen de Groot ・ May 2, 2022 Weitzman School of Design receives gift to establish fellowships and global internships for architecture students A new gift from Aedas, a global architecture and design firm, will establish a fellowship for architecture students to work in Asia. Amanda Mott ・ April 22, 2022 The Clean Water Act at 50 Approaching the half-century mark of this landmark piece of environmental legislation, Penn students, staff, and faculty share their reflections on its legacy, both strengths and shortcomings. Katherine Unger Baillie ・ April 21, 2022 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Next page ›› Last page Last » In the News Philadelphia Inquirer Speed cameras are saving lives and should stay Erick Guerra of the Stuart Weitzman School of Design is quoted on the safety outcomes of speed cameras. FULL STORY → CBS News Black women have the highest eviction rates in the U.S. Akira Drake Rodriguez of the Stuart Weitzman School of Design says Black women are evicted more than any other group in the U.S., and housing insecurity is becoming a growing crisis. FULL STORY → Architectural Record In new exhibit, architecture bridges the U.S.-China divide William Whitaker of the Stuart Weitzman School of Design comments on the best and the brightest architects from China and an exhibition on view at Penn’s Frank Furness-designed Fisher Fine Arts Library that tells the story of Chinese modernism in two parts. FULL STORY → Scientific American Where rising seas threaten drinking water, scientists look for affordable solutions Research led by Allison Lassiter of the Stuart Weitzman School of Design aims to identify water systems along the Atlantic and Gulf coasts that are vulnerable to saltwater intrusion. “Besides being unpleasant to drink, salinized water can harm vulnerable populations, including people with hypertension and pregnant women,” she said. FULL STORY → Philadelphia Inquirer Low-income Philadelphians to receive no-strings-attached cash in antipoverty experiments Vincent Reina of the Stuart Weitzman School of Design and Stacia West, the co-founder and director of Penn’s Center for Guaranteed Income Research, spoke about the benefits of guaranteed income programs. Reina is helping design a pilot program for Philadelphia that will focus on housing outcomes. FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement