Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Literature Undergraduate research projects look at migration from multiple angles The Wolf Undergraduate Humanities forum takes on the topic of migration, with individual research projects ranging from slavery debates within the Jewish Orthodox community to Southeast Asian refugee youth. Kristina García ・ May 26, 2022 Four Penn faculty awarded Guggenheim Fellowships Four faculty have been named 2022 Guggenheim Fellows—Daniel Barber in architecture in the Weitzman School of Design and Kimberly Bowes in classical studies, Guthrie Ramsey in music, and Paul Saint-Amour in English in the School of Arts & Sciences. Louisa Shepard , Louisa Shepard ・ April 8, 2022 Exploring Asian American athletes: Stereotypes and success Asian Americans are competing at the highest levels of sport, a topic discussed in David Eng’s Introduction to Asian American Literature and Culture course in the School of Arts & Sciences. Kristina García ・ April 5, 2022 Alternative literary history A decade of research and writing by English Professor Emily Steiner has resulted in a new book about the work of John Trevisa, a 14th century English author who translated encyclopedias and other reference books, helping to create a body of general knowledge for non-specialists. Louisa Shepard ・ November 18, 2021 A new name and a new director for the Alice Paul Center Melissa E. Sanchez speaks about her research and her new position as director of the Center for Research in Feminist, Queer, and Transgender Studies, formerly the Alice Paul Center. Kristina García ・ September 15, 2021 Reconsiderations of past, present, and future in a new environmental humanities book Featuring contributions from scholars representing a range of disciplines, ‘Timescales: Thinking Across Ecological Temporalities,’ is an outgrowth of the Penn Program for Environmental Humanities. Katherine Unger Baillie ・ May 26, 2021 ‘A Revolution in Rhyme’ While building the Persian language and studies program at Penn, Fatemeh Shams draws from the millennium-old Persian literary tradition to write a new book about poetry and politics in modern Iran. She will embark on her next book project during an upcoming fellowship in Berlin. Louisa Shepard ・ April 23, 2021 Husnaa Haajarah Hashim sees poetry as transformative As poetry is in the national spotlight following the Biden inauguration, junior Husnaa Haajarah Hashim, a Philadelphia Youth Poet Laureate, reflects on her writing and scholarship. Louisa Shepard ・ March 16, 2021 ‘Alone Again in Fukushima’ On the 10th anniversary of the triple disaster of earthquake, tsunami, and nuclear facility destruction, a film and discussion hosted by the Center for East Asian Studies looked at the calamity’s reverberations. Kristen de Groot ・ March 10, 2021 Amateur music-making in the early republic Glenda Goodman, an assistant professor of music, explores how hand-copying musical compositions and amateur performance shaped identity and ideas in the post-Revolutionary War period. From OMNIA ・ February 11, 2021 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Next page ›› Last page Last » In the News KYW Newsradio (Philadelphia) Writer, activist Lorene Cary preserves history through storytelling Lorene Cary of the School of Arts & Sciences was interviewed about her passion for writing and her commitment to preserving Black history through storytelling. FULL STORY → San Francisco Chronicle David Melnick, a Bay Area poetry pioneer and co-founder of Gay Artists and Writers Kollective, dies at 83 Ron Silliman of the School of Arts & Sciences spoke about the life of David Melnick. “David Melnick was ... one of the most fearless and well-read avant-garde poets in the U.S.” said Silliman, who is editing collection of the late poet’s work. “Almost as fierce as his poetry was his sense that he should not become famous, and he often had to be coaxed into any public performances.” FULL STORY → Axios Book bans are back in style John L. Jackson, dean of the Annenberg School for Communication, said the resurgence of attempted book bans has little to do with the content. “It's all about the readers. It's all about the folks who are organizing our contemporary political discourse,” he said. FULL STORY → WHYY (Philadelphia) Regional Roundup – 05/03/21 Fatemeh Shams of the School of Arts & Sciences was interviewed about her new book, “A Revolution in Rhyme,” which explores the role of poetry in modern-day Iran. FULL STORY → The New York Times Dr. Seuss books are pulled, and a ‘cancel culture’ controversy erupts Ebony Elizabeth Thomas of the Graduate School of Education spoke about perceptions of the Seuss estate’s decision to stop selling books with racist imagery. “Folks are not remembering the text itself; they are remembering the affective experiences they had around those texts,” said Thomas. “White children or parents might not have noticed the offensive anti-Asian stereotyping in ‘Mulberry Street.’ I certainly didn’t.” FULL STORY → NBC News The reckoning with Dr. Seuss’ racist imagery has been years in the making Ebony Elizabeth Thomas of the Graduate School of Education spoke about a decision by Dr. Seuss Enterprises to stop publishing six of the late author’s books which contain racist imagery. “We know now that there are anti-Asian stereotypes in ‘And to Think That I Saw It on Mulberry Street.’ ‘The Cat in the Hat’ is minstrelsy,’” she said. “When we know better, we can do better.” FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement