Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo A unique but exemplary academic year: 2020-21 in review Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Campus & Community A unique but exemplary academic year: 2020-21 in review A challenging yet successful year—Penn’s exceptional community of dedicated students, faculty, and staff overcame the world’s most significant obstacles to flourish, from outreach locally through volunteerism, to helping the world globally with mRNA technology. The 2021 academic year highlighted the best of Penn. As academic years go, 2020-21 has been, to say the least, unique. While the word “unprecedented” has reigned supreme as descriptor for these times, here in West Philadelphia, on Penn’s campus and everyone virtually connected from afar, a better word for the last year could be determined. On Aug. 31, the Class of 2024 was welcomed by Penn President Amy Gutmann—and tasked to “make the impossible possible”—to embark on its higher education path in the midst of a global pandemic. Convocation was a virtual affair, with Gutmann relaying her optimism for the future, and assuring students that soon they would be welcome on campus. In the meantime, Penn flourished and evolved. Despite restrictions to on-campus life, one major addition to the campus was the installation of Simone Leigh’s “Brick House,” the first sculpture of and by a Black woman on campus. Committed to its mission of outreach to the Philadelphia community, Penn pledged $100 million to the School District of Philadelphia. Globally, Penn’s impact on the SARS-CoV2 pandemic was monumental, with Penn Medicine’s Drew Weismann and Katalin Karikó’s research on mRNA having led to the platform behind the lifesaving COVID-19 vaccines. And a low-cost, rapid COVID-19 diagnostic test was developed by Penn Medicine’s César de la Fuente. The new year brought some students back to campus for the spring semester, with strict safety guidelines in place to keep everyone safe, including a dedicated team of nurses and volunteers at the campus testing sites. And once COVID-19 vaccines were available to the public, Penn established the Penn Cares COVID-19 Vaccine Clinic, providing long-awaited vaccines to faculty, staff, postdocs, and students. RELATED Celebrating the ‘incomparable’ Class of 2021 A virtual Convocation for Penn’s newest students A Move-In like no other In line with the Penn’s Compact tenet of increasing inclusion and access, the School of Dental Medicine opened its Care Center for Persons with Disabilities. As Penn and the world made progress towards bringing the beginning of the end of the epidemic in sight, Penn students launched the necessary work of reckoning with its history, launching the student-driven Penn and Slavery Project. And with an eye toward the future for the planet, Penn announced its goal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from endowment investments to zero by 2050. With vaccines underway, and many students back on campus, spring on Penn’s campus began showing signs of post-pandemic promise. Athletics resumed in-person, with safety measures and testing in place. For the Class of 2021, a safe, socially-distant, in-person Commencement was a most welcome sight. For everyone graduating, and for everyone in the Penn community, the resilience, determination, and care for each other was what made the 2020-21 school year unique. Credits Tina Rodia Writer Eric Sucar, Scott Spitzer Photographers Denise Henhoeffer Videographer Date June 8, 2021 Subtopics Undergraduate Students, Penn Compact, West Philadelphia, Outreach, Coronavirus Research, Public Health, Faculty Share Twitter Facebook Twitter Facebook Read Next Class of 2023 celebrates Hey Day Campus & Community A celebration of the ‘resilient creativity’ of the Class of 2022 Penn’s 266th Commencement showcased graduates who Interim President Wendell Pritchett said demonstrated an “advanced ability to roll with the challenges.” Campus & Community Ben Franklin: A voice from the past that speaks to our time At the 2022 Silfen Forum, Penn Interim President Wendell Pritchett chatted with filmmaker Ken Burns about his new two-part documentary on Benjamin Franklin. Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Inspiring the next generation of archive scholars Through Inside the Archive, a course taught by Liliane Weissberg of the School of Arts & Sciences, Penn students explore what an archive is, how history gets written, and what is ahead in a digital future. Campus & Community Exploration awaits as Penn Abroad ramps up student trips Two years after the pandemic forced Penn Abroad to brings students home, trips are back on and a busier-than-normal abroad schedule is coming in fall 2022. Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement