Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Outreach Building Penn Medicine’s Pavilion helped launch his career. Now, William Griffin is going places Griffin participated in PennAssist, a program to help graduates of Philadelphia’s career and technical high schools and city residents enter the building trades, and made an impression on the construction management team for the Pavilion. From Penn Medicine News ・ June 1, 2022 Lighting the way for rare disease After finding out about STAC3, a rare disease without a cure, biology major Magnolia Wang of the College of Arts and Sciences set out to raise awareness and advocate for those struggling with the illness. Luis Melecio-Zambrano ・ May 31, 2022 Cosmic Writers brings free creative writing education to school-aged children May graduates Rowana Miller and Manoj Simha lead Cosmic Writers, a project supported by President’s Engagement Prize that provides free creative writing instruction to K-12 students virtually throughout the world. Louisa Shepard ・ May 31, 2022 A vigil in response to recent losses to gun violence In the shadow of the LOVE sculpture, campus ministers and artists offered prayers, readings, and songs, supporting the community and imploring action in the wake of the lives lost in the mass shootings in Buffalo, New York, in Laguna Woods, California, and in Uvalde, Texas. Amanda Mott ・ May 25, 2022 Reimagining the corner store to promote food justice With a 2022 President’s Sustainability Prize, Eli Moraru and Alexandre Imbot will take raw ingredients payable with EBT and turn them into hot, heathy meals while providing nutritional education resources. Kristina García ・ May 23, 2022 Nurse case manager supports her Ukrainian homeland from afar As Russia continues its war on Ukraine, Alena Blain, a nurse case manager at Penn Medicine Princeton Medical Center, collects and packages much needed medical supplies to send to hospitals in Ukraine for treating people injured in the war. From Penn Medicine News ・ May 12, 2022 2022 Projects for Progress awardees continue working with community The second cohort of awardees, a combination of faculty, staff, and students, continue the tradition of commitment to social justice and engagement in the community. Penn Today Staff ・ May 10, 2022 A matter of trust: Community health workers in West Philly As part of the Penn Medicine at Home enterprise, community health workers are one element of Penn’s initiatives to deliver quality care and improve health outside hospital walls. From Penn Medicine News ・ May 9, 2022 In the Galápagos, training community scientists to monitor water quality Both dense human populations and a plethora of wildlife can pose a challenge to marine and public health in the Galápagos Islands. With portable, user-friendly PCR technology, Penn faculty and students are training local scientists and school children to perform water quality research. Katherine Unger Baillie ・ April 28, 2022 Making a game of it: Contests help new moms increase their steps A Penn Medicine study used wearable tech to foster activity in high-risk, diverse populations, specifically postpartum women to reduce their cardiovascular risk. Brandon Lausch ・ April 26, 2022 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Next page ›› Last page Last » Media Contact From Penn Medicine Service in Action In the News Daily Nurse Lauder donates $125M for tuition-free program to recruit and deploy NPs in underserved communities Dean Antonia Villarruel of the School of Nursing is quoted on the Leonard A. Lauder Community Care Nurse Practitioner Program, which will recruit and prepare a diverse cadre of expert nurse practitioners to provide primary care to individuals and families in underserved communities across the U.S. FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement