Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Internal Medicine Exploring racism’s health impact in a VA renal clinic A new study by Penn LDI’s Kevin Jenkins provides new insights into how structural racism impacts Black patients’ lives and treatment experience for chronic kidney disease. Hoag Levins ・ May 24, 2022 How one inflammatory disorder exacerbates another Researchers from the School of Dental Medicine and colleagues from Dresden, Germany demonstrate that an association between conditions such as severe gum disease and arthritis is traceable to the bone marrow. Katherine Unger Baillie ・ April 27, 2022 A possible key to supporting muscle regeneration in Duchenne muscular dystrophy New Perelman School of Medicine research found that restoring a single protein in muscles affected by the genetic disorder Duchenne muscular dystrophy improved their ability to heal. March 31, 2022 No-click system doubles hepatitis C screening orders A Penn Medicine study finds that screening rates climbed to 80% for patients whose doctors didn’t need to opt in to order a screening. From Penn Medicine News ・ March 29, 2022 ‘Mapping’ pancreatic cells at the development of Type 1 diabetes Penn Medicine researchers examine of the underpinnings of the disease by creating a “map” to chart pancreatic islet cells over time. Sophie Kluthe ・ March 8, 2022 Interaction with lung cells transforms asbestos particles To better understand what happens once asbestos enters a human body, researchers in the School of Arts & Sciences took a nanoscale look at the mineral. Katherine Unger Baillie ・ February 24, 2022 A serendipitous finding lends new insight into how atopic dermatitis develops Research from the School of Dental Medicine, the Perelman School of Medicine, and Oak Ridge National Laboratory reveals a mechanism behind the inflammation that is a feature of the common skin disease. Katherine Unger Baillie ・ February 11, 2022 A structural blueprint of nanoparticles to target acute lung inflammation Targeting neutrophils, a type of white blood cell that, when overactive, contributes to acute lung inflammation, is a potential new route to diagnose and treat acute respiratory distress syndrome. From Penn Medicine News ・ January 7, 2022 Heart disease-protective diabetes drug is not used equitably The medication GLP-1 RA treats diabetes and is linked to positive outcomes for heart disease patients, yet a Penn Medicine study has found inequities in its use along racial, ethnic, and economic lines From Penn Medicine News ・ December 20, 2021 Common cardiac device implants and persistent opioid use overlap A new study from Penn Medicine shows that about 12% of patients who receive implantable cardiac devices will continue taking pain medication in the months afterward. Brandon Lausch ・ November 29, 2021 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Next page ›› Last page Last » In the News The New York Times Can a night owl become an early bird? “Your circadian rhythm tendencies are genetic and can’t really be changed,” said Ilene M. Rosen of the Perelman School of Medicine, referring to the body’s innate 24-hour circadian cycles that govern when we wake up and fall asleep. “But the good news is that we can give our clocks some cues that influence it a little bit.” FULL STORY → Science Daily Researchers discover test to predict which patients with rare blood disease will respond to only FDA-approved treatment, and identify alternative therapy David Fajgenbaum and Sheila Pierson of the Perelman School of Medicine discuss their latest research and findings in the treatment of Castleman disease. FULL STORY → Philadelphia Inquirer Tower Health’s liver and kidney transplant program will move to Penn Medicine Tower Health announced Wednesday that instead of closing the liver and kidney transplant program it inherited two years ago from the shuttered Hahnemann University Hospital outright, it will let Penn Medicine take it over. Patient screening and pre- and post-transplant care will continue at Reading Hospital in Berks County, but surgeries will move to Penn’s Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia in mid-December. FULL STORY → The New York Times Organ transplants dive amid virus crisis, start to inch back Peter Reese of the Perelman School of Medicine spoke about the resumption of organ transplants. “Transplant centers and patients really want to get going again, but there are all these questions,” he said. “We need to be finding places that maintained their transplant rates and finding out what they did.” FULL STORY → The New York Times Can melatonin vapes safely help people sleep? Julio Chirinos of the Perelman School of Medicine wrote an editorial to accompany a new study about the effects of marathon running on the heart. “Exercise is great for the entire body, including the arteries,” he said. FULL STORY → U.S. News & World Report What is syphilis, and why are rates rising? Amy Forrestel of the Perelman School of Medicine spoke about the symptoms, spread, and long-term effects of syphilis. If left untreated, the sexually transmitted infection “can wreak a lot of havoc” on the body, said Forrestel. FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement