Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Philosophy Undergraduate research projects look at migration from multiple angles The Wolf Undergraduate Humanities forum takes on the topic of migration, with individual research projects ranging from slavery debates within the Jewish Orthodox community to Southeast Asian refugee youth. Kristina García ・ May 26, 2022 Questioning what we know about dementia Penn researchers are looking into moments of sudden, clear communication in someone with progressive neurodegenerative disease for a deeper understanding of both brain science and philosophy. From Penn Memory Center ・ April 12, 2022 Protecting a singular ecosystem in the Galápagos Michael Weisberg, the Bess W. Heyman President's Distinguished Professor of Philosophy, students, and Ecuador's Ambassador to the United States reflect on the momentous expansion of the Galápagos Marine Reserve. Blake Cole ・ March 29, 2022 Pandemic shifts: Oliver Kaplan on outing and education policy The pandemic led Oliver Kaplan, a senior in the College of Arts and Sciences, to reconsider his academic path. He changed his major to philosophy and now hopes to shape educational policy for LGBTQ+ students. Kristina García ・ March 3, 2022 The philosophy of visual studies Founded 20 years ago, the interdisciplinary major of visual studies creates a bridge for students to combine interests, including philosophy, art history, architecture, fine arts, and psychology. Louisa Shepard ・ January 10, 2022 On the Galápagos, an underwater exploration of marine life In collaboration with a local dive instructor and the students he trained, researchers from Penn and Villanova are learning how human presence affects life on the seafloor around these islands. Michele W. Berger ・ December 20, 2021 Two Penn seniors named 2022 Marshall Scholars Kennedy Crowder and Chinaza Ruth Okonkwo have been named 2022 Marshall Scholars, among 41 chosen in the U.S. this year. Established by the British government, the Marshall Scholarship funds up to three years of study for a graduate degree in any field at an institution in the United Kingdom. Louisa Shepard ・ December 13, 2021 Penn at COP26: By the numbers A look at who is representing the University at this global conference, what they’re focused on, and how it fits into the bigger picture of worldwide climate action. Michele W. Berger ・ November 9, 2021 In These Times: Fear and loathing and science Season three of the School of Arts & Sciences podcast explores scientific ideas that get big reactions. From OMNIA ・ November 1, 2021 The Divine Comedy’s ‘universal message’ Seven centuries years after Dante Alighieri's death on Sept. 14, 1321, his “Divine Comedy,” a poem in which an autobiographical protagonist journeys through hell, purgatory, and paradise, is still widely influential. Kristina García ・ September 13, 2021 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Next page ›› Last page Last » Media Contact Michele W. Berger Senior Science News Officer mwberger@upenn.edu In the News Philadelphia Inquirer When should we mind our business right now? Here’s how to decide Sukaina Hirji of the School of Arts & Sciences offered advice about when to intervene in a variety of scenarios. “Sometimes you have to speak up. Sometimes you have to stay in your lane. There is no easy answer,” she said. FULL STORY → NPR ‘Can we change social norms?’ Cristina Bicchieri of the School of Arts and Sciences joins a philosophical discussion about the possibility of changing social norms. FULL STORY → Christian Science Monitor Grab your moral compass: ‘The Good Place’ takes philosophy mainstream Errol Lord of the School of Arts and Sciences offered commentary on the Emmy-nominated series “The Good Place,” which regularly grapples with ethical issues. “I don’t think there has ever been a network sitcom that talks about philosophers in this way,” said Lord. FULL STORY → Inside Higher Ed 7 hours a week on existential despair In a uniquely reflective course taught by Justin McDaniel of the School of Arts and Sciences, students meet weekly to read an entire book cover to cover and then discuss. Noting the quality of the resulting discourse, McDaniel said, “it’s the best conversation I’ve ever had in a classroom.” FULL STORY → The New York Times The Pain and Promise of Black Women in Philosophy Anita Allen of the Law School was interviewed about the obstacles black women encounter in the predominately white male field of philosophy. “My vision is for a more inclusive, self-aware and publicly engaged profession whose leaders serve as strong ambassadors for our vital share of the humanities,” said Allen. FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement