Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Lauren Hertzler Executive Communications Manager hertzler@upenn.edu 215-898-1423 Talking admissions with Whitney Soule As vice provost and dean of admissions, Soule is challenged daily with thinking strategically about undergraduate enrollment at Penn—from recruitment to application processes and all that goes into admitting a class, to how financial aid and retention fits into the mix. Lauren Hertzler ・ May 23, 2022 ‘Oft-delayed but never deterred,’ Class of 2020 and 2021 grads celebrate Embodying adaptability and persistence, themes of the speech by Angela Duckworth, alums from the classes of 2020 and 2021 returned to campus to make up for a missed milestone. Katherine Unger Baillie, Brandon Baker, Michele W. Berger, Lauren Hertzler, Louisa Shepard ・ May 22, 2022 Celebrating the newest President’s Prize winners Interim President Wendell Pritchett noted at the luncheon that this year’s recipients represent the biggest cohort yet—a testament to the “incredible strength of our applicant pool.” Lauren Hertzler ・ May 5, 2022 Class of 2023 celebrates Hey Day Marking their official senior status, it’s the first time the students have gathered as a whole since Convocation in 2019. Lauren Hertzler ・ April 28, 2022 Du Bois College House celebrates 50 years For five decades, the living and learning space has served as a home away from home for students, and the community has evolved into a family. Lauren Hertzler ・ April 6, 2022 With open arms, a hearty welcome to Penn’s incoming president M. Elizabeth ‘Liz’ Magill was confirmed as the University’s ninth president at a March 4 Trustees meeting. A cheerful procession down Locust Walk followed. Lauren Hertzler ・ March 4, 2022 Q&A with Penn’s Interim President Wendell Pritchett Pritchett, who will serve as the University’s leader until the end of June, discusses his background, his goals, and what he is looking forward to most this semester. Lauren Hertzler ・ February 22, 2022 A hearty thank you from Penn’s longtime leader Former President Amy Gutmann offered gratitude for and bid farewell to the Penn community who she says has become her family throughout the years. Lauren Hertzler ・ February 11, 2022 Engaging Minds event continues ‘pushing knowledge to new frontiers’ Penn’s annual Engaging Minds event featured three faculty experts whose innovative research is changing the way we think and talk about policing, immigration, and suicides. Lauren Hertzler ・ December 14, 2021 After nearly three decades at Penn, Maureen Rush set to retire The passionate public safety leader has made a big impact on campus and in Philadelphia. Lauren Hertzler ・ December 10, 2021 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Next page Next › Last page Last » Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement