Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Health Sciences Urging caution but not panic on monkeypox Building Penn Medicine’s Pavilion helped launch his career. Now, William Griffin is going places Lighting the way for rare disease COVID-19 vaccines for young children As the pandemic enters its third year, kids under five can’t get vaccinated. Researchers explain what’s been unfolding with the vaccine authorization process. Katherine Unger Baillie ・ February 22, 2022 The history, and future, of Black doctors at Penn A recent article in Penn Medicine magazine highlights four Black graduates and physicians over 200 years, and the ongoing efforts today to build a more diverse and inclusive community. From Penn Medicine News ・ February 21, 2022 Penn receives momentous gift to support Korean studies, neurovascular surgery, and the Wharton School The $25 million gift from James Joo-Jin Kim and Agnes Kim, and the James and Agnes Kim Family Foundation will support a range of initiatives at Penn, including the James Joo-Jin Kim Center for Korean Studies in the School of Arts & Sciences. Amanda Mott ・ February 17, 2022 Perceptions shaped social behavior during the pandemic Research from Penn psychologists found that Americans who most feared losing their connections continued interacting with others, paradoxically acting in ways that risked prolonging disease-mitigating social restrictions. Michele W. Berger ・ February 17, 2022 Caring for, and learning from, Indigenous communities With support of Penn’s Center for Global Health, Robin Canada started a clinical rotation program for Penn at various Indian Health Service medical centers. Alex Gardner ・ February 16, 2022 Combating health misinformation A new article from Penn Nursing explains how unreliable and false health information accelerated during the pandemic, and how social media platforms amplified the problem. From Penn Nursing News ・ February 15, 2022 Helen Octavia Dickens: An expanded view of a trailblazing OB-GYN Helen Octavia Dickens was not only the first African American woman faculty member in Obstetrics and Gynecology at Penn, but a vital leader in the community advocating for preventive health for women and teen girls of color. From Penn Medicine News ・ February 15, 2022 Penn announces new tuition-free program to recruit, train, and deploy nurse practitioners to underserved communities across the U.S. $125 million gift from Leonard A. Lauder to transform nursing care Ed Federico, Ron Ozio ・ February 14, 2022 A serendipitous finding lends new insight into how atopic dermatitis develops Research from the School of Dental Medicine, the Perelman School of Medicine, and Oak Ridge National Laboratory reveals a mechanism behind the inflammation that is a feature of the common skin disease. Katherine Unger Baillie ・ February 11, 2022 Predicting depression and PTSD risk after trauma A first-of-its-kind study has assessed the performance of two predictive PTSD screeners to determine their performance in a population heavily impacted by traumatic injury—urban Black men in the United States. From Penn Nursing News ・ February 9, 2022 Pagination First page « First Previous page ‹‹ … Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Current page 9 Page 10 Page 11 Page 12 Page 13 … Next page ›› Last page Last » In the News “PBS NewsHour” Share on Facebook Share on Twitter The coronavirus will likely evade Paxlovid eventually. What that will mean for the pandemic is unclear Sara Cherry of the Perelman School of Medicine argues that researchers weren’t monitoring enough rebound cases of COVID for possible resistance. FULL STORY → Reuters Fact Check-Monkeypox is not the same as AIDS or ‘VAIDS’ caused by the COVID-19 vaccine Stephen Gluckman& of the Perelman School of Medicine says there is no evidence of immunodeficiency being related to COVID-19 vaccines. FULL STORY → TechiLive Bystander CPR more likely in states requiring teen training Victoria Vetter of the Perelman School of Medicine comments on how state laws mandating CPR training in high schools were associated with a higher likelihood of bystander CPR for out-of-hospital cardiac arrest. FULL STORY → Marketplace (NPR) Evusheld offers vulnerable Americans protection from COVID. But getting it has been complicated Aimee Payne of the Perelman School of Medicine comments on the decision to get a COVID vaccine amongst patients with rare autoimmune diseases. FULL STORY → The New York Times After stroke, doctors look at Fetterman’s campaign trail prospects Rajat Deo of the Perelman School of Medicine agreed with the use of defibrillators in the care of Senate nominee John Fetterman and suspects he has a damaged heart. FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement