Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Coronavirus Research Dan Treglia on the caregivers lost to COVID The associate professor of practice in the School of Arts & Sciences identifies the number of children who have lost parents and caregivers to COVID-19 and how to support them. From OMNIA ・ May 24, 2022 Genomic differences selected through evolution may offer clues as to why COVID-19 outcomes vary widely A team from the University of Pennsylvania analyzed genomic data from global populations, including thousands of ethnically diverse Africans, to identify genetic variants that may be associated with clinical COVID-19 outcomes. Katherine Unger Baillie ・ May 19, 2022 COVID mortality age patterns changed significantly during pandemic Between March 2020 and October 2021, death rates from the virus decreased for those 80 and older and increased for those 25 to 54, results that held across racial and ethnic groups. Michele W. Berger ・ May 17, 2022 DNA analysis finds links between severe COVID and other conditions Through analyzing human DNA samples in a large biobank, Penn Medicine researchers found associations between genetic variants with severe COVID and conditions involving blood clots and respiratory issues. From Penn Medicine News ・ May 4, 2022 A Wharton initiative championing global change The Ideas for Action Wharton undergraduate student club is a joint initiative with the Zicklin Center for Business Ethics Research to engage youth around the world in developing solutions to global challenges. Dee Patel ・ April 26, 2022 COVID-19 turned everything upside down. What has Penn Medicine’s innovation team learned? To many in health care—including those in Penn Medicine’s Center for Health Care Innovation—the COVID-19 pandemic is a crisis from which to find the next great learning opportunity. From Penn Medicine News ・ March 22, 2022 From a pandemic, scientific insights poised to impact more than just COVID-19 Pivoting to study SARS-CoV-2, many scientists on campus have launched new research projects that address the challenges of the pandemic but also prepare us to confront future challenges. Katherine Unger Baillie ・ March 18, 2022 Belief in vaccination misinformation predicts attitudes toward vaccinating children The survey data come from the fifth wave of the Annenberg Science Knowledge survey, a nationally representative sample of U.S. adults empaneled by the Annenberg Public Policy Center in April 2021 to track attitudes and behavior in the pandemic. March 11, 2022 How to safeguard your sleep from insomnia over COVID-19 worry Penn Medicine research have tips for helping insomnia, which has seen an increase throughout the pandemic. It’s not just the disease—worrying about COVID has contributed to lack of sleep. Hannah Messinger ・ March 4, 2022 Six takeaways from two years of online learning As two full years of this explosion in virtual learning approaches, Penn GSE associate professor and director of the Penn Center for Learning Analytics Ryan Baker shares some thoughts on best practices, and which practices should be avoided. From Penn GSE ・ March 2, 2022 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Next page ›› Last page Last » In the News Business Wire Ross Prize awarded to mRNA technology, COVID-19 vaccine innovators Katalin Karikó and Drew Weissman of the Perelman School of Medicine will be honored at a June 7 symposium in New York City for their research that enabled COVID-19 vaccines. FULL STORY → Fox 29 (Philadelphia) Local doctor answers COVID-19 long haul questions Benjamin Abramoff of the Perelman School of Medicine answers questions about COVID long haul symptoms. FULL STORY → San Francisco Chronicle Could a single vaccine fend off all versions of COVID-19? Here’s where the science stands Drew Weissman of the Perelman School of Medicine is featured for work he is doing to develop a pancoronavirus vaccine, a vaccine that would offer protection from all types of coronaviruses like COVID-19, SARS, and others. FULL STORY → WHYY (Philadelphia) COVID vaccine’s mRNA technology also works for an HIV vaccine, study shows Drew Weissman of the Perelman School of Medicine led a study that proves that mRNA technology could be used to deliver an HIV vaccine. Future research will explore developing mRNA vaccines for herpes, influenza, and other viruses. FULL STORY → NPR Researcher finds 'stunning' rate of COVID among deer. Here's what it means for humans Research led by Andrew Marques, a Ph.D. student in the Perelman School of Medicine, found new evidence of COVID-19 spillover from humans into wild deer. How exactly the virus was transmitted to deer has yet to be determined. FULL STORY → Philadelphia Inquirer COVID-19 has now been found in 29 kinds of animals, which has scientists concerned Eman Anis of the School of Veterinary Medicine, Frederic Bushman of the Perelman School of Medicine, and Suresh Kuchipudi of Penn State spoke about the spread of COVID-19 in animals. Because there is less surveillance of the virus in non-human populations, “It could be evolving in hosts we are not aware of,” Anis said. FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement