Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo A message from University of Pennsylvania Board of Trustees Chair Scott L. Bok Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Campus & Community A message from University of Pennsylvania Board of Trustees Chair Scott L. Bok Bok today announced that former Provost Wendell Pritchett has been selected to serve as Interim President of the University, effective at such time as Amy Gutmann may be confirmed and resign to serve as Ambassador to Germany. Scott Bok, Chair of the University of Pennsylvania Board of Trustees, today announced that former Provost Wendell Pritchett has been selected to serve as Interim President of the University, effective at such time as Amy Gutmann may be confirmed and resign to serve as Ambassador to Germany. Gutmann, who had previously announced that she would conclude her presidency this year, would step down from her position if confirmed and prior to being sworn in as Ambassador. Pritchett would serve in the role through June 30, 2022. On July 1, 2022, M. Elizabeth “Liz” Magill will begin her tenure as the ninth President of Penn, subject to a vote by the full Board of Trustees at their March meeting. “Pending Amy’s confirmation, we are very fortunate to have someone with Wendell’s experience and stature to be able to step in and lead Penn through the transition to the start of Liz Magill’s presidency,” said Bok. “Wendell did an exceptional job as Provost. He knows the issues, he knows the people, and he has a deep understanding of Penn’s values and priorities. All of us who care about Penn are pleased and grateful that Wendell Pritchett has agreed to fill this important role for our University.” Former Provost Wendell Pritchett has been selected as Interim President of the University. Pritchett served as Penn Provost from July 1, 2017 through December 31, 2021. He took a leave from his post during the fall semester to attend to a medical issue, and following a successful recovery returned January 1 as Senior Advisor to the President. He plans to return to his faculty position in the Law School in July. “I’m very pleased to help during this important transition at Penn,” said Pritchett. “I care passionately about this institution—its faculty, staff and students. As we continue to work our way through the pandemic, there are many challenges ahead of us this semester, but we have an extraordinary team in place and I have every confidence that the months ahead will see the University continue to shine with new research discoveries, extraordinary patient care, continued excellence in the classroom and a caring commitment to our community.” Pritchett earned a B.A. in political science from Brown University in 1986 and received his J.D. from Yale Law School in 1991. In 1997 he earned a Ph.D. in history from Penn. After completing his doctorate, he joined the faculty at Baruch College-City University of New York where he taught courses in post-bellum American history, American legal history, nonprofit law and the history of immigration to the United States. He joined the Penn Law faculty in 2002 as an assistant professor of law, was promoted to full professor in 2006 and served as associate dean for academic affairs in 2006-07. Pritchett served as vice chair (2008-10) and chair (2010-11) of the Redevelopment Authority of Philadelphia and served as Mayor Nutter’s appointee to the School Reform Commission in 2011-14. He chaired the board of Community Legal Services of Philadelphia in 2005-08 and was co-chair of the World Class Great Philadelphia Initiative of the Economy League of Greater Philadelphia. After serving as Chancellor of Rutgers-Camden, which he led from 2009-2014, Pritchett rejoined Penn in 2014 and is currently the James S. Riepe Presidential Professor of Law and Education. Credits Ron Ozio Media Contact Date February 4, 2022 Subtopics President, University Announcements, University Appointments, Provost Schools Penn Law Share Twitter Facebook Twitter Facebook Read Next Class of 2023 celebrates Hey Day Campus & Community A celebration of the ‘resilient creativity’ of the Class of 2022 Penn’s 266th Commencement showcased graduates who Interim President Wendell Pritchett said demonstrated an “advanced ability to roll with the challenges.” Campus & Community Ben Franklin: A voice from the past that speaks to our time At the 2022 Silfen Forum, Penn Interim President Wendell Pritchett chatted with filmmaker Ken Burns about his new two-part documentary on Benjamin Franklin. Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Inspiring the next generation of archive scholars Through Inside the Archive, a course taught by Liliane Weissberg of the School of Arts & Sciences, Penn students explore what an archive is, how history gets written, and what is ahead in a digital future. Campus & Community Exploration awaits as Penn Abroad ramps up student trips Two years after the pandemic forced Penn Abroad to brings students home, trips are back on and a busier-than-normal abroad schedule is coming in fall 2022. Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement