Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Sports Baseball history, American history Women’s rowing team revs up for first NCAA tourney Quakers ante up for postseason play Penn Athletics hires Liz Nobis as first-ever mental health professional Nobis earned her Ph.D. in clinical psychology from Biola University’s Rosemead School of Psychology in 2021 and has been serving as a postdoctoral fellow at Penn’s Counseling Services for the past year. Penn Today Staff ・ May 18, 2022 Handley named Ivy League Player of the Year The senior midfielder is just the fourth player in the history of the men’s lacrosse program to be selected conference Player of the Year, and the first in 31 years. Greg Johnson ・ May 11, 2022 Double champs On Sunday, the men’s lacrosse team won its second consecutive Ivy League Tournament title and the women’s track & field team earned its third straight Outdoor Ivy Heps Championship. Greg Johnson ・ May 9, 2022 Men’s tennis team advances to first NCAA tournament The Quakers have earned an at-large bid and will take on Virginia Commonwealth University on Friday in Charlottesville, Virginia. Greg Johnson ・ May 4, 2022 The 126th running of the Penn Relays The Relays returned to Franklin Field last Thursday through Saturday for the first time since 2019. Penn Today Staff ・ May 2, 2022 Prince Emili signs with Buffalo Bills The senior defensive lineman signed with the defending AFC East champions following last week’s NFL Draft. Greg Johnson ・ May 2, 2022 The return of the Penn Relays, directed by Steve Dolan Dolan, the Frank Dolson Director of the Penn Relays, discusses the resumption of the world-famous meet after a two-year break, notable athletes who will be competing, new programming and features, and what makes the Relays so special. Greg Johnson ・ April 27, 2022 Block buoys Red & Blue by Big Green The freshman attacker had a career-high eight points in Penn’s 12-4 win over Dartmouth on Saturday in New Hampshire. Greg Johnson ・ April 25, 2022 Talking squash with Aly Abou Eleinen The senior on the men’s squash team discusses what he enjoys about the sport, his training and preparation, the team’s progression and record-breaking season, and the life of a professional squash player. Greg Johnson ・ April 22, 2022 A toast to dear old Penn student-athletes At the Quaker’s Choice Awards on Wednesday evening at the Palestra, Penn Athletics presented its major intercollegiate senior awards to five student-athletes. Greg Johnson ・ April 21, 2022 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Next page ›› Last page Last » In the News Philadelphia Inquirer Taylor Jenkins got his start as a Penn student trying to help kids in West Philly. Now he’s one of the NBA’s top coaches Jenkins, one of just two NBA head coaches who didn’t play college ball. He was an economics major at Penn, coaching in a youth league at Sayre High School in West Philadelphia. Now he’s a finalist for the league’s Coach of the Year Award and his Grizzlies are championship contenders. FULL STORY → The New York Times Lia Thomas wins an N.C.A.A. swimming title With her victory in Atlanta, Thomas became the first openly transgender woman to win an N.C.A.A. swimming championship in the 500-yard freestyle. FULL STORY → Philadelphia Inquirer Fran McCaffery, returning to the NCAA Tournament with Iowa, was nicknamed ‘White Magic’ in his Sonny Hill League days McCaffery, who played at La Salle College High and Penn and whose game revolved around slick hand balling, earned the nickname playing alongside Gene Banks and Lewis "Black Magic" Lloyd in the famous Sonny Hill League. He will be taking the Hawkeyes into the NCAA Tournament this week for the sixth time in his 12 seasons. FULL STORY → Philadelphia Inquirer Penn’s Steve Donahue reflects on going from a 3-10 start to the Ivy tournament Penn finished the regular season with a 9-5 record, good for third place in the standings, and 12-15 overall, after an injury-wracked season for key players. FULL STORY → Sports Illustrated ‘I am Lia’: The trans swimmer dividing America tells her story In her first year swimming for the Penn women’s team after three seasons competing against men, Penn senior Lia Thomas throttled her competition. She set records en route to becoming the nation’s most powerful female collegiate swimmer. “I just want to show trans kids and younger trans athletes that they’re not alone,” she says. “They don’t have to choose between who they are and the sport they love.” FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement