Donate Now Impact Priorities Stories Progress Recognition Give Giving Societies Always Donors Matching Gifts Ways to Give Engage Volunteers Reunions Young Alumni Events Explore information for… Volunteers Parents Students Search for: FAQs Contact Us MVP Explore information for… Volunteers Parents Students The Penn Fund Impact Asset 25 Impact The Penn Fund ensures that every gift matters. Your collective impact as alumni makes a tangible difference in the lives of Penn undergraduate students today. Gifts that count toward The Penn Fund are used immediately and provide instant support to all aspects of campus life and learning. Priorities Stories Progress Recognition Give Give There are many ways to support the University and The Penn Fund’s mission to help undergraduate students explore big ideas, conduct original research with acclaimed faculty, and discover the resources they need to foster a truly exceptional undergraduate experience. Giving Societies Always Donors Matching Gifts Ways to Give Engage Asset 24 Engage Stay involved in the Quaker community and show your Penn pride long after graduation. Your generous gift of time and enthusiastic support—especially within reunion years—helps provide critical support to undergraduate students at the University. Volunteers Reunions Young Alumni Events Search for: Donate Now What Is The Penn Fund? What Is The Penn Fund? Since 1927, gifts to The Penn Fund—from undergraduate alumni and parents like you—have made a profound and immediate impact on all aspects of student life and learning at the University by providing grant-based financial aid packages to undergraduates, supporting enhancements to academic programs and campus technology, and fostering community through student clubs and organizations. This longstanding tradition of loyal generosity allows donors to support the University’s greatest needs and highest priorities through the general fund, long-term scholarship support, and special reunion class projects. How do we support Undergraduates at Penn? Undergraduate Financial Aid Residential and Campus Life Academic Enhancement Explore Our Impact Learn About Giving Get Involved Donate Now Undergraduate Alumni and Parent Giving Program The Penn Fund opens doors to opportunity… View Our Impact ...and delivers support where it’s needed most. Read Hakiem’s Story Student Story “Penn challenges me to unveil the potential I never realized I had.” Related Priorities Undergraduate Financial Aid Read Eva’s Story Student Story “The passion I see in the people I’ve met at Penn is inspiring—and helps my own passion grow.” Related Priorities Undergraduate Financial Aid Read David and Lolita’s Story Alumni Donor Story “The DuBois College House Scholars Fund might actually help students stay in school. Our collective support could be a real game-changer.” Related Priorities Undergraduate Financial Aid View All Stories Your gift makes a real and immediate impact on the lives of students at Penn today. Give your treasure. Gifts of any size that count toward The Penn Fund help power the University and open doors to transformative experiences through support of undergraduate student life and learning. Learn About Giving Give your time. Volunteer as a member of your class giving committee to honor your milestone reunion or encourage your friends and peers to give during The Penn Fund’s annual Giving Red and Blue Day. Your time and passion enable The Penn Fund to deliver on its promise to the University in so many ways. Get Involved The Latest Thursday, March 24, 2022 Giving Red and Blue Day On behalf of everyone on our team, thank you very much to the generous undergraduate alumni and members of the Quaker community who supported Giving Red and Blue Day. Your collective impact will be felt in support of student life and learning across the University. Though this year’s effort is over, we welcome you to explore our website to learn more about how to make a difference through The Penn Fund any and every day. View Our Impact Learn More About Penn Fund Dollars News from the University Stay Informed About Penn's COVID-19 Response Stay Connected Follow us on Instagram Worth Noting It starts with an idea. An idea that is sparked by a passion to do good, to make change, to leave an impact. At Penn, we are inspiring impact every day. Impact that is ignited by our students, faculty and alumni. This impact does not discriminate or fear differences. This impact is far reaching across the globe in all communities…and it lives on indefinitely. It inspires others to strive to achieve the unthinkable and the unimaginable – and it starts at Penn. Learn More from instagram View 42 0 Open Why do Jenny Godman C’17 and Sydney Acquaye C’19 L’23 volunteer for The Penn Fund? Jenny: "I volunteer because I want to give back to the school that shaped who I am as a person. I love Penn with all of my heart and am so thankful that I had the opportunity to learn and grow there." --- Sydney: "I volunteer with The Penn Fund because I LOVE Penn and I want to help ensure that current and future students get to benefit from their time there as much as I did. My four years at Penn were truly life-changing, and I enjoyed them even more because I got to share them with my sister!" Thank you for all that you do for Penn, Jenny and Sydney! #LOVEThePennFund #AllForPennPennForAll ... 42 0 View 58 1 Open Why do Jenny Levy C’10 and Mitchell Chan C’18 volunteer for The Penn Fund? Jenny: "As a Penn graduate I have come to see the extraordinary ways in which my Penn education fostered my intellectual, professional and personal growth. I am enormously grateful and devoted to giving back to Penn. Many generations of my family have proudly cheered for the red and blue and there is nothing more satisfying than carrying on the Penn family tradition!" --- Mitchell: "Penn gave me a wealth of opportunities to explore new things, hear new perspectives, and learn from the ideas and people shaping the modern world—all while surrounded by friends. The connections, mentors, and experiences I gained at Penn continue to influence me today. Penn teaches students how to aim for success without losing sight of what matters, an important retrospective lesson in today's world. I am thrilled that the Penn Fund is so deeply invested in preserving the quality and depth of a Penn education for students." Thank you for all that you do for Penn, Mitchell and Jenny! #LOVEThePennFund #AllForPennPennForAll ... 58 1 View 32 3 Open We only got a few correct responses to our first #FindItFriday post last month, but this one should be a piece of cake! Can anyone tell us where to find this iconic campus landmark? #FindItFriday #lovethepennfund ... 32 3 View 40 0 Open What better way is there to kick off the long weekend than with another rousing edition of #FindItFriday? Can anyone tells us where you can find this piece of iron work? The Latin phrase seen in the picture translates to, "We shall find a way or we shall make one." These are inspiring words as we try to navigate the challenging times we may find ourselves in. #LoveThePennFund #Penn #PennAlumni ... 40 0 View 54 3 Open Leading up to Giving Red and Blue Day we will be highlighting some more of our amazing volunteers who are working to make Thursday, June 4, a success. Why do sisters Katlyn & Samantha Grasso (W’15 and C’18 respectively) volunteer for The Penn Fund? “We volunteer with The Penn Fund because it allows us to give students access to an incredible undergraduate experience. The Penn Fund changes students’ lives and we’re passionate about supporting an organization that has such a big impact.” Thank you for all you do for Penn, Katlyn & Samantha! #LOVEThePennFund #AllForPennPennForAll ... 54 3 View 29 0 Open We're looking for Quakers to share why they #LOVEThePennFund. Help current @uofpenn undergraduate students thrive by lending your support and spreading the word. Share one of ours or post your own message on October 27 with the hashtag #LOVEThePennFund for a chance to win Penn swag! Head to the link in our bio for more information! ... 29 0 View 27 0 Open Love @uofpenn? When you reflect on the special memories from your time on campus and the newer moments you have shared with alumni friends – we genuinely hope the answer is yes! On Tuesday, October 27, we're inviting you to Show Penn Some Love by giving to The Penn Fund. You have the power to create real impact by supporting student life and learning. Give today at the link in our bio! #LOVEThePennFund ... 27 0 Follow us on Instagram Make it a red and blue dream come true. Penn undergraduate alumni and parents have the opportunity to make a real difference for those who follow in their footsteps or their own students who attend the University today. Participation at any level will create a direct and immediate impact on campus. Learn About Giving Volunteer Give Now University of Pennsylvania Suite 300 2929 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-5099 Impact Priorities Stories Progress Recognition Give Giving Societies Always Donors Matching Gifts Ways to Give Engage Volunteers Reunions Young Alumni Events FAQs Contact Us Volunteer Portal © 2019 Penn Fund. All right reserved. Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues & Get Help Instagram Facebook Twitter Flickr Top