Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Public Policy How price shocks in formative years scar consumption for life Teens who experienced gas price shocks of the 1970s drive less in later years, according to experts at Wharton and the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia. From Knowledge at Wharton ・ May 23, 2022 Course shows students how Washington really works Penn and George Mason University students traveled to Washington, D.C. every Friday this spring for a class that gives the inside scoop on policymaking inside the Beltway. Kristen de Groot ・ April 26, 2022 Islands on the climate front line Perry World House’s Global Shifts Colloquium looked at how islands can protect their people, build resilient communities, and safeguard their environment in the climate crisis. Kristen de Groot ・ April 25, 2022 Anti-LGBTQ measures Penn Law’s Tobias Wolff discusses the Florida “Don’t Say Gay” bill and a Texas directive on transgender children. Kristen de Groot ・ March 24, 2022 Belief in vaccination misinformation predicts attitudes toward vaccinating children The survey data come from the fifth wave of the Annenberg Science Knowledge survey, a nationally representative sample of U.S. adults empaneled by the Annenberg Public Policy Center in April 2021 to track attitudes and behavior in the pandemic. March 11, 2022 Who’s at greatest risk to encounter the criminal legal system in the U.S.? New work from Penn, Princeton, and Washington University in St. Louis finds that for young people of color, contact with the system begins early and is incredibly widespread. Michele W. Berger ・ January 18, 2022 Preparing, and paying for, climate change-induced disasters In the wake of a series of unusual and devastating December tornadoes, Carolyn Kousky of the Wharton Risk Management and Decision Processes Center tells Penn Today about strategies for resilience and recovery. Katherine Unger Baillie ・ December 21, 2021 Perry World House explores the end of asylum In a Perry World House talk, political scientist Michael Jones-Correa of the School of Arts & Sciences discussed the end of asylum, “one of the most pressing issues of our time,” he said. Kristina García ・ December 10, 2021 Looking at community policing in the Global South A collaborative study, co-authored by a group of researchers, including political scientists Dorothy Kronick and Guy Grossman of the School of Arts & Sciences, showed no significant positive effect associated with community policing across a range of countries Kristen de Groot ・ December 1, 2021 2020 voting report: By the numbers Penn students voted in unprecedented numbers during the 2020 presidential election, in part due to the voter-engagement program Penn Leads the Vote, which recently won the 2021 ALL IN Democracy Challenge Best Action Plan Award. Kristina García ・ November 12, 2021 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Next page ›› Last page Last » In the News Philadelphia Inquirer Philly’s return of masks gets both eyerolls and support from residents. Can health officials bridge this divide? Kathleen Hall Jamieson of the Annenberg Public Policy Center is featured in a story about Philadelphia’s impending return to mandatory masking in indoor public places. FULL STORY → Philadelphia Inquirer Nearly 4 million U.S. children were pushed into poverty when the child tax credit expansion ended Pilar Gonalons-Pons of the School of Arts & Sciences said the immediate impact of letting the child tax credit expire proves that “keeping children in poverty is a policy choice.” “When we use these tools, the damaging experience of poverty among children can be remedied. When we don’t, we allow it to continue,” she said. FULL STORY → Philadelphia Inquirer A pilot project to address the affordable housing crisis in Philly hits delays and opposition Benjamin Keys of the Wharton School said a pilot program that uses a land trust model to create affordable housing units in Philadelphia could help residents. “I think of it as one more financing tool in the toolkit, and one that should absolutely be explored and tested,” he said. FULL STORY → The New York Times Cash aid to poor mothers increases brain activity in babies, study finds  Martha J. Farah of the School of Arts & Sciences commented on a study that found alleviating maternal poverty with cash assistance increased brain activity in babies. “It’s proof that just giving the families more money, even a modest amount of more money, leads to better brain development,” she said. FULL STORY → The New York Times How $1,000 a month in guaranteed income is helping NYC mothers Amy Castro of the School of Social Policy & Practice said “time scarcity” keeps many poor families trapped in poverty. “If you’re struggling to make ends meet and you’re knitting together two or three part-time jobs,” she said, “you don’t have time to plan for the future or even to think.” FULL STORY → The New York Times Federal rental assistance is running out, with tenants still in need Vincent Reina of the Stuart Weitzman School of Design spoke about the pandemic’s evolving effects on U.S. renters. “Historically, we have had a nonexistent housing safety net nationally. Then we suddenly have this allocation of resources, and we build this whole new infrastructure. Now it’s about to go away, and we have no idea if it will ever be rebuilt.” FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement