Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Alumni Cosmic Writers brings free creative writing education to school-aged children May graduates Rowana Miller and Manoj Simha lead Cosmic Writers, a project supported by President’s Engagement Prize that provides free creative writing instruction to K-12 students virtually throughout the world. Louisa Shepard ・ May 31, 2022 ‘Oft-delayed but never deterred,’ Class of 2020 and 2021 grads celebrate Embodying adaptability and persistence, themes of the speech by Angela Duckworth, alums from the classes of 2020 and 2021 returned to campus to make up for a missed milestone. Katherine Unger Baillie, Brandon Baker, Michele W. Berger, Lauren Hertzler, Louisa Shepard ・ May 22, 2022 Weitzman Plaza dedicated as ‘one of Penn’s great gathering places’ The plaza, named for Stuart Weitzman, Wharton Class of 1963, was extensively renovated in 2021 and celebrated on May 13 with a ceremony. Amanda Mott ・ May 19, 2022 Penn announces plan for Stuart Weitzman Hall at the Stuart Weitzman School of Design The renovation and expansion of historic Morgan Building will create a state-of-the-art facility. Amanda Mott, Michael Grant ・ May 13, 2022 27 students and recent graduates awarded 2022 Fulbright grants Twenty-seven Penn students and alumni have been awarded Fulbright grants for the 2022-23 academic year, including 18 seniors who will be graduating May 16. Louisa Shepard ・ May 13, 2022 Trailblazing Penn alumna Sadie T.M. Alexander gets posthumous honor The American Economic Association named Alexander, who earned economics and law degrees at Penn a century ago, a 2022 Distinguished Fellow. Kristen de Groot ・ May 2, 2022 Rounding the bases and finding home at the Kelly Writers House Former Major League Baseball centerfielder Doug Glanville spoke with students about his life and career in the seminar created and taught by English Professor Al Filreis and during a public reading and conversation. Louisa Shepard ・ April 29, 2022 Weitzman School of Design receives gift to establish fellowships and global internships for architecture students A new gift from Aedas, a global architecture and design firm, will establish a fellowship for architecture students to work in Asia. Amanda Mott ・ April 22, 2022 $17.5 million gift signals new era for Penn Athletics A generous commitment from Wharton alumnus Jay Alix will support the construction of a new indoor track & field facility, the first of its kind in greater Philadelphia. Kevin Bonner ・ April 18, 2022 Tangen Hall brings together aspiring entrepreneurs across the University At seven stories and 68,000 square feet, the Wharton-led Tangen is the largest student entrepreneurship hub in the world. Dee Patel ・ April 11, 2022 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Next page ›› Last page Last » In the News Philadelphia Inquirer Taylor Jenkins got his start as a Penn student trying to help kids in West Philly. Now he’s one of the NBA’s top coaches Jenkins, one of just two NBA head coaches who didn’t play college ball. He was an economics major at Penn, coaching in a youth league at Sayre High School in West Philadelphia. Now he’s a finalist for the league’s Coach of the Year Award and his Grizzlies are championship contenders. FULL STORY → Philadelphia Inquirer Richard Perlman has donated $10 million to Wharton, his alma mater, to aid entrepreneurs Alumnus Richard Perlman and his wife, Ellen Hanson Perlman, have donated $10 million to the Wharton School to support Venture Lab, a student center for entrepreneurship. FULL STORY → Philadelphia Inquirer Fran McCaffery, returning to the NCAA Tournament with Iowa, was nicknamed ‘White Magic’ in his Sonny Hill League days McCaffery, who played at La Salle College High and Penn and whose game revolved around slick hand balling, earned the nickname playing alongside Gene Banks and Lewis "Black Magic" Lloyd in the famous Sonny Hill League. He will be taking the Hawkeyes into the NCAA Tournament this week for the sixth time in his 12 seasons. FULL STORY → Philadelphia Inquirer Penn alum gives $18 million to support first-generation college students Wharton alumnus Scott Shleifer and his wife, Elena Shleifer, have given Penn $18 million to support first-generation and “modest” or “limited-income” students. “This gift will enable our university to foster an ever more welcoming and inclusive learning environment to prepare all Penn students for successful lives,” said President Amy Gutmann. FULL STORY → Philadelphia Inquirer A Philly exoneree works to free other wrongly convicted people. First up: His codefendant Penn students and alumni, including the President’s Engagement Prize winning team behind Project Hope, have been working with the Terrance Lewis Liberation Foundation to support wrongly convicted people. FULL STORY → Marketplace (NPR) Why the words of America’s first Black economist resonate today Bucknell University professor Nina Banks has written a new book on Sadie Tanner Mossell Alexander, a Penn alumna and the first African American to receive a doctoral degree in economics in the U.S. FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement