Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Erica K. Brockmeier Science News Officer Erica K. Brockmeier covers chemistry, physics & astronomy, and math in the School of Arts and Sciences, and also manages media relations for these departments. She also occasionally covers scientific research and news coming from other parts of Penn. ekbrock@upenn.edu 215-898-8562 Engaging in intersectional conversations on race and racism In the spring, students engaged with complex topics, both intellectually and civically, as part of American Race: A Philadelphia Story, a Stavros Niarchos Foundation Paideia Program course. Erica K. Brockmeier ・ May 26, 2022 A passion for addressing ‘meaningful causes’ with data Senior Angelina Heyler, a systems science and engineering major who is submatriculating in Penn’s data science accelerated master’s program, spent her time at Penn fostering a passion for applied problem solving, building community, and playing Ultimate Frisbee. Erica K. Brockmeier ・ May 11, 2022 Embracing academic, athletic, and creative pursuits Along with being a physics major, a member of the gymnastics team, and a leader of Penn Dischord, senior Edie Noor Graber has also spent the last four years engaging with the West Philadelphia community and exploring her Jewish identity. Erica K. Brockmeier ・ May 9, 2022 Climate resilience, economic competitiveness, and equity at the megaregional level In “Megaregions and America’s Future,” Emeritus Professor of Practice Robert Yaro and Dean Frederick Steiner discuss how megaregions in the U.S. can address complex challenges. Erica K. Brockmeier ・ April 20, 2022 The next generation of leaders in urban planning The Moelis Scholars Program supports students from diverse backgrounds in the Stuart Weitzman School of Design’s Master of City Planning program. Erica K. Brockmeier ・ April 8, 2022 Researchers find topological phenomena at high technologically relevant frequencies A collaborative new study led by researchers in the School of Arts & Sciences demonstrates topological control capabilities in an acoustic system, with implications for applications such as 5G communications and quantum information processing. Erica K. Brockmeier ・ March 28, 2022 Changing lives in refugee communities through access to clean water As winners of the 2021 President’s Engagement Prize, May graduates Martin Leet and Leah Voytovich co-founded Maji, a nonprofit organization dedicated to projects that support refugee initiatives in Uganda. Erica K. Brockmeier ・ March 21, 2022 Decoding a material’s ‘memory’ A new study details the relationship between particle structure and flow in disordered materials, insights that can be used to understand systems ranging from mudslides to biofilms. Erica K. Brockmeier ・ March 17, 2022 How a class of ‘brilliant graduates’ shaped modern Chinese architecture The ‘Building in China’ exhibition showcases the work of the ‘first generation’ of Penn architecture alumni from China and how striking a balance between modern and traditional continues to shape the country’s expression of its national identity. Erica K. Brockmeier ・ March 9, 2022 Cyberattacks, Russia, and the changing face of war in the 21st century Heli Tiirmaa-Klaar, a visiting fellow of Perry World House, shares her expertise in cybersecurity and how cyber methods are being utilized during the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Erica K. Brockmeier ・ March 8, 2022 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Next page Next › Last page Last » Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement