Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Education, Business, & Law What I’ve learned: Wharton’s Anita Summers Indicators report shows escalating disparities for students of color and poor students Streamlining the health care supply chain Six takeaways from two years of online learning As two full years of this explosion in virtual learning approaches, Penn GSE associate professor and director of the Penn Center for Learning Analytics Ryan Baker shares some thoughts on best practices, and which practices should be avoided. From Penn GSE ・ March 2, 2022 Claire Finkelstein discusses Ukraine, NATO, and U.S. ethics and cybersecurity The Algernon Biddle Professor of Law and Professor of Philosophy runs down the reality of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, and asks what ethical and legal responsibility NATO has, and what risks could NATO incur, from intervention. From Penn Law ・ March 1, 2022 Highlighting gender and race is effective when requesting career help A Wharton research team found that when seeking advice, women and racial/ethnic minorities benefit from explicitly stating their identities. Dee Patel ・ February 25, 2022 Penn Law reacts to the nomination of Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson President Joe Biden has selected the Honorable Ketanji Brown Jackson of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit as his nominee to the Supreme Court. From Penn Law ・ February 25, 2022 Six tips to help explain the realities of war to children Explaining the complex emotions and realities of war to children is a daunting and challenging task, but not impossible, says Penn GSE’s Marsha Richardson. From Penn GSE ・ February 25, 2022 Q&A with Penn’s Interim President Wendell Pritchett Pritchett, who will serve as the University’s leader until the end of June, discusses his background, his goals, and what he is looking forward to most this semester. Lauren Hertzler ・ February 22, 2022 Wharton partnership offers college credits to underserved high school students A Wharton School partnership offers hybrid, dual-credit courses to high school students to educate and inspire students in historically underserved communities. Dee Patel ・ February 18, 2022 What are non-fungible tokens? What are NFTs? Sarah Hammer from The Wharton School breaks down the basics of the digital assets. Dee Patel ・ February 15, 2022 How a more inclusive workplace could stem ‘The Great Resignation’ In a recent report, two Wharton School professors outline some key points organizations can take to effect change and meaningfully prioritize diversity, equity, and inclusion in the workplace. Dee Patel ・ February 14, 2022 How social media firms moderate their content Wharton marketing professors Pinar Yildirim and Z. John Zhang, and Wharton doctoral candidate Yi Liu show how a social media firm’s content moderation strategy is influenced mostly by its revenue model. From Knowledge at Wharton ・ February 2, 2022 Pagination First page « First Previous page ‹‹ Page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Current page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Next page ›› Last page Last » In the News Axios Coping tips for parents and teachers after the Uvalde school shooting Howard Stevenson of the Graduate School of Education provides tips on coping in the aftermath of the shootings in Uvalde, Texas. FULL STORY → Politico.com How Elon Musk’s Twitter takeover may help change stock market rules Jill Fisch of the Law School comments on allegations that Elon Musk ripped off Twitter shareholders to the tune of $143 million. FULL STORY → Politico.com Inside America’s biased flood program Carolyn Kouskyof the Wharton School comments on FEMA’s mitigation efforts against flooding and the disparities in its grantmaking process. FULL STORY → “Midday,” WYPR Radio (Baltimore) Dorothy Roberts’ “Torn Apart” calls out racial disparities in foster care PIK Professor Dorothy Roberts discusses her new book that argues that the nation’s foster care system deprives Black parents of fundamental rights and leads to traumatic consequences for Black children. FULL STORY → TheHill.com Mass shootings highlight our failure in mental health Stephen N. Xenakis of the Law School writes that effective mental health services in our communities are woefully lacking yet is fundamental to our safety, security, and productivity. FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement