Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Kelly Writers House Cosmic Writers brings free creative writing education to school-aged children May graduates Rowana Miller and Manoj Simha lead Cosmic Writers, a project supported by President’s Engagement Prize that provides free creative writing instruction to K-12 students virtually throughout the world. Louisa Shepard ・ May 31, 2022 Rounding the bases and finding home at the Kelly Writers House Former Major League Baseball centerfielder Doug Glanville spoke with students about his life and career in the seminar created and taught by English Professor Al Filreis and during a public reading and conversation. Louisa Shepard ・ April 29, 2022 From the page to the stage In collaboration with author Amitav Ghosh, musician Ali Sethi, and Penn’s Brooke O’Harra, 14 students brought to life a parable Ghosh wrote about the world’s largest mangrove forest, human greed, and the environment. Michele W. Berger ・ March 30, 2022 Rowana Miller and Cosmic Writers want to make writing education equitable Along with a team of passionate fellow students, Miller runs a nonprofit called Cosmic Writers, which provides virtual and in-person writing workshops for young writers. Lauren Rebecca Thacker ・ February 9, 2022 Mentor support for the first-generation college experience Three decades apart, senior Rachel Swym and alumna Leanne Huebner found a common bond in their rural backgrounds and first-generation, highly aided college experience. Louisa Shepard ・ January 25, 2022 Alumni Award of Merit and Creative Spirit Awards honor seven alumni Stephen Goff is awarded Creative Spirit Award and Al Filreis is to receive the Faculty Award of Merit. Amanda Mott ・ November 4, 2021 Al Filreis dwells in possibility Celebrating poetry and literature at Penn since 1985, Al Filreis continues to create community at the home for writers he founded in a Locust Walk house a quarter-century ago. Louisa Shepard ・ October 27, 2021 Ilyse Reisman summer in the writers’ room An aspiring comedy writer, senior Ilyse Reisman got a chance to be on set and in meetings to pitch production ideas during her RealArts@Penn summer internship at the film studio Indigenous Media in Los Angeles. Louisa Shepard ・ August 25, 2021 People and Places at Penn In anticipation of the return to campus, undergraduates introduce their favorite spots. Kristina García ・ August 17, 2021 Kelly Writers House celebrates its 10th Edible Book contest The Kelly Writers House virtually hosted its 10th annual Edible Books contest celebrating clever combinations of literature titles and food creations. Louisa Shepard ・ December 4, 2020 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Next page ›› Last page Last » Media Contact Louisa Shepard Senior News Officer lshepard@upenn.edu Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement