Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Robotics Soft ‘rotini’ robots navigate with a snap Researchers at Penn Engineering have developed soft robots that are capable of navigating complex environments, such as mazes, without input from humans or computer software. From Penn Engineering ・ May 27, 2022 Celebrating five years of innovation, entrepreneurship, and creativity Penn Today marks the anniversary of Pennovation Works, the University’s business incubator and laboratory space, with a look at the evolution of the site, its research and commercialization achievements, and a glimpse into the future. Erica K. Brockmeier ・ November 8, 2021 Even without a brain, metal-eating robots can search for food SEAS engineers are developing robot-powered technology with energy sources that are harvested in the robot’s environment. Evan Lerner ・ April 1, 2021 Five Penn faculty named 2021 Sloan Research Fellows The fellowship recognizes extraordinary U.S. and Canadian researchers whose creativity, innovation, and research accomplishments make them stand out as the next generation of scientific leaders. Erica K. Brockmeier ・ February 16, 2021 GRASP Lab’s coolest robot yet The Lab’s latest GRASP Lab’s latest modular robotic system is a series of units made out of blocks of ice. These robots could be deployed to research in the Antarctic, or even an extraterrestrial planet. Evan Lerner ・ February 5, 2021 Treeswift’s autonomous robots take flight to save forests From Penn Engineering’s GRASP Lab, Treeswift uses swarms of autonomous, flying robots equipped with LiDAR sensors to monitor, inventory, and map timberland. From Penn Engineering ・ October 12, 2020 Future collaborators and scientific pioneers at the Women in STEM symposium Graduate students and faculty across Penn met to share their work and discuss solutions for issues faced by women in STEM. Erica K. Brockmeier ・ February 13, 2020 Designs for what the future can be The Philadelphia Museum of Art’s “Designs for Different Futures” exhibition includes contributions and installations from several Penn faculty and alumni who seek to answer questions about what the not-so-distant future may look like. February 10, 2020 Robots to the rescue Penn researchers created a fleet of robots to navigate unknown underground environments as part of the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency’s Subterranean Challenge. Erica K. Brockmeier ・ November 4, 2019 The brain in the machine Insights into how computers learn, the current challenges of artificial intelligence research, and what the future holds for how machines might shape society in the future. Erica K. Brockmeier ・ September 19, 2019 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Next page ›› Last page Last » In the News Philadelphia Inquirer Philly hosts a robot lollapalooza, attracting 4,500 roboticists and showing off devices that fly, swim, and enter the body Vijay Kumar of the School of Engineering and Applied Science is quoted on the International Conference on Robotics and Automation and how robotics has become a fundamental discipline in engineering education. FULL STORY → Technical.ly Philly What can Philly do to make a home for robotics to flourish? Scenes from ICRA 2022’s mad dash Dean Vijay Kumar and Avik De of the School of Engineering and Applied Science and Laurie Actman of the Penn Center for Innovation are quoted on their participation in the International Conference on Robotics and Automation. FULL STORY → Daily Beast Watch this noodle-shaped robot autonomously escape a maze Researchers at Penn and North Carolina State University have created a rotini-shaped robot that can tumble through a maze without any help or guidance from a computer or human being. FULL STORY → Technical.ly Philly For a glimpse into the future, look at aerial robotics An event about aerial robotics with the School of Engineering and Applied Science’s dean Vijay Kumar is featured. FULL STORY → Philadelphia Inquirer Penn's Electric Race Car Team Seeks Fourth Title in Four Years Eighty undergrads from a variety of departments, including Connor Sendel of the Wharton School and the School of Engineering and Applied Science, are building an electric car with four-wheel drive with hopes of winning two competitions this June. FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement