Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Can the U.S. avoid a recession? Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Education, Business, & Law Can the U.S. avoid a recession? Many economists are warning of a recession, while Wall Street bulls are saying those fears are overblown. Wharton experts weigh in on what’s ahead for the U.S. economy. Is the U.S. headed for a recession? Opinion is divided on that question, with many economists warning of a recession and Wall Street bulls saying those fears are overblown. The familiar precursors of a recession have arrived: an inverted yield curve and rising interest rates on the back of high inflation (8.5% in March), with COVID uncertainty and disruptions caused by Russia’s invasion of Ukraine thrown in. The most widely accepted definition of a recession is two consecutive quarters of declining GDP. The Fed has the wherewithal to stave off a recession, according to Wharton’s Susan Wachter, professor of real estate and finance, and Nikolai Roussanov, finance professor. “The main cause that would trigger a recession now is a spike in interest rates,” Wachter says. “The Fed’s actions so far and expected over through the end of the year will not in themselves trigger a recession.” But the big question, according to Wachter, is what it would take for the Fed to slow the economy. “If war and pandemic shortages resolve, as the Fed expects, we can avoid an induced recession,” she says. “If not, the longer inflation persists the more likely we are to enter into a wage price spiral requiring the Fed to hit the brakes hard.” “The U.S. economy is quite strong at the moment, but there is indeed some risk of slipping into a recession,” says Roussanov. “Its length and severity would depend in large part on the Fed’s response, and I expect it to do all it can to minimize the damage.” Wharton finance professor Itay Goldstein is less optimistic. He notes that the onset of the pandemic in March 2020 is an important part of the background for the current debate. “The general expectation was for a longer and deeper recession, but when the data was analyzed in 2021, the conclusion was that the Covid recession was very short,” he says. “To a large extent, this was because of the fiscal and monetary intervention by the government and the Fed.” Jeremy Siegel expects some moderation in technology stocks, which have seen much volatility so far this year after a strong run last year. “I’m not ready to say that technology [stocks are] off to the races, although there are a lot of tech stocks that are selling for fairly reasonable earnings [multiples] of 19–20 times. Anything more than that will be disadvantaged in this market.” How long would a recession last? Goldstein says the outlook is unclear on that question, “but given the expected actions from the government and the Fed, it might not be short.” He does see a bright side, though, in the “strong labor market.” Roussanov adds: “The job market is extremely strong right now with labor shortages everywhere, but we might see it cool off if there is indeed a significant contraction.” This story is by Shankar Parameshwaran. Read more at Knowledge at Wharton. Credits From Knowledge at Wharton Writer Date April 29, 2022 Subtopics Economics, Business Schools Wharton School Share Twitter Facebook Twitter Facebook Read Next Class of 2023 celebrates Hey Day Campus & Community A celebration of the ‘resilient creativity’ of the Class of 2022 Penn’s 266th Commencement showcased graduates who Interim President Wendell Pritchett said demonstrated an “advanced ability to roll with the challenges.” Campus & Community Ben Franklin: A voice from the past that speaks to our time At the 2022 Silfen Forum, Penn Interim President Wendell Pritchett chatted with filmmaker Ken Burns about his new two-part documentary on Benjamin Franklin. Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Inspiring the next generation of archive scholars Through Inside the Archive, a course taught by Liliane Weissberg of the School of Arts & Sciences, Penn students explore what an archive is, how history gets written, and what is ahead in a digital future. Campus & Community Exploration awaits as Penn Abroad ramps up student trips Two years after the pandemic forced Penn Abroad to brings students home, trips are back on and a busier-than-normal abroad schedule is coming in fall 2022. Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement