Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Admissions Talking admissions with Whitney Soule As vice provost and dean of admissions, Soule is challenged daily with thinking strategically about undergraduate enrollment at Penn—from recruitment to application processes and all that goes into admitting a class, to how financial aid and retention fits into the mix. Lauren Hertzler ・ May 23, 2022 Penn announces results of Class of 2026 Early Decision Program Of the 7,795 applicants to The Early Decision Program, 1218 students from 42 states and 60 countries will be entering the Class of 2026. Ron Ozio ・ December 16, 2021 Class of 2025 Regular Decision admissions results The University of Pennsylvania has announced admission decisions for Regular Decision applicants for the Class of 2025. Ron Ozio ・ April 6, 2021 Whitney Soule named vice provost and dean of admissions at Penn The announcement was made by Penn President Amy Gutmann and Provost Wendell Pritchett. Ron Ozio ・ February 9, 2021 Class of 2024 Regular Decision admissions results The University of Pennsylvania has announced admission decisions for Regular Decision applicants to the Class of 2024, the institution’s 268th class. Ron Ozio ・ March 27, 2020 Can Net Price Calculators tell the true cost of an education? Laura Perna, a Penn GSE expert on college access, examines the accuracy of college cost calculators, and finds that many are confusing or even misleading. Penn Today Staff ・ November 12, 2019 College admissions in crisis Admissions Dean Eric Furda on the Varsity Blues scandal, civil litigation, and rising disgruntlement over the way elite universities select their students. Penn Today Staff ・ July 9, 2019 University of Pennsylvania regular decision results for Class of 2023 Penn today announced admission decisions for Regular Decision applicants to the Class of 2023, the institution’s 267th class. The admitted cohort of 3,345 was selected from a pool of 44,960 applicants. Amanda Mott ・ March 28, 2019 The College of Liberal and Professional Studies launches online bachelor’s degree The School of Arts and Sciences’ College of Liberal and Professional Studies has launched a new program that, for the first time, makes an Ivy League bachelor’s degree accessible online. Beginning in the fall of 2019, the Penn LPS Online platform will offer a fully-accredited, online education for working adults and other non-traditional students. Amanda Mott ・ September 18, 2018 Academic ‘boot camp’ A group of 13 active-duty service members and veterans took part in the Warrior-Scholar Project, which introduces enlisted personnel toward an undergraduate program at a top-tier institution with a weeklong academic program. Jill DiSanto ・ July 9, 2018 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Next page ›› Last page Last » Media Contact Ron Ozio Director, Media Relations ozio@upenn.edu In the News Forbes Princeton, Cornell, University of Pennsylvania withhold Class of 2026 acceptance rates Princeton University, Cornell University and the University of Pennsylvania have also decided to refrain from releasing detailed admissions statistics. The remaining five Ivy League universities—Harvard, Yale, Columbia, Brown and Dartmouth—have made their traditional admissions announcements. FULL STORY → Inside Higher Ed Record applications, record rejections Admissions Dean Whitney Soule comments on students engaged in academic research during their time in high school, many earning national and international accolades for research. FULL STORY → The Wall Street Journal Some Ivy League colleges to play down how selective they are Admissions Dean Whitney Soule said drawing attention to the acceptance rate of Ivy League schools like Penn does more harm than good, distressing applicants and their parents. “We’re focusing not on how hard we are to get into but on who these young people are that we chose,” she said. FULL STORY → Forbes Getting personal with college admission: Requesting the right recommendations Vice Provost and Dean of Admissions Whitney Soule said letters of recommendation used in college applications should highlight specific examples of a student’s characteristics. “If a recommender can focus on how the applicant does something rather than telling us what the applicant does, it helps a lot,” she said. FULL STORY → Dallas Morning News COVID changed college application, but not what colleges are looking for in students Vice Provost and Dean of Admissions Whitney Soule wrote an opinion piece about changes to the college application process amid the pandemic. FULL STORY → Los Angeles Times High school revisited: Students reflect on their year away from campus Kaitlyn Nguyen, a high school senior in Pomona, California, spoke about being accepted to Penn as an early decision applicant. “I came to the realization that this was the school for me,” she said. “I came to this conclusion primarily because of Penn’s commitment to community service and community advocacy work, which has been something that I have been passionate about growing up.” FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement