Skip to main content Sign in Sign in Sign in with PennKey Sign in with UPHS Network Username/Password Sign in for those without PennKey or UPHS Network Accounts Remember me on this device Sign in Login warning You are using an unsupported version of Chrome (79). Please upgrade your browser or talk to your IT team. You have JavaScript disabled in your browser. Parts of this site may not work correctly until you re-enable it. About For Penn Personnel For Vendors and Contractors Resources Privacy FAQ Contact Welcome to PennOpen Pass We share a collective responsibility to protect ourselves and each other from COVID-19. PennOpen Pass is a daily symptom tracker designed to reduce the risk of COVID-19 spreading within the Penn community. Daily tracking is critical to reducing the spread of COVID-19 in our community as it will enable clinical staff and contact tracers to act quickly if COVID-19 is detected. Get started About PennOpen Pass PennOpen Pass is a daily symptom tracker designed to reduce the risk of COVID-19 spreading within the Penn community. The purposes of PennOpen Pass are to: Identify individuals whose health may be at risk and/or may pose health risks to others due to COVID-19, Ensure that individuals at risk receive appropriate assistance and follow up, which may include COVID-19 testing, self-isolation, contact tracing, and medical care, Monitor trends related to COVID-19 to ensure proper allocation of resources for campus health and safety and Promote compliance with campus COVID-19 health and safety initiatives such as survey and testing completion. The following user groups are currently supported to use the tool: Penn students, postdocs, faculty, and staff Vendors or contractors The launch of PennOpen Pass is a critical step in the ongoing efforts to resume academic, research, and clinical activities on Penn’s campus. We share a collective responsibility to protect ourselves and each other, and it will take participation from all to help slow the spread of this disease. When you wear a face covering, practice physical distancing, and complete your daily symptom check on PennOpen Pass, you promote the health and safety of everyone around you and advance Penn’s mission of excellence in education, research, and patient care. Learn more FAQ Resources University of Pennsylvania Resources Penn COVID-19 Response Penn’s Confidential Reporting and Help Line COVID-19 Workplace Health and Safety Principles of Responsible Conduct COVID-19 and Wellness Student Health Service University of Pennsylvania Health System Resources The Penn Medicine COVID-19 site Visitor guidelines during COVID-19 UPHS Human Resources COVID-19 Guidelines Principles of Responsible Conduct Penn Medicine Safety Net Contact We are here to help! For general feedback, please email pennopenpass@upenn.edu or call 215-573-6355. Questions Faculty, students, and staff with questions about their pass status or instructions should contact the PennOpen Pass Call Center at 215-573-6355. Effective May 23, 2022, the hours for the PennOpen Pass Call Center are Monday through Friday, 7 AM – Noon. Individuals who contact the Call Center outside of normal operating hours will be provided additional information regarding resources available in the Call Center menu. Vendors and contractors should contact their health care provider with medical questions. Technical support University users should contact their school, center, or entity IT support team. UPHS users should contact the Penn Medicine IS Help Desk via webform or by phone at 215-662-7474. Vendors and contractors should contact the IT support team at the school, center, or entity they are visiting or for whom they work. Media For media inquiries, contact Ron Ozio. × Sign in Sign in with PennKey Sign in with UPHS Network Username/Password Sign in for those without PennKey or UPHS Network Accounts Remember me on this device © The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania | Site best viewed in a supported browser.