Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo 35th annual Women of Color at Penn awards Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Campus & Community 35th annual Women of Color at Penn awards In a virtual event, the awards honored six women who have fostered and supported community. Shaquilla Harrigan (left) and Nicole Harrington (right) were the graduate and undergraduate honorees of this year’s Women of Color awards. The Women of Color at Penn (WOCAP) hosted their 35th annual award ceremony on March 18 with a virtual celebration. WOCAP is housed in the African American Resource Center (AARC). This year’s theme was empowering women of color in business, and the organization created a resource booklet, business directory, and a series of financial literacy workshops. “For more than three decades, Women of Color at Penn has served to remind us of the remarkable work so many women of color perform across and really in every context of our daily lives,” said Interim President Wendell Pritchett, who delivered opening remarks. The award ceremony, he said, is “an important reminder because, while their efforts may sometimes go unremarked, they should never ever be unappreciated.” The Helen O. Dickens Lifetime Achievement Award went to Isabel Sampson-Mapp and the Joann Mitchell Legacy Award to Pamela A. Robinson. The other honorees were junior Nicole Harrington, Ph.D. candidate Shaquilla Harrigan, staff honoree Karima A. Williams, and community honoree Margaret Livingston. Undergraduate Nicole Harrington grew up in Philadelphia. College “was a rough transition,” said the neuroscience major. “It felt like I was never doing enough, I was never proving myself and proving that I really belonged in this institution,” she said. Harrington is currently taking an ABCS course through the Netter Center for Community Partnerships, which “has just absolutely been transformed my college experience,” she said. Within the course, Harrington and her classmates are mentoring local high school students, discussing social injustice in Philadelphia, and proposing solutions. “Being of service physically and intellectually has helped me mitigate those feelings of inadequacy,” she said. “This class made the connection for me that learning and action go hand in hand.” Shaquilla Harrigan, the graduate honoree from Winder, Georgia, is a Ph.D. candidate in sociology and was a 2019-20 Perry World House Graduate Associate. Harrigan, who serves as chair of the Graduate Sociology Society and volunteers with an organization for African and Caribbean immigrants and refugees, hopes to collaborate with others in the Penn community to work for justice. “It’s really an honor to also do this at Penn and to be in Philadelphia, considering the legacy of W.E.B. DuBois and so many other Black activists in this area,” Harrigan said. “I hope to carry on their legacy.” Karima A. Williams, associate director of human resources at the School of Social Policy & Practice (SP2), has served on the WOCAP planning committee since 2013. Williams was honored for work to include and expand the participation of women of color. Williams was grateful for the collaboration at SP2 to create more opportunities, seen in “the hiring of more women of color into new faculty roles this year,” she said, along with the expansion of SP2’s financial aid program, which help make the school “an attainable option for students of color and underrepresented populations.” Community honoree Margaret Livingston has made the Walnut Hill neighborhood home, raising her children on the same block where she grew up. “Families can make good strong communities,” she said. “I wanted to ensure that my community—and beyond—would always be informed about any opportunities to live in safety and have walkable green spaces, information on affordable housing, quality education in our area, and information on proper health care, as a way to improve and maintain a healthy lifestyle.” Livingston is president of the Walnut Hill Community Association and a board member of the University City District. “Walnut Hill Community Association, along with my dedicated board, will continue to work diligently on providing information and opportunities to all,” Livingston said. “We must continue to fight for inclusion and justice for all,” she said. “I will continue advocating that it takes a village.” Pamela A. Robinson, former associate director for College Houses and Academic Services, received the Joann Mitchell Legacy Award for her work to improve the lives of women and people of color at Penn. Robinson quoted one of her favorite gospel songs saying: “We don’t feel no ways tired. We’ve come too far from where we started from. Nobody told us the road would be easy.” Isabel Sampson-Mapp was honored with the Helen O. Dickens Lifetime Achievement Award for her 35 years of leadership and service. As associate director of the Netter Center for Community Partnerships and director of Penn Volunteers in Public Service, Sampson-Mapp has used her position to give back to the community. She never imagined being honored for her work, Sampson-Mapp said. It simply felt important, and she hoped it would make a difference to others. “I want to thank those people who so kindly gave, and those people who so graciously received, and those people who gave me the space, the time and the freedom to do good,” Sampson-Mapp said. “Let us remember,” said Colleen Winn of AARC, that “one book, one pen, one student, one teacher, one act of service can change the world.” Credits Kristina García Writer Date March 21, 2022 Subtopics Outreach, Racial Justice, Sociology, Neuroscience, Netter Center for Community Partnerships Schools School of Arts & Sciences, School of Social Policy & Practice Share Twitter Facebook Twitter Facebook Read Next Class of 2023 celebrates Hey Day Campus & Community A celebration of the ‘resilient creativity’ of the Class of 2022 Penn’s 266th Commencement showcased graduates who Interim President Wendell Pritchett said demonstrated an “advanced ability to roll with the challenges.” Campus & Community Ben Franklin: A voice from the past that speaks to our time At the 2022 Silfen Forum, Penn Interim President Wendell Pritchett chatted with filmmaker Ken Burns about his new two-part documentary on Benjamin Franklin. Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Inspiring the next generation of archive scholars Through Inside the Archive, a course taught by Liliane Weissberg of the School of Arts & Sciences, Penn students explore what an archive is, how history gets written, and what is ahead in a digital future. Campus & Community Exploration awaits as Penn Abroad ramps up student trips Two years after the pandemic forced Penn Abroad to brings students home, trips are back on and a busier-than-normal abroad schedule is coming in fall 2022. Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement