Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Nanotechnology Making chemical separation more eco-friendly with nanotechnology Chemical separation processes are essential to manufacturing, but also consume high levels of energy. Penn Engineers are developing new membranes for energy-efficient membrane-based separations on a nanoscale level. From Penn Engineering ・ May 6, 2022 A new class of materials for nanoscale patterning Recent research demonstrates how a new class of polymers can produce small, precise patterns on the nanometer scale, with future implications for large-scale computer chip fabrication. Evan Lerner ・ March 23, 2022 A new method to increase effectiveness of nanomedicines Penn Medicine researchers have developed a new technique that uses complement inhibitor Factor I to prevent proteins from attacking treatment-carrying nanoparticles so they can better reach targets within the body. Sophie Kluthe ・ January 19, 2022 Penn engineers will develop on-demand, on-site mRNA manufacturing With an NSF grant, Penn Engineering researchers are developing a new manufacturing technique that would be able to produce mRNA sequences in a way that removes the need for cryogenic temperatures. From Penn Engineering ・ September 20, 2021 New microfluidic device delivers mRNA nanoparticles a hundred times faster With a “liquid assembly line,” Penn researchers have produced mRNA-delivering-nanoparticles significantly faster than standard microfluidic technologies. Evan Lerner ・ July 6, 2021 2021 cohort of Postdoctoral Fellows for Academic Diversity named The competitive program, managed by Office of the Vice Provost for Research, is designed to support early career researchers and scholars while enriching the Penn community. Erica K. Brockmeier ・ June 4, 2021 Researchers reach new heights with light-based levitation Penn researchers are working to engineer nanoscale features on ultra-lightweight materials, finding the ideal combination that will allow those materials to lift themselves into the air using the energy provided by light. Evan Lerner ・ February 26, 2021 Researchers identify potential nanoparticles for therapeutic mRNA delivery before birth Researchers at Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia and the School of Engineering and Applied Science have identified ionizable lipid nanoparticles that could be used to deliver mRNA as part of fetal therapy. Evan Lerner ・ January 28, 2021 A new platform for creating material blends A novel way to rapidly create and characterize blends of polymers, nanoparticles, and other materials could significantly accelerate material development. Evan Lerner ・ December 8, 2020 Penn joins ‘cryo revolution’ by adding Nobel-winning microscope The Singh Center’s Krios G3i, an electron microscope for studying samples at extremely low temperatures, allows researchers to look at cells, proteins, and nanoparticles like never before. Erica K. Brockmeier, From Penn Engineering ・ November 30, 2020 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Next page ›› Last page Last » In the News Philadelphia Inquirer Philadelphia science prize goes to climate change and electronics researchers from Penn, UCLA Charles Kane and Eugene Mele of the School of Arts and Sciences have been honored with the John Scott Award, given annually to innovators in science, for their work developing ways to predict the behavior of atomic particles. FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement