Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo City planning students gain critical perspective on the carceral state Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences City planning students gain critical perspective on the carceral state The Carceral State, a course offered through Penn’s Netter Center for Community Partnerships, explores the issue of mass incarceration in Pennsylvania. Nearly 100,000 Pennsylvanians are under correctional control, earning the state an incarceration rate above the national average—and well above the rate seen in most countries around the world, including Russia. What this means for Philadelphians is the subject of a spring course offered through Penn’s Netter Center for Community Partnerships and taught by Lisa Servon, Kevin and Erica Penn Presidential Professor and chair of city and regional planning, that brought together students from Weitzman, the School of Social Policy and Practice, and the Wharton School. Servon has been researching the links between mass incarceration, financial “citizenship”, and criminal justice since 2018. For The Carceral State course, she asked students to use qualitative and quantitative data to bring attention to the lived experiences of hundreds of Philadelphia families. The syllabus combines readings, asset mapping, spatial data mapping, and community engagement to suggest how people have been impacted by the criminal justice system. One of the most dramatic findings is just how disproportionately the rate of incarceration is felt in certain neighborhoods, where it has also impeded equitable development. In Philadelphia, five of the city’s 86 zip codes pay 30% of bail money collected. Of those five, Servon and her students focused on zip code 19124, which encompasses the Frankford neighborhood in north Philadelphia. Through the course, students were introduced to the Philadelphia Bail Fund (PBF), an organization that posts bail for people who cannot afford it, and Council of Spanish Speaking Organizations (Concilio), a community development corporation that originally served Philadelphia’s Latino population but has expanded its work in family welfare through youth programs and services for crime victims. With the help of Concilio and six high-school students, one group of Servon’s students used asset mapping to study the Frankford neighborhood’s social infrastructure, while others used ArcGIS to spatially contextualize data on demographics and incarceration. Servon’s students also visited the Juanita Kidd Stout Center for Criminal Justice to observe courtroom proceedings. Charlie Townsley, a Weitzman planning student who is also the teaching assistant for the course, saw 17 arraignments over separate days, where judges set an average bail of $99,400. He came away, he says, struck by the complexity of crime and punishment in the constraints of a system prone to structural racism, and the everyday negotiations of value-systems within a bureaucracy. Read more at Weitzman News. Credits From the Weitzman School of Design Writer Date May 17, 2022 Subtopics Design, Urban Planning, Demography Schools Stuart Weitzman School of Design, School of Social Policy & Practice, Wharton School Share Twitter Facebook Twitter Facebook Read Next Class of 2023 celebrates Hey Day Campus & Community A celebration of the ‘resilient creativity’ of the Class of 2022 Penn’s 266th Commencement showcased graduates who Interim President Wendell Pritchett said demonstrated an “advanced ability to roll with the challenges.” Campus & Community Ben Franklin: A voice from the past that speaks to our time At the 2022 Silfen Forum, Penn Interim President Wendell Pritchett chatted with filmmaker Ken Burns about his new two-part documentary on Benjamin Franklin. Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Inspiring the next generation of archive scholars Through Inside the Archive, a course taught by Liliane Weissberg of the School of Arts & Sciences, Penn students explore what an archive is, how history gets written, and what is ahead in a digital future. Campus & Community Exploration awaits as Penn Abroad ramps up student trips Two years after the pandemic forced Penn Abroad to brings students home, trips are back on and a busier-than-normal abroad schedule is coming in fall 2022. Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement