Skip to main content < University of Pennsylvania Toggle Navigation Toggle Search Accessibility Menu Jump to… Main Content Search Main Navigation Utility Navigation Main menu Participate More Participate Partners Financial Info What Your Gift Can Provide Volunteers More Volunteers Multimedia Posters Raffle FAQ About Donate Now Utility Navigation A-Z Calendar Directory Maps Offices & Services Penn Home Webmail Back to Accessibility Menu Search Search Your browser does not support the video tag. Giving is Penn's Way Campaign Never doubt that a small group of thoughtful, committed citizens can change the world; indeed, it's the only thing that ever has. Margaret Mead Dear Colleagues, Penn’s Way, our workplace charitable giving campaign at Penn, is a way for us to be there for the Penn community, and together we can make a difference for those in need. Our campaign theme, Go Far Together, draws attention to the generosity and thoughtfulness that embodies Penn, and is so needed during these difficult times. Collectively, our donations continue to make a broad and immediate impact on our community and the vulnerable populations we serve. Our goal this year is $1.6M and we are asking our team members to give what they can; to give from the heart. The Penn's Way Campaign is extending the campaign to run from October 4 through November 26. It encompasses the umbrella of three organizations, each of which utilizes their expertise to confront the challenges facing our communities today, both locally and nationally – Penn Medicine, Philadelphia Alliance for Change, and the United Way. Please review our website to learn more about the campaign. You can also enter your pledge on this site as a secure, convenient, sustainable and time-saving way to support your community. We encourage the Penn community to bring home the message of caring, in this very challenging year, by contributing to organizations that support the three “Pillars of Need” (download list) identified by the Penn’s Way Campaign: Health Care Disparity Food Insecurity Social Justice Thank you for supporting Penn’s Way! Chairs and Advisors of Penn's Way Maureen S. Rush, MS, CPP Vice President for Public Safety University of Pennsylvania Penn's Way Co-Chair Vivian L. Gadsden, Ed.D. Professor, Graduate School of Education Faculty Senate Chair-Elect University of Pennsylvania Penn's Way Faculty Advisor Patricia G. Sullivan, PhD Chief Quality Officer University of Pennsylvania Health System Penn's Way Co-Chair Peter D. Quinn, DMD, MD Vice Dean for Professional Services Senior Vice President University of Pennsylvania Health System Penn's Way Faculty Advisor PARTICIPATE Participating in Penn’s Way is as easy as a few clicks. You can donate through payroll deduction, via check or credit card. Login today! Learn how you can participate VOLUNTEERS Thanks for volunteering – we couldn’t do it without you! Resources for teams FAQ Want to know more about donating or partners? You have questions? We have answers! Frequently asked questions ABOUT Giving is Penn’s Way! Penn's Way overview Penn Medicine Penn Medicine is a nonprofit organization dedicated to three equally valued and inter-related missions: patient care, health education, and medical research. Visit Penns Way Parters United Way of Philadelphia and Southern New Jersey United Way is working to advance the common good by focusing on education, income and health. Visit Partners of Penn's Way Philadelphia Alliance for Change The Philadelphia Alliance for Change is a newly-formed organization that supports the community-based local agencies. Visit Partners for Penn's Way PWAY-FY22-32224-Janelle2.jpg Follow the progress of the campaign with social media updates below. Want to be featured on the Penn’s Way social media board? All you need to do is post a picture and caption about why you give to your public social media page with the hashtag #ourwaypennsway. If you do not have a public social media page, you can text your story to 1-832-952-1250 or use the “Add a post” button at the top left of this image board to share. Penns-Way-logo.png DONATE NOW Login with Penn Key to make a contribution CONTACT US To ask questions or get help PARTNERS Choose the organization you want to support University of Pennsylvania ©2022 University of Pennsylvania Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement