Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Niko Simpkins: At the nexus of engineering and music Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Science & Technology Niko Simpkins: At the nexus of engineering and music For Niko Simpkins, a musician who performs, produces, and engineers his own tracks, the most exciting processes combine structure and flexibility, creativity, and rigor. As a third-year student in the School of Engineering and Applied Science, he sees his mechanical engineering education as a framework for problem solving that might serve him across a broad set of endeavors, and for now, he’s more interested in learning than narrowing to any one particular career path. Penn Engineering undergraduate Niko Simpkins. (Image: Penn Engineering Today) “One of my mentors told me early on not to look for a specific job with a specific title, but to imagine a job that doesn’t exist yet,” he says. “That resonated with me and it’s the way I approach things.” Simpkins discovered a love for technology early in his life, but it was his work in the music studio that led him to engineering school. “I was always interested in robotics, motors, and programs/programming, but when I got into music I came to think more about systems and processes,” he says. “Since nobody can make a rubric or map out success for a song, video or merchandise, the only real standard or ceiling is a self-set one. Becoming a great content creator means learning how to raise that ceiling by your own internal motivation and genuine enthusiasm for excellent work. Thanks to this mindset, I find open-ended assignments are most conducive to my best work.” At Penn, Simpkins has been focused on projects like leading a team to design, pitch, and build a miniature basketball game, resulting in lessons in collaboration, managing cross-functional workstreams and working smarter for better results. He’s currently leading an exploratory study to develop educational technology for the Philosophy Department and interning for a consulting firm with a focus on business development for startups. He’s also explored his own natural aptitude for leadership. As president of the Underrepresented Student Advisory Board in Engineering, he liaises between minority groups on campus and the Dean’s office in Penn Engineering to create and implement actionable strategies for supporting students, facilitating dialogue, and promoting diversity and inclusion. He also serves as a Weingarten Ambassador and the corporate relations chair for the Penn chapter of the National Society of Black Engineers, where he’s organized events and raised more than $10,000 in sponsorships. Read more at Penn Engineering Today. Credits Evan Lerner Writer Date February 19, 2021 Subtopics Undergraduate Students, Mechanical Engineering, Music Schools School of Engineering & Applied Science Share Twitter Facebook Twitter Facebook Read Next Class of 2023 celebrates Hey Day Campus & Community A celebration of the ‘resilient creativity’ of the Class of 2022 Penn’s 266th Commencement showcased graduates who Interim President Wendell Pritchett said demonstrated an “advanced ability to roll with the challenges.” Campus & Community Ben Franklin: A voice from the past that speaks to our time At the 2022 Silfen Forum, Penn Interim President Wendell Pritchett chatted with filmmaker Ken Burns about his new two-part documentary on Benjamin Franklin. Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Inspiring the next generation of archive scholars Through Inside the Archive, a course taught by Liliane Weissberg of the School of Arts & Sciences, Penn students explore what an archive is, how history gets written, and what is ahead in a digital future. Campus & Community Exploration awaits as Penn Abroad ramps up student trips Two years after the pandemic forced Penn Abroad to brings students home, trips are back on and a busier-than-normal abroad schedule is coming in fall 2022. Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement