Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Economics What I’ve learned: Wharton’s Anita Summers Professor emeritus Anita Summers talks about her groundbreaking career in economics and public policy, and why integrity and evidence go hand in hand. From Knowledge at Wharton ・ May 27, 2022 Indicators report shows escalating disparities for students of color and poor students Report from The Pell Institute and PennAHEAD highlights stark differences in debt burden and benefits of higher education among ethnic groups that has significantly widened in recent years. From Penn GSE ・ May 25, 2022 How price shocks in formative years scar consumption for life Teens who experienced gas price shocks of the 1970s drive less in later years, according to experts at Wharton and the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia. From Knowledge at Wharton ・ May 23, 2022 Wharton expert explains the crashing crypto market What does the cryptocurrency crash mean for investors? Wharton expert, Sarah Hammer talks with Penn Today about the digital asset. Dee Patel ・ May 20, 2022 Both nature and nurture contribute to signatures of socioeconomic status in the brain In the first study of its kind, Penn researchers and an international team of collaborators found that genetics and environmental factors contribute to how socioeconomic status shapes the architecture of the brain. Katherine Unger Baillie ・ May 18, 2022 Trailblazing Penn alumna Sadie T.M. Alexander gets posthumous honor The American Economic Association named Alexander, who earned economics and law degrees at Penn a century ago, a 2022 Distinguished Fellow. Kristen de Groot ・ May 2, 2022 Can the U.S. avoid a recession? Many economists are warning of a recession, while Wall Street bulls are saying those fears are overblown. Wharton experts weigh in on what’s ahead for the U.S. economy. From Knowledge at Wharton ・ April 29, 2022 A Wharton initiative championing global change The Ideas for Action Wharton undergraduate student club is a joint initiative with the Zicklin Center for Business Ethics Research to engage youth around the world in developing solutions to global challenges. Dee Patel ・ April 26, 2022 Penn Wharton Budget Model looks at immigration and macroeconomics New research from the Penn Wharton Budget Model finds increasing legal immigration in the U.S. leads to long term fiscal benefits, while policies which legalize unauthorized immigrants increase government debt. Dee Patel ・ April 19, 2022 How sanctions on Russia and the invasion of Ukraine affect the U.S. economy Wharton’s Nikolai Roussanov speaks with Penn Today about the impact of the Russian invasion of Ukraine on the U.S. economy. Dee Patel ・ March 29, 2022 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Next page ›› Last page Last » Media Contact Kristen de Groot News Officer krisde@upenn.edu In the News Marketplace (NPR) Reading the Federal Reserve minutes can feel like hours, but Fed watchers still pore over them Peter Conti-Brown of the Wharton School says that Federal Reserve meeting minutes are deliberately written in code. FULL STORY → The New York Times The rich are not who we think they are. And happiness is not what we think it is, either Matthew Killingsworth of the Wharton School has debunked a popular myth that there is no effect of money on happiness beyond $75,000 per year, but he did confirm a law of diminishing returns to money. FULL STORY → Politico.com First Black woman confirmed for Fed as central bank enters Biden era Peter Conti-Brown of the Wharton School comments on how the Fed is trying to orchestrate a disinflationary intervention that doesn’t throw the economy into a recession. FULL STORY → CNBC There is still a lot of inflation in the pipeline, says Wharton’s Jeremy Siegel Jeremy Siegel of the Wharton School breaks down his expectations from last week’s Federal Open Market Committee. FULL STORY → CNBC Wharton’s Jeremy Siegel says the Fed has long way to go to slow inflation, which will keep pressure on stocks Jeremy Siegel of the Wharton School says investors should expect more monetary tightening ahead from the Federal Reserve to combat inflation. FULL STORY → CNBC CNBC Closing Bell: Overtime interview with Jeremy Siegel Jeremy Siegel of the Wharton School is interviewed on his analysis of the markets. FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement