Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Cancer Research Illuminating lung cancer earlier, at the cellular level A Penn Medicine study reveals that technology combined with an imaging agent can light up microscopic cancer cells, allowing physicians to see cancer cells not typically visible during a biopsy. Caren Begun ・ May 23, 2022 ‘Keto’ molecule may be useful in preventing and treating colorectal cancer A Penn study finds beta-hydroxybutyrate, an alternative-energy molecule produced by the body in response to starvation or low-carb diets, strongly suppresses the growth of colorectal tumors. Brandon Lausch ・ April 29, 2022 Regulating the regulators of the immune system Research led by School of Veterinary Medicine scientists reveals a new layer of complexity with which the immune system finds a balance between controlling pathogens and protecting healthy tissue. Katherine Unger Baillie ・ April 18, 2022 Key to detecting ovarian cancer early may be in the fallopian tubes A lack of early detection or prevention strategies for ovarian cancer is a major cause of poor outcomes for patients, and most do not have a family history or inherited genetic risk, so there is a pressing need for the development of earlier detection methods. Caren Begun ・ April 1, 2022 CAR T cells suppress GI solid tumor cells without toxicity to healthy tissue New research finds that CAR T cells can eliminate solid tumors, but do not damage healthy, normal tissues that also express a tumor antigen, because the tumor antigen is sequestered and hidden between the normal cells. Caren Begun ・ March 28, 2022 A new study finds genome refolding contributes to resistance to cancer therapy While gene mutations can lead to drug resistance, researchers in the Perelman School of Medicine have identified an important, non-genetic adaptation that could also drive resistance to targeted therapy in T cell leukemia, a type of blood cell cancer. Lauren Ingeno ・ March 10, 2022 Links between diet and cancer Kathryn E. Wellen, an associate professor of Cancer Biology and principal investigator of the Wellen Lab, seeks answers to find the connections between metabolism and cancer biology. From Penn Medicine News ・ March 1, 2022 Inspiring people, place, and purpose Penn President Amy Gutmann’s record tenure of nearly 18 years is the University’s most transformative. Penn Today Staff ・ February 8, 2022 Decade-long remission after CAR T cell therapy Two patients represent longest-known CAR T cell response to date, providing insight into treatment effect and outcomes. Caren Begun ・ February 2, 2022 Researchers find new potential targets for skin-cancer treatment Making up for the genetic mutations of MLL4 in skin cells, one of the most commonly mutated genes across all of human cancers, may keep epithelial cancer from beginning and progressing Alex Gardner ・ January 12, 2022 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Next page ›› Last page Last » Media Contact Katherine Unger Baillie Senior Science News Officer kbaillie@upenn.edu Experts Ezekiel J. Emanuel Vice Provost for Global Initiatives, the Diane v.S. Levy and Robert M. Levy University Professor, and Chair of the Department of Medical Ethics and Health Policy at the University of Pennsylvania. Ezekiel J. Emanuel served as special advisor for health policy to the director of the White House Office of Management and Budget from Jan. 2009 to Jan. 2011. Since 1997 he was chair of the Department of Bioethics at The Clinical Center of the National Institutes of Health and a breast oncologist. Dr. Emanuel received his M.D. from Harvard Medical School and his Ph.D. in political philosophy from Harvard University. After completing his internship and residency in internal medicine at Boston's Beth Israel Hospital and his oncology fellowship at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, he joined the faculty at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute. He has since been a visiting professor at the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, UCLA, the Brin Professor at Johns Hopkins Medical School, and the Kovitz Professor at Stanford Medical School and visiting professor at New York University Law School. Dr. Emanuel has written and edited 9 books and over 200 scientific articles. He is currently a columnist for The New York Times. Read more Virginia A. LiVolsi Professor of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Professor of Surgical Pathology in Surgery Professor of Otorhinolaryngology Head & Neck Surgery. Director, Office of Strategic Initiatives and Quality Improvement, Anatomic Pathology University of Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine. Perelman School of Medicine. University of Pennsylvania. Dr. LiVolsi is an expert on the pathology of thyroid cancer. She can speak about thyroid cancers that developed in children and young adults in the years after the 1986 nuclear explosion. She has been involved in the characterization of the pathology of these cancers and has been a member of the international pathology panel for the past 20 years. Read more In the News Philadelphia Inquirer This new ovarian cancer treatment could improve survival rates | 5 Questions Janos L. Tanyi of the Perelman School of Medicine spoke about a large-scale trial of Cytalux, which makes cancer cells glow during surgery, being conducted at the Abramson Cancer Center. “Those patients who have all the visible cancerous lesions removed have the best survival rates,” he said. FULL STORY → ABC Australia How should cancer immunotherapy be used? Ravi Parikh of the Perelman School of Medicine was interviewed about his research on the use of new and expensive immunotherapy medications to treat cancer patients considered to be ineligible for clinical trials. These older, sicker patients turned out be “about twice as likely to receive these novel immunotherapies compared to healthier patients who would have been included, and this is despite the fact that these drugs have never been studied in this particular group of individuals,” said Parikh. FULL STORY → Health.com BRCA1 vs. BRCA2: What to know about these gene mutations and breast cancer Payal Shah of the Perelman School of Medicine discussed the gene mutations that can lead to breast, ovarian, and other cancers. FULL STORY → Philadelphia Inquirer More Black patients are participating in clinical trials for cancer treatment at Penn thanks to this effort Carmen Guerra and Armenta Washington of the Abramson Cancer Center spoke about their efforts to enroll more Black patients with cancer in clinical trials. “When we conduct research, we want to say that what we learn applies to all people,” said Guerra. “But that might not be the case if we are just studying one population.” FULL STORY → CBS News Cancer Moonshot project launched by President Biden 5 years ago leading to many breakthroughs Robert Vonderheide of Penn’s Abramson Cancer Center in the Perelman School of Medicine spoke about the Cancer Moonshot project, which has led to major federal funding for cancer research and subsequently, new treatments for patients. “It’s new initiatives, new therapies, and new ways importantly to prevent cancer in the first place,” he said. FULL STORY → The Washington Post For those at risk for cancer, weighing the risk of COVID-19 with delays in screening and treatment Lawrence Shulman of the Perelman School of Medicine says declining numbers of new cancer diagnoses over the past four months don’t mean fewer people actually have cancer. “There are a lot of patients out there who have cancer but are not undergoing diagnosis and entry into the cancer care system,” he said. FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement