Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Cosmic Writers brings free creative writing education to school-aged children Weitzman team helps protect and interpret Lincoln Memorial Baseball history, American history For Meghan Garrity, experience plus academics equals policy Garrity worked with the International Rescue Committee in Jordan and Turkey from 2012 to 2016. Now she’s exploring ways to prevent some refugee crises, by examining what causes states to expel mass groups of people. Susan Ahlborn ・ March 14, 2022 Belief in vaccination misinformation predicts attitudes toward vaccinating children The survey data come from the fifth wave of the Annenberg Science Knowledge survey, a nationally representative sample of U.S. adults empaneled by the Annenberg Public Policy Center in April 2021 to track attitudes and behavior in the pandemic. March 11, 2022 Possessed: The Salem witch trials This spring marks the 330th anniversary of the Salem witch trials, during which a total of 20 “afflicted girls” accused around 150 people, 19 of whom were executed. Historian Kathleen M. Brown discusses why this episode is still fascinating today. Kristina García ・ March 11, 2022 From tracing art thieves to tracing Early American history Emma Hart, the new director of the McNeil Center for Early American Studies, discusses her former career, her new role, and her goals for the future. Kristen de Groot ・ March 10, 2022 Why unions matter for nursing A new study examines nursing’s relationship to union organizing and feminism, as well as the profession’s unique organizing challenges. Alina Ladyzhensky ・ March 9, 2022 How a class of ‘brilliant graduates’ shaped modern Chinese architecture The ‘Building in China’ exhibition showcases the work of the ‘first generation’ of Penn architecture alumni from China and how striking a balance between modern and traditional continues to shape the country’s expression of its national identity. Erica K. Brockmeier ・ March 9, 2022 Diversion programs reduce criminal justice system footprint Research from Penn criminologists and the Philadelphia District Attorney’s Office found that such programs increase expungement rates and lower reconviction rates, leading to a net-narrowing effect overall. Michele W. Berger ・ March 9, 2022 Unlocking the potential of ‘smart’ water in responding to climate change Assistant Professor of City and Regional Planning Allison Lassiter researches unlocking the potential of ‘smart’ water in responding to climate change. From the Weitzman School of Design ・ March 8, 2022 Cyberattacks, Russia, and the changing face of war in the 21st century Heli Tiirmaa-Klaar, a visiting fellow of Perry World House, shares her expertise in cybersecurity and how cyber methods are being utilized during the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Erica K. Brockmeier ・ March 8, 2022 Penn announces nine 2022 Thouron Scholars Five seniors and four recent alumni have received a 2022 Thouron Award to pursue graduate studies in the United Kingdom. Each scholarship recipient receives tuition for up to two years, as well as travel and living stipends, to earn a graduate degree there. Louisa Shepard ・ March 7, 2022 Pagination First page « First Previous page ‹‹ … Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Current page 8 Page 9 Page 10 Page 11 Page 12 … Next page ›› Last page Last » In the News The New York Times Brittney Griner’s supporters have a new strategy to free her: Make noise Ph.D. candidate& Kimberly St. Julian-Varnon of the School of Arts & Sciences is quoted on the need to put pressure on Russia to release a detained W.N.B.A. player. FULL STORY → Forbes.com Resilience should not be a solitary pursuit Angela Duckworth of the School of Arts & Sciences contends that success is about far more than innate ability and it needs long-term adherence and an acceptance that setbacks can be overcome with hard work. FULL STORY → USA Today There’s a name for the feeling that nothing you do matters Martin Seligman of the School of Arts & Sciences says that learned helplessness is a mental state that occurs when people find out that nothing they do matters. FULL STORY → The Hill The kids are not all right—copycat cannabis edibles risk their safety Andy Tan of the Annenberg School for Communication co-writes an article about how copycat cannabis edibles, which have colorful packages that mimic popular snacks and candy, have come under scrutiny. FULL STORY → Billy Penn No pressure: PA’s Josh Shapiro is being painted as the potential savior of democracy Daniel Hopkins of the School of Arts & Sciences says that the Pennsylvania governor’s race is not politics as usual. FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement