Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Staff Building Penn Medicine’s Pavilion helped launch his career. Now, William Griffin is going places Griffin participated in PennAssist, a program to help graduates of Philadelphia’s career and technical high schools and city residents enter the building trades, and made an impression on the construction management team for the Pavilion. From Penn Medicine News ・ June 1, 2022 2022 Models of Excellence awards salute notable Penn staff Since 1999, Penn’s Models of Excellence Awards program has recognized the remarkable staff contributions to the University’s mission as a global leader in education, research, and public service. Dee Patel ・ April 28, 2022 Earth Week offers immersive opportunities to connect with nature Organized by Penn Sustainability, Earth Week, with nearly 50 events running April 17-24, offers a diverse slate of both in-person and online chances to learn about and engage with the environment. Katherine Unger Baillie ・ April 15, 2022 Virtual workshops offer resilience training to Penn community Penn’s Division of Human Resources, in collaboration with the Positive Psychology Center, is hosting virtual workshops as a part of a six-part series presenting core resilience during COVID. Dee Patel ・ February 4, 2022 Making time off a time for side gigs for good Penn Today profiles four faculty and staff members who use their time and talents to help others. Michele W. Berger, Katherine Unger Baillie ・ December 22, 2021 The new director of La Casa Latina creates ‘a sense of belonging' As the new director of La Casa Latina, Krista Cortes brings a sense of inclusivity to welcome different people, cultures, races, and languages to the cultural resources center. Kristina García ・ October 26, 2021 Models of Excellence program accepting nominations Models of Excellence program accepting nominations. In addition to the traditional award categories, a special award category—Supporting Penn Through COVID-19 and Return to Campus Work—has been added. Dee Patel ・ October 21, 2021 Penn’s Way kicks off workplace giving campaign, with $1.6M goal The charitable giving campaign runs through Nov. 19. The campaign is built on three pillars: health care disparity, food insecurity, and social justice. Dee Patel ・ October 15, 2021 Learn, reflect, and act during Climate Week Climate Week at Penn, sponsored by the Provost’s Office, offers a variety of events—both in-person and online—that invite the whole University community to learn about, reflect on, and address the climate crisis. Katherine Unger Baillie ・ September 17, 2021 Penn Professional Staff Assembly talks with Wharton Dean Erika James In a candid conversation, James opened up about her career, the pandemic, and workplace diversity. Dee Patel ・ June 28, 2021 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Next page ›› Last page Last » In the News Philadelphia Inquirer How Penn coaches and staffers are playing a vital campus role while budgets get slashed Among the unique circumstances that the pandemic has brought to campus, up to a third of Penn’s 200 full-time athletic staffers, including coaches, took on COVID-related duties during the fall semester to avoid being furloughed amid deep budget cuts. FULL STORY → Philadelphia Inquirer ‘History is being made.’ Colleges scramble to create archives that will record life during the pandemic Penn is archiving the community’s experiences of the coronavirus pandemic. “What we generally get in our archives is the raw data of an institution’s history, the decisions that are made, when certain things happened,” said acting university archivist J. M. Duffin. “We rarely get anything that’s part of the human side. In order to understand the human side, we need to try to get people’s direct testimony of their experiences.” FULL STORY → Philadelphia Inquirer Running club chases down theft suspect in University City The Annenberg (Lunchtime) Running Club was lauded for its role in capturing a man accused of theft during one of their triweekly outings. “Running is typically a useless sport where you turn fat cells into heat, but occasionally it can be useful, and here was one of those opportunities,” said founding member Kyle Cassidy. FULL STORY → The Washington Post Should Colleges Let Students Choose Their First Roommate? Some Say No. Ryan Keytack of College Houses said that Penn tries to accommodate mutual roommate requests, but also encourages students to “experience something new.” FULL STORY → Inside Higher Ed Hand-shaking Tips for Making the Right Impression  Joseph Barber of Career Services wrote about the impact a firm, dry, and confident handshake can have on first impressions. FULL STORY → Newsday Why I Learned to Respect the FBI Jonathan Zimmerman of the Graduate School of Education described his college experience of being interrogated by the FBI and how it impacted his views on the organization over time. FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement