Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo DNA analysis finds links between severe COVID and other conditions Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Health Sciences DNA analysis finds links between severe COVID and other conditions Through analyzing human DNA samples in a large biobank, Penn Medicine researchers found associations between genetic variants with severe COVID and conditions involving blood clots and respiratory issues. A collection of human DNA variants tied to more severe cases of COVID-19 are also associated with other serious medical conditions such as those dealing with blood clots and faulty inflammatory responses, according to a new study. A summary of this analysis, which comes from stored genetic data from 600,000 people, is published in PLOS Genetics. “This work provides invaluable insights into the genetic architecture of COVID-19 risk factors and disease complications, a pressing need as the pandemic continues,” says the study’s lead author, Anurag Verma, an instructor in translational medicine and human genetics at the Perelman School of Medicine. “The balance between the associations that we uncovered will be important as more therapies for COVID-19 are considered.” Data used in this study comes from the Million Veteran Program, which was established by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. It is among the largest and most diverse biobanks (repositories of genetic information used for research) in the world, making it ideal for examining the various pieces of DNA that could be exploited by COVID-19. With the variants associated with severe COVID-19 in hand, the researchers examined whether any other health conditions were more likely to be associated with them. To do this, they analyzed roughly 1,500 “phenotypes,” meaning the identifiable traits of a disease, which could be gleaned from an electronic health record. Variants that had been associated with more severe COVID-19 in the ABO locus, a term meaning a gene’s position on a chromosome, were found to also be associated with the most other conditions. Patients with these variants were 33% more likely to have conditions like venous embolism and thrombosis, which both involve blood clots. Some differences in association were seen when genetic ancestry was taken into account. The odds of someone having neutropenia—a condition in which a patient has a low count of the white blood cells used by the body’s immune system—were 29% higher in those with African genetic ancestry who had variants in the LMNA locus. Those with European genetic ancestry who had the same variants did not share a higher association. This story is by Frank Otto. Read more at Penn Medicine News. Credits From Penn Medicine News Writer Date May 4, 2022 Subtopics Coronavirus Research Schools Perelman School of Medicine Share Twitter Facebook Twitter Facebook Read Next Class of 2023 celebrates Hey Day Campus & Community A celebration of the ‘resilient creativity’ of the Class of 2022 Penn’s 266th Commencement showcased graduates who Interim President Wendell Pritchett said demonstrated an “advanced ability to roll with the challenges.” Campus & Community Ben Franklin: A voice from the past that speaks to our time At the 2022 Silfen Forum, Penn Interim President Wendell Pritchett chatted with filmmaker Ken Burns about his new two-part documentary on Benjamin Franklin. Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Inspiring the next generation of archive scholars Through Inside the Archive, a course taught by Liliane Weissberg of the School of Arts & Sciences, Penn students explore what an archive is, how history gets written, and what is ahead in a digital future. Campus & Community Exploration awaits as Penn Abroad ramps up student trips Two years after the pandemic forced Penn Abroad to brings students home, trips are back on and a busier-than-normal abroad schedule is coming in fall 2022. Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement