Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Ellen L. Hanson and Richard E. Perlman commit $10M to create entrepreneurship through acquisition at the Wharton School Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Education, Business, & Law Ellen L. Hanson and Richard E. Perlman commit $10M to create entrepreneurship through acquisition at the Wharton School Their gift will establish Entrepreneurship Through Acquisition (ETA) and support other programming at the Venture Lab. Ellen L. Hanson and Richard E. Perlman, a graduate of the Wharton Class of 1968. The Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania is pleased to announce a $10 million commitment from Ellen L. Hanson and Richard E. Perlman, Wharton Class of 1968, that will further the University’s commitment to inspiring innovation among students. Their contribution will establish Entrepreneurship Through Acquisition (ETA) and support other programming at Venture Lab, a central resource for entrepreneurship that brings together students from across the University. “The University has long been committed to fostering innovation and entrepreneurship,” said Interim President Wendell Pritchett. “This generous commitment from Ellen Hanson and Richard Perlman will greatly enhance our efforts to inspire innovation by Penn students. We are exceedingly grateful that Ellen and Richard’s vision and philanthropy will advance our position as leaders in the study and practice of entrepreneurship through acquisition, and ensure that the entrepreneurial spirit continues to thrive at Penn.” New Wharton ETA programming will increase awareness that many successful entrepreneurial endeavors—including those of numerous alumni—thrive through a new owner’s investment and dedication to growing an existing small business. Hanson and Perlman’s gift will support wide-ranging programs and initiatives within an emerging ETA program at Venture Lab, including curriculum development and delivery; workshops and research; and support for Expert in Residence advisors and staff. Their contribution will also provide financial support for University graduates—known as Perlman Fellows—who wish to explore ETA, incentivizing students by making ETA more financially accessible and professionally supportive. With a focus on instructional learning opportunities for current students and hands-on opportunities after graduation, ETA will bring together faculty and alumni to provide structured guidance and mentorship for students pursuing these ventures. The ETA curriculum is designed to provide students with a tactical and applicable understanding of business, delivered in formats ranging from faculty-led classroom instruction to workshop series and guest speakers. As Perlman Fellows, recent graduates will benefit from alumni mentoring, gain experience with search, and optimize resources supporting their journey. “The future of business is reliant on forward-thinking, innovative leaders who will challenge norms, and bring fresh, new ideas and approaches to the world,” says Perlman. “There is no better investment than in the next generation of great business leaders, and Ellen and I are proud to lend our support to the incredible work being done at Wharton and Penn to further that progress. We are hopeful that expanding the curriculum will inspire more students to pursue ETA.” The experiences and reflections of recent Wharton MBA ETA Club President Austin Lee, illustrate the promise of this gift dedicated to expanding ETA opportunities. “The decision I made to pursue a career in entrepreneurship through acquisition was informed and influenced greatly by the professors, students, and ETA Club at Wharton,” said Lee. “At Wharton, I learned the business fundamentals required to find success while managing a small company. There are more Wharton alumni in the ETA space than most realize, a passionate and supportive group of folks that have helped me greatly both as a student and now as a graduate on a fun and exciting career path.” This new gift also expands upon Hanson and Perlman’s previous support by adding to the Richard and Ellen Perlman Grand Prize. Established in 2013, the Perlman Grand Prize is the largest endowed gift to the Startup Challenge, the culminating competition for Penn student-founded new ventures. Their support increases the prize amount from $30,000 to $50,000, which is awarded to exceptional entrepreneurial students. “Through their generosity, Ellen and Richard are enhancing programs and opportunities for today’s aspiring entrepreneurs and nurturing a growing community of motivated, driven, curious students who are ready to approach the greatest challenges in society and business as innovative problem solvers,” says Wharton Dean Erika James. “We could not be more grateful for their profoundly thoughtful investment.” Richard Perlman is the founder and executive chairman of ExamWorks Group, Inc., which provides evidence-based medical evaluations to the property and casualty market for workers compensation, automotive, and general liability injury claims. An undergraduate alumnus of Wharton, Perlman remains dedicated to the University through his philanthropy and service as a member of the Wharton Undergraduate Executive Board and the Penn Wharton Entrepreneurship Advisory Board. Credits Amanda Mott Media Contact Date March 24, 2022 Subtopics Alumni, President, Innovation Schools Wharton School Share Twitter Facebook Twitter Facebook Read Next Class of 2023 celebrates Hey Day Campus & Community A celebration of the ‘resilient creativity’ of the Class of 2022 Penn’s 266th Commencement showcased graduates who Interim President Wendell Pritchett said demonstrated an “advanced ability to roll with the challenges.” Campus & Community Ben Franklin: A voice from the past that speaks to our time At the 2022 Silfen Forum, Penn Interim President Wendell Pritchett chatted with filmmaker Ken Burns about his new two-part documentary on Benjamin Franklin. Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Inspiring the next generation of archive scholars Through Inside the Archive, a course taught by Liliane Weissberg of the School of Arts & Sciences, Penn students explore what an archive is, how history gets written, and what is ahead in a digital future. Campus & Community Exploration awaits as Penn Abroad ramps up student trips Two years after the pandemic forced Penn Abroad to brings students home, trips are back on and a busier-than-normal abroad schedule is coming in fall 2022. Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement