Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Bioengineering Making chemical separation more eco-friendly with nanotechnology Chemical separation processes are essential to manufacturing, but also consume high levels of energy. Penn Engineers are developing new membranes for energy-efficient membrane-based separations on a nanoscale level. From Penn Engineering ・ May 6, 2022 Five Penn students are 2022 Goldwater Scholars Five juniors have received 2022 Goldwater Scholarships to pursue research careers in mathematics, the natural sciences, or engineering. Penn's newest Goldwater Scholars are Joshua Chen, Allison Chou, Shriya Karam, Laila Barakat Norford, and Andrew Sontag. Louisa Shepard ・ March 25, 2022 Newly discovered ‘encrypted peptides’ with antibiotic properties A new study reports three distinct proteins in human plasma that have naturally occurring antibiotic properties. From Penn Engineering ・ February 14, 2022 Protein controlled by both light and temperature can inform cell signal pathways Penn Engineering researchers have described a new type of optogenetic protein that can be controlled not only by light, but also by temperature, allowing for a higher degree of control in the manipulation of cellular pathways. From Penn Engineering ・ January 14, 2022 Refining data into knowledge, turning knowledge into action Penn Engineering researchers are using data science to answer fundamental questions that challenge the globe—from genetics to materials design. From Penn Engineering ・ January 5, 2022 Three Penn faculty named Hastings Center Fellows Holly Fernandez Lynch, Quayshawn Spencer, and Connie Ulrich have been named Hastings Center Fellows for deepening public understanding of complex ethical issues in health, health care, science, and technology. Amanda Mott ・ December 3, 2021 Two Penn seniors named 2022 Rhodes Scholars Two Penn seniors have been awarded Rhodes Scholarships for graduate study at the University of Oxford, Raveen Kariyawasam, from Colombo, Sri Lanka, and Nicholas Thomas-Lewis, from Kimball, Nebraska. Louisa Shepard ・ November 21, 2021 ‘Encrypted’ peptides could be wellspring of natural antibiotics An interdisciplinary team of Penn researchers have used a carefully designed algorithm to discover a new suite of antimicrobial peptides, or naturally occurring antibiotics, in the human genome. From Penn Engineering ・ November 10, 2021 Penn establishes the Center for Precision Engineering for Health with $100 million commitment The Center will conduct interdisciplinary, fundamental, and translational research in biomaterials that can create breakthroughs in improving health care and saving lives, including nanoparticle technologies to improve storage and distribution of COVID-19 mRNA vaccines. Evan Lerner ・ September 23, 2021 Penn engineers will develop on-demand, on-site mRNA manufacturing With an NSF grant, Penn Engineering researchers are developing a new manufacturing technique that would be able to produce mRNA sequences in a way that removes the need for cryogenic temperatures. From Penn Engineering ・ September 20, 2021 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Next page ›› Last page Last » Media Contact Erica K. Brockmeier Science News Officer ekbrock@upenn.edu In the News Technical.ly Philly Penn is establishing a $100M center to focus on the intersection of engineering and biomedicine A planned Center for Precision Engineering for Health, housed in the School of Engineering and Applied Science, will focus on developing biomaterials for personalized medical treatments. “Engineering solutions to problems within human health is one of the grand challenges of the discipline,” Dean Vijay Kumar said. “Our faculty are already leading the charge against these challenges, and the Center will take them to new heights.” FULL STORY → WHYY (Philadelphia) Science vs science: The contradictory fight over whether electromagnetic hypersensitivity is real Electromagnetic fields are everywhere, and especially so in recent years. To most of us, those fields are undetectable. But a small number of people believe they have an actual allergy to electromagnetic fields. Ken Foster, a professor emeritus of bioengineering, has heard these arguments before. “Activists would point to all these biological effects studies and say, ‘There must be some hazard’; health agencies would have meticulous reviews of literature and not see much of a problem.” FULL STORY → Los Angeles Times This L.A. start-up is building tiny injectable robots to attack tumors Marc Miskin of the School of Engineering and Applied Science commented on a new startup that is developing remote-control medical microrobots. “I would give them a lot of credit for figuring out a space where they can make an impact and justify how they’ll be competitive with traditional pharmaceutical approaches,” he said. FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement