Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Faculty What I’ve learned: Wharton’s Anita Summers Professor emeritus Anita Summers talks about her groundbreaking career in economics and public policy, and why integrity and evidence go hand in hand. From Knowledge at Wharton ・ May 27, 2022 Talking admissions with Whitney Soule As vice provost and dean of admissions, Soule is challenged daily with thinking strategically about undergraduate enrollment at Penn—from recruitment to application processes and all that goes into admitting a class, to how financial aid and retention fits into the mix. Lauren Hertzler ・ May 23, 2022 With plants as a model, studying the ‘complexity and reproducibility’ of developmental biology In his first year at Penn, biologist Aman Husbands is busy working on projects aimed at illuminating the molecular mechanisms that govern plant development. Katherine Unger Baillie ・ May 6, 2022 Six from Penn elected to American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2022 Faculty from the Perelman School of Medicine, School of Arts & Sciences, Graduate School of Education, and Law School join more 260 honorees recognized for contributions to academia, the arts, industry, public policy, and research. Michele W. Berger ・ April 28, 2022 Supporting education in Ghana The Graduate School of Education’s Sharon Wolf is leading a research project on reaching parents in remote and impoverished regions of Ghana with supportive text messages to share information on helping their children, especially girls, succeed in school. Louisa Shepard ・ April 25, 2022 How universities can support mid-career faculty of color Faculty leaders at Penn and other Ivy Plus institutions attended a symposium to discuss what universities can do to better support mid-career faculty of color. Dee Patel ・ April 21, 2022 Climate resilience, economic competitiveness, and equity at the megaregional level In “Megaregions and America’s Future,” Emeritus Professor of Practice Robert Yaro and Dean Frederick Steiner discuss how megaregions in the U.S. can address complex challenges. Erica K. Brockmeier ・ April 20, 2022 Elizabeth Heller’s lab uncovers how drug addiction can create lasting changes in genes Leading a neuroepigenetics lab at her alma mater, Heller and the work of her 10-person lab is focused on molecular brain mechanisms, aiming to uncover chronic changes that can happen and keep happening in the brain long after exposure to addictive substances ends. Alex Gardner ・ April 18, 2022 Earth Week offers immersive opportunities to connect with nature Organized by Penn Sustainability, Earth Week, with nearly 50 events running April 17-24, offers a diverse slate of both in-person and online chances to learn about and engage with the environment. Katherine Unger Baillie ・ April 15, 2022 Four Penn faculty awarded Guggenheim Fellowships Four faculty have been named 2022 Guggenheim Fellows—Daniel Barber in architecture in the Weitzman School of Design and Kimberly Bowes in classical studies, Guthrie Ramsey in music, and Paul Saint-Amour in English in the School of Arts & Sciences. Louisa Shepard , Louisa Shepard ・ April 8, 2022 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Next page ›› Last page Last » In the News The Wall Street Journal Wharton professor promoted love in the workplace Dean Erika H. James and Adam Grant spoke about the legacy of Wharton School colleague Sigal Barsade, who died earlier this month. “She lived the values of the work that she was espousing,” said James. FULL STORY → Philadelphia Inquirer Widener University’s president will leave the school to join Penn’s faculty next year Widener University President Julie Wollman will be joining Penn’s Graduate School of Education as a professor next year. Dean Pam Grossman said Wollman offers the School “tremendous experience and an entrepreneurial spirit.” FULL STORY → WHYY (Philadelphia) ‘Traveling Black:’ the fight for freedom on roads, rail, and in the air Mia Bay of the School of Arts & Sciences spoke about her new book, “Traveling Black: A Story of Race and Resistance.” FULL STORY → The New York Times ‘Traveling Black,’ a look at the civil rights movement in motion “Traveling Black,” a book by Mia Bay of the School of Arts & Sciences, was featured. The work is a history of mobility and resistance in the U.S. FULL STORY → Forbes The five best fintech books to get you started “The Unbanking of America” by Lisa Servon of the Stuart Weitzman School of Design was recommended for readers trying to understand why fintech matters. FULL STORY → The New York Times The composer Tyshawn Sorey enters a new phase Tyshawn Sorey of the School of Arts & Sciences was profiled for his accomplishments as a musician, composer, and academic. FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement