Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Health Care Policy Reimagining the corner store to promote food justice With a 2022 President’s Sustainability Prize, Eli Moraru and Alexandre Imbot will take raw ingredients payable with EBT and turn them into hot, heathy meals while providing nutritional education resources. Kristina García ・ May 23, 2022 ‘Abortion and Women’s Rights 1970’: A film that’s newly timely Five decades ago, ahead of the landmark ruling Roe v. Wade, political scientist Mary Summers worked on a documentary film. That film is gaining new viewers through a recently launched website. Kristen de Groot ・ May 16, 2022 Solutions to mitigate climate change, from the IPCC The latest assessment offers both a harsh reality check and a path forward. Experts William Braham, Peter Psarras, and Michael Mann offer their thoughts. Michele W. Berger ・ April 11, 2022 Higher rates of chemical sedation among Black psychiatric patients points to inequities Penn Medicine researchers also find that white patients are more likely to be chemically sedated in emergency departments at hospitals that treat high proportion Black patients, suggesting that hospital demographics can impact practice patterns. From Penn Medicine News ・ April 7, 2022 Creating global systems for evidence-informed oral health policy Alonso Carrasco-Labra, who joined the School of Dental Medicine in 2021, is a leader in developing new policy and clinical guidelines across areas of medicine. Katherine Unger Baillie ・ April 1, 2022 Anti-LGBTQ measures Penn Law’s Tobias Wolff discusses the Florida “Don’t Say Gay” bill and a Texas directive on transgender children. Kristen de Groot ・ March 24, 2022 Why unions matter for nursing A new study examines nursing’s relationship to union organizing and feminism, as well as the profession’s unique organizing challenges. Alina Ladyzhensky ・ March 9, 2022 Four takeaways from the IPCC’s report on climate adaptation and vulnerability The assessment gets explicit about the effect of climate change on people, places, and ecosystems. Experts from Penn weigh in on what it means. Michele W. Berger ・ March 7, 2022 Addressing substance use and pain key to limiting self-directed hospital discharge A new study from the School of Nursing suggests that stigma toward persons with substance abuse disorder may account for an under-assessment and management of pain, which leads to self-directed patient discharges. From Penn Nursing News ・ February 1, 2022 Past plagues, current pandemics, and public hygiene messaging History Ph.D. candidate Sarah Xia Yu discusses her research on public hygiene in China and what the past might tell us about how governments could better communicate public health messages. Kristen de Groot ・ November 19, 2021 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Next page ›› Last page Last » In the News Philadelphia Inquirer Mixed-status immigrant families have complex health insurance needs that require simple solutions Diana Montoya-Williams of the Perelman School of Medicine wrote an opinion piece about the intersection of health insurance and immigration status. “Expanding insurance coverage to all children who live in our state—regardless of documentation status—would decrease confusion among mixed-status families, reduce administrative burden and costs associated with the verification of different eligibility requirements within families, and save public health dollars,” she said. FULL STORY → NJ.com N.J. kids on Medicaid deserve equal access to specialty care Alycia Bischof of the School of Nursing advocated for a New Jersey bill that, if signed into law, would allow Medicaid patients to access specialty care without having to travel more than 60 minutes or file an appeal for out-of-network coverage. FULL STORY → The New York Times Pandemic relief bill fulfills Biden’s promise to expand Obamacare, for two years PIK Professor Ezekiel Emanuel spoke about provisions within the coronavirus relief bill that expand subsidies for health insurance purchased under the Affordable Care Act. “For people that are eligible but not buying insurance it’s a financial issue, and so upping the subsidies is going to make the price point come down,” he said. FULL STORY → MarketWatch Opinion: Would you want your parents to live in a nursing home owned by private equity? Atul Gupta of the Wharton School co-led a study that explored how private equity investments affect nursing home patients. It revealed a 10% increase in mortality for Medicare patients in such facilities. FULL STORY → The New York Times Pandemic lessons in improving the medical system Amol Navathe of the Perelman School of Medicine spoke about the high cost of health care in the U.S. “Our system is set up to produce a lot of health care but not necessarily a lot of health,” he said. FULL STORY → The Hill How the pandemic is changing medicine PIK Professor Jonathan D. Moreno and the Law School’s Stephen N. Xenakis wrote that the pandemic could change many countries’ approaches to public health. “The battle against the virus presents an opportunity to recalibrate our health care system as well as advance our practices,” they wrote. FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement