Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo ‘Opportunity of a lifetime’ Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Campus & Community ‘Opportunity of a lifetime’ Penn and President Gutmann hosted a celebration of the University’s scholarship program online this year, recognizing the significant impact generous donors have had on undergraduate students. President Amy Gutmann with seniors Chaim Fishman and Toni-Ann Peck at the virtual celebration last week. Though undoubtedly different, last week Penn hosted its annual celebration of the Named Scholarship Program. Completely online, the live, Wednesday evening event—headlined by President Amy Gutmann—recognized the University’s generous scholarship donors, and the students whose lives have been transformed because of them. “The life-changing financial aid that you make possible is even more important than ever before in Penn’s history,” said Gutmann. “We couldn’t do any of this without you. Words alone cannot do justice to the difference that your generosity makes.” Since Gutmann joined Penn in 2004, the University has awarded $2.4 billion in aid to students. Compared to 15 years ago, it costs on average 22 percent less in inflation-adjusted dollars to attend Penn. And, thanks to the grant-based program launched in 2008, more than 19,000 undergraduate students have had 100% of their demonstrated financial needs met. “Together, that’s enough people to fill up our Palestra twice over,” said Gutmann, putting the all-grant figures into perspective. “More first-generation students than ever in our history. More Pell Grant-eligible students than ever in our history. More outstanding opportunity, access, and inclusion than ever.” Gutmann also noted the University’s recent emergency funding for students in the wake of COVID-19’s impact, and how donors have made that possible. The event began with a short video featuring Penn students from all over the world, who shared their stories about how financial aid has affected their lives, especially during the pandemic. In addition, true to tradition of these celebrations, two students—Chaim Fishman and Toni-Ann Peck—provided very personal, touching remarks, expressing their gratitude. Fishman, a senior computer science major from Brooklyn, New York, told his story of taking a drastically different path from most in his family to attend college. Raised in the insular Hasidic Jewish community in Williamsburg, he hadn’t spoken English or even learned how to add fractions until he was 15, when he took the leap to attend a city public high school. Defeating the odds, Fishman later was not only accepted, but also received full aid to attend Penn—something he explained as “a dream come true.” After describing the remarkable opportunities he’s reached while at the University, Fishman, who was recently accepted into the computer science master’s program at Penn, thanked specifically the Lois & Henry McNeil Scholarship and the Chalfin family for their generosity throughout the years. “Thank you for truly changing my life,” Fishman said. “Thank you for turning my hopes and aspirations into a reality. Thank you for giving me, and others, the opportunity of a lifetime.” Peck, a senior mechanical engineering and applied mechanics (MEAM) major from Miramar, Florida, said she thought attending Penn was a “lofty” goal, one she’d only be able to meet if granted financial aid. A recipient of the David and Jean Colker Endowed scholarship, she said she was stunned when she learned she was also one of Gutmann and her husband’s scholarship recipients. “I stem from generations of hardworking Jamaicans who did their best to provide for those who would come after them,” Peck said, adding later, “The Named Scholarship program is what made it possible for me to realize the dreams that my parents and their parents had deposited in me all through my childhood.” Peck plans to take her studies even further, as she is sub-matriculating with a master’s in MEAM at Penn. “I aim to earn a Ph.D. while making my imagined technologies into reality,” Peck said. “I hope to use the skills I am learning now to develop novel technologies based on the ingenious devices that living things depend on to survive.” Looking ahead, Peck sees the financial aid she received as much more than her personal benefit. It’s a “scaffold for the others that will come after me,” she said. Before closing with a singalong to “The Red and the Blue” with Penn Glee Club, Gutmann noted how scholarships provide the means for students to seek their highest calling—all the more so as we navigate the current “new normal.” “No gift is greater, no gift is more life-changing than financial aid for Penn students,” Gutmann said. “From the bottom of my heart, thank you so much.” Credits Lauren Hertzler Writer Date November 4, 2020 Subtopics President, Undergraduate Students, Financial Aid Share Twitter Facebook Twitter Facebook Read Next Class of 2023 celebrates Hey Day Campus & Community A celebration of the ‘resilient creativity’ of the Class of 2022 Penn’s 266th Commencement showcased graduates who Interim President Wendell Pritchett said demonstrated an “advanced ability to roll with the challenges.” Campus & Community Ben Franklin: A voice from the past that speaks to our time At the 2022 Silfen Forum, Penn Interim President Wendell Pritchett chatted with filmmaker Ken Burns about his new two-part documentary on Benjamin Franklin. Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Inspiring the next generation of archive scholars Through Inside the Archive, a course taught by Liliane Weissberg of the School of Arts & Sciences, Penn students explore what an archive is, how history gets written, and what is ahead in a digital future. Campus & Community Exploration awaits as Penn Abroad ramps up student trips Two years after the pandemic forced Penn Abroad to brings students home, trips are back on and a busier-than-normal abroad schedule is coming in fall 2022. Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement