Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo What I’ve learned: Wharton’s Anita Summers Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Education, Business, & Law What I’ve learned: Wharton’s Anita Summers Professor emeritus Anita Summers talks about her groundbreaking career in economics and public policy, and why integrity and evidence go hand in hand. To describe Wharton professor emeritus Anita Summers as a trailblazer would be an understatement. Born in 1925 to a banker father and homemaker mother who always emphasized the importance of education, Summers embarked on a career in economics when few women dared and even fewer could. Her hard work and perseverance, even in the face of blatant sexism, landed her positions at John D. Rockefeller’s Standard Oil Co. and the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia. She’s also a researcher and highly cited scholar who has worked at universities around the world, served on numerous boards, and was a sought-after economic adviser to state and local governments. She joined the Wharton faculty in 1979, when she was asked by then-Dean Donald Carroll to start the first public policy program at a business school. Wharton professor emeritus Anita Summers. (Image: Knowledge at Wharton) After earning her master’s degree in economics from the University of Chicago in 1947, Summers began working as an economic analyst for Standard Oil in New York City. The male hiring manager offered her the salary by saying, “We decided we could get the same brains for less money.” Summers was working at the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia in the late 1970s when she got a call from Wharton Dean Donald Carroll, who asked her to come start a public policy program because he believed students headed for the private sector should understand the public sector and vice versa. It would be the first business school in the nation to have such a program. While at the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, Summers notes that efficiency studies were conducted on big-ticket items such as transportation and libraries, but not on education systems. Education costs were the biggest contributor to debt for city budgets, so she began conducting studies to find financial inefficiencies in that sector. Starting in Philadelphia, she gathered data by hand on the demographics of students and teachers, finding that the most disadvantaged students had teachers with the lowest grades on the National Teacher Exam, the highest absences, and the lowest student outcomes. “I came out advocating that, like the rest of the world, outstanding teachers should be rewarded and very poor teachers should be let go,” Summers says. “I think you can imagine the way the unions felt about it. The union invited me to give a talk and they were furious.” Some key takeaways Summers extends from her years of experience are to focus on the integrity of the work. Summers believes this is particularly important in the digital era because disinformation is spread so easily. She also says public policy should be based on evidence, not values, and government can learn from the private sector. And lastly, conversations around corporate responsibility toward issues such as climate change should be embraced and explored. This story is the first in a new series titled “What I’ve Learned,” which puts the spotlight on Wharton faculty who have made a lasting impact on their fields. Read more at Knowledge at Wharton. Credits From Knowledge at Wharton Writer Date May 27, 2022 Subtopics Faculty, Economics Schools Wharton School Share Twitter Facebook Twitter Facebook Read Next Class of 2023 celebrates Hey Day Campus & Community A celebration of the ‘resilient creativity’ of the Class of 2022 Penn’s 266th Commencement showcased graduates who Interim President Wendell Pritchett said demonstrated an “advanced ability to roll with the challenges.” Campus & Community Ben Franklin: A voice from the past that speaks to our time At the 2022 Silfen Forum, Penn Interim President Wendell Pritchett chatted with filmmaker Ken Burns about his new two-part documentary on Benjamin Franklin. Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Inspiring the next generation of archive scholars Through Inside the Archive, a course taught by Liliane Weissberg of the School of Arts & Sciences, Penn students explore what an archive is, how history gets written, and what is ahead in a digital future. Campus & Community Exploration awaits as Penn Abroad ramps up student trips Two years after the pandemic forced Penn Abroad to brings students home, trips are back on and a busier-than-normal abroad schedule is coming in fall 2022. Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement