Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Inside Penn In brief, what’s happening at Penn—whether it’s across campus or around the world. Filter Stories Topics TopicsArts, Humanities, & Social SciencesSportsCampus & CommunityEducation, Business, & LawHealth SciencesScience & Technology Schools SchoolsAnnenberg School for CommunicationGraduate School of EducationPenn LawPerelman School of MedicineSchool of Arts & SciencesSchool of Dental MedicineSchool of Engineering & Applied ScienceSchool of NursingSchool of Social Policy & PracticeSchool of Veterinary MedicineStuart Weitzman School of DesignWharton School Displaying 1 - 10 of 1651 May 24, 2022 New Penn Medicine center will advance diversity in cardiovascular disease clinical trials Penn Medicine has formed the BETTER Center (Behavioral Economics to Transform Trial Enrollment Representativeness), designed to foster greater diversity, equity, and inclusion among people who participate in clinical trials designed to improve the prevention and treatment of cardiovascular diseases. The BETTER Center will seek to more actively engage and recruit individuals from historically underserved racial and ethnic groups, women, and people of low socioeconomic status, among other historically underrepresented groups. FULL STORY AT Penn Medicine News → May 24, 2022 Michael Glick named ADI International Dentist of the Year for 2021 The Executive Director of Penn Dental Medicine’s Center for Integrative Global Oral Health, has been recognized for his leadership by the Academy of Dentistry International for 2021. The award honors career contributions to dentistry, international education, and service. FULL STORY AT Penn Dental Medicine → May 24, 2022 Positive neighborhood social perceptions linked to lower parental stress Prior research linked a more positive social environment—one where people feel connected to each other and are willing to help one another and where community members feel safe—to better health outcomes. A Penn LDI team surveyed 300 low-income mothers and caregivers of preschool-aged children in Philadelphia on their stress levels and their views of their neighborhood social environment, and found that mothers who perceived their neighborhoods as safer had lower stress, as did mothers who perceived their neighborhood as having higher collective efficacy. FULL STORY AT Leonard Davis Institute → May 24, 2022 Perelman School of Medicine partners with HBCUs to increase student diversity in medicine Five HBCUs—Howard University, Morehouse College, Oakwood University, Spelman College, and Xavier University of Louisiana—partner with the Penn Access Summer Scholars Program to expand the pipeline of students underrepresented in medicine. FULL STORY AT Penn Medicine News → May 23, 2022 Racial disparities in endometrial cancer mortality A study co-written by Penn Medicine’s Emily Ko finds that Black women with endometrial cancer have an increased risk of death directly related to their endometrial cancer compared to white women, regardless of the stage and type of the cancer. FULL STORY AT Leonard Davis Institute → May 23, 2022 Penn Medicine and Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia announce partnership with Costa Rica for CAR T cell therapy Penn Medicine and CHOP together pioneered the research and development of the world’s first personalized cellular therapy for cancer—CAR T cell therapy. They will collaborate with Costa Rica’s Caja Costarricense de Seguro Social (Social Security Program) to facilitate CAR T research in Costa Rica. FULL STORY AT Penn Medicine News → May 20, 2022 APPC welcomes 19 distinguished research fellows This latest group of distinguished research fellows is largely based within the Penn community, bringing the group to a total of 58 eminent scholars whose work complements the research and engagement being conducted by the policy center. FULL STORY AT Annenberg Public Policy Center → May 20, 2022 Prominent appointments for Penn Nursing’s Diane Spatz Professor of Perinatal Nursing and the Helen M. Shearer Term Professor of Nutrition in Penn Nursing’s Department of Family and Community Health has two new appointments. Domestically, Spatz has joined the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine work group titled Inclusion of Pregnant and Lactating Persons in Clinical Trials. Internationally, Spatz has been elected to the Board of Directors for the International Society for Research in Human Milk and Lactation. FULL STORY AT Penn Nursing News → May 18, 2022 Jonathan Zimmerman wins the 34th annual IBPA Benjamin Franklin Award The Penn GSE professor’s book, “Free Speech and Why You Should Give a Damn,” co-written with editorial cartoonist Signe Wilkinson, has been honored with a gold prize in the IBPA Benjamin Franklin Award program’s “Political & Current Events” category. FULL STORY AT Graduate School of Education → May 18, 2022 Diversity in the Stacks: North African books in French The Libraries has acquired French language novels, and works on politics, Islam, art, and culture. Their publication in French reflects transnational networks of scholarly communication. A full picture of North African history and culture must take into account its multilingual reality. Collecting to support teaching and research can present a challenge, as materials in French and in Arabic are often artificially separated. FULL STORY AT Penn Libraries → Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Next page ›› Last page Last » Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement