Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Netter Center for Community Partnerships ‘Young Quakers’ from West Philadelphia schools will compete in Penn Relays Over 30 students from Young Quakers Community Athletics, a collaboration between the Netter Center for Community Partnerships, Penn Athletics, and West Philadelphia public schools, will compete in the Penn Relays. Kristina García ・ April 27, 2022 35th annual Women of Color at Penn award The Women of Color at Penn held their 35th annual award ceremony with a virtual celebration hosted by the African American Resource Center. This year’s awards honored six women who have fostered and supported community. Kristina García ・ March 21, 2022 Improving college access for Philadelphia’s Latinx community A collaboration between Penn and the nonprofit Centro de Cultura Arte Trabajo y Educación aims to enhance a thriving post-secondary success program, create mentoring opportunities, and more. Michele W. Berger ・ February 16, 2022 Empowering community engagement through theory and practice This fall, students applied community participation and stakeholder involvement processes to conduct their own outreach activities on campus as part of Participatory Cities, a Stavros Niarchos Foundation Paideia Program course. Erica K. Brockmeier ・ January 6, 2022 Math education and engagement in West Philadelphia This fall, students in Math 123 applied the skills they learned about math education and communication while working with 10th graders at Paul Robeson High School. Erica K. Brockmeier ・ December 23, 2021 Putting community first, in a new social justice initiative The Community Collaboratory for Co-Creation, led by Penn Nursing and Penn Engineering, will focus on research, education, and community engagement and outreach. Michele W. Berger ・ November 29, 2021 A pandemic year, in photos ‘Apart Together,’ a new photography exhibit at the Annenberg School, shows that despite not being physically in the same place the past 18 months, our shared experiences kept us connected. Michele W. Berger , Julie Sloane ・ October 18, 2021 Meshing academics and fun for a summer program like no other An inaugural Projects for Progress award helped bring to light a Penn Graduate School of Education and Netter Center for Community Partnerships initiative that readied young learners returning to in-person school this fall, and boosted teachers’ confidence. Lauren Hertzler ・ October 4, 2021 People and Places at Penn In anticipation of the return to campus, undergraduates introduce their favorite spots. Kristina García ・ August 17, 2021 Penn group wins EPA Campus RainWorks Challenge The student-led project will reimagine the campus of West Philadelphia’s Andrew Hamilton School, including vegetable gardens, a food forest, and other green stormwater-management tools. Katherine Unger Baillie ・ April 20, 2021 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Next page ›› Last page Last » Media Contact Kristina García News Officer klg@upenn.edu In the News Inside Higher Ed The fight for diverse, inclusive, antiracist, and just democracies Ira Harkavy and Rita Hodges of the Netter Center for Community Partnerships and others co-wrote an op-ed about higher education and systemic oppression. “Just as many colleges and universities are reckoning with their own institutional histories of exclusion, higher education as a field must recognize where it has failed and come up short. Only then can it come honestly to tables with communities, governments, and citizens to build inclusive, antiracist democracies together,” they wrote. FULL STORY → University World News HE must help build a more sustainable, democratic future Ira Harkavy of the Netter Center and colleagues describe the importance of higher education to democracy in their new book, “Higher education’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic—Building a more sustainable and democratic future.” FULL STORY → University World News Universities must help shape the post-COVID-19 world Ira Harkavy of the Netter Center for Community Partnerships contributed to an article about the role of universities in establishing a post-COVID-19 world. “Higher education can add momentum by renewing our commitment to our core values of academic freedom, institutional autonomy, and engagement by students, faculty, and staff, and re-emphasising the role of higher education institutions as societal actors for the public good,” Harkavy and his co-authors wrote. FULL STORY → University World News Balancing academic rights and responsibilities Ira Harkavy of the Netter Center for Community Partnerships wrote about the challenges universities face when balancing academic advancements and social responsibilities. “Higher education institutions would better fulfill their core academic functions, including advancing knowledge, teaching and learning, if they focused on improving conditions in their societies, particularly their local communities,” he argues. FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement