Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Penn Athletics hires Liz Nobis as first-ever mental health professional Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Sports Penn Athletics hires Liz Nobis as first-ever mental health professional Nobis earned her Ph.D. in clinical psychology from Biola University’s Rosemead School of Psychology in 2021 and has been serving as a postdoctoral fellow at Penn’s Counseling Services for the past year. The Division of Recreation and Intercollegiate Athletics (DRIA) has announced the appointment of Elizabeth “Liz” Nobis as DRIA’s first athletics mental health professional to serve the mental health needs of Penn’s nearly 1,000 varsity student-athletes. This newly created position will reside in the Pottruck Center for Student-Athlete Success and also work closely with the University’s Student Health and Counseling: Counseling Services. “There is no question that meeting the mental health needs of our student-athletes has been a priority over the past several years and we are thrilled to announce this mental health professional position and welcome Liz to the DRIA team,” said Alanna Shanahan, the T. Gibbs Kane, Jr. W’69 Director of Athletics and Recreation. “The demands faced by Penn student-athletes academically, athletically, and socially are vast and we are glad to further support our students’ mental health with an in-house professional in the DRIA footprint. I am so grateful to alumnae Kate O’Hern Lyons C’86 and Jane DeMarco Ott W’87 for supporting this position financially to enable us to better meet the needs of our student-athletes. “Liz comes to DRIA highly recommended from Counseling Services and her experience at Penn over the past year will help her hit the ground running,” Shanahan said. “She is a perfect fit to support our student-athletes’ mental health.” Nobis earned her Ph.D. in clinical psychology from Biola University’s Rosemead School of Psychology in 2021 and has been serving as a postdoctoral fellow at Penn’s Counseling Services for the past year. In her role, she conducted intake assessments, developed treatment plans, and provided time-limited and long-term individual psychotherapy in person and virtually to students. “I’m excited about the opportunity to bring mental health care to Penn Athletics and look forward to supporting our student-athletes,” Nobis said. While at Penn, Nobis completed outreach programming with Penn Athletics conducting student-athlete mental health screenings and participating in the Sports Nutrition Injury Prevention group. She recently conducted a body positivity outreach workshop alongside members of the athletics department. She also served three years at Biola’s Counseling Center while pursuing her Ph.D. and master’s degree in clinical psychology (2018). Nobis earned a master’s in public health from Drexel in 2012 following her bachelor’s degree in general science from the University of Oregon. As a graduate teaching assistant at both Biola and Drexel, Nobis taught several psychology and public health courses. Nobis’ office will be located in Weightman Hall, where she will be available to meet with student-athletes in a one-on-one setting or with full teams. Credits Penn Today Staff Writer Date May 18, 2022 Subtopics Student Athletes, Football, Baseball, Field Hockey, Track & Field, Softball, Lacrosse, Gymnastics, Rowing, Basketball, Tennis, Golf Share Twitter Facebook Twitter Facebook Read Next Class of 2023 celebrates Hey Day Campus & Community A celebration of the ‘resilient creativity’ of the Class of 2022 Penn’s 266th Commencement showcased graduates who Interim President Wendell Pritchett said demonstrated an “advanced ability to roll with the challenges.” Campus & Community Ben Franklin: A voice from the past that speaks to our time At the 2022 Silfen Forum, Penn Interim President Wendell Pritchett chatted with filmmaker Ken Burns about his new two-part documentary on Benjamin Franklin. Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Inspiring the next generation of archive scholars Through Inside the Archive, a course taught by Liliane Weissberg of the School of Arts & Sciences, Penn students explore what an archive is, how history gets written, and what is ahead in a digital future. Campus & Community Exploration awaits as Penn Abroad ramps up student trips Two years after the pandemic forced Penn Abroad to brings students home, trips are back on and a busier-than-normal abroad schedule is coming in fall 2022. Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement