Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo From wearable light to tech startup Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Health Sciences From wearable light to tech startup Lumify Care, supported by the 2021 President’s Innovation Prize and co-founded by May graduate Anthony Scarpone-Lambert and NICU nurse Jennifferre Mancillas, launched an app in January and expects version 2.0 of its uNight Light later in 2022. When Anthony Scarpone-Lambert (left) and Jennifferre Mancillas met at the Johnson & Johnson SONSIEL Nurse Hackathon in November 2019, he was a student at Penn Nursing, she a J&J Nursing Innovation Fellow and NICU nurse at Valley Children’s Healthcare in California. Initial conversations at the Hackathon planted the seeds for what would become Lumify, the company they co-run and for which Scarpone-Lambert earned the 2021 President’s Innovation Prize. When Anthony Scarpone-Lambert and Jennifferre Mancillas first began working together—when he was a junior in Penn’s School of Nursing, she a neonatal intensive care nurse in California—they wanted to address one particular challenge for nurses: how to better care for patients in the dark without needing to turn on the lights. Their solution was uNight Light, a clip-on, battery-powered, lightweight device with modes for night vision, close-up care, and active alertness. It aids nurses by keeping both hands free and providing lighting that’s bright enough for them to work but soft enough to avoid disrupting a sleeping patient. Coupled with an educational component and a nurse-focused social platform, uNight Light became the flagship product for Lumify Care, Inc., the company Scarpone-Lambert and Mancillas started in 2020 and which earned Scarpone-Lambert the 2021 President’s Innovation Prize from Penn. “Anthony and the entire Lumify team—continuously thinking outside of the box—took their well-deserved President’s Innovation Prize and evolved their game-changing uNight Light in remarkable ways,” says Interim President Wendell Pritchett. “I am so impressed by their dedication, their determination, and their growth. There is no doubt that Lumify will have lasting and positive impact on the work that gets done each and every day by our health care heroes.” The uNight Light is Lumify’s flagship product, a clip-on, battery-powered, lightweight device that aids nurses by keeping their hands free and providing lighting that’s bright enough for them to work but soft enough to avoid disrupting a sleeping patient. In the nine months since the award, Scarpone-Lambert and Mancillas’ vision for what the company might accomplish has expanded. They’ve hired several people and started thinking beyond direct-to-consumer products, conducting a pilot program to get Lumify tools into benefits packages at several hospitals. They’ve also expanded beyond nurses through an app they launched in January. This digital hub, a one-stop-shop for health care professionals to find resources, gear, and support, already has more than 100 partners, including Peloton and Penn-alum run Clove. In its first week, it attracted more than 1,000 users. “When we won the President’s Innovation Prize, we were just launching our hardware. We had built this pretty large community of nurses with that first product,” Scarpone-Lambert says. “But then we wanted to figure out, how do we further help this community that we’ve established?” Mancillas says they saw the uNight Light as a springboard. “Health care innovations are more often about patient care than for the health care workforce. Now, more than ever, we have an opportunity to rally around health care professionals and support them. We realized they waste so much time trying to navigate a system that’s so disjointed.” The more the Lumify team spoke with people in their industry, the more they realized this to be true: No central space existed for these professionals to find everything they needed, from scrubs to wellness tools and continuing education opportunities. “We were seeing such a siloed ecosystem,” Scarpone-Lambert explains. Lumify’s team has grown along with its product offerings. In January, Scarpone-Lambert and colleagues launched a new app, what he describes as a “super app for health care workers.” That awareness prompted him and his colleagues to interview hundreds of nurses, nurse practitioners, respiratory therapists, and many other types of health care professionals; the majority they spoke with expressed stress over navigating this aspect of their professional life, which often includes thousands of dollars in out-of-pocket expenses. Mancillas and Scarpone-Lambert decided Lumify could streamline this and create a community at the same time. After all, they’d already done something similar with the uNight Light and its accompanying community, which, to date, has more than 25,000 members. They secured some additional seed money from Y Combinator, a venture capitalist that provides funding for startups, then hired an engineer, a designer, and a marketing person. With the intel they’d gathered from the conversations during the summer of 2021, they began building an app. We had built this pretty large community of nurses with that first product. But then we wanted to figure out, how do we further help this community that we’ve established? May 2021 graduate Anthony Scarpone-Lambert, co-founder of Lumify Care Twitter Facebook “There are so many products and tools out there like uNight Light, but health care workers cannot find them. It’s very easy for things to not be accessible,” says Scarpone-Lambert. “We wanted to broaden the community and the education piece. We basically expanded the sleep-first community we had already built.” The result? What Scarpone-Lambert describes as the “super app for health care workers.” Free for users, the space offers products and support in categories from footwear to leadership. There’s a spot where people can post comments and questions and offer advice or their own stories. Long term, the Lumify team envisions becoming the “largest, most-inclusive digital home for health care workers,” Scarpone-Lambert says. That doesn’t mean forgetting about the uNight Light, however. View Transcript A second generation—rechargeable, with more adjustable light settings and a QR code on the back that leads to the app—will launch later in 2022. According to Lumify data, the first version lessened patient sleep disruptions by 70%, with 90% of users saying they’d recommend it to a friend or colleague; Scarpone-Lambert and Mancillas have high hopes for version 2.0. RELATED With its flagship light device, Lumify Care improves patient experience from the frontline Class of 2021 President’s Engagement and Innovation Prize winners announced Body Empowerment Project is a health-centered approach to self-care Penn Nursing’s innovation ecosystem As a nursing innovator, Therese Richmond thinks beyond hospital walls That sentiment carries over into how they feel about the continued support they’ve received from Penn faculty like Therese Richmond, Penn Nursing associate dean for research and innovation, and Jeffrey Babin of the Engineering Entrepreneurship program in Penn Engineering. They’re similarly grateful for the launchpad of the President’s Innovation Prize itself. “It really gave us this new level of empowerment to make the biggest impact possible,” Scarpone-Lambert says. “When we started, we were just a wearable light product. We really took that a big step further. We’ve now grown into this tech company.” Not just any tech company, but one founded by nurses for nurses, Mancillas adds. “It started with a pain point we saw. Anyone should feel empowered to find solutions just like we did. We love to encourage and inspire nurse-led innovation.” Thanks to their own innovation, patients can now sleep better during hospital stays and many more health care professionals can feel better connected to their communities. Homepage image: In the future, Scarpone-Lambert wants Lumify to keep growing and innovating. “It’s so crazy to think about how far we’ve come,” he says. But there’s more to do, he adds: “Health care workers need support now more than ever.” Credits Michele W. Berger Writer Eric Sucar Photographer Bowstring Studios Videographer Date March 7, 2022 Subtopics Innovation, Nursing, President's Innovation Prize Schools School of Nursing Share Twitter Facebook Twitter Facebook Read Next Class of 2023 celebrates Hey Day Campus & Community A celebration of the ‘resilient creativity’ of the Class of 2022 Penn’s 266th Commencement showcased graduates who Interim President Wendell Pritchett said demonstrated an “advanced ability to roll with the challenges.” Campus & Community Ben Franklin: A voice from the past that speaks to our time At the 2022 Silfen Forum, Penn Interim President Wendell Pritchett chatted with filmmaker Ken Burns about his new two-part documentary on Benjamin Franklin. Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Inspiring the next generation of archive scholars Through Inside the Archive, a course taught by Liliane Weissberg of the School of Arts & Sciences, Penn students explore what an archive is, how history gets written, and what is ahead in a digital future. Campus & Community Exploration awaits as Penn Abroad ramps up student trips Two years after the pandemic forced Penn Abroad to brings students home, trips are back on and a busier-than-normal abroad schedule is coming in fall 2022. Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement