Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Research Urging caution but not panic on monkeypox While unfamiliar to many in the U.S., monkeypox and other poxviruses have been on the radar of researchers at the School of Dental Medicine and Perelman School of Medicine for decades. Katherine Unger Baillie ・ June 1, 2022 Soft ‘rotini’ robots navigate with a snap Researchers at Penn Engineering have developed soft robots that are capable of navigating complex environments, such as mazes, without input from humans or computer software. From Penn Engineering ・ May 27, 2022 An arms race that plays out in a single genome School of Arts & Sciences biologist Mia Levine and Cara Brand, a postdoc, shed light on an example of coevolution in fruit flies that has implications for human health. Katherine Unger Baillie ・ May 27, 2022 From Buddhist temples to Penn Libraries Rebecca Mendelson is wrapping up her first academic year in person in her new role managing the Libraries’ Japanese and Korean Collections. Kristen de Groot ・ May 24, 2022 Genomic differences selected through evolution may offer clues as to why COVID-19 outcomes vary widely A team from the University of Pennsylvania analyzed genomic data from global populations, including thousands of ethnically diverse Africans, to identify genetic variants that may be associated with clinical COVID-19 outcomes. Katherine Unger Baillie ・ May 19, 2022 Elucidating the developmental origin of life-sustaining adrenal glands Research led by the School of Veterinary Medicine reveals that adrenal development proceeds differently in humans than it does in mice. Katherine Unger Baillie ・ May 19, 2022 Making chemical separation more eco-friendly with nanotechnology Chemical separation processes are essential to manufacturing, but also consume high levels of energy. Penn Engineers are developing new membranes for energy-efficient membrane-based separations on a nanoscale level. From Penn Engineering ・ May 6, 2022 With plants as a model, studying the ‘complexity and reproducibility’ of developmental biology In his first year at Penn, biologist Aman Husbands is busy working on projects aimed at illuminating the molecular mechanisms that govern plant development. Katherine Unger Baillie ・ May 6, 2022 Moving away from ‘average,’ toward the individual In a course from Annenberg’s David Lydon-Staley, seven graduate students conducted single-participant experiments. This approach, what’s known as an “n of 1,” may better capture the nuances of a diverse population than randomized control trials can. Michele W. Berger , Julie Sloane ・ May 3, 2022 ‘Keto’ molecule may be useful in preventing and treating colorectal cancer A Penn study finds beta-hydroxybutyrate, an alternative-energy molecule produced by the body in response to starvation or low-carb diets, strongly suppresses the growth of colorectal tumors. Brandon Lausch ・ April 29, 2022 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Next page ›› Last page Last » In the News Philadelphia Inquirer Penn Medicine gene therapy lab inks deal with Center for Breakthrough Medicines in KOP James Wilson of the Perelman School of Medicine has signed a deal on behalf of his gene therapy lab to license its manufacturing process to the Center for Breakthrough Medicines in King of Prussia. FULL STORY → BBC News Could mRNA make us superhuman? Research by Katalin Karikó and Drew Weissman of the Perelman School of Medicine laid the groundwork for mRNA vaccines. FULL STORY → Philadelphia Business Journal University of Pennsylvania commits $100 million to launch engineering and health center Penn is committing $100 million to establish a center for interdisciplinary research conducted by the School of Engineering and Applied Science and the Perelman School of Medicine. FULL STORY → Philadelphia Inquirer Penn scientists win $3 million Breakthrough Prize for RNA research that enabled COVID-19 vaccines Katalin Karikó and Drew Weissman of the Perelman School of Medicine have been awarded a $3 million Breakthrough Prize for research that paved the way for COVID-19 vaccines. “It’s been very wonderful,” said Weissman. “I never thought it was possible.” FULL STORY → Philadelphia Inquirer These obese mice lost weight by ‘sweating’ their fat, Penn team finds Taku Kambayashi and med student Ruth Chao of the Perelman School of Medicine found that they could stimulate fat loss in obese mice by treating the animals with a type of cytokine. FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement