Skip to main content Go to site search Go to primary navigation Go to resources navigation Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search About Projects & Profiles Application Information In the News Contact Toggle Site Search Resources Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Calendar Directories Maps Offices & Services Penn A - Z Webmail Penn Home Search Search Close Class of 2022 President’s Engagement, Innovation, and Sustainability Prize winners announced Six prize-winning teams will design and undertake post-graduation projects that make a positive, lasting difference in the world. Full story via Penn Today In the News April 19, 2021 Class of 2021 President’s Engagement and Innovation Prize winners announced March 24, 2021 A pivot, from financial literacy to restorative justice March 10, 2021 Increasing access to life-saving, unused medicines in India Application Details This year's deadline will be announced in the fall semester Full application timeline details are available via the Center for Undergraduate Research & Fellowships. About the Prizes The President’s Engagement Prizes are competitively awarded annually to academically excellent and civically engaged Penn seniors to design and undertake fully-funded local, national, or global engagement projects during the first year after they graduate from Penn. Each project winner will receive up to $100,000 in project implementation expenses, as well as $50,000 in living expenses. Social Media News April 19, 2021 Today we announce the Class of 2021 President’s Engagement and Innovation Prize winners. "The recipients embody Penn’s core commitment to leadership through service, a most vital & urgent calling during these challenging times," says President Amy Gutmann @penn March 29, 2021 Proud of the work that Collective Climb is doing to address systemic challenges in the juvenile justice system. PennPAC provided guidance towards Collective Climb's shift in vision, as part of the coaching support we provide to President's Engagement Prize winners. @Penn_PAC March 11, 2021 Aarogya, a social-enterprise organization founded by three 2020 President’s Engagement Prize winners, spent much of the past year connecting charitable hospitals in India with pharmaceutical companies to redistribute life-saving medicines. @penn Follow us on social media President's Prizes Engagement is just one piece of the Penn vision. This prize offers a broader cross section of the Penn campus a special opportunity to propose meaningful initiatives, to receive funding, and to make an immediate—and sustained—community impact. Unique at both Penn and across higher education, the President's Innovation Prize underscores the University’s considerable commitment to encouraging students to put their knowledge to work for the betterment of humankind. Competitively awarded on an annual basis, the President’s Engagement Prizes empower Penn seniors to design and undertake local, national or global engagement projects during the first year after they graduate. Report Copyright Infringement Disclaimer Privacy Policy Emergency Services Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-5000