Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Whitney Soule named vice provost and dean of admissions at Penn Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Campus & Community Whitney Soule named vice provost and dean of admissions at Penn Whitney Soule will be the new vice provost and dean of admissions at the University of Pennsylvania, effective July 1. Whitney Soule has been named vice provost and dean of admissions at the University of Pennsylvania, effective July 1. The announcement was made today by Penn President Amy Gutmann and Provost Wendell Pritchett. Soule is currently senior vice president and dean of admissions and student aid at Bowdoin College. She has three decades of experience in admissions at highly selective institutions, including 13 years at Bowdoin. “Given the uniquely important role that the dean of admissions plays at Penn, we co-led this search ourselves,” Gutmann and Pritchett said in a statement. “In our numerous discussions with Whitney, it became very clear that her vision and philosophy for admissions—along with her proven track record as a leader—will perfectly position Penn to carry forward our Penn Compact vision of ever-increasing inclusion, innovation and impact.” “Whitney shares our strong belief—proven true in Penn’s growing strength and continued success—that excellence and diversity in higher education are inextricably linked,” Gutmann said. During her tenure at Bowdoin, the college’s diversity and selectivity have grown. Her leadership resulted in increasing numbers of students of color, first-generation students, and students on financial aid alongside a decreasing admit rate and a growing admit-to-matriculant yield rate. Soule demonstrated a strong commitment to innovation and an eagerness to lead team-based efforts to rethink and improve the recruitment and selection process to better serve students and families while simultaneously advancing institutional priorities and the academic mission. “By harnessing the latest research on decision-making and implicit bias,” Pritchett said, “she oversaw development and implementation of new evaluation tools to ensure that all applicants—regardless of their backgrounds or personal circumstances—have the opportunity to demonstrate their ability to succeed on campus. She also supported efforts to redesign work processes in the admissions office to increase efficiency and better harness the efforts and talents of the admissions staff.” Soule is a leader with a passion for influencing and steering national discussions about college admissions and the role of higher education in driving societal progress, especially as colleges and universities continue to grapple with the COVID-19 pandemic and its lasting effects. At Bowdoin, she joined with colleagues to create a unique collaboration with other highly selective liberal arts colleges that improved the ability of students, families and counselors to learn more about the opportunities available at these types of institutions. “The admissions team at Penn has a reputation for creative approaches to building talented and diverse classes each year,” Soule said. “For me, one of the most rewarding aspects of admissions work is the matchmaking between applicant and school and doing so with systems that are responsive and supportive both for the students and for the institution. Penn's commitment to excellence, access, inclusion, and innovation, and the dedication to these values in Penn admissions, is a natural fit, and I am excited to join Penn this summer.” Soule has chaired the executive admission committee of the New England Small College Athletic Conference, is a member of the College Board Enrollment Leaders Group and is a board member of both the Coalition for College and the Enrollment Management Association. She began her career in college admissions at her alma mater, Bates College, where she rose through the ranks and served as associate dean and director of transfer admissions. During an 11-year tenure at Connecticut College, she directed transfer admissions and also oversaw admissions information and systems, including serving as the admission lead for that institution’s implementation of new student information systems. She moved to Bowdoin in 2008 where she worked as director of admissions and dean of admissions and student aid until she became senior vice president in 2020. In addition to her bachelor’s degree from Bates, Soule also holds a master’s degree from Harvard University’s Graduate School of Education. Gutmann and Pritchett praised John McLaughlin’s service as interim dean of admissions since Eric Furda’s departure on Dec. 31. “We thank John for his exemplary work and his love of Penn and look forward to his continued contributions to our campus community in the years to come,” they said. “Whitney Soule is extraordinarily well prepared and well positioned to lead Penn Admissions during an exciting moment in Penn’s history and during a uniquely challenging moment for our nation and our world,” Gutmann said. “We have every confidence that she will thrive in this role and will quickly become a vital member of and integral contributor to our Penn community.” Credits Ron Ozio Media Contact Date February 9, 2021 Subtopics Admissions, President, Provost Share Twitter Facebook Twitter Facebook Read Next Class of 2023 celebrates Hey Day Campus & Community A celebration of the ‘resilient creativity’ of the Class of 2022 Penn’s 266th Commencement showcased graduates who Interim President Wendell Pritchett said demonstrated an “advanced ability to roll with the challenges.” Campus & Community Ben Franklin: A voice from the past that speaks to our time At the 2022 Silfen Forum, Penn Interim President Wendell Pritchett chatted with filmmaker Ken Burns about his new two-part documentary on Benjamin Franklin. Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Inspiring the next generation of archive scholars Through Inside the Archive, a course taught by Liliane Weissberg of the School of Arts & Sciences, Penn students explore what an archive is, how history gets written, and what is ahead in a digital future. Campus & Community Exploration awaits as Penn Abroad ramps up student trips Two years after the pandemic forced Penn Abroad to brings students home, trips are back on and a busier-than-normal abroad schedule is coming in fall 2022. Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement