Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Health Sciences Urging caution but not panic on monkeypox Building Penn Medicine’s Pavilion helped launch his career. Now, William Griffin is going places Lighting the way for rare disease COVID mortality age patterns changed significantly during pandemic Between March 2020 and October 2021, death rates from the virus decreased for those 80 and older and increased for those 25 to 54, results that held across racial and ethnic groups. Michele W. Berger ・ May 17, 2022 Racial gap in doctor visits disappeared in 2020 as telemedicine adopted Penn Medicine study finds the rate of completed primary care visits for Black patients rose to the same level of non-Black patients, as COVID-19 necessitated the wider adoption of telemedicine. From Penn Medicine News ・ May 16, 2022 Daily micronutrient supplements during pregnancy reduce birth complications The results of a six-year study of nearly 100,000 women in Botswana suggest iron plus folic acid and vitamins is better at reducing adverse birth outcomes compared to iron or folic acid alone. From Penn Medicine News ・ May 13, 2022 Nurse case manager supports her Ukrainian homeland from afar As Russia continues its war on Ukraine, Alena Blain, a nurse case manager at Penn Medicine Princeton Medical Center, collects and packages much needed medical supplies to send to hospitals in Ukraine for treating people injured in the war. From Penn Medicine News ・ May 12, 2022 A matter of trust: Community health workers in West Philly As part of the Penn Medicine at Home enterprise, community health workers are one element of Penn’s initiatives to deliver quality care and improve health outside hospital walls. From Penn Medicine News ・ May 9, 2022 Centuries of Penn Med student stories Medicine has changed immensely throughout the school’s more than 250 years of history, and so has the process of becoming a doctor. From Penn Medicine News ・ May 5, 2022 DNA analysis finds links between severe COVID and other conditions Through analyzing human DNA samples in a large biobank, Penn Medicine researchers found associations between genetic variants with severe COVID and conditions involving blood clots and respiratory issues. From Penn Medicine News ・ May 4, 2022 Symposium highlights range and reach of Penn Global research The Penn Global Research and Engagement Grant is supporting 21 faculty-led projects that span research, capacity-building, and development efforts across Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean, India, China, and beyond. Kristen de Groot ・ May 2, 2022 What can browser history inadvertently reveal about a person’s health? The Penn-CMU Digital Health Privacy Initiative is trying to answer that question by mapping third-party tracking across the online health ecosystem. Their work shows possible implications for ad targeting, credit scores, insurance coverage, and more. Michele W. Berger ・ April 29, 2022 ‘Keto’ molecule may be useful in preventing and treating colorectal cancer A Penn study finds beta-hydroxybutyrate, an alternative-energy molecule produced by the body in response to starvation or low-carb diets, strongly suppresses the growth of colorectal tumors. Brandon Lausch ・ April 29, 2022 Pagination First page « First Previous page ‹‹ Page 1 Current page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Next page ›› Last page Last » In the News “PBS NewsHour” Share on Facebook Share on Twitter The coronavirus will likely evade Paxlovid eventually. What that will mean for the pandemic is unclear Sara Cherry of the Perelman School of Medicine argues that researchers weren’t monitoring enough rebound cases of COVID for possible resistance. FULL STORY → Reuters Fact Check-Monkeypox is not the same as AIDS or ‘VAIDS’ caused by the COVID-19 vaccine Stephen Gluckman& of the Perelman School of Medicine says there is no evidence of immunodeficiency being related to COVID-19 vaccines. FULL STORY → TechiLive Bystander CPR more likely in states requiring teen training Victoria Vetter of the Perelman School of Medicine comments on how state laws mandating CPR training in high schools were associated with a higher likelihood of bystander CPR for out-of-hospital cardiac arrest. FULL STORY → Marketplace (NPR) Evusheld offers vulnerable Americans protection from COVID. But getting it has been complicated Aimee Payne of the Perelman School of Medicine comments on the decision to get a COVID vaccine amongst patients with rare autoimmune diseases. FULL STORY → The New York Times After stroke, doctors look at Fetterman’s campaign trail prospects Rajat Deo of the Perelman School of Medicine agreed with the use of defibrillators in the care of Senate nominee John Fetterman and suspects he has a damaged heart. FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement