Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Campus & Community Lighting the way for rare disease Cosmic Writers brings free creative writing education to school-aged children A vigil in response to recent losses to gun violence Senior Erin Hayes named Gates Cambridge Scholar Senior Erin Hayes, a Roy and Diana Vagelos Scholar in the Molecular Life Sciences, has been awarded a Gates Cambridge Scholarship to pursue a Ph.D. in astronomy at the University of Cambridge in England. Louisa Shepard ・ February 3, 2022 Interfaith activism at the second annual University Forum on Social Equity and Community In the second annual University Forum on Social Equity and Community, the School of Arts & Sciences’ Barbara D. Savage moderated a conversation on interfaith activism. Kristina García ・ February 3, 2022 A call for tools to navigate the future of the Delaware River watershed The Penn Program in Environmental Humanities is partnering with Philadelphia’s Independence Seaport Museum to solicit designs for tools to help Delaware River watershed residents adapt and respond to climate change and other ecological challenges. Katherine Unger Baillie ・ January 31, 2022 Vaccinated fans can return to indoor events on Feb. 1 Spectators ages 12 and above must show proof of vaccination and a valid government- or school-issued photo ID to access any indoor competition facility. All fans must wear a mask that meets current University guidelines. Penn Today Staff ・ January 31, 2022 Building off years of success, Penn and Lea School formalize partnership The University and its Graduate School of Education will contribute more than $4 million to the West Philadelphia K-8 school throughout the next five years. Amanda Mott ・ January 28, 2022 Penn Live Arts embraces hybrid shows for spring season A first for Penn Live Arts, several performances at the Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts this season will be both in-person and live-streamed. Brandon Baker ・ January 27, 2022 Ten from Penn elected 2021 AAAS Fellows Ten scholars representing five schools across the University of Pennsylvania have been named to the 2021 class of American Association for the Advancement of Science Fellows, recognized for their “scientifically and socially distinguished achievements.” Katherine Unger Baillie ・ January 26, 2022 Anti-racism and reproductive justice PIK Professor Dorothy Roberts joined Alexis McGill Johnson, president and CEO of Planned Parenthood, in the 21st annual Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Lecture in Social Justice. They addressed the intersectional nature of anti-racism and reproductive freedom. Kristina García ・ January 26, 2022 Landmark gift endows Penn Integrates Knowledge Professorship in honor of Amy Gutmann A $5 million commitment from James S. and Gail Petty Riepe will endow a new PIK Professorship in recognition of Dr. Gutmann’s distinguished tenure as Penn’s longest-serving President Amanda Mott ・ January 25, 2022 Mentor support for the first-generation college experience Three decades apart, senior Rachel Swym and alumna Leanne Huebner found a common bond in their rural backgrounds and first-generation, highly aided college experience. Louisa Shepard ・ January 25, 2022 Pagination First page « First Previous page ‹‹ … Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Current page 8 Page 9 Page 10 Page 11 Page 12 … Next page ›› Last page Last » In the News Philadelphia Inquirer Finally, the Class of 2020 gets its in-person commencement ceremonies at Penn, Haverford, and Penn State On Sunday, 3,500 members of the University of Pennsylvania’s undergraduate class of 2020 as well as 2021 master’s and doctoral graduates marched onto Franklin Field to whooping cheers from family and friends in the crowd of 12,000. FULL STORY → Foreign Policy The tragedy of Robert McFarlane Perry World House Fellow John Gans writes, “During his two years as then-President Ronald Reagan’s third national security advisor, [Robert] McFarlane aspired to wield power on the level of his most famous predecessor, Henry Kissinger. But McFarlane proved both too ambitious and too ineffective to wield it in accordance with the law, and instead he became embroiled in the Iran-Contra scandal.” FULL STORY → Forbes Princeton, Cornell, University of Pennsylvania withhold Class of 2026 acceptance rates Princeton University, Cornell University and the University of Pennsylvania have also decided to refrain from releasing detailed admissions statistics. The remaining five Ivy League universities—Harvard, Yale, Columbia, Brown and Dartmouth—have made their traditional admissions announcements. FULL STORY → Inside Higher Ed Record applications, record rejections Admissions Dean Whitney Soule comments on students engaged in academic research during their time in high school, many earning national and international accolades for research. FULL STORY → The Wall Street Journal Some Ivy League colleges to play down how selective they are Admissions Dean Whitney Soule said drawing attention to the acceptance rate of Ivy League schools like Penn does more harm than good, distressing applicants and their parents. “We’re focusing not on how hard we are to get into but on who these young people are that we chose,” she said. FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement