Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo A farm-to-table meal at Penn, in photos Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Campus & Community A farm-to-table meal at Penn, in photos Honoring Earth Week, Penn Dining and the Penn Food and Wellness Collaborative teamed up to create a vegetable-forward menu for Quaker Kitchen, sourcing produce from local purveyors to highlight what’s currently growing on the quarter-acre Penn Park Farm. On a given night Quaker Kitchen serves as many as 200 meals like the Earth Week meal, which included pea puree, pasta carbonara, mushrooms, carrots, and sustainably sourced salmon. “The big message is, if you’re interested in climate change, the choice you make at your dinner table has a big impact,” says Barbara Lea-Kruger, director of communications and external relations for Penn’s Division of Business Services. At 4:30 p.m. on a Wednesday, the buzz in Quaker Kitchen in Penn’s New College House West is palpable as the team preps for the nearing dinner rush. Music plays in the background as a blender blends, pots clank. Sous chef Kwazi Hlela prepares the pea puree that will accompany the main dish, a locally sourced salmon and green leafy tatsoi, while others roast maitake mushrooms and whip cream, toss spaghetti, and chop raw bacon. Though such a lead up to dinner isn’t unique for this kitchen, this week’s meal is. It’s a collaboration between Quaker Kitchen Chef Daniel Stern and the team at the Penn Park Farm in honor of Earth Week. It features a plant-forward feast sourced from local purveyors that is based on the produce growing at the farm. “We don’t always talk about food and its impact on climate change and sustainability,” says Lila Bhide, founder of the Penn Food and Wellness Collaborative, which includes the quarter-acre farm. “Everyone has to eat. It’s important that we learn how to leverage food to fight climate change as opposed to it being something that contributes to the problem.” That’s something Stern has been doing through what Penn Dining calls Q’ulinary Sessions. Quaker Kitchen is open Monday through Thursday for dinner. On Fridays, it often turns into a classroom, offering Penn students a chance to learn basic cooking skills. Ahead of Earth Week, Stern and his team worked with the Penn Park Farm to design a menu, then provided a cooking lesson to a select group on April 15. That meal became this week’s menu for Quaker Kitchen diners. Stern says part of the goal of those sessions generally and of the Earth Week collaboration specifically is to highlight the principle that the food choices people make affect the environment. It’s a guiding philosophy for him as he cooks and for Penn Dining overall. “This is not a once-a-year-occasion,” says Stern, who before coming to Penn was chef-owner of R2L in Philadelphia. “My goal is for Quaker Kitchen to operate like this year-round, to raise awareness about food waste and food access.” Eating to benefit the planet has another advantage too, he says: It’s delicious. The food grown on the Penn Park Farm, like the tatsoi seen here, contributes to the Student Good Food Bag program, part of the Netter Center’s Agatston Urban Nutrition Initiative. In the summer, the plot can generate as much as 100 pounds of produce per day, which gets hand-picked by Bhide and her team. After Emylee Fleshman (left) graduated from Penn in 2021, she began working full time at the farm. In mid-April, she showed off many vegetables starting to pop, including spinach, lettuce greens, snow peas, snap peas, and garlic planted last October. She and Bhide had recently harvested carrots overwintered from last season. The Quaker Kitchen Earth Week meal included roasted maitake mushrooms (on the left, next to portobello mushrooms) as one entrée option, to be accompanied by peas and pasta. In addition to Stern and Hlela, the kitchen team includes folks from Bon Appetit and Penn Dining Services. According to sous chef Hlela (right), for Wednesday night’s meal they prepared about 25 pounds of carrots, 50 pounds of salmon, five cases of greens, and much more. Here he’s making a cauliflower puree, the first step of several to ready the sauce for the salmon. Second-year Graduate School of Education student Jessica Cox enjoyed the meal so much she brought her partner, Tyler Wetmore, to Quaker Kitchen the next night to try it. They ate their meal in the courtyard of New College House West. Credits Michele W. Berger Writer Eric Sucar Photographer Date April 22, 2022 Subtopics Sustainability, Energy Policy, Earth and Environmental Science, Facilities and Real Estate Share Twitter Facebook Twitter Facebook Read Next Class of 2023 celebrates Hey Day Campus & Community A celebration of the ‘resilient creativity’ of the Class of 2022 Penn’s 266th Commencement showcased graduates who Interim President Wendell Pritchett said demonstrated an “advanced ability to roll with the challenges.” Campus & Community Ben Franklin: A voice from the past that speaks to our time At the 2022 Silfen Forum, Penn Interim President Wendell Pritchett chatted with filmmaker Ken Burns about his new two-part documentary on Benjamin Franklin. Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Inspiring the next generation of archive scholars Through Inside the Archive, a course taught by Liliane Weissberg of the School of Arts & Sciences, Penn students explore what an archive is, how history gets written, and what is ahead in a digital future. Campus & Community Exploration awaits as Penn Abroad ramps up student trips Two years after the pandemic forced Penn Abroad to brings students home, trips are back on and a busier-than-normal abroad schedule is coming in fall 2022. Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement