Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Cosmic Writers brings free creative writing education to school-aged children Weitzman team helps protect and interpret Lincoln Memorial Baseball history, American history Islands on the climate front line Perry World House’s Global Shifts Colloquium looked at how islands can protect their people, build resilient communities, and safeguard their environment in the climate crisis. Kristen de Groot ・ April 25, 2022 ‘In These Times: The Intricate Riddle of Life’ The first three episodes of the Omnia podcast’s fourth season discuss the link between making art and making meaning, and how creativity shines a light on the way out of adversity in tough times, past and present. April 25, 2022 Weitzman School of Design receives gift to establish fellowships and global internships for architecture students A new gift from Aedas, a global architecture and design firm, will establish a fellowship for architecture students to work in Asia. Amanda Mott ・ April 22, 2022 The Clean Water Act at 50 Approaching the half-century mark of this landmark piece of environmental legislation, Penn students, staff, and faculty share their reflections on its legacy, both strengths and shortcomings. Katherine Unger Baillie ・ April 21, 2022 The future of forests Faced with an onslaught of changes—heat, drought, fire, flood, pests, and disease—forests are under stress. Kristina García ・ April 21, 2022 Climate resilience, economic competitiveness, and equity at the megaregional level In “Megaregions and America’s Future,” Emeritus Professor of Practice Robert Yaro and Dean Frederick Steiner discuss how megaregions in the U.S. can address complex challenges. Erica K. Brockmeier ・ April 20, 2022 How storytelling can motivate us to help others A new study from Annenberg School’s Communication Neuroscience Lab finds that personal stories—instead of cold facts—make people want to help keep others safe. Alina Ladyzhensky ・ April 19, 2022 At Fuyao Glass factory, students put Chinese language skills into practice At Fuyao Glass America in Moraine, Ohio, the subject of the Oscar-winning 2019 film “American Factory,” students and faculty were led on a tour and dialogued with the Fuyao America CEO. Brandon Baker ・ April 19, 2022 Ukraine’s ambassador to the United Nations speaks at Perry World House The fight against Russian aggression in Ukraine is also a fight to protect Europe and democracy globally, said Sergiy Kyslytsya, Ukraine’s representative to the UN, speaking with Philadelphia Inquirer columnist Trudy Rubin at Perry World House. Louisa Shepard ・ April 15, 2022 Turning Latin America green Santiago Cunial, a doctoral candidate in political science, investigates issues surrounding green energy in Chile and Argentina. April 15, 2022 Pagination First page « First Previous page ‹‹ Page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Current page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Next page ›› Last page Last » In the News The New York Times Brittney Griner’s supporters have a new strategy to free her: Make noise Ph.D. candidate& Kimberly St. Julian-Varnon of the School of Arts & Sciences is quoted on the need to put pressure on Russia to release a detained W.N.B.A. player. FULL STORY → Forbes.com Resilience should not be a solitary pursuit Angela Duckworth of the School of Arts & Sciences contends that success is about far more than innate ability and it needs long-term adherence and an acceptance that setbacks can be overcome with hard work. FULL STORY → USA Today There’s a name for the feeling that nothing you do matters Martin Seligman of the School of Arts & Sciences says that learned helplessness is a mental state that occurs when people find out that nothing they do matters. FULL STORY → The Hill The kids are not all right—copycat cannabis edibles risk their safety Andy Tan of the Annenberg School for Communication co-writes an article about how copycat cannabis edibles, which have colorful packages that mimic popular snacks and candy, have come under scrutiny. FULL STORY → Billy Penn No pressure: PA’s Josh Shapiro is being painted as the potential savior of democracy Daniel Hopkins of the School of Arts & Sciences says that the Pennsylvania governor’s race is not politics as usual. FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement