Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Facing climate change with optimism Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Education, Business, & Law Facing climate change with optimism In the course titled Climate Change & the Energy Evolution, University of Pennsylvania Carey Law students learn how to use their legal skills to decarbonize the world’s economy. As concerns about warming global temperatures and rising sea levels continue to grow, climate change has increasingly dominated political, economic, and scientific decision-making across the world—and the private energy sector is at the heart of many essential conversations pertaining to greenhouse gas emission reductions. Receding Arctic sea ice, as seen from space. (Image: NASA/Goddard Scientific Visualization Studio) In the new course Climate Change & the Energy Evolution, co-Lecturers in Law Maggie Peloso and Kaam Sahley guide University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School students in a deep dive into the private energy sector and its impending transformation as the world shifts toward more sustainable energy solutions. Both Peloso and Sahley are partners at Vinson & Elkins. Peloso concentrates her work in the firm’s Environmental & Natural Resources practice, while Sahley is in Energy Transactions & Projects. Accordingly, Climate Change & the Energy Evolution stands out as an intentionally pragmatic course geared toward preparing students for meaningful careers assisting in the rapid decarbonization of the global economy. Students enrolled in Climate Change & the Energy Evolution spend the first half of the course analyzing climate science, discussing the need for the dramatic reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, and familiarizing themselves with the variety of regulatory stakeholders who drive the legal realities of the energy transition. Because climate science continues to evolve and regulatory decisions within the energy sector are often highly politicized, this material can change from semester to semester. During the course’s first iteration in 2021, the Presidential Inauguration offered a natural opportunity to contrast Trump Administration policies from Biden Administration promises; this year, a new Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report included major developments from climate scientists. “You’ve got a lot of regulatory flux, and that makes teaching the course both very challenging and very rewarding. Being able to teach students cutting-edge concepts and trying to get them to engage with material in the way that they will be expected to as lawyers is really fun,” Peloso says. “We spend a lot of time on current events. We spend a lot of time thinking about how the dynamics of the energy market are changing and how those changes are important factors when thinking about the kinds of things you might get asked to do as a lawyer and how you’re going to help.” Read more at Penn Law News. Credits From Penn Law Writer Date May 12, 2022 Subtopics Law, Climate Change Schools Penn Law Share Twitter Facebook Twitter Facebook Read Next Class of 2023 celebrates Hey Day Campus & Community A celebration of the ‘resilient creativity’ of the Class of 2022 Penn’s 266th Commencement showcased graduates who Interim President Wendell Pritchett said demonstrated an “advanced ability to roll with the challenges.” Campus & Community Ben Franklin: A voice from the past that speaks to our time At the 2022 Silfen Forum, Penn Interim President Wendell Pritchett chatted with filmmaker Ken Burns about his new two-part documentary on Benjamin Franklin. Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Inspiring the next generation of archive scholars Through Inside the Archive, a course taught by Liliane Weissberg of the School of Arts & Sciences, Penn students explore what an archive is, how history gets written, and what is ahead in a digital future. Campus & Community Exploration awaits as Penn Abroad ramps up student trips Two years after the pandemic forced Penn Abroad to brings students home, trips are back on and a busier-than-normal abroad schedule is coming in fall 2022. Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement