Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Higher Education Indicators report shows escalating disparities for students of color and poor students Report from The Pell Institute and PennAHEAD highlights stark differences in debt burden and benefits of higher education among ethnic groups that has significantly widened in recent years. From Penn GSE ・ May 25, 2022 ‘Groundbreaking future for groundbreaking educators’ A groundbreaking ceremony kicked off a $35.6 million Graduate School of Education expansion project that includes the renovation of two 1965 buildings. The new spaces are expected to open in August 2023. Louisa Shepard , Kat Stein ・ April 21, 2022 New book offers lessons for parents on discussing campus sexual assault In the guide for caregivers whose child was sexually assaulted on a college campus, Susan B. Sorenson provides advice and identifies resources, both on campus and within the community. Michele W. Berger ・ November 29, 2021 Understanding the pandemic classroom Penn professors join the “Understand This ...” podcast to talk about the fall 2021 return to the classroom, reflecting on what students and educators have experienced during the course of the COVID-19 pandemic, while examining lessons from remote learning. Brandon Baker ・ August 31, 2021 Women are undercited and men are overcited in communication An analysis of citations in 14 communication journals found that men are overcited and women are undercited, especially in papers authored by men. From Annenberg School for Communication ・ August 5, 2021 Penn launches initiative to distribute federal COVID relief funds as direct student grants 100% of federal Higher Education Emergency Relief Funds will go to student emergency grants and public health initiatives. Amanda Mott ・ August 3, 2021 Systemic barriers to college for low-income and nontraditional students The release of a higher education report reveals that nontraditional students have many risk factors and financial barriers to navigate to successfully complete their educational goals. From Penn GSE ・ May 26, 2021 Hajer Al-Faham finds American Muslims are under watch, even in research The doctoral candidate in political science, finds that disproportionate surveillance of American Muslims stifles academic research. From OMNIA ・ May 10, 2021 Inaugural Presidential Ph.D. Fellows announced Drawing from the most accomplished and diverse Ph.D. trainees, the 2021 Presidential Ph.D. Fellows come from across the nine schools at Penn that offer Ph.D. programs. Amanda Mott ・ May 4, 2021 Karen Detlefsen named Penn vice provost for education The professor of philosophy in the School of Arts & Sciences, with a secondary appointment in the Graduate School of Education, has been named vice provost for education at the University of Pennsylvania, effective July 1. Leo Charney ・ May 4, 2021 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Next page ›› Last page Last » In the News The Washington Post Momentum builds behind a three-year degree to lower college costs Robert Zemsky of the Graduate School of Education is quoted on the worries that speeding up curriculum to graduate from college in three years would “cheapen the degree.” FULL STORY → Chronicle of Higher Education Higher ed’s evolutionary—not revolutionary—pandemic response Drawing on pre-pandemic data, Robert Zemsky of the Graduate School of Education predicted that 20% of higher education institutions were in danger of shuttering. FULL STORY → The Washington Post Texas community college group aims to help students beyond the classroom Laura Perna of the Graduate School of Education said applying for financial aid can be complicated for students. However, the Alamo Promise program, which provides students in Texas with free tuition and additional services, sends “a clear message with no fine print,” she said. FULL STORY → Inside Higher Ed Perceptions of affordability Joni Finney of the Graduate School of Education spoke about the impact of rising college costs on low-income families, saying, “For these families the high cost of college is not a perception but a reality that they must deal with.” FULL STORY → MSNBC Harvard's complicated relationship with its Black students Camille Z. Charles of the School of Arts & Sciences said Black immigrant students are overrepresented at selective U.S. universities relative to Black American students. She said that even though college applications “ask where your parents were born, they're not collecting and sort of storing the information that way because I think it's something that they don't necessarily want to talk about.” FULL STORY → USA Today Biden’s free college plan never happened. Are debt-free degrees the answer to student loan crisis? Laura Perna of the Graduate School of Education spoke about College Promise Programs, which help cover students’ tuition and other expenses. Perna said these programs “reflect real concern about how much it costs to go to college.” FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement