Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Finance Wharton expert explains the crashing crypto market What does the cryptocurrency crash mean for investors? Wharton expert, Sarah Hammer talks with Penn Today about the digital asset. Dee Patel ・ May 20, 2022 The West’s sanctions on Russia Jesús Fernández-Villaverde, professor of economics and director of the Penn Initiative for the Study of the Markets, discusses the severity of the sanctions, the effects so far, and the potential reverberations for the rest of the globe. Kristen de Groot ・ March 2, 2022 What are non-fungible tokens? What are NFTs? Sarah Hammer from The Wharton School breaks down the basics of the digital assets. Dee Patel ・ February 15, 2022 A beginner’s guide to cryptocurrency What is cryptocurrency? Sarah Hammer from The Wharton School breaks down the basics of the digital currency. Dee Patel ・ January 26, 2022 Taking a closer look at cryptocurrency Experts across the University share their thoughts on how cryptocurrency has globally transformed businesses, research, and the environment. Michele W. Berger, Erica K. Brockmeier, Kristen de Groot, Dee Patel ・ November 17, 2021 David Zaring breaks down the Pandora Papers Following the leak of the Pandora Papers, detailing both legal and illegal financial transactions, there is bipartisan support of more oversight regarding secret trusts, but establishing international regulation continues to be difficult. Kristina García ・ November 1, 2021 What the U.S. economy will look like after the pandemic It has been a long pandemic, from which the country is still emerging, but the U.S. economy is working its way back. Dee Patel ・ August 18, 2021 Why older Americans are taking on more debt Older Americans are accumulating more debt as they near retirement, according to research from the Wharton School that reveals a troubling trend in personal finance among people in their 50s and early 60s. From Knowledge at Wharton ・ April 23, 2021 Wharton’s Olivia S. Mitchell on financial well-being Leading economist and Wharton professor Olivia S. Mitchell discusses key findings from her new research on financial well-being among Black and Hispanic women. From Wharton Stories ・ April 6, 2021 Getting financially fit in 2021 A Wharton expert gives five financial takeaways for people who have made New Year’s resolutions. Dee Patel ・ January 21, 2021 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Next page ›› Last page Last » In the News The Conversation Super Bowl ads turn up the volume on cryptocurrency buzz: 6 essential reads about digital money and the promise of blockchain Kevin Werbach of the Wharton School wrote about the risks and rewards of decentralized finance. While there are benefits to transactions made without the involvement of a financial institution, these unregulated markets are very volatile. FULL STORY → The Wall Street Journal One way to spend less: Spread out your paychecks Research co-authored by Wendy De La Rosa of the Wharton School found that people who receive daily pay checks spend more than those who are paid less frequently. “Changes in liquidity can really change people’s psyche,” she said. FULL STORY → The Wall Street Journal Over the hedge: Three books on the field’s highs and lows David Skeel of the Law School reviewed three books about corporate bankruptcy and hedge funds. FULL STORY → Bloomberg Nasdaq will fall into bear market, Wharton’s Siegel says Jeremy Siegel of the Wharton School said the Federal Reserve’s inflation-curbing measures could lead to a 20% decline in the Nasdaq 100 from the November record. “I don’t think the pain is over yet,” he said. FULL STORY → BuzzFeed.com Congress is trying to figure out what to do about crypto’s colossal carbon footprint Zane Griffin Talley Cooper, a doctoral candidate in the Annenberg School for Communication, said “proof of work” algorithms used to mine and trade cryptocurrencies need to be “intensely regulated.” FULL STORY → The Washington Post Cryptocurrency is suddenly everywhere — except in the cash register Sarah Hammer of the Wharton School said cryptocurrency investing isn’t right for everyone. “A fundamental principle of investing is that, as you approach retirement, your portfolio should be less and less volatile, so you can rely on it for retirement income. So it behooves folks to be cautious,” she said. FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement