Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Women’s rowing team revs up for first NCAA tourney Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Sports Women’s rowing team revs up for first NCAA tourney This weekend in Sarasota, Florida, the Quakers will compete in the NCAA Division I Rowing Championship tournament for the first time as a full team. Image: Penn Athletics From May 27-29 at Nathan Benderson Park in Sarasota, Florida, the full women’s rowing team will compete in the NCAA Division I Rowing Championship tournament for the first time in school history. The Quakers were awarded an at-large bid to the 2022 22-team tournament field. Eleven conferences received automatic bids and 11 slots were granted at-large. Princeton earned the Ivy League’s automatic qualifier. Brown and Yale are also at-large selections. Teams qualifying for the championship are required to field two boats of eight rowers and one boat of four rowers. Penn’s Varsity Eight is seeded ninth, the Second Varsity Eight is seeded sixth, and the Varsity Four is seeded 17th. At the Ivy League Championship on May 15, the Red & Blue finished fourth. Junior Josie Konopka, a Philadelphia native, is a First-Team All-Ivy selection, and junior Samy Morton, from Hong Kong, China, is a Second-Team All-Ivy honoree. Image: Penn Athletics After viewing the NCAA Tournament Selection Show on May 17, Wesley Ng, head coach of the women’s rowing team, told the Penn Sports Network he was “excited, relieved, and incredibly pumped for the athletes.” “A lot of people from past Penn teams have been reaching out to us about how excited they are for this, and I’m hoping we can really make them proud,” he said. The Red & Blue will be up against perennial tournament powers such as Brown, who is making its 25th appearance, the University of California, Berkeley, who is making its 23rd appearance, and the University of Michigan, who is making its 20th appearance. But Ng says the Quakers are not deterred. “I know we have our work cut out for us – but we also have a pretty scrappy group,” he said. “I know that they’re not going to take any opportunity for granted, that’s for sure.” Credits Penn Today Staff Writer Date May 25, 2022 Subtopics Student Athletes, Rowing Share Twitter Facebook Twitter Facebook Read Next Class of 2023 celebrates Hey Day Campus & Community A celebration of the ‘resilient creativity’ of the Class of 2022 Penn’s 266th Commencement showcased graduates who Interim President Wendell Pritchett said demonstrated an “advanced ability to roll with the challenges.” Campus & Community Ben Franklin: A voice from the past that speaks to our time At the 2022 Silfen Forum, Penn Interim President Wendell Pritchett chatted with filmmaker Ken Burns about his new two-part documentary on Benjamin Franklin. Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Inspiring the next generation of archive scholars Through Inside the Archive, a course taught by Liliane Weissberg of the School of Arts & Sciences, Penn students explore what an archive is, how history gets written, and what is ahead in a digital future. Campus & Community Exploration awaits as Penn Abroad ramps up student trips Two years after the pandemic forced Penn Abroad to brings students home, trips are back on and a busier-than-normal abroad schedule is coming in fall 2022. Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement