Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Demography Indicators report shows escalating disparities for students of color and poor students Report from The Pell Institute and PennAHEAD highlights stark differences in debt burden and benefits of higher education among ethnic groups that has significantly widened in recent years. From Penn GSE ・ May 25, 2022 Dan Treglia on the caregivers lost to COVID The associate professor of practice in the School of Arts & Sciences identifies the number of children who have lost parents and caregivers to COVID-19 and how to support them. From OMNIA ・ May 24, 2022 Exploring racism’s health impact in a VA renal clinic A new study by Penn LDI’s Kevin Jenkins provides new insights into how structural racism impacts Black patients’ lives and treatment experience for chronic kidney disease. Hoag Levins ・ May 24, 2022 COVID mortality age patterns changed significantly during pandemic Between March 2020 and October 2021, death rates from the virus decreased for those 80 and older and increased for those 25 to 54, results that held across racial and ethnic groups. Michele W. Berger ・ May 17, 2022 City planning students gain critical perspective on the carceral state The Carceral State, a course offered through Penn’s Netter Center for Community Partnerships, explores the issue of mass incarceration in Pennsylvania. From the Weitzman School of Design ・ May 17, 2022 Racial gap in doctor visits disappeared in 2020 as telemedicine adopted Penn Medicine study finds the rate of completed primary care visits for Black patients rose to the same level of non-Black patients, as COVID-19 necessitated the wider adoption of telemedicine. From Penn Medicine News ・ May 16, 2022 Making a game of it: Contests help new moms increase their steps A Penn Medicine study used wearable tech to foster activity in high-risk, diverse populations, specifically postpartum women to reduce their cardiovascular risk. Brandon Lausch ・ April 26, 2022 Higher rates of chemical sedation among Black psychiatric patients points to inequities Penn Medicine researchers also find that white patients are more likely to be chemically sedated in emergency departments at hospitals that treat high proportion Black patients, suggesting that hospital demographics can impact practice patterns. From Penn Medicine News ・ April 7, 2022 Bridging Wikipedia’s gender gap, one article at a time Wikipedia has a major gender inequity problem. In a new study, Annenberg researchers evaluate how feminist interventions are closing the gap, and how they could improve. From Annenberg School for Communication ・ February 24, 2022 Improving college access for Philadelphia’s Latinx community A collaboration between Penn and the nonprofit Centro de Cultura Arte Trabajo y Educación aims to enhance a thriving post-secondary success program, create mentoring opportunities, and more. Michele W. Berger ・ February 16, 2022 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Next page ›› Last page Last » In the News CBS News Black women have the highest eviction rates in the U.S. Akira Drake Rodriguez of the Stuart Weitzman School of Design says Black women are evicted more than any other group in the U.S., and housing insecurity is becoming a growing crisis. FULL STORY → The New York Times Children, coping with loss, are pandemic’s ‘forgotten grievers’ Dan Treglia of the School of Arts & Sciences is quoted about his study of how communities of color are disproportionately affected in caregiver loss from COVID-19. FULL STORY → Al Día What does the 2020 U.S. Census say about Latinos? Michael Jones-Correa of the School of Arts & Sciences gave a presentation at the 2021 Greater Philadelphia Hispanic Chamber of Commerce State of Hispanic Business Forum about the most recent U.S. Census. “Pennsylvania has always been a bit of a laggard when it comes to its foreign-born population, its Latino population,” he said. “But it’s now sort of beginning to match the kind of rates of population and growth around the country.” FULL STORY → Philadelphia Inquirer Life expectancy fell by 1.5 years in 2020, mostly due to COVID-19. Here’s what that really means Samuel H. Preston of the School of Arts & Sciences responded to the pandemic’s negative impact on the U.S. life expectancy, saying it will “bounce back” in the near future. FULL STORY → KYW Newsradio (Philadelphia) The consequences of the declining birth rate in the US Hans-Peter Kohler of the School of Arts & Sciences spoke about the potential ramifications of declining births in the U.S. “Ultimately, declining birth rates affect what’s called the population age structure, so how many individuals are at different ages within a country or population,” he said, “and the population age structure, along with the size of the population, have profound effects on many, many aspects of life.” FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement