Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Cosmic Writers brings free creative writing education to school-aged children Weitzman team helps protect and interpret Lincoln Memorial Baseball history, American history Four takeaways from the IPCC’s report on climate adaptation and vulnerability The assessment gets explicit about the effect of climate change on people, places, and ecosystems. Experts from Penn weigh in on what it means. Michele W. Berger ・ March 7, 2022 The Black Lives Matter movement, but not COVID encouraged voters toward Biden As swing voters registered more awareness about discrimination against Black Americans, they became more likely to vote for the party they felt would best rectify that—Democrats. Julie Sloane ・ March 7, 2022 Wharton hosts 8th annual Diversity Case Competition Wharton’s annual Diversity Case Competition focused on solving problems at the intersection of environmental sustainability and issues relevant to Indigenous communities. Dee Patel ・ March 7, 2022 ‘War in Europe: Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine’ In an expert briefing hosted by Perry World House and moderated by Lightning Scholar Jane Vaynman, former NATO Deputy Secretary General Alexander Vershbow, political science professor Rudra Sil, and Philadelphia Inquirer columnist Trudy Rubin discussed sanctions, the humanitarian crisis, and whether diplomatic solutions are realistic. Kristen de Groot ・ March 3, 2022 The West’s sanctions on Russia Jesús Fernández-Villaverde, professor of economics and director of the Penn Initiative for the Study of the Markets, discusses the severity of the sanctions, the effects so far, and the potential reverberations for the rest of the globe. Kristen de Groot ・ March 2, 2022 Former Indian foreign secretary discusses India, China, and the ‘Asian Century’ In a lecture presented by the Center for the Advanced Study of India, former Foreign Secretary of India Shyam Saran discussed the relationship between India and China, as well as how the Russian invasion of Ukraine may shift geopolitics. Brandon Baker ・ March 1, 2022 Kimberly St. Julian-Varnon on the war in Ukraine The Ph.D. student in history, and former resident of Ukraine discusses the nation, how things got to this point, and what’s being overlooked in the discussion about the war. Alex Schein, Susan Ahlborn ・ February 28, 2022 Hostility among friends can come from surprising places Sherelle Ferguson, and Annette Lareau, Edmund J. and Louise W. Kahn Professor in the Social Sciences, find that “hostile ignorance” can come from surprising places. From OMNIA ・ February 25, 2022 Russia’s attack on Ukraine, through the lens of history Historian Benjamin Nathans offers background on Putin’s use of history in justifying his war in Ukraine Kristen de Groot ・ February 25, 2022 Putin’s motivation behind the attack on Ukraine In a Q&A with Penn Today, Michael C. Horowitz, director of Perry World House, provides insight into Putin’s motivations, nuclear threats, and expansionist views. Kristen de Groot ・ February 24, 2022 Pagination First page « First Previous page ‹‹ … Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Current page 9 Page 10 Page 11 Page 12 Page 13 … Next page ›› Last page Last » In the News The New York Times Brittney Griner’s supporters have a new strategy to free her: Make noise Ph.D. candidate& Kimberly St. Julian-Varnon of the School of Arts & Sciences is quoted on the need to put pressure on Russia to release a detained W.N.B.A. player. FULL STORY → Forbes.com Resilience should not be a solitary pursuit Angela Duckworth of the School of Arts & Sciences contends that success is about far more than innate ability and it needs long-term adherence and an acceptance that setbacks can be overcome with hard work. FULL STORY → The Hill The kids are not all right—copycat cannabis edibles risk their safety Andy Tan of the Annenberg School for Communication co-writes an article about how copycat cannabis edibles, which have colorful packages that mimic popular snacks and candy, have come under scrutiny. FULL STORY → USA Today There’s a name for the feeling that nothing you do matters Martin Seligman of the School of Arts & Sciences says that learned helplessness is a mental state that occurs when people find out that nothing they do matters. FULL STORY → Voice of America Controversial Russian opera star takes stage in Paris Kevin Platt of the School of Arts & Sciences does not support a blanket boycott of Russian artists. FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement