Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Historic Sporting Events Baseball history, American history Sarah Gronningsater’s popular course links the two in a study of the sport from the Civil War to Jackie Robinson to the current day. Kristen de Groot ・ May 27, 2022 Men’s tennis team advances to first NCAA tournament The Quakers have earned an at-large bid and will take on Virginia Commonwealth University on Friday in Charlottesville, Virginia. Greg Johnson ・ May 4, 2022 Thomas concludes spectacular season with national title The senior won gold in the 500 freestyle at the 2022 NCAA Championships, making her the first female swimmer in school history to win an individual national title. Greg Johnson ・ March 20, 2022 Penn vs. Cornell used to serve up Thanksgiving specials Penn and Cornell face off for the 127th time on Saturday at Franklin Field. Forty-three of the first 45 meetings were held on Thanksgiving Day. Greg Johnson ・ November 4, 2021 Penn put on a show at the 1900 Olympics Thirteen Quakers competed in the Games, which were held in Paris, and returned with 20 medals in track & field events. Greg Johnson ・ August 4, 2021 First African American Olympic gold medalist was a Penn grad John Baxter Taylor Jr. of Philadelphia, a superstar on Penn’s track & field team in the early 1900s, won gold at the 1908 Summer Olympics in London. Greg Johnson ・ July 28, 2021 Two more Quakers competing in Tokyo Olympics A former Quaker and an incoming Quaker are competing in the Olympics in Tokyo, giving Penn a total of eight athletes participating in the Games Greg Johnson ・ July 26, 2021 Meet the Penn athletes competing in the Tokyo Olympics Six Quakers are going for the gold in the Olympic Games, representing the United States, Canada, Jamaica, Bermuda, and Taiwan/Chinese Taipei. Greg Johnson ・ July 22, 2021 Alexis Borden’s perfect game The 2015 alumna, the most decorated pitcher in Penn softball history, threw the first perfect game in school history in May of 2012. Greg Johnson ・ July 14, 2021 Alumnus Sam Mattis punches ticket to Tokyo The 2016 grad earned a spot on the U.S. Olympic Team by finishing third in the discus at the Olympic Trials over the weekend. Greg Johnson ・ June 28, 2021 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Next page ›› Last page Last » In the News Philadelphia Inquirer Peggy Kowalski, who may have spent more hours in the Palestra than anybody ever, retires For many of the last 38 years, as Penn Athletic’s director of special events, Kowalski has to be on the short list, maybe even at the top of it, for people who spent the most combined lifetime time at the Palestra and Franklin Field. Her earliest work days were as an undergrad selling tickets and answering to her boss who was also her father, and in honor of the two, the front lobby box office will be named the Donohue-Kowalski Box Office. FULL STORY → Philadelphia Inquirer Memories of Kobe Bryant: He was a star even among the biggest stars The Lower Merion High graduate looms large in the Philly community and around the world, as fans share memories from the Palestra to Beijing. FULL STORY → Philadelphia Inquirer Olympic champion Greg Bell returned to Penn Relays with plenty of memories 88-year-old Greg Bell was one of the top athletes of his era. Competing for Indiana, he broke a Penn Relays record and captured four individual titles—three in his specialty, the long jump—from 1956 through 1958. Returning to Franklin Field in 2019, he carried his Olympic gold medal from the 1956 Melbourne Games, which he won seven months after his first Relay record. FULL STORY → Philadelphia Inquirer Usain Bolt remembers his historic 2010 Penn Relays performance: ‘There was a great atmosphere’ No matter where his life and his pursuits take him, the Jamaican icon always will remember his performances at the Penn Relays and what the carnival has done to help young Jamaican athletes get noticed by U.S. colleges. FULL STORY → Philadelphia Inquirer Forty years after his memorable race, Renaldo Nehemiah to return to Penn Relays It has been 40 years since Renaldo Nehemiah created one of the most indelible memories in the history of the Penn Relays with his history-making 44.3-second anchor leg for Maryland. FULL STORY → ESPN The Ivy's last stand: Penn's 1979 Final Four run marked end of an era An Ivy League team in the Final Four? Yep. Coach Bob Weinhauer’s basketball team didn’t seem to belong— the Quakers came from a bookworm conference that didn’t, and still technically doesn’t, allow athletic scholarships. Somehow, they found a way to accomplish a ludicrous goal and advance to the Final Four. It’s a feat no Ivy team has accomplished since. FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement