Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Education, Business, & Law What I’ve learned: Wharton’s Anita Summers Indicators report shows escalating disparities for students of color and poor students Streamlining the health care supply chain A one-stop shop for student-founded impact startups College Green Ventures, a recipient of Penn’s 2022 President’s Engagement Prize, finds and supports student-founded impact startups. The organization aims to be a national hub for social impact on college campuses. Greg Johnson ・ May 25, 2022 How price shocks in formative years scar consumption for life Teens who experienced gas price shocks of the 1970s drive less in later years, according to experts at Wharton and the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia. From Knowledge at Wharton ・ May 23, 2022 Why more companies are standing up on social issues From the war in Ukraine to anti-LGBTQ+ legislation in Florida, companies are increasingly speaking out on social issues. Wharton management professor Stephanie Creary explains why silence is no longer golden for firms. From Knowledge at Wharton ・ May 20, 2022 Wharton expert explains the crashing crypto market What does the cryptocurrency crash mean for investors? Wharton expert, Sarah Hammer talks with Penn Today about the digital asset. Dee Patel ・ May 20, 2022 Facing climate change with optimism In the course titled Climate Change & the Energy Evolution, University of Pennsylvania Carey Law students learn how to use their legal skills to decarbonize the world’s economy. From Penn Law ・ May 12, 2022 ToxiSense wins 2022 Venture Lab Startup Challenge Four first-year students win the $50,000 Perlman Grand Prize for their sustainable water testing method through genetically engineering plants with bioluminescent properties. From the Wharton Newsroom ・ May 11, 2022 Reactions to leaked SCOTUS decision on the future of Roe v. Wade According to a leaked draft published by Politico, the Supreme Court has voted to overturn abortion rights. University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School faculty offer perspectives. From Penn Law ・ May 3, 2022 Trailblazing Penn alumna Sadie T.M. Alexander gets posthumous honor The American Economic Association named Alexander, who earned economics and law degrees at Penn a century ago, a 2022 Distinguished Fellow. Kristen de Groot ・ May 2, 2022 Can the U.S. avoid a recession? Many economists are warning of a recession, while Wall Street bulls are saying those fears are overblown. Wharton experts weigh in on what’s ahead for the U.S. economy. From Knowledge at Wharton ・ April 29, 2022 A Wharton initiative championing global change The Ideas for Action Wharton undergraduate student club is a joint initiative with the Zicklin Center for Business Ethics Research to engage youth around the world in developing solutions to global challenges. Dee Patel ・ April 26, 2022 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Next page ›› Last page Last » In the News Axios Coping tips for parents and teachers after the Uvalde school shooting Howard Stevenson of the Graduate School of Education provides tips on coping in the aftermath of the shootings in Uvalde, Texas. FULL STORY → Politico.com How Elon Musk’s Twitter takeover may help change stock market rules Jill Fisch of the Law School comments on allegations that Elon Musk ripped off Twitter shareholders to the tune of $143 million. FULL STORY → Politico.com Inside America’s biased flood program Carolyn Kouskyof the Wharton School comments on FEMA’s mitigation efforts against flooding and the disparities in its grantmaking process. FULL STORY → “Midday,” WYPR Radio (Baltimore) Dorothy Roberts’ “Torn Apart” calls out racial disparities in foster care PIK Professor Dorothy Roberts discusses her new book that argues that the nation’s foster care system deprives Black parents of fundamental rights and leads to traumatic consequences for Black children. FULL STORY → TheHill.com Mass shootings highlight our failure in mental health Stephen N. Xenakis of the Law School writes that effective mental health services in our communities are woefully lacking yet is fundamental to our safety, security, and productivity. FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement