Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Streamlining the health care supply chain Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Education, Business, & Law Streamlining the health care supply chain William Danon and Luka Yancopoulos, winners of the 2022 President’s Innovation Prize, will offer a software solution to make the health care supply chain more efficient. William Danon and Luka Yancopoulos pose in front of College Hall in April 2022. They are co-founders of Grapevine and the winners of the 2022 President’s Innovation Prize. William Danon and Luka Yancopoulos are best friends. They’re also business partners. The duo, who received this year’s President’s Innovation Prize (PIP) for Grapevine, met during sophomore year, connected through Yancopoulos’ roommate. As time went on, they did everything together: cooked meals, played basketball, and read and discussed fantasy novels. “We spent a lot of time together,” Danon says. It was only natural, then, that when the time came to start an actual venture, they’d do it together. “They’re like brothers, in a very good way,” says mentor David Meaney of the School of Engineering and Applied Science, who describes their working dynamic as “complementary.” “I think that will serve them well. Most of what we do in faculty is collaborative, and I see elements of that in their partnership. I give them credit for stepping out and doing something unusual and keeping at it.” How Grapevine came to be Grapevine is a software solution and professional networking platform that connects small-to-medium-size players in the health care supply chain. It’s a sort of two-pronged solution: It helps institutions like hospital systems connect disjointed operations like procurement and inventory management internally, but also serves as a glue between these institutions and purveyors of medical equipment. “William and Luka are impact-driven entrepreneurs whose collaborative synergies will take them far,” says Penn Interim President Wendell Pritchett. “The software provided by Grapevine is poised to reinvent how the health care industry buys and sells medical supplies and services and, truly, could not come at a timelier moment.” The company is the evolution of a project they began at the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, called Pandemic Relief Supply, which delivered $20 million of health care supplies to frontline workers. “My mom was a nurse practitioner at New York Presbyterian Hospital, the largest hospital in the United States, and she was coming home with horror stories,” recalls Yancopoulos. “In surgery or the ER, a surgeon had to put on a garbage bag because they didn’t have a gown. And they gave her one mask to use for the rest of the month, and I’m seeing on the news, ‘Don’t wear a mask for more than three days.’” This is where Yancopoulos and Danon first developed an interest in the health care supply chain. Using a database Penn allows students access to that maps the import of any good in the country, they did keyword matching to identify instreams of different goods and handed off findings to New York Presbyterian procurement staff. When McKesson, the largest provider of health care products and services in the U.S., took notice of what they were doing and reached out, they realized they were onto something. In response to their success, they started a company called Pandemic Relief Supply to distribute reliable medical supplies, including items like medical-grade masks and gloves, to frontline workers in the healthcare space. As time passed, that project evolved into something larger: Grapevine. In short, Grapevine’s software creates a professional networking platform to resolve miscommunications between suppliers and buyers, as well as adds a layer of transparency between interactants. Suppliers on the platform display real-time data about their inventory and shipping process, with timestamps; this prohibits companies from cherry-picking data or making false claims and creates a more health-care-supply-specific space for companies to interact than, say, LinkedIn. A mock-up screenshot of a business profile on the Grapevine professional networking platform. (Image: William Danon) “Primarily, the first step is we want people to use it internally, and streamline operations, and then through that centralized operational data, you can push that externally and that’s where [Grapevine] becomes a connector,” explains Danon. “Because when you’re choosing to connect with someone, the reason you can do so way more efficiently or quickly, is that data is actual operational data.” To accomplish this level of transparency, the beginnings of Grapevine involved lots of legwork. Last year, the duo moved to Los Angeles to take stock of what suppliers existed where, and how reliable they were. They realized that many suppliers existed around Los Angeles because of port access; many medical supplies are imported from Asia. Their time in LA made the problem feel even more tangible, they agree. “We were able to see people were doing outdated processes—manual processes—because there’s no other option,” Danon says. “So, we said, ‘Let’s get out there and do some work to be digital and technologically innovative.” From the BioMakerSpace to market Since hearing about the PIP in his freshman year, Yancopoulos has carried around a notebook of innovative ideas. The journal initially carried far-out ideas like a lava lamp that captures energy. “It’s been on my mind since I was a freshman, so it’s just ‘Which of my crazy ideas do we want to apply to this opportunity and dedicate ourselves to for years to come?’” Yancopoulos says. “And COVID really gave us clarity.” COVID-19 was a problem, he says, that they—nor anyone else, surely—could, or can, escape. “It made me and Will want to solve a problem,” he says. “It’s always the idea of doing good, with the PIP being the biggest honor to do that.” But the idea also has origins in the Stephenson Foundation Educational Laboratory & Bio-MakerSpace, an interdisciplinary project-based lab that incorporates biology, chemistry, and other fundamental disciplines of engineering. It’s a space meant to allow and encourage experimentation and allow students to feel more comfortable with failure. Meaney describes Yancopoulos as a student in his educational lab course who, he says, “found the status quo a bit boring.” For a lab project at the end of one semester, Meaney challenged students to stimulate a cockroach leg by sending signals to the leg and moving it. Yancopoulos’ approach converted sound from music into a frequency that stimulated the leg to resemble dancing to the music with a disco set up and laser light show. “That’s the point where I said, ‘This [lab] group is creative and willing to take on something ambitious,” Meaney says, noting that another student in the lab went on to become a Rhodes Scholar. When the time came to start Grapevine, Yancopoulos remembered Meaney and asked him to be their mentor for the project. Meaney has advised by making introductions at Penn Medicine and elsewhere, and by tamping down enthusiasm about any ideas that were perhaps a little too ambitious. “Luka and Will really took this idea and ran with it, and they’ve been very good at being persistent and also very creative in not just how to approach [customers] but how to respond to feedback,” Meaney says. “They’d build a prototype, ask for feedback, rapidly incorporate changes into the prototype, and were very responsive. And as the product developed, we had conversations about how it becomes a business, how to make it profitable.” A mock-up screenshot of a storefront on the Grapevine platform. (Image: William Danon) Though Danon was a history major in the College of Arts & Sciences, he’s taken several business and entrepreneurship courses at Penn to advance his business acumen. He says it “blew me away” how willing resources on campus, like Venture Labs and the Venture Initiation Program-Community, were to help guide them with the project. “I was nervous about putting Grapevine out to the Penn ecosystem, initially, because I was like, ‘Alright, just like any academic environment, it’s going to be formal, structured, and we’ll have to hit on these specific things to even participate.’ And what I found was that Penn is remarkably flexible,” Danon says. “Especially with an idea or something you’re working on; they value passion and work ethic.” What’s next? In the coming months, the two recent graduates and their team of 12 additional full-time employees will continue collecting feedback from their approximately 20 current customers using the platform before opening it up for a full launch in the fall. The PIP, they say, has allowed them to fast-track that launch from 2023. All the while, they’re insistent about keeping pricing fair and not growing for the sake of growth. “The only thing that grows for the sake of growth is a cancer,” they like to remind themselves. “We created this platform that is a playing field for innovative businesses across the space to come together, driving progress through collaboration, and we really do believe there’s strength in numbers and differences of opinions, and skillsets,” says Yancopoulos. “And that’s our goal: Each business has its own specialized skillset, and connecting one specialized skillset with another, and another, in series, that’s where you build the most efficient supply chains in the world. It’s not by having one company who owns it all, an Amazon, a McKessen; it’s by having little guys who know what they’re doing, are specialized, adaptable, creative, and working together and automating operations on a unified operating system. “That’s what we’re trying to build.” Credits Brandon Baker Writer Eric Sucar Photographer Date May 24, 2022 Subtopics President's Innovation Prize Schools School of Arts & Sciences, School of Engineering & Applied Science Share Twitter Facebook Twitter Facebook Read Next Class of 2023 celebrates Hey Day Campus & Community A celebration of the ‘resilient creativity’ of the Class of 2022 Penn’s 266th Commencement showcased graduates who Interim President Wendell Pritchett said demonstrated an “advanced ability to roll with the challenges.” Campus & Community Ben Franklin: A voice from the past that speaks to our time At the 2022 Silfen Forum, Penn Interim President Wendell Pritchett chatted with filmmaker Ken Burns about his new two-part documentary on Benjamin Franklin. Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Inspiring the next generation of archive scholars Through Inside the Archive, a course taught by Liliane Weissberg of the School of Arts & Sciences, Penn students explore what an archive is, how history gets written, and what is ahead in a digital future. Campus & Community Exploration awaits as Penn Abroad ramps up student trips Two years after the pandemic forced Penn Abroad to brings students home, trips are back on and a busier-than-normal abroad schedule is coming in fall 2022. Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement