Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Class of 2022 Ivy Day Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Campus & Community Class of 2022 Ivy Day Continuing a tradition spanning nearly 150 years, this year’s ceremony celebrated leadership, service, and scholarship, with a special emphasis on resilience and perseverance. Ivy Day celebrated the Class of 2022 with a special emphasis on resilience and perseverance. Since 1873, Penn students have affixed stones commemorating their class and achievements on the walls of campus buildings. On Sunday, May 15, the Class of 2022 hosted its Ivy Day ceremony with remarks and presentations by Interim President Wendell Pritchett, Interim Provost Beth Winkelstein, and Vice Provost for University Life Mamta Accapadi, along with Class President Sam Strickberger, Penn Alumni President Ann Nolan Reese, and others. This year’s Ivy Day stone was designed by J. Rachel Pierce, a senior in the College of Arts & Sciences. While the Ivy Day awards historically recognize leadership, service, and scholarship, the 2022 awards placed a special emphasis on students who modeled resilience and perseverance throughout the global pandemic. “I have no doubt these students will change the world wherever they go,” said Accapadi, who gave the welcoming address. “They have already left their mark, here at Penn and beyond.” Senior honor award winners pose with their prizes. The 2022 Ivy Day awardees and presenters: Contribution and Athlete Awards Sol Feinstone Undergraduate Awards Presenter: Interim Provost Beth Winkelstein Recipients: Victoria (Tori) Borlase Vyshnavi Kosigishroff Maxine Wragan Association of Alumnae Fathers’ Trophy Presenter: Interim Provost Beth Winkelstein Recipient: Gracyn Banks Class of 1915 Award Presenter: Interim Provost Beth Winkelstein Recipient: Samuel Handley Academic Achievement and President’s Prizes James Howard Weiss Memorial Award Presenter: Interim President Wendell Pritchett Recipient: Simona Vigodner President’s Engagement Prizes Presenter: Interim President Wendell Pritchett Recipients: Rowana Miller and Manoj Simha Seungkwon Son, Max Strickberger and Sam Strickberger President’s Innovation Prizes Presenter: Interim President Wendell Pritchett Recipients: William Danon and Lukas Yancopoulos President’s Sustainability Prizes Presenter: Interim President Wendell Pritchett Recipients: Saif Khawaja Sarah Beth Gleeson, Shoshana Weintraub and Julia Yan Eli Moraru Student Awards of Merit Penn Alumni Student Awards of Merit Presenter: Penn Alumni President Ann Nolan Reese Recipients: Marina Dauer Merrick Eng Sarthak Jain Mia Kriegel Hugo Leo Senior Honor Awards R Jean Brownlee Skimmer Hat Award Presenter: Kara Blond Recipient: Mary Sadallah Spade Award Presenter: Kara Blond Recipient: Regan Mizrahi David R Goddard Loving Cup Award Presenter: Rachel Sheinbein Recipient: Sukhmani Kaur Cane Award Presenter: Rachel Sheinbein Recipient: Miles N. Meline Gaylord P Harnwell Flag Award Presenter: George Holt Recipient: Janice Owusu Bowl Award Presenter: George Holt Recipient: Nikhil Gupta Althea K Hottel Shield Award Presenter: Neil Sheth Recipient: Amy Guo Spoon Award Presenter: Neil Sheth Recipient: Sam Strickberger Credits Kristina García Writer Date May 17, 2022 Subtopics Undergraduate Students, Awards Share Twitter Facebook Twitter Facebook Read Next Class of 2023 celebrates Hey Day Campus & Community A celebration of the ‘resilient creativity’ of the Class of 2022 Penn’s 266th Commencement showcased graduates who Interim President Wendell Pritchett said demonstrated an “advanced ability to roll with the challenges.” Campus & Community Ben Franklin: A voice from the past that speaks to our time At the 2022 Silfen Forum, Penn Interim President Wendell Pritchett chatted with filmmaker Ken Burns about his new two-part documentary on Benjamin Franklin. Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Inspiring the next generation of archive scholars Through Inside the Archive, a course taught by Liliane Weissberg of the School of Arts & Sciences, Penn students explore what an archive is, how history gets written, and what is ahead in a digital future. Campus & Community Exploration awaits as Penn Abroad ramps up student trips Two years after the pandemic forced Penn Abroad to brings students home, trips are back on and a busier-than-normal abroad schedule is coming in fall 2022. Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement