Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Education, Business, & Law What I’ve learned: Wharton’s Anita Summers Indicators report shows escalating disparities for students of color and poor students Streamlining the health care supply chain Wharton 5K returns for first time since the pandemic Undergraduates and MBAs get ready to run in the first Wharton 5K since the start of the pandemic. Dee Patel ・ March 16, 2022 How gig workers are managing risk during the pandemic New research from Wharton management professor Lindsey Cameron reveals tactics that gig workers are using to mitigate health risks while managing their reputation with demanding customers during the pandemic. From Knowledge at Wharton ・ March 10, 2022 Diversion programs reduce criminal justice system footprint Research from Penn criminologists and the Philadelphia District Attorney’s Office found that such programs increase expungement rates and lower reconviction rates, leading to a net-narrowing effect overall. Michele W. Berger ・ March 9, 2022 Through the metaverse, and what can be found there The Wharton School’s Sarah Hammer sheds light on how the metaverse may impact education, health care, diversity initiatives—and may even help people reduce their reduce carbon footprint. Dee Patel ・ March 8, 2022 Four takeaways from the IPCC’s report on climate adaptation and vulnerability The assessment gets explicit about the effect of climate change on people, places, and ecosystems. Experts from Penn weigh in on what it means. Michele W. Berger ・ March 7, 2022 Wharton hosts 8th annual Diversity Case Competition Wharton’s annual Diversity Case Competition focused on solving problems at the intersection of environmental sustainability and issues relevant to Indigenous communities. Dee Patel ・ March 7, 2022 Penn announces nine 2022 Thouron Scholars Five seniors and four recent alumni have received a 2022 Thouron Award to pursue graduate studies in the United Kingdom. Each scholarship recipient receives tuition for up to two years, as well as travel and living stipends, to earn a graduate degree there. Louisa Shepard ・ March 7, 2022 Four takeaways from the ‘The Struggle for Women’s Human Rights’ In an event marking Women’s History Month, the Law School’s Rangita de Silva de Alwis joined Perry World House’s LaShawn R. Jefferson in the discussion “Global Justice: The Struggle for Women’s Human Rights.” Kristina García ・ March 4, 2022 How fracking could cushion oil price shocks A Wharton research paper makes the business case for fracking as a viable mitigating factor to soften the impact of oil and gas price shocks fueled by Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, from disruption of gas flows to oil companies caught amidst sanctions. From Knowledge at Wharton ・ March 3, 2022 Six takeaways from two years of online learning As two full years of this explosion in virtual learning approaches, Penn GSE associate professor and director of the Penn Center for Learning Analytics Ryan Baker shares some thoughts on best practices, and which practices should be avoided. From Penn GSE ・ March 2, 2022 Pagination First page « First Previous page ‹‹ Page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Current page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Next page ›› Last page Last » In the News Axios Coping tips for parents and teachers after the Uvalde school shooting Howard Stevenson of the Graduate School of Education provides tips on coping in the aftermath of the shootings in Uvalde, Texas. FULL STORY → Politico.com How Elon Musk’s Twitter takeover may help change stock market rules Jill Fisch of the Law School comments on allegations that Elon Musk ripped off Twitter shareholders to the tune of $143 million. FULL STORY → Politico.com Inside America’s biased flood program Carolyn Kouskyof the Wharton School comments on FEMA’s mitigation efforts against flooding and the disparities in its grantmaking process. FULL STORY → “Midday,” WYPR Radio (Baltimore) Dorothy Roberts’ “Torn Apart” calls out racial disparities in foster care PIK Professor Dorothy Roberts discusses her new book that argues that the nation’s foster care system deprives Black parents of fundamental rights and leads to traumatic consequences for Black children. FULL STORY → TheHill.com Mass shootings highlight our failure in mental health Stephen N. Xenakis of the Law School writes that effective mental health services in our communities are woefully lacking yet is fundamental to our safety, security, and productivity. FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement