Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Dan Treglia on the caregivers lost to COVID Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Dan Treglia on the caregivers lost to COVID The associate professor of practice in the School of Arts & Sciences identifies the number of children who have lost parents and caregivers to COVID-19 and how to support them. To date, more than 200,000 children in the United States have lost a parent or co-residing caregiver to COVID-19. The trauma of losing a caregiver can have lasting effects, says social policy researcher Dan Treglia, associate professor of practice in the School of Arts & Sciences. Dan Treglia, associate professor of practice in the School of Arts & Sciences. (Image: OMNIA) “Losing a parent or caregiver can result in depression and symptoms of PTSD,” says Treglia. “It can also have lifelong impacts like increasing the rates of substance or alcohol abuse and reducing educational attainment and employment rates, which is why it’s important to identify these children and intervene sooner rather than later.” In 2021, the COVID Collaborative—a nonpartisan group of experts in public health, education, and the economy—reached out to Treglia to help identify the number of children who had lost a caregiver to the pandemic and to provide concrete recommendations on how to support them. “Up until that point, there had been no research or substantive policy conversations that looked at the needs of these children,” explains Treglia. “I was presented with an opportunity—an obligation really—to try to quantify this problem and to understand the challenges that these particular children are facing, in order to support and help them.” Treglia’s research has always focused on highly vulnerable populations, including individuals experiencing poverty, housing instability, or homelessness. For him, it was a logical next step to study the consequences of the pandemic for children, a particularly vulnerable group. The research data shows that as of mid-April 2022, more than 214,000 children have lost a parent or other caregiver that lived with them. Of them, 96,000 children have lost a parent to COVID-19, and over 84,000 children have lost a grandparent-caregiver who lived in the home. More than 16,000 children lost their only in-home caregiver. These losses have disproportionately impacted children who were already vulnerable, including children previously facing significant social and economic adversity. “The adversities that children might have been facing prior to the pandemic and prior to caregiver loss make resilience through this tragedy all the more challenging. We worry about cascading negative effects. A child may not only be losing a parent, but a family may also be losing the sole breadwinner. A child may have to move, change schools, or experience homelessness, which adds to cascading negative consequences and increases the risk of long-term effects.” The data show that parent and caregiver loss from COVID-19 disproportionately affected children of color. Non-white children lost caregiving adults at higher rates than their white peers. American Indian, Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander children lost caregivers at rates about 3.5 times the rate of white children. Black and Hispanic children lost caregivers at 2 times the rate of white children, while Asian children at 1.4 times that of white children. This story is by Katelyn Silva. Read more at OMNIA. Credits From OMNIA Writer Date May 24, 2022 Subtopics Coronavirus Research, Demography Schools School of Arts & Sciences Share Twitter Facebook Twitter Facebook Read Next Class of 2023 celebrates Hey Day Campus & Community A celebration of the ‘resilient creativity’ of the Class of 2022 Penn’s 266th Commencement showcased graduates who Interim President Wendell Pritchett said demonstrated an “advanced ability to roll with the challenges.” Campus & Community Ben Franklin: A voice from the past that speaks to our time At the 2022 Silfen Forum, Penn Interim President Wendell Pritchett chatted with filmmaker Ken Burns about his new two-part documentary on Benjamin Franklin. Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Inspiring the next generation of archive scholars Through Inside the Archive, a course taught by Liliane Weissberg of the School of Arts & Sciences, Penn students explore what an archive is, how history gets written, and what is ahead in a digital future. Campus & Community Exploration awaits as Penn Abroad ramps up student trips Two years after the pandemic forced Penn Abroad to brings students home, trips are back on and a busier-than-normal abroad schedule is coming in fall 2022. Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement