Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo A heart start for Milkshake, the fainting goat Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Health Sciences A heart start for Milkshake, the fainting goat When Milkshake’s vitals were dangerously compromised, a team at Penn Vet’s New Bolton Center pinpointed the problem in the fainting goat’s heart, and saved her life. On November 20, 2020, Milkshake arrived at Penn Vet’s New Bolton Center clinging to life. A few hours earlier, the Tennessee fainting goat, just seven months old at the time, was acting the “spoiled princess she is” to owners Jessica Kurczeski and Kurczeski’s husband, Rick Bodine. Laurence Leduc performs an ultrasound on Milkshake during a follow-up appointment. (Image: Penn Vet News) This human-animal bond is how, on a chilly November morning, Kurczeski knew something was wrong on the couple’s small Bucks County farm. Milkshake usually waits at her pen’s gate for the morning feeding. But she wasn’t there and didn’t come when Kurczeski called. “She was lying under a spool barely breathing,” says Kurczeski. “Our field service veterinarian was on vacation and unable to get to our farm. She said to go immediately to New Bolton Center because it has all the equipment, technology, and experience animals like Milkshake need.” A distraught Kurczeski loaded the barely conscious kid into her truck. “Time seemed to stop—the ride to New Bolton Center felt endless. Milkshake has so much spirit normally, and she was so quiet and clearly suffering,” says Kurczeski. “One of the Penn Vet staff called to check on us while I was driving. They were really concerned about Milkshake and about me and how I was doing. I really appreciated this.” Roughly an hour later, Kurczeski arrived at the large animal hospital, where internal medicine resident Laurence Leduc and an emergency care team met her and Milkshake. After ruling out something respiratory, Leduc and her colleagues stabilized Milkshake with intranasal oxygen and intravenous fluid therapy. Milkshake’s blood work showed a severely compromised state. “I’ve never seen blood work so terrible—these results were absolutely incompatible with life,” says Leduc. “We knew this animal was dying and to understand why we performed a neurologic evaluation, thoracic radiographs, and an abdominal ultrasound, which were unremarkable. An ECG was also obtained and showed atrial fibrillation and marked tachycardia—her heart rate was extremely high and heart rhythm was abnormal—suggesting the heart was the root cause of her critical state.” Overnight, Milkshake developed more arrhythmias, and her heart stopped several times. “We tried a few anti-arrhythmic medications before one of them—metoprolol—offered the first glimmer of hope,” says Leduc. “After one dose, Milkshake’s heart rate and rhythm stabilized around 130-140 beats per minute. This was a positive sign, although we couldn’t be sure she would survive.” Facing a long, tenuous night, Leduc wanted to stay near her patient. “I rested on a cot in her stall until 4 a.m. When I left, she appeared more stable but had a long road ahead. She also had an extraordinary team of nurses supporting her all night.” At home later that morning, Leduc woke to find a message from one of Milkshake’s nurses with a picture of the little goat standing. “This was a great sign,” she says. “Dr. Leduc sent me the photo,” says Kurczeski. “She had communicated with me throughout the previous day about Milkshake’s condition and prognosis so to see this picture of my baby girl was the best news I could get.” “Milkshake was dying when she came into our care,” says JoAnn Slack, service chief of Cardiology and Ultrasound and consulting cardiologist on the case. “There is so much we can do when an owner is invested. It also helps when a patient is willing to let us do everything we need to. Milkshake was willing, and she is alive today because the pieces fell into place—the right care at the right time, committed owners, and a patient ready to live.” This story is by Sacha Adorno. Read more at Penn Vet News. Credits From Penn Vet Writer Date May 19, 2022 Subtopics Veterinary Medicine Schools School of Veterinary Medicine Share Twitter Facebook Twitter Facebook Read Next Class of 2023 celebrates Hey Day Campus & Community A celebration of the ‘resilient creativity’ of the Class of 2022 Penn’s 266th Commencement showcased graduates who Interim President Wendell Pritchett said demonstrated an “advanced ability to roll with the challenges.” Campus & Community Ben Franklin: A voice from the past that speaks to our time At the 2022 Silfen Forum, Penn Interim President Wendell Pritchett chatted with filmmaker Ken Burns about his new two-part documentary on Benjamin Franklin. Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Inspiring the next generation of archive scholars Through Inside the Archive, a course taught by Liliane Weissberg of the School of Arts & Sciences, Penn students explore what an archive is, how history gets written, and what is ahead in a digital future. Campus & Community Exploration awaits as Penn Abroad ramps up student trips Two years after the pandemic forced Penn Abroad to brings students home, trips are back on and a busier-than-normal abroad schedule is coming in fall 2022. Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement