Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion How Lucas Monroe defines leadership Lucas Monroe, a political science major from Abington, Pennsylvania, combines athletics and introspection to take on a leadership role in social justice work on campus and beyond. Kristina García ・ May 3, 2022 ‘Young Quakers’ from West Philadelphia schools will compete in Penn Relays Over 30 students from Young Quakers Community Athletics, a collaboration between the Netter Center for Community Partnerships, Penn Athletics, and West Philadelphia public schools, will compete in the Penn Relays. Kristina García ・ April 27, 2022 Justice Goodwin Liu of the California Supreme Court on battling bias Justice Goodwin Liu of the California Supreme Court offered his take on implicit and structural bias during the Provost’s Lecture on Diversity and the Owen J. Roberts Lecture in Constitutional Law. Kristen de Groot ・ April 21, 2022 How universities can support mid-career faculty of color Faculty leaders at Penn and other Ivy Plus institutions attended a symposium to discuss what universities can do to better support mid-career faculty of color. Dee Patel ・ April 21, 2022 An interfaith commemoration of MLK The annual event on March 23 was part of the Penn MLK Commemorative Symposium on Social Change. Tina Rodia ・ March 28, 2022 Wharton hosts 8th annual Diversity Case Competition Wharton’s annual Diversity Case Competition focused on solving problems at the intersection of environmental sustainability and issues relevant to Indigenous communities. Dee Patel ・ March 7, 2022 Highlighting gender and race is effective when requesting career help A Wharton research team found that when seeking advice, women and racial/ethnic minorities benefit from explicitly stating their identities. Dee Patel ・ February 25, 2022 Black histories and Black futures Professors and students reflect on 50 years of Black studies at Penn. Kristina García ・ February 23, 2022 Wharton partnership offers college credits to underserved high school students A Wharton School partnership offers hybrid, dual-credit courses to high school students to educate and inspire students in historically underserved communities. Dee Patel ・ February 18, 2022 How a more inclusive workplace could stem ‘The Great Resignation’ In a recent report, two Wharton School professors outline some key points organizations can take to effect change and meaningfully prioritize diversity, equity, and inclusion in the workplace. Dee Patel ・ February 14, 2022 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Next page ›› Last page Last » In the News Bloomberg Aggressive Civil Rights Office reinvents EPA discrimination work  Cary Coglianese of the Law School said the EPA’s ability to address civil rights depends on leadership’s commitment to implementing change. “A committed leader of an organization who makes it a priority to shift focus, and emphasizes that in every appearance they make, and really tries to drive that through the management, can probably matter more than whether you have a 12, 15, or 30- member office dedicated to civil rights,” he said. FULL STORY → CNBC Black business leaders: How to build wealth and career success Americus Reed of the Wharton School said future leaders need to be strategic when advancing diversity, equity, and inclusion efforts. “We have to understand how to put different perspectives into our decision-making—into our companies, our brands, our organizations. And those different perspectives, we have to cultivate and manage them appropriately so that we can create the type of organizations that can be successful.” FULL STORY → Philadelphia Inquirer These diversity efforts could transform the future of health care at Penn Eve Higginbotham of the Perelman School of Medicine was interviewed about diversity in health care at Penn and beyond. “Increasing diversity enhances access to care for diverse communities,” she said. FULL STORY → Philadelphia Inquirer Should doctors insist on being called ‘doctor’? Jules Lipoff of the Perelman School of Medicine wrote an opinion piece about the pros and cons of using the title of “doctor” when interacting with students or patients. “When white male doctors like me use it to refer to themselves, it makes it easier for female doctors or doctors of color to do the same,” he said. “So even at the risk of seeming pretentious, I think it’s reasonable to insist that every doctor be called a doctor.” FULL STORY → NBC News There are too few Latino nurses. COVID showed how important they are Dean Antonia Villarruel of the School of Nursing, spoke about the structural barriers that prevent many Latino students from pursuing nursing and the important role Spanish-speaking nurses have played during the pandemic. FULL STORY → Los Angeles Times Black, Latinx and female entrepreneurs are still ignored by most venture capitalists Katherine Klein of the Wharton School spoke about the lack of diversity in venture capital funding. “The disparity in who the venture capitalists are and where their money goes is just phenomenal,” she said. FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement