Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Chemical Engineering Prioritizing environmental justice while capturing carbon from the air The Clean Energy Conversions Lab’s mission is to minimize the environmental and climate impacts of the world’s dependence on fossil fuels through carbon management. From Penn Engineering ・ May 16, 2022 Decoding a material’s ‘memory’ A new study details the relationship between particle structure and flow in disordered materials, insights that can be used to understand systems ranging from mudslides to biofilms. Erica K. Brockmeier ・ March 17, 2022 Incentivizing an underused, more environmentally friendly method for carbon capture A study by three 2021 graduates describes how a method for sequestering carbon from natural gas can be made more cost-effective with increased tax credits. Erica K. Brockmeier ・ February 3, 2022 Refining data into knowledge, turning knowledge into action Penn Engineering researchers are using data science to answer fundamental questions that challenge the globe—from genetics to materials design. From Penn Engineering ・ January 5, 2022 ‘I Look Like an Engineer’ For the third year in a row, Penn Engineering’s Advancing Women in Engineering program, dedicated to recruiting, retaining and promoting all female-identified students in the School, participated in the “I Look Like an Engineer” social media movement. From Penn Engineering ・ June 25, 2021 Using stress to shape microlevel structures A new study describes how external forces drive the rearrangement of individual particles in disordered solids, enabling new ways to imbue materials with unique mechanical properties. Erica K. Brockmeier ・ May 20, 2020 What to do when cutting emissions alone is no longer enough Four factors to consider in the race to solve the climate crisis, including how to scale up a tool called negative emissions and why the oceans can only help so much. Michele W. Berger ・ February 18, 2020 Magnetic microrobots use capillary forces to coax particles into position A new study shows how microscopic robots, remotely driven by magnetic fields, can use capillary forces to manipulate objects floating at the interface between two liquids. Penn Today Staff ・ February 6, 2020 Self-healing liquid brings new life to battery alternative In Penn engineers’ new anode design, gallium repeatedly melts and solidifies, “healing” the cracks that would otherwise gradually decrease the battery’s ability to hold a charge. Penn Today Staff ・ December 4, 2019 Inspiring young women in STEM Over two days, nearly two dozen female STEM role models at Penn welcomed more than 100 high school students and teachers to campus as part of the Girls Advancing in STEM (GAINS) Initiative Conference on campus. Erica K. Brockmeier ・ November 20, 2019 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Next page ›› Last page Last » Media Contact Erica K. Brockmeier Science News Officer ekbrock@upenn.edu In the News The Guardian Reversible superglue proves strong enough to hold average man Shu Yang and colleagues from the School of Engineering and Applied Science have developed a new glue from hydrogel, inspired by snail slime. “The mucus [snails] produce is a viscous liquid, but when it dries they become firmly stuck,” said Yang. FULL STORY → Nature A DIY approach to automating your lab Brian Chow of the School of Engineering and Applied Science led a team of Penn undergrads in developing a low-cost plate reader for teaching labs using open-source automation software. “Philosophically, I believe in supporting the open-source-hardware community,” he said. FULL STORY → Philadelphia Inquirer ‘Metallic wood’ at Penn is as strong as titanium but lighter than water James Pikul of the School of Engineering and Applied Science comments on his innovation of a material that is as strong as titanium while putting aluminum to shame in the weight department. FULL STORY → Science News A new insulation material is practically weightless yet still durable The School of Engineering and Applied Science’s Deep Jariwala commented on a new, nearly weightless insulation material made of porous aerogel capable of withstanding temperature shifts of over 1,000 degrees Celsius. “It’s notoriously hard to make materials that are not just lightweight but can also be heavily heat resistant.” FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement