Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Weitzman team helps protect and interpret Lincoln Memorial Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Weitzman team helps protect and interpret Lincoln Memorial The Lincoln Memorial is the subject of a new report commissioned by the National Park Service from the Urban Heritage Project at Weitzman. The Lincoln Memorial is one of the most recognized sites in the United States, and the opportunity to work on it “as good as it gets when you go into preservation and architectural history,” says Molly Lester, associate director of the Urban Heritage Project. The Weitzman team at the Lincoln Memorial in 2021. (Image: Molly Lester) With Randall Mason, a professor in the Graduate Program in Historic Preservation, Lester and a team of Weitzman students have been working with the National Park Service (NPS) to document the Memorial’s physical history and recently completed their report. To Mason, the real honor is the 10 years of partnership between the Urban Heritage Project, as this research initiative is called, and the NPS’s National Capital Region Office under the auspices of the Cooperative Ecosystem Studies Unit program. Since 2011, Mason has led teams of faculty, students, and graduates in documenting and studying cultural landscapes stewarded by the NPS, from small parks to golf courses to urban boulevards like Pennsylvania Avenue. They have examined how public space and memory interact in DC, reflecting its dual role as both a city and the nation’s capital. For Mason, it was gratifying to be trusted with such a notable site. Lester said that the NPS values its partnership with Penn because “we’re not contractors, but partners to the NPS. We are there to ask questions and think creatively.” For the Lincoln Memorial, the Weitzman team produced what’s known by preservationists as a Cultural Landscape Inventory: a framework for documenting the present and past of an historically significant landscape. This document, which will inform the day-to-day operations of the site by NPS staff, combines extensive historical research with thorough spatial documentation for a holistic understanding of the evolution and current condition of the landscape. Most surprising to Lester was the longstanding presence of rapidly-constructed Defense Department buildings intended for temporary use during World War I. The green space now containing the Vietnam Veterans’ Memorial once featured an expansive complex of “tempos”–four-story steel and concrete structures as far as the eye could see, complete with two footbridges over the Reflecting Pool–that remained until the 1970s. This space, Lester stresses, “has never been untouchable. And so, our work is to understand how has it always changed, and what does that mean for how it will continue to change?” In the report, the Memorial’s period of significance extends to the present day. According to Lester, this is atypical and could present management challenges of its own. But, she says, the team wanted to acknowledge this intangible heritage and argued “for there to be a deeper and broader understanding [of the Memorial] as a significant place.” “There can be a perception that preservation is just about putting something in amber and making sure it won’t ever change,” Lester says. Rather, the team’s overall approach is to anticipate, embrace, and manage change as it happens. Says Mason, “our theory of history is that it’s additive and multivocal, and there's no one perspective that should blot out all the others.” Read more at Weitzman News. Credits From the Weitzman School of Design Writer Date May 31, 2022 Subtopics Design Schools Stuart Weitzman School of Design Share Twitter Facebook Twitter Facebook Read Next Class of 2023 celebrates Hey Day Campus & Community A celebration of the ‘resilient creativity’ of the Class of 2022 Penn’s 266th Commencement showcased graduates who Interim President Wendell Pritchett said demonstrated an “advanced ability to roll with the challenges.” Campus & Community Ben Franklin: A voice from the past that speaks to our time At the 2022 Silfen Forum, Penn Interim President Wendell Pritchett chatted with filmmaker Ken Burns about his new two-part documentary on Benjamin Franklin. Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Inspiring the next generation of archive scholars Through Inside the Archive, a course taught by Liliane Weissberg of the School of Arts & Sciences, Penn students explore what an archive is, how history gets written, and what is ahead in a digital future. Campus & Community Exploration awaits as Penn Abroad ramps up student trips Two years after the pandemic forced Penn Abroad to brings students home, trips are back on and a busier-than-normal abroad schedule is coming in fall 2022. Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement