Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon School of Dental Medicine Urging caution but not panic on monkeypox While unfamiliar to many in the U.S., monkeypox and other poxviruses have been on the radar of researchers at the School of Dental Medicine and Perelman School of Medicine for decades. Katherine Unger Baillie ・ June 1, 2022 Symposium highlights range and reach of Penn Global research The Penn Global Research and Engagement Grant is supporting 21 faculty-led projects that span research, capacity-building, and development efforts across Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean, India, China, and beyond. Kristen de Groot ・ May 2, 2022 How one inflammatory disorder exacerbates another Researchers from the School of Dental Medicine and colleagues from Dresden, Germany demonstrate that an association between conditions such as severe gum disease and arthritis is traceable to the bone marrow. Katherine Unger Baillie ・ April 27, 2022 Creating global systems for evidence-informed oral health policy Alonso Carrasco-Labra, who joined the School of Dental Medicine in 2021, is a leader in developing new policy and clinical guidelines across areas of medicine. Katherine Unger Baillie ・ April 1, 2022 A serendipitous finding lends new insight into how atopic dermatitis develops Research from the School of Dental Medicine, the Perelman School of Medicine, and Oak Ridge National Laboratory reveals a mechanism behind the inflammation that is a feature of the common skin disease. Katherine Unger Baillie ・ February 11, 2022 Teledentistry, educational videos expanding services to persons with disabilities Penn Dental Medicine is continuing to build upon its services to persons with disabilities through the development of a teledentistry assessment portal and a series of education videos. From Penn Dental Medicine ・ February 3, 2022 Penn Dental Medicine serves Afghani refugees with pop-up clinic Responding to an immediate need for dental care in the community, Penn Dental Medicine students and faculty created a pop-up clinic for more than 60 Afghani refugees awaiting permanent placement in the Philadelphia metropolitan area. From Penn Dental Medicine ・ January 24, 2022 A chewing gum that could reduce SARS-CoV-2 transmission In experiments using saliva samples from COVID-19 patients, the gum, which contains the ACE2 protein, neutralized the virus, according to research led by School of Dental Medicine scientists. Katherine Unger Baillie ・ December 3, 2021 Penn at COP26: By the numbers A look at who is representing the University at this global conference, what they’re focused on, and how it fits into the bigger picture of worldwide climate action. Michele W. Berger ・ November 9, 2021 ‘Nanozyme’ therapy prevents harmful dental plaque buildup An iron-oxide nanoparticle that is FDA-approved to treat anemia acts as an enzyme to activate hydrogen peroxide to suppress the growth of tooth-decay-causing biofilms in the human mouth, according to a study led by the School of Dental Medicine. Katherine Unger Baillie ・ October 25, 2021 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Next page ›› Last page Last » In the News Scientific American Chewing Gum with GMO could reduce the spread of COVID A team led by Henry Daniell of the School of Dental Medicine used modified lettuce plants to produce a chewing gum that can trap the COVID-19 virus, preventing it from infecting cells in the mouth. FULL STORY → Shape.com What your tongue says about your health Dental School of Medicine dean Mark Wolff explained what the tongue can reveal about a person’s health, such as vitamin deficiencies. “So many nutrient-bound conditions just pop right out on the tongue,” he said. FULL STORY → Health.com Ashley Graham reveals her ‘cracked tooth’ on Instagram—Here’s what to know Dean Mark Wolff of the School of Dental Medicine spoke about the increased popularity of dental veneers. "Sometimes, the shape of the teeth and the cosmetics of teeth are so bad that there's just no way to do anything about it without literally covering the tooth," he said. "A porcelain veneer can cover the tooth without actually doing a lot of damage to the tooth." FULL STORY → NBC Philadelphia Penn researchers developing gum that could reduce COVID transmission Researchers from the Perelman School of Medicine, School of Dental Medicine, and School of Veterinary Medicine, along with the Wistar Institute and Fraunhofer USA, are developing a chewing gum laced with a plant-grown protein that could neutralize the COVID-19 virus in saliva. FULL STORY → AARP.org 7 superfoods for your teeth Dean Mark Wolff of the School of Dental Medicine said low-sugar, high-fiber diets can help protect teeth and gums. “You’re not just feeding yourself—you’re feeding all the good and bad bacteria that live in your mouth,” ﻿he said. FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement