Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Dirk Trauner appointed Penn Integrates Knowledge University Professor Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Campus & Community Dirk Trauner appointed Penn Integrates Knowledge University Professor Trauner, one of the world’s most innovative interdisciplinary chemists, will have joint appointments in the School of Arts & Sciences and in the Perelman School of Medicine. Dirk Trauner will be the George A. Weiss University Professor, with joint appointments in the Department of Chemistry in the School of Arts & Sciences and the Department of Systems Pharmacology and Translational Therapeutics in the Perelman School of Medicine. Dirk Trauner has been named a Penn Integrates Knowledge University Professor, effective July 1. The announcement was made today by University of Pennsylvania Interim President Wendell Pritchett and Interim Provost Beth Winkelstein. Trauner, one of the world’s most innovative interdisciplinary chemists, will be the George A. Weiss University Professor, with joint appointments in the Department of Chemistry in the School of Arts & Sciences and the Department of Systems Pharmacology and Translational Therapeutics in the Perelman School of Medicine. “Dirk Trauner’s cutting-edge work in chemistry, physiology, and neuroscience epitomizes our Penn Integrates Knowledge initiative, which fosters collaboration and pathbreaking scholarship across schools and disciplines,” Pritchett said. “Dr. Trauner’s highly interdisciplinary research in chemical synthesis and its application to the fields of neuroscience and cell biology has yielded not only novel discoveries but holds promise for life-changing medical applications as well. We could not be more pleased to have him join our distinguished faculty.” Trauner, currently the Janice Cutler Professor of Chemistry and adjunct professor of neuroscience and physiology at New York University, is a global leader in synthetic chemistry and physiology. His pioneering research in photopharmacology focuses on the use of light to control biological pathways, including the possibilities of restoring vision to the blind, targeting the delivery of drug therapies, and developing new directions in precision medicine. This work brings together synthetic chemistry with biology and neuroscience to innovate not only new scientific methods but also new therapies that can tangibly improve people’s lives around the world. Along similar lines, his lab employs advanced techniques of chemical synthesis to learn more about the origin, structure, and biological meaning of natural products. Born in Austria, Trauner began his career in the United States as a postdoctoral fellow at the Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center and taught at the University of California, Berkeley, and the University of Munich before joining NYU in 2017. He was elected a member of the German Academy of Sciences Leopoldina in 2017 and has received the Otto Bayer Award, the Arthur C. Cope Scholar Award of the American Chemical Society, the Emil Fischer Medal of the German Chemical Society, the Kitasato Microbial Chemistry Medal, and a National Science Foundation Career Award, among numerous other honors. He has been a visiting professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, University of Chicago, and University of Zurich and delivered honorary lectures at Beijing University, Nankai University, the Israel Institute of Technology, Imperial College London, and the University of Oxford. He earned a Ph.D. in chemistry from the University of Vienna and an undergraduate degree in chemistry from the Free University of Berlin. “Dirk Trauner will be a tremendous role model across our campus,” said Winkelstein. “His deeply cross-disciplinary work exemplifies the creativity and innovation of the most dynamic contemporary research. At the same time, it demonstrates Penn’s strong commitment to bring research innovations directly to practical applications, which continue to transform global health and medicine.” The Penn Integrates Knowledge program was launched by former President Amy Gutmann in 2005 as a Universitywide initiative to recruit exceptional faculty members whose research and teaching exemplify the integration of knowledge across disciplines and who are appointed in at least two schools at Penn. The George A. Weiss University Professorship is a gift of George A. Weiss, a 1965 graduate of the Wharton School. Weiss is an emeritus University trustee and an emeritus member of the Penn Medicine Board and the Athletics Board of Advisors. He is chief executive officer of Weiss Multi-Strategy Advisers LLC, a global asset management firm with a more than 40-year history. Credits Amanda Mott Media Contact Date May 18, 2022 Subtopics Penn Integrates Knowledge Professors, Chemistry, Neuroscience Schools School of Arts & Sciences, Perelman School of Medicine Share Twitter Facebook Twitter Facebook Read Next Class of 2023 celebrates Hey Day Campus & Community A celebration of the ‘resilient creativity’ of the Class of 2022 Penn’s 266th Commencement showcased graduates who Interim President Wendell Pritchett said demonstrated an “advanced ability to roll with the challenges.” Campus & Community Ben Franklin: A voice from the past that speaks to our time At the 2022 Silfen Forum, Penn Interim President Wendell Pritchett chatted with filmmaker Ken Burns about his new two-part documentary on Benjamin Franklin. Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Inspiring the next generation of archive scholars Through Inside the Archive, a course taught by Liliane Weissberg of the School of Arts & Sciences, Penn students explore what an archive is, how history gets written, and what is ahead in a digital future. Campus & Community Exploration awaits as Penn Abroad ramps up student trips Two years after the pandemic forced Penn Abroad to brings students home, trips are back on and a busier-than-normal abroad schedule is coming in fall 2022. Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement