Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Design Weitzman team helps protect and interpret Lincoln Memorial The Lincoln Memorial is the subject of a new report commissioned by the National Park Service from the Urban Heritage Project at Weitzman. From the Weitzman School of Design ・ May 31, 2022 Weitzman Plaza dedicated as ‘one of Penn’s great gathering places’ The plaza, named for Stuart Weitzman, Wharton Class of 1963, was extensively renovated in 2021 and celebrated on May 13 with a ceremony. Amanda Mott ・ May 19, 2022 City planning students gain critical perspective on the carceral state The Carceral State, a course offered through Penn’s Netter Center for Community Partnerships, explores the issue of mass incarceration in Pennsylvania. From the Weitzman School of Design ・ May 17, 2022 Penn announces plan for Stuart Weitzman Hall at the Stuart Weitzman School of Design The renovation and expansion of historic Morgan Building will create a state-of-the-art facility. Amanda Mott, Michael Grant ・ May 13, 2022 The Sachs Program celebrates fifth year of supporting arts innovation at Penn The Sachs Program for Arts Innovation announced its 2022 cycle of grantees, with new funding for alumni and community partnership projects. Brandon Baker ・ May 10, 2022 Design on display For the first time since design became a major two years ago in the College of Arts and Sciences, 15 seniors created an in-person exhibition to showcase their final projects, interpreting the theme “in search of” in a variety of media. Louisa Shepard ・ May 9, 2022 Senior Eleanor Shemtov is designing a career The design major in the College of Arts and Sciences co-founded a new student publication, t-art, and created a campus community focused on technology, art, and design. Louisa Shepard ・ May 5, 2022 Weitzman School of Design receives gift to establish fellowships and global internships for architecture students A new gift from Aedas, a global architecture and design firm, will establish a fellowship for architecture students to work in Asia. Amanda Mott ・ April 22, 2022 The future of forests Faced with an onslaught of changes—heat, drought, fire, flood, pests, and disease—forests are under stress. Kristina García ・ April 21, 2022 Climate resilience, economic competitiveness, and equity at the megaregional level In “Megaregions and America’s Future,” Emeritus Professor of Practice Robert Yaro and Dean Frederick Steiner discuss how megaregions in the U.S. can address complex challenges. Erica K. Brockmeier ・ April 20, 2022 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Next page ›› Last page Last » Media Contact Louisa Shepard Senior News Officer lshepard@upenn.edu In the News Philadelphia Inquirer Speed cameras are saving lives and should stay Erick Guerra of the Stuart Weitzman School of Design is quoted on the safety outcomes of speed cameras. FULL STORY → Bloomberg Do prisons deserve a second chance? A fall 2020 semester studio at the Stuart Weitzman School of Design led by Billy Fleming explored ways to transform prisons and correctional facilities in Appalachia and the Mississippi Delta, such as turning the structures into community spaces or solar and wind farms. “There are so many disenfranchised places in the United States sold on the promise of prisons as economic development who’ve seen what a spectacular failure that is,” Fleming said. FULL STORY → Philadelphia Inquirer Judge ousts absentee owner of historic Mount Vernon Cemetery. Rehab could involve goats Aaron Wunsch of the Stuart Weitzman School of Design said efforts to rehabilitate historic cemeteries like Mount Vernon in Philadelphia must consider the needs of stakeholders, including neighbors and those with family ties to the site. “These places have always had a public dimension to them,” he said. “But you always have to be aware of what the descendants of people buried there feel about that, too.” FULL STORY → Philadelphia Inquirer More Philly landlords are selling properties and deferring maintenance, which threatens the supply of affordable housing Vincent Reina of the Stuart Weitzman School of Design is quoted on the strain which a lot of Philadelphia's housing stock is consistently under. FULL STORY → Bloomberg News How Philadelphia housing repairs drove down crime Vincent J. Reina of the Stuart Weitzman School of Design comments on his research into how home repair investment reduced crime levels overall, across every type of crime. FULL STORY → The Wall Street Journal Fighting crime with home renovations Vincent Reina of the Stuart Weitzman School of Design comments on the multiple social costs when a house becomes uninhabitable and vacant. FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement