Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Undergraduate Students Lighting the way for rare disease After finding out about STAC3, a rare disease without a cure, biology major Magnolia Wang of the College of Arts and Sciences set out to raise awareness and advocate for those struggling with the illness. Luis Melecio-Zambrano ・ May 31, 2022 Baseball history, American history Sarah Gronningsater’s popular course links the two in a study of the sport from the Civil War to Jackie Robinson to the current day. Kristen de Groot ・ May 27, 2022 ‘Oft-delayed but never deterred,’ Class of 2020 and 2021 grads celebrate Embodying adaptability and persistence, themes of the speech by Angela Duckworth, alums from the classes of 2020 and 2021 returned to campus to make up for a missed milestone. Katherine Unger Baillie, Brandon Baker, Michele W. Berger, Lauren Hertzler, Louisa Shepard ・ May 22, 2022 NROTC graduates transition from students to leaders For three May graduates, Commencement also marks the transition from personal development to military leadership. Kristina García ・ May 18, 2022 Class of 2022 Ivy Day Continuing a tradition spanning nearly 150 years, the Class of 2022 Ivy Day Ceremony celebrated leadership, service, and scholarship, with a special emphasis on resilience and perseverance. Kristina García ・ May 17, 2022 A celebration of the ‘resilient creativity’ of the Class of 2022 Penn’s 266th Commencement showcased graduates who Interim President Wendell Pritchett said demonstrated an “advanced ability to roll with the challenges.” Brandon Baker ・ May 16, 2022 Penn junior Ha-Nam Yoon named a Udall Scholar Ha-Nam Yoon, a junior in the College of Arts and Sciences, has been named a 2022 Udall Scholar by the Udall Foundation, recognized for leadership, public service, and a commitment to issues related to the environment. Louisa Shepard ・ May 13, 2022 27 students and recent graduates awarded 2022 Fulbright grants Twenty-seven Penn students and alumni have been awarded Fulbright grants for the 2022-23 academic year, including 18 seniors who will be graduating May 16. Louisa Shepard ・ May 13, 2022 ToxiSense wins 2022 Venture Lab Startup Challenge Four first-year students win the $50,000 Perlman Grand Prize for their sustainable water testing method through genetically engineering plants with bioluminescent properties. From the Wharton Newsroom ・ May 11, 2022 A passion for addressing ‘meaningful causes’ with data Senior Angelina Heyler, a systems science and engineering major who is submatriculating in Penn’s data science accelerated master’s program, spent her time at Penn fostering a passion for applied problem solving, building community, and playing Ultimate Frisbee. Erica K. Brockmeier ・ May 11, 2022 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Next page ›› Last page Last » In the News Axios Penn students win over $70,000 to revolutionize water and drug testing First-year students Aravind Krishnan, Udit Garg, Andrew Diep-Tran, and Aarush Sahni have an idea they believe will transform drug and water testing, and they just won more than $70,000 to help launch it. FULL STORY → Philadelphia Inquirer Two married athletes team up to create a coaching network for young players in Philly Lucas Monroe, a College of Arts and Sciences junior from Huntingdon Valley, Pennsylvania, is working with Athletes Untapped to provide one-on-one coaching to young aspiring athletes. “I want to give back,” he said. FULL STORY → Axios College students have advice for Jerome Powell Liza Brover, a senior in the College of Arts and Sciences, said the College Fed Challenge “is a window for the Fed to see how young people look at the economy. To that extent, people should care what we have to say about inflation and employment.” FULL STORY → Boston Globe ‘Gen Z is coming of age with real purpose’: College students set record for voting in 2020 election Harrison Feinman, a College of Arts and Sciences senior and director of Penn Leads the Vote, said he was encouraged by the rise in voting among college students. “People are finally starting to understand about the importance of voting and how that is a form of activism,” he said. FULL STORY → Radio Times with Marty Moss-Coane (WHYY-FM) Regional Roundup – 10/25/21 Max Strickberger and Alan Jinich, seniors in the College of Arts and Sciences, spoke about their project “Generation Pandemic,” which documents COVID-19 experiences of young adults in the U.S. FULL STORY → CNBC $200,000 paychecks, exit opportunities, and proximity to power: Why graduates flock to Wall Street Barbara Hewitt of Career Services said finance has remained a top industry for graduating Penn students. “They know it’s going to be a lot of work for a couple of years,” she said. “They’re pretty open-eyed about that.” FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement