Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Penn Trustees approve design for the Vagelos Laboratory for Energy Science and Technology Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Penn Trustees approve design for the Vagelos Laboratory for Energy Science and Technology Additional support from P. Roy Vagelos and Diana T. Vagelos helps to expand the building project which will consolidate the University’s existing and future energy research. Architectural rendering of the main entry to the Vagelos Laboratory for Energy Science and Technology at 3200 Walnut St. View looking south from Walnut Street. (Image: Courtesy of Behnisch Architekten) The Vagelos Laboratory for Energy Science and Technology has received design approval from the University of Pennsylvania Board of Trustees. The new $173 million facility at 3200 Walnut Street will consolidate existing and emerging energy research programs by providing 110,000 square feet of state-of-the-art laboratory space. The building is a key element of the School of Arts & Sciences’ strategic plan and the University’s commitment to advancing research in energy and sustainability. The project has been made possible through gifts totaling $70 million to the School of Arts & Sciences from P. Roy Vagelos, a Penn alumnus, and his wife, Diana T. Vagelos. This support included a gift in 2019 of $50 million. An additional gift of $20 million earlier this year has allowed the building’s design to expand from six to seven stories. The project expansion will provide space to accommodate continued growth of the energy research program and enable additional faculty hires in the future. “We are so grateful to Roy and Diana for their enduring support of Penn’s groundbreaking research in the area of energy research and sustainable energy solutions,” said Penn President Amy Gutmann. “Their tremendous generosity and trust in Penn’s collaborative approach, bringing Penn’s world-renowned physical scientists and engineers together to solve scientific and technological problems related to alternative sources of energy and energy use and storage, is a testament to Penn leadership and innovation in seeking a sustainable future.” Architectural rending of Vagelos Laboratory section view east/west showing mixed use laboratory, office, and common spaces. Right: View of Vagelos Laboratory from Walnut Street, looking west towards campus and south toward the Palestra. (Image: Courtesy of Behnisch Architekten) The facility will house the Vagelos Institute for Energy Science and Technology, bringing researchers from the School of Arts & Sciences and the School of Engineering and Applied Science together to solve scientific and technological problems related to energy. It will also be a home for the Vagelos Integrated Program in Energy Research (VIPER), an undergraduate dual degree program run jointly by Arts & Sciences and Engineering. Steven J. Fluharty, dean of the School of Arts & Sciences and Thomas S. Gates, Jr. Professor of Psychology, Pharmacology, and Neuroscience, said the new Vagelos Laboratory for Energy Science and Technology aligns with a major pillar of the School’s strategic plan: Energy, sustainability, and the environment. “We have steadily built on investments in energy science,” said Fluharty, “including faculty hiring and establishing the Vagelos Institute for Energy Science and Technology. Today we present a plan for a world-class facility, all this made possible through the continued generosity of Roy and Diana Vagelos.” Fluharty also acknowledged the great partnership the School of Arts & Sciences has with the School of Engineering and Applied Science. “Together,” said Fluharty, “we will ensure that basic discoveries translate into impactful technologies.” Designed by Behnisch Architekten, the Vagelos Laboratory for Energy Science and Technology includes highly functional, flexible, and efficient wet chemistry research labs and optics research labs serving researchers in both schools. The facility also includes a complement of collaborative spaces and offices with a new landscaped courtyard linking the Walnut Street gateway and Shoemaker Green to the southwest. View from Shoemaker Green looking toward the courtyard with Vagelos Laboratory for Energy Science and Technology to the north and David Rittenhouse Lab to the West. (Image: Courtesy of Behnisch Architekten) “The project reinforces the University of Pennsylvania’s position as one of the premier energy research and technology centers in the nation,” said Vijay Kumar, Nemirovsky Family Dean of Penn Engineering. “Additional space in the Vagelos Laboratory is critical to our ability to tackle some of the most pressing problems impacting our environment.” The design addresses safe and appropriate airflows and energy efficient radiant heating and cooling systems. Additional energy efficient design elements include eastern and western facades utilizing shading devices to cut off solar angles amplifying sunlight and minimizing glare on the building. The western façade with distinctive triangular elements is also angled to preserve views of the Palestra to the south. The Palestra also serves as the southern border of the courtyard which will offer opportunities for recreation and gathering. Anne Papageorge, vice president of Facilities and Real Estate Services said, “Project Construction is anticipated to begin March 2022 and completion of the Vagelos Laboratory for Energy Science and Technology is anticipated in fall 2024.” Credits Amanda Mott Media Contact Date November 16, 2020 Subtopics Facilities and Real Estate, President, Alumni, Architecture Schools School of Arts & Sciences, School of Engineering & Applied Science Share Twitter Facebook Twitter Facebook Read Next Class of 2023 celebrates Hey Day Campus & Community A celebration of the ‘resilient creativity’ of the Class of 2022 Penn’s 266th Commencement showcased graduates who Interim President Wendell Pritchett said demonstrated an “advanced ability to roll with the challenges.” Campus & Community Ben Franklin: A voice from the past that speaks to our time At the 2022 Silfen Forum, Penn Interim President Wendell Pritchett chatted with filmmaker Ken Burns about his new two-part documentary on Benjamin Franklin. Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Inspiring the next generation of archive scholars Through Inside the Archive, a course taught by Liliane Weissberg of the School of Arts & Sciences, Penn students explore what an archive is, how history gets written, and what is ahead in a digital future. Campus & Community Exploration awaits as Penn Abroad ramps up student trips Two years after the pandemic forced Penn Abroad to brings students home, trips are back on and a busier-than-normal abroad schedule is coming in fall 2022. Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement