Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Education, Business, & Law What I’ve learned: Wharton’s Anita Summers Indicators report shows escalating disparities for students of color and poor students Streamlining the health care supply chain Hard negotiations: Why a softer approach yields better outcomes Wharton professor Maurice Schweitzer and postdoctoral researcher Einav Hart discuss their research on how negotiation can harm post-agreement performance. Penn Today Staff Blending art and science with virtual reality U.S. president vs. congressional investigators: How the battle of the branches could play out Matthew Levendusky of the School of Arts and Sciences and Tobias Barrington Wolff of the Law School discuss the potential political, legal, and constitutional implications of the fight over a web of investigations and subpoenas. Gwyneth K. Shaw Building a diverse pipeline for business faculty Since 2012, IDDEAS@Wharton has been a pathway for undergraduate students of all backgrounds to enter the world of business research. From Wharton Stories Pagination First page « First Previous page ‹‹ … Page 170 Page 171 Page 172 Page 173 Page 174 Page 175 Page 176 Page 177 Current page 178 In the News Axios Coping tips for parents and teachers after the Uvalde school shooting Howard Stevenson of the Graduate School of Education provides tips on coping in the aftermath of the shootings in Uvalde, Texas. FULL STORY → Politico.com How Elon Musk’s Twitter takeover may help change stock market rules Jill Fisch of the Law School comments on allegations that Elon Musk ripped off Twitter shareholders to the tune of $143 million. FULL STORY → Politico.com Inside America’s biased flood program Carolyn Kouskyof the Wharton School comments on FEMA’s mitigation efforts against flooding and the disparities in its grantmaking process. FULL STORY → “Midday,” WYPR Radio (Baltimore) Dorothy Roberts’ “Torn Apart” calls out racial disparities in foster care PIK Professor Dorothy Roberts discusses her new book that argues that the nation’s foster care system deprives Black parents of fundamental rights and leads to traumatic consequences for Black children. FULL STORY → TheHill.com Mass shootings highlight our failure in mental health Stephen N. Xenakis of the Law School writes that effective mental health services in our communities are woefully lacking yet is fundamental to our safety, security, and productivity. FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement