Skip to main content Go to site search Go to primary navigation Go to resources navigation Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search About Application Information Projects & Profiles News Contact Toggle Site Search Resources Alumni Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Penn A - Z Penn Directory Visitors Webmail Penn Home Search Search Close President's Innovation Prize Class of 2022 President’s Engagement, Innovation, and Sustainability Prize winners announced Six prize-winning teams will design and undertake post-graduation projects that make a positive, lasting difference in the world. Full story via Penn Today What is the President’s Innovation Prize? Created by Former Penn President Amy Gutmann to strengthen the University of Pennsylvania’s commitment under the Penn Compact 2020 to innovation, the President’s Innovation Prize awards a graduating Penn senior, or a team of graduating seniors, $100,000 (plus a $50,000 living stipend per team member) to envision and implement an innovative, commercial venture that makes a positive difference in the world. Social Media News Sending a special congratulations to Anthony Scarpone-Lambert and all the of recipients of Penn's 2021 President’s Engagement and Innovation Prizes. Anthony becomes the first nursing student to win the President's Innovation Prize @PennNursing Beyond grateful to be the first PennNursing student to win the Penn President’s Innovation Prize! This funding will greatly accelerate Lumify’s’s growth & impact; we couldn’t be more excited! @anthonys_l Today we announce the Class of 2021 President’s Engagement and Innovation Prize winners. "The recipients embody Penn’s core commitment to leadership through service, a most vital & urgent calling during these challenging times," says President Amy Gutmann @penn Follow us on social media President's Awards Innovation is just one part of the vision. Competitively awarded on an annual basis, the President’s Engagement Prizes empower Penn seniors to design and undertake local, national or global engagement projects during the first year after they graduate. Unique at both Penn and across higher education, the President's Innovation Prize underscores the University’s considerable commitment to encouraging students to put their knowledge to work for the betterment of humankind. The Projects 4 Progress prize offers a broader cross section of the Penn campus a special opportunity to propose meaningful initiatives, to receive funding, and to make an immediate—and sustained—community impact. Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Disclaimer Emergency Services Report Copyright Infringement Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-5000