Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Class of 2021 President’s Engagement and Innovation Prize winners announced Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Campus & Community Class of 2021 President’s Engagement and Innovation Prize winners announced The Prizes enable students to take on post-graduation projects that make a positive, lasting difference in the world. University of Pennsylvania President Amy Gutmann today announced the recipients of the 2021 President’s Engagement Prize and President’s Innovation Prize. Awarded annually, the Prizes empower Penn students to design and undertake post-graduation projects that make a positive, lasting difference in the world. Each Prize-winning project will receive $100,000, as well as a $50,000 living stipend per team member. The Prizes are the largest of their kind in higher education. Seven Penn seniors were named recipients of the 2021 President’s Engagement Prize. They are Elizabeth Carson Eckhard, Natalia Rommen, and Sarah Simon for Project HOPE; Martin Leet and Leah Voytovich for Maji; and Christina Miranda and Amanda Moreno for Be Body Positive Philly. Three students were named 2021 President’s Innovation Prize recipients: Aris Saxena and Yiwen Li for Mobility, and Anthony Scarpone-Lambert for Lumify Care. The recipients embody Penn’s core commitment to leadership through service, a most vital and urgent calling during these challenging times. Penn President Amy Gutmann Twitter Facebook “This year’s Prize-winning projects are inspiring and are important examples of putting a Penn education to work to meet urgent and important human needs in local, national, and global communities: from addressing eating disorder risk among our city’s youth, to improving the experiences of patients and frontline health care workers, to aiding in the global refugee crisis through clean water and agricultural training,” said Gutmann. “The recipients embody Penn’s core commitment to leadership through service, a most vital and urgent calling during these challenging times.” The Prizes are generously supported by Emerita Trustee Judith Bollinger and William G. Bollinger, in honor of Ed Resovsky; Trustee Lee Spelman Doty and George E. Doty, Jr.; Emeritus Trustee James S. Riepe and Gail Petty Riepe; Trustee David Ertel and Beth Seidenberg Ertel; Wallis Annenberg and the Annenberg Foundation; and an anonymous donor. Student recipients will spend the next year implementing their projects. Details on their projects are as follows: Elizabeth Carson Eckhard, Natalia Rommen, and Sarah Simon for Project HOPE: Eckhard, Rommen, and Simon will address the lack of legal and reentry support to incarcerated Philadelphians by serving as the core of an expansive advocacy network. They are mentored by Marissa Boyers Bluestine, assistant director of the University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School’s Quattrone Center for the Fair Administration of Justice. Elizabeth Carson Eckhard, Natalia Rommen, and Sarah Simon for Project HOPE Martin Leet and Leah Voytovich for Maji: Leet and Voytovich will install a solar-powered water tank for both household use and for irrigation in the Olua I settlement camp in Uganda, as well as offer hands-on agricultural training and first aid medical training to refugees. They are mentored by Ocek Eke, director of global and local service-learning programs in the School of Engineering and Applied Science. Leah Voytovich and Martin Leet for Maji Christina Miranda and Amanda Moreno for Be Body Positive Philly: Miranda and Moreno will address eating disorder risk among Philadelphia high school students by implementing a validated body-positivity curriculum and an innovative near-peer mentorship model. They are mentored by Caroline Watts, director of school and community engagement at Penn’s Graduate School of Education. Amanda Moreno and Christina Miranda for Be Body Positive Philly Aris Saxena and Yiwen Li for Mobility: Mobility aims to provide patients across the globe access to healthcare right in their home. The company has created a software solution for health clinics in Africa to seamlessly coordinate at-home primary health deliveries. The software is designed specifically for under-resourced areas with little technological access, requiring minimal WiFi, data usage, and user response. Saxena and Li are mentored by Tyler Wry, associate professor of management in Penn’s Wharton School. Aris Saxena and Yiwen Li for Mobility Anthony Scarpone-Lambert for Lumify Care: Lumify Care aims to improve the patient experience by developing innovative tools and resources needed to support frontline health care workers. Its flagship product is the uNight Light, a wearable LED light allowing health care workers to illuminate their workspace while decreasing patient sleep disturbances. Scarpone-Lambert is mentored by Therese S. Richmond, the Andrea B. Laporte Professor of Nursing and associate dean for research and innovation in Penn’s School of Nursing. Anthony Scarpone-Lambert for Lumify Care “From incarcerated Philadelphians to chronic disease patients in South Africa, Project HOPE, Maji, Be Body Positive Philly, Mobility, and Lumify Care have the capacity to improve the lives of some of the most vulnerable around us,” said Gutmann. “These members of the Class of 2021 have set out to implement extraordinarily promising ventures, and each has brought to the table an outstanding ability and an infectious eagerness to make a tangible, substantial, and sustainable impact.” This year’s finalists also included, for the President’s Engagement Prize: Angela Kumirai and Arabang Dingalo for Central Pharma, a platform that aims to increase access to vital medications in rural Zimbabwe by improving the medication purchasing experience and reducing stock-outs at healthcare facilities; Abraham Mascio and Rouguiatou Sall for La Graine de Guinee, which aims to address rising diabetes rates in Guinea by enacting a culturally sensitive diabetes awareness program; and Samira Mehta for WASH for San Juan Tlacotenco, which aims to increase access to clean water and sanitation services in Mexico. Ricky Pati was a President’s Innovation Prize finalist for 3Cor Bio, a low-cost, rapid diagnostic platform that has the potential to target multiple infectious diseases, starting with COVID-19. RELATED A pivot, from financial literacy to restorative justice Increasing access to life-saving, unused medicines in India  The impact of providing hands-on, interactive projects The joy and power of improvisation Ninety Penn seniors, a record total, submitted applications for both Prizes this year, with proposals spanning an impressive array of innovative and impactful ideas. Faculty and staff mentors and the staff of the Center for Undergraduate Research and Fellowships worked closely with the students to develop the projects. “Our great Penn students,” said Provost Wendell Pritchett, “are producing the ideas that will change the future. These exciting projects demonstrate their strong commitment to helping others—and to finding solutions to the most urgent global challenges. They focus especially this year on health and wellness, which will be vital priorities as the world emerges from the pandemic in the years ahead. We are indebted to their faculty advisors and to the Center for Undergraduate Research and Fellowships, who are invaluable partners in developing these visionary ideas.” Credits Amanda Mott Media Contact Eric Sucar Photographer Date April 19, 2021 Subtopics President's Engagement Prizes, President's Innovation Prize Share Twitter Facebook Twitter Facebook Read Next Class of 2023 celebrates Hey Day Campus & Community A celebration of the ‘resilient creativity’ of the Class of 2022 Penn’s 266th Commencement showcased graduates who Interim President Wendell Pritchett said demonstrated an “advanced ability to roll with the challenges.” Campus & Community Ben Franklin: A voice from the past that speaks to our time At the 2022 Silfen Forum, Penn Interim President Wendell Pritchett chatted with filmmaker Ken Burns about his new two-part documentary on Benjamin Franklin. Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Inspiring the next generation of archive scholars Through Inside the Archive, a course taught by Liliane Weissberg of the School of Arts & Sciences, Penn students explore what an archive is, how history gets written, and what is ahead in a digital future. Campus & Community Exploration awaits as Penn Abroad ramps up student trips Two years after the pandemic forced Penn Abroad to brings students home, trips are back on and a busier-than-normal abroad schedule is coming in fall 2022. Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement