Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Music James Diaz composes ‘works of stark, haunting elegance’ The Ph.D. student studying composition in the Department of Music has already won multiple international and national awards. Blake Cole ・ May 25, 2022 Four Penn faculty awarded Guggenheim Fellowships Four faculty have been named 2022 Guggenheim Fellows—Daniel Barber in architecture in the Weitzman School of Design and Kimberly Bowes in classical studies, Guthrie Ramsey in music, and Paul Saint-Amour in English in the School of Arts & Sciences. Louisa Shepard , Louisa Shepard ・ April 8, 2022 Composing an interplay of music and language A Ph.D. candidate in music, composer-pianist Ania Vu brings her Vietnamese roots, Polish upbringing, and experience studying in America to her music compositions and lyrics. She is now writing an original opera for her doctoral dissertation, to be premiered in Philadelphia. Louisa Shepard ・ April 1, 2022 Understanding migration and the arts In the latest episode of Penn Today’s “Understand This …” podcast series, Obed Arango of the School of Social Policy & Practice, alongside Wolf Humanities Graduate Fellow Shelley Zhang, discuss migration, the arts, and identity. Brandon Baker ・ March 31, 2022 Penn Live Arts embraces hybrid shows for spring season A first for Penn Live Arts, several performances at the Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts this season will be both in-person and live-streamed. Brandon Baker ・ January 27, 2022 Rereleasing ‘Red’: On Taylor Swift’s latest album and music copyright Cynthia Dahl, a professor at the University of Pennsylvania Carey School of Law and director of the Detkin Intellectual Property and Technology Legal Clinic, discusses music copyright and the Swift controversy. Kristen de Groot ・ November 19, 2021 Scholarship and identity through family, Afrofuturism, and 1,600 vinyl records As part of his ongoing exploration into multimodal scholarship, doctoral student Antoine Haywood pairs his newly published autoethnographic essay with a curated soundtrack. From Annenberg School for Communication ・ October 25, 2021 Understanding civic engagement In the latest episode of Penn Today’s ‘Understand This …’ podcast series, Herman Beavers of the School of Arts & Sciences and Glenn Bryan of the Office of Government and Community Affairs discuss civic engagement—and jazz. Brandon Baker ・ October 15, 2021 ‘Ten Thousand Birds’ merges nature with classical music Penn Live Arts kicks off its fall season with the local premiere of “Ten Thousand Birds” given by modern chamber music ensemble Alarm Will Sound in an outdoor performance at Morris Arboretum’s Bloomberg Farm Kristina García ・ September 22, 2021 Eugene Lew reflects on a year without live performances During the pandemic, the lecturer and director of Sound and Music Technology in the Department of Music switched from organizing live performance events to collaborative online technology. Susan Ahlborn ・ June 17, 2021 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Next page ›› Last page Last » In the News Philadelphia Inquirer 5 performances to see at Rehearsing Philadelphia Composer Tyshawn Sorey of the School of Arts & Sciences will collaborate with students from Drexel University and the Curtis Institute in a performance for Rehearsing Philadelphia, a city-wide arts show. FULL STORY → Gizmodo What was the earliest music? Mary Channen Caldwell of the School of Arts & Sciences said there’s evidence of written music from as early as 1400 BC. “The western musical notation that is often, if misleadingly, considered ‘standard,’” she said, “is only one possible system for recording music, and can only reasonably be used to notate musical works that follow certain conventions of pitch, rhythm, harmony, etc.” FULL STORY → The New York Times The composer Tyshawn Sorey enters a new phase Tyshawn Sorey of the School of Arts & Sciences was profiled for his accomplishments as a musician, composer, and academic. FULL STORY → Philadelphia Inquirer They Shazamed songs blasting from cars on Philly’s Girard Avenue and created a ‘Girard Jams’ playlist on Spotify Guthrie Ramsey of the School of Arts & Sciences spoke about two Philadelphians who compiled a playlist of songs played from cars passing by their apartment. “If we all listen to playlists created in that manner for us, you might get a different understanding about the world surrounding you,” he said. FULL STORY → Philadelphia Inquirer PhillyBloco to celebrate its first Brazilian summer carnival Michael Stevens of the School of Arts and Sciences spoke about the upcoming PhillyBloco Summer Carnaval, which will feature a collaborative performance by Stevens’ Brazilian music band and students from the samba school he founded. FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement