Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Earth Week offers immersive opportunities to connect with nature Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Campus & Community Earth Week offers immersive opportunities to connect with nature Organized by Penn Sustainability, Earth Week, with nearly 50 events running April 17-24, offers a diverse slate of both in-person and online chances to learn about and engage with the environment. Multiple opportunities during Earth Week will give members of the Penn community a chance to get their hands dirty in nature, including an orchard work day and a volunteer day at Penn Park Farm. (Image: Kylie Cooper) Spring has arrived on campus, with early crops ready for harvest at the Penn Park Farm, cherry trees abloom, and warmer temperatures drawing members of the community out to enjoy nature. At the same time, daily headlines—like those about the latest IPCC report or the need to design with rising sea levels in mind—remind us that the planet needs some help to stay healthy. Those who appreciate what Earth has to offer may find themselves with twin impulses: to soak up nature but also to take action to protect it. Good news: At Penn, there’s a week for that. “Earth Week is about connecting to the environment, being engaged, and accomplishing that through an understanding of the environment you’re in,” says Nina Morris, Penn’s sustainability director. “That’s why so many events are about nature-based solutions and getting out and experiencing something in your own local ecology.” Building off the success of Climate Week, held in the fall, the Sustainability Office wanted to serve as a central convener for campus partners eager to mark Earth Day. Now, with nearly 50 events—on campus and off, virtual and in-person—there are opportunities for “everyone to connect to what’s happening,” says sustainability manager Natalie Walker. Cleanup events are part of the Earth Week lineup, providing opportunities to make an immediate impact on the local environment. (Image: Kylie Cooper) Walker headed up an Earth Week organizing committee that included representatives from the Student Sustainability Association, Climate Leaders at Penn, Bon Appetit, Facilities and Real Estate Services, the Environmental Innovations Initiative, Kings Court English College House, and the Office of Student Affairs. Those centralized planning efforts were complemented by initiatives across schools, centers, and divisions at Penn, from Morris Arboretum to the Libraries to Campus Recreation and more, all taking responsibility for planning their own offerings. “It’s great to see collaborations across different groups that may not necessarily work together normally,” says Walker. “They were able to come together upon seeing the intersections of wellness, sustainability, food, and time in nature.” With an eye toward pandemic safety as well as immersion in nature, many events are being held outdoors, including a teach-in on College Green, tours of campus green infrastructure and the Cobbs Creek Environmental Center, and cleanup and tree planting events at locations in the West Philadelphia community. Among the events on tap for Earth Week: Monday, April 18, University and UPHS staff and faculty who are Philadelphia residents can sign up for a free tree as part of the annual Creating Canopy giveaway. And at noon, faculty will give mini-lectures with perspectives on the United Nations’ Sustainability Development Goals. In partnership with the Philadelphia Orchard Project, community members are invited to an orchard workday at Penn Park on Tuesday, April 19. An online “data jam” hosted by Penn Libraries on Wednesday, April 20, will give participants an opportunity to use data-visualization techniques to create compelling graphs used in data journalism. At the Learning Porch on the first floor of Van Pelt Library, there will also be an opportunity to try virtual and augmented reality climate immersion experiences. Perry World House will hold a keynote event Thursday, April 21, on how climate change is impacting island nations. And on this day and throughout the week, Penn Dining is offering plant-forward meal challenges during lunch and dinner at 1920 Commons, Hill House, Kings Court English College House, and Lauder College House. A film screening Friday, April 22, will highlight the student-produced “As a WHOLE,” a short documentary about Philadelphia’s Eastwick neighborhood. On Saturday, April 23, UC Green invites community members to a tree-planting event at Malcolm X Park. And on Sunday, April 24, Isla Urbana @ Penn will hold its second Walk for Water, following by ice skating and pizza. A Campus Ecology Tour on Tuesday, April 19, will give participants a chance to learn about the biodiversity of Penn’s landscape. (Image: Kylie Cooper) In addition to the events, Earth Week is offering a chance for schools working “behind the scenes” on environmental action to make a mark. The School of Veterinary Medicine, for example, will be releasing a school climate commitment on April 18. “I think the pandemic has given us all an opportunity to reevaluate what matters to us. For the Penn community, environmental justice and climate action are two themes that have really come to the forefront,” says Morris. “That’s why you’re seeing those threads come through in Energy Week, Climate Week, Wellness Week, and now Earth Week. There’s a desire to engage in the work that will put us on a path to a better future.” A full schedule for Earth Week, encompassing events from Sunday, April 17, through Sunday, April 24, is available on the Sustainability Office website. A video series related to the Climate and Sustainability Action Plan is also available on the Penn Sustainability website. Nina Morris is sustainability director in Penn’s Sustainability Office. Natalie Walker is sustainability manager in Penn’s Sustainability Office Credits Katherine Unger Baillie Writer Date April 15, 2022 Subtopics Sustainability, Ecology, Undergraduate Students, Graduate Students, Staff, Faculty, Facilities and Real Estate Share Twitter Facebook Twitter Facebook Read Next Class of 2023 celebrates Hey Day Campus & Community A celebration of the ‘resilient creativity’ of the Class of 2022 Penn’s 266th Commencement showcased graduates who Interim President Wendell Pritchett said demonstrated an “advanced ability to roll with the challenges.” Campus & Community Ben Franklin: A voice from the past that speaks to our time At the 2022 Silfen Forum, Penn Interim President Wendell Pritchett chatted with filmmaker Ken Burns about his new two-part documentary on Benjamin Franklin. Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Inspiring the next generation of archive scholars Through Inside the Archive, a course taught by Liliane Weissberg of the School of Arts & Sciences, Penn students explore what an archive is, how history gets written, and what is ahead in a digital future. Campus & Community Exploration awaits as Penn Abroad ramps up student trips Two years after the pandemic forced Penn Abroad to brings students home, trips are back on and a busier-than-normal abroad schedule is coming in fall 2022. Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement