Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Health Sciences Urging caution but not panic on monkeypox Building Penn Medicine’s Pavilion helped launch his career. Now, William Griffin is going places Lighting the way for rare disease Six from Penn elected to American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2022 Faculty from the Perelman School of Medicine, School of Arts & Sciences, Graduate School of Education, and Law School join more 260 honorees recognized for contributions to academia, the arts, industry, public policy, and research. Michele W. Berger ・ April 28, 2022 In the Galápagos, training community scientists to monitor water quality Both dense human populations and a plethora of wildlife can pose a challenge to marine and public health in the Galápagos Islands. With portable, user-friendly PCR technology, Penn faculty and students are training local scientists and school children to perform water quality research. Katherine Unger Baillie ・ April 28, 2022 How one inflammatory disorder exacerbates another Researchers from the School of Dental Medicine and colleagues from Dresden, Germany demonstrate that an association between conditions such as severe gum disease and arthritis is traceable to the bone marrow. Katherine Unger Baillie ・ April 27, 2022 Making a game of it: Contests help new moms increase their steps A Penn Medicine study used wearable tech to foster activity in high-risk, diverse populations, specifically postpartum women to reduce their cardiovascular risk. Brandon Lausch ・ April 26, 2022 Lancaster General Health invests in healthy homes Lancaster General’s Lead-Free Families initiative is the first of its kind in the U.S., as it is 100% funded and led by a community health system. It will identify and remediate lead hazards in Lancaster County homes and educate on the risk of lead exposure. From Penn Medicine News ・ April 22, 2022 Running to shine a light on mental health Earlier this week, Penn’s Samantha Roecker competed in the Boston Marathon. In the process, she raised more than $45,000 to help nurses struggling as a result of the pandemic, and she broke the world record for fastest marathon in scrubs. Michele W. Berger ・ April 20, 2022 A mental health specialist is helping underserved moms find their way Lissette “Mitzy” Liriano, Chester County Hospital’s maternal mental health specialist, leads a support group called Moms Supporting Moms, in addition to dividing her time between the hospital and the mental health clinic, where she monitors a largely Hispanic population for mental health needs. From Penn Medicine News ・ April 20, 2022 Lead as a social determinant of child and adolescent physiological stress and behavior The association between lead exposure and children’s IQ has been well studied, but few studies have examined the effects of blood lead on children’s physiological stress and behavior, until now. From Penn Nursing News ・ April 19, 2022 Regulating the regulators of the immune system Research led by School of Veterinary Medicine scientists reveals a new layer of complexity with which the immune system finds a balance between controlling pathogens and protecting healthy tissue. Katherine Unger Baillie ・ April 18, 2022 Elizabeth Heller’s lab uncovers how drug addiction can create lasting changes in genes Leading a neuroepigenetics lab at her alma mater, Heller and the work of her 10-person lab is focused on molecular brain mechanisms, aiming to uncover chronic changes that can happen and keep happening in the brain long after exposure to addictive substances ends. Alex Gardner ・ April 18, 2022 Pagination First page « First Previous page ‹‹ Page 1 Page 2 Current page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Next page ›› Last page Last » In the News “PBS NewsHour” Share on Facebook Share on Twitter The coronavirus will likely evade Paxlovid eventually. What that will mean for the pandemic is unclear Sara Cherry of the Perelman School of Medicine argues that researchers weren’t monitoring enough rebound cases of COVID for possible resistance. FULL STORY → Marketplace (NPR) Evusheld offers vulnerable Americans protection from COVID. But getting it has been complicated Aimee Payne of the Perelman School of Medicine comments on the decision to get a COVID vaccine amongst patients with rare autoimmune diseases. FULL STORY → Reuters Fact Check-Monkeypox is not the same as AIDS or ‘VAIDS’ caused by the COVID-19 vaccine Stephen Gluckman& of the Perelman School of Medicine says there is no evidence of immunodeficiency being related to COVID-19 vaccines. FULL STORY → TechiLive Bystander CPR more likely in states requiring teen training Victoria Vetter of the Perelman School of Medicine comments on how state laws mandating CPR training in high schools were associated with a higher likelihood of bystander CPR for out-of-hospital cardiac arrest. FULL STORY → The New York Times After stroke, doctors look at Fetterman’s campaign trail prospects Rajat Deo of the Perelman School of Medicine agreed with the use of defibrillators in the care of Senate nominee John Fetterman and suspects he has a damaged heart. FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement