Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Design on display Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Design on display First in-person showcase for the new undergraduate design major featured original projects by 15 seniors expressing their interpretation of the theme ‘in search of.’ Fifteen seniors who are design majors created an in-person exhibition to showcase their final projects, interpreting the theme “in search of” in a variety of media. Myahn Walker of Philadelphia used graphic design and 3D modeling technology to recreate her favorite, long-lost childhood dress from memory for her project, You Remind Me of Me. (Image: Gordon Stillman) For the first time since design became an undergraduate major, Penn seniors created an in-person exhibition to showcase their final projects, interpreting this year’s theme “in search of” in a variety of media. Design became a major in the fall of 2019, in conjunction with a restructuring of an enhanced fine arts major. Both majors are offered through a collaboration between Penn’s Stuart Weitzman School of Design and College of Arts and Sciences, with most of the 70-plus courses taught by faculty from the Weitzman School. The 15 seniors designed and created each of their spaces to display their projects for the mid-April exhibition in Charles Addams Fine Arts Hall. (Image: Gordon Stillman) The major, which requires 16 credits, “explores the expansive nature of contemporary design and its relationship to the humanities, the sciences, and emerging technologies,” says Matt Neff, director of the undergraduate program in fine arts and design. There is “a lot of excitement from students across campus” since the major’s launch, he says, and the department has been adding new courses and sections of design studios and seminars to meet the growing demand. Marlies Jongens searched for a solution to the waste produced by the fast-fashion industry through her senior project, ZERO WASTE Apparel. She researched, designed, and constructed sewing patterns that when assembled generated zero fabric scraps, using muslin fabric, repurposed buttons, and thread. (Image: Gordon Stillman) The collaborative exhibition showcased the “culminating project” for 15 seniors who are design majors, said Ani Liu, professor of practice, who co-taught the senior design seminar with Jacob Rivkin. “They’re all addressing different themes, of culture, identity, and the relationship between technology and society,” says Liu. The words the students used to define their projects, filling in the blank after the phrase “in search of …,” included adaptability, anxiety, balance, culture, coherence, escape, identity, interaction, legacy, memory, metamorphosis, myself, stories, sustainability, and understanding. “It’s been amazing to see the students grow and develop as designers and artists throughout their time at Penn, especially this year,” Rivkin says. “Through the process of iteration and prototyping their thesis projects with intention, every student made creative and conceptual leaps in their own practice.” The projects incorporate highlights of the major’s coursework, including website, publication, clothing, graphic, architectural, and spatial design, as well as illustration, animation, photography, 3D modeling, video, and augmented and virtual reality. The students also designed and created their exhibition spaces. “I was impressed with the range of projects, both in content and form, exploring identity, accessibility, familial histories and memory, mental health, change and adaptability, and speculative design,” says Neff. “Many of the students worked with emerging technologies and fabrication techniques to inform their research and projects. It was exciting to see many material explorations, interactive projects, and disseminatable publications.” Ryanna Nankivel illustrated and created an animated film, “The Sun and the North Wind,” an adaptation of Aesop’s fable to provide a short departure from the stresses of today’s media environment. (Image: Gordon Stillman) The showcase was “an experiment in and of itself” with diverse work in the different forms of media, Liu said, noting intersections with computer science, engineering, and art. “I think it’s important for Penn students to be able to explore outside the boundaries of one major,” Liu says, “and this is something that has lends itself to that type of thinking.” The exhibition, says Kate Lawrence, associate director of undergraduate fine arts and design, “highlighted an emergent spirit of collaboration and community that was essential for the success of the show.” Photos of each project in the exhibition are available in an Flickr album curated by The Stuart Weitzman School of Design. Credits Louisa Shepard Writer Date May 9, 2022 Subtopics Design, Visual Arts, Undergraduate Students Schools Stuart Weitzman School of Design, School of Arts & Sciences Share Twitter Facebook Twitter Facebook Read Next Class of 2023 celebrates Hey Day Campus & Community A celebration of the ‘resilient creativity’ of the Class of 2022 Penn’s 266th Commencement showcased graduates who Interim President Wendell Pritchett said demonstrated an “advanced ability to roll with the challenges.” Campus & Community Ben Franklin: A voice from the past that speaks to our time At the 2022 Silfen Forum, Penn Interim President Wendell Pritchett chatted with filmmaker Ken Burns about his new two-part documentary on Benjamin Franklin. Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Inspiring the next generation of archive scholars Through Inside the Archive, a course taught by Liliane Weissberg of the School of Arts & Sciences, Penn students explore what an archive is, how history gets written, and what is ahead in a digital future. Campus & Community Exploration awaits as Penn Abroad ramps up student trips Two years after the pandemic forced Penn Abroad to brings students home, trips are back on and a busier-than-normal abroad schedule is coming in fall 2022. Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement