Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Medicine Urging caution but not panic on monkeypox While unfamiliar to many in the U.S., monkeypox and other poxviruses have been on the radar of researchers at the School of Dental Medicine and Perelman School of Medicine for decades. Katherine Unger Baillie ・ June 1, 2022 Building Penn Medicine’s Pavilion helped launch his career. Now, William Griffin is going places Griffin participated in PennAssist, a program to help graduates of Philadelphia’s career and technical high schools and city residents enter the building trades, and made an impression on the construction management team for the Pavilion. From Penn Medicine News ・ June 1, 2022 Lighting the way for rare disease After finding out about STAC3, a rare disease without a cure, biology major Magnolia Wang of the College of Arts and Sciences set out to raise awareness and advocate for those struggling with the illness. Luis Melecio-Zambrano ・ May 31, 2022 Program issuing mailed kits doubles rate of leftover opioids disposal A Penn study finds that patients of orthopaedic and urologic procedures were more likely to dispose of their extra opioid tablets when they received kits in the mail to do so. From Penn Medicine News ・ May 20, 2022 Elucidating the developmental origin of life-sustaining adrenal glands Research led by the School of Veterinary Medicine reveals that adrenal development proceeds differently in humans than it does in mice. Katherine Unger Baillie ・ May 19, 2022 Genomic differences selected through evolution may offer clues as to why COVID-19 outcomes vary widely A team from the University of Pennsylvania analyzed genomic data from global populations, including thousands of ethnically diverse Africans, to identify genetic variants that may be associated with clinical COVID-19 outcomes. Katherine Unger Baillie ・ May 19, 2022 Racial gap in doctor visits disappeared in 2020 as telemedicine adopted Penn Medicine study finds the rate of completed primary care visits for Black patients rose to the same level of non-Black patients, as COVID-19 necessitated the wider adoption of telemedicine. From Penn Medicine News ・ May 16, 2022 A matter of trust: Community health workers in West Philly As part of the Penn Medicine at Home enterprise, community health workers are one element of Penn’s initiatives to deliver quality care and improve health outside hospital walls. From Penn Medicine News ・ May 9, 2022 Centuries of Penn Med student stories Medicine has changed immensely throughout the school’s more than 250 years of history, and so has the process of becoming a doctor. From Penn Medicine News ・ May 5, 2022 Symposium highlights range and reach of Penn Global research The Penn Global Research and Engagement Grant is supporting 21 faculty-led projects that span research, capacity-building, and development efforts across Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean, India, China, and beyond. Kristen de Groot ・ May 2, 2022 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Next page ›› Last page Last » Media Contact Michele W. Berger Senior Science News Officer mwberger@upenn.edu In the News “PBS NewsHour” Share on Facebook Share on Twitter The coronavirus will likely evade Paxlovid eventually. What that will mean for the pandemic is unclear Sara Cherry of the Perelman School of Medicine argues that researchers weren’t monitoring enough rebound cases of COVID for possible resistance. FULL STORY → Reuters Fact Check-Monkeypox is not the same as AIDS or ‘VAIDS’ caused by the COVID-19 vaccine Stephen Gluckman& of the Perelman School of Medicine says there is no evidence of immunodeficiency being related to COVID-19 vaccines. FULL STORY → TechiLive Bystander CPR more likely in states requiring teen training Victoria Vetter of the Perelman School of Medicine comments on how state laws mandating CPR training in high schools were associated with a higher likelihood of bystander CPR for out-of-hospital cardiac arrest. FULL STORY → Marketplace (NPR) Evusheld offers vulnerable Americans protection from COVID. But getting it has been complicated Aimee Payne of the Perelman School of Medicine comments on the decision to get a COVID vaccine amongst patients with rare autoimmune diseases. FULL STORY → The New York Times After stroke, doctors look at Fetterman’s campaign trail prospects Rajat Deo of the Perelman School of Medicine agreed with the use of defibrillators in the care of Senate nominee John Fetterman and suspects he has a damaged heart. FULL STORY → Daily Mail (U.K.) Jill Biden visits same Children’s Hospital in Costa Rica that John F. Kennedy visited in 1963 as first lady celebrates new cancer partnership Jill Biden on Sunday followed in the footsteps of John F. Kennedy and visited the National Children’s Hospital of Costa Rica. She was celebrating a partnership between Costa Rica’s public health authority and the University of Pennsylvania and the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, which will help Costa Rican children access a lifesaving cancer treatment. FULL STORY → Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement