Skip to main content Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology Search Search Icon Topics Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Sports Campus & Community Education, Business, & Law Health Sciences Science & Technology News News Archive Penn in the News Newsletters Announcements For the Media General Information Find Experts Media Advisories University Communications About / Contact Us Staff Photo, Video, & Social Media Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices and Services Webmail EventsSee all → 5/26 Mini Plant Giveaway PECO and local plant shop STUMP are giving away mini plants at The Porch at 30th Street Station. RSVP is available online. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Porch at 30th Street Station, 2955 Market St. 5/27 Transforming Long-Term Care The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics welcomes Bob Casey, U.S. senator for Pennsylvania, and a panel of experts to discuss opportunities to improve nursing homes as critical healthcare facilities. Speakers include Mary Ersek, a professor at the School of Nursing; Jasmine L. Travers; an assistant professor of nursing at New York University; Rachel M. Werner, executive director of the Leonard Davis Instiute; and Rodney Whitlock, health advisor and vice president for McDermott+Consulting. 9:00 a.m. - 10:20 a.m. Virtual 6/1 Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works Penn Libraries hosts art historian and collector Paul Marechal, who will discuss his work cataloging the works of Andy Warhol. Marechal has researched and assembled a collection of magazine illustrations, record covers, textile creations, and more. 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center 3420 Walnut St. Through 6/4 MOMIX Penn Live Arts presents MOMIX, a dance company based in Washington, to present their Philadelphia premiere of Alice. Founded and directed by Moses Pendleton, MOMIX explores works of inventiveness and physical beauty of the human body. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Close Open Search Bar Close Search Penn Today Logo A beginner’s guide to cryptocurrency Penn Today Logo Open Navigation Menu Search Search Icon Education, Business, & Law A beginner’s guide to cryptocurrency Wharton expert Sarah Hammer breaks down the basics of digital currency, which has exploded in popularity in recent years Just like paper money or a check, cryptocurrencies allow consumers to buy services and goods, or trade them for profit. Cryptocurrencies have been called everything from the money of the future to an extremely risky asset. Thoughts and strategies about cryptocurrencies spread fast, primarily because cryptocurrencies are a complicated and unique technology that is also accessible. This may leave people wondering if they should be investing in cryptocurrencies, if they are safe, or how they even work. Sarah Hammer, managing director of the Stevens Center for Innovation in Finance at the Wharton School, talks to Penn Today about what cryptocurrencies are, how to buy them, and why it is important for people to do their research. What is cryptocurrency? Cryptocurrency is decentralized digital money that is used on the internet. Cryptocurrency adheres to a decentralized form of governance and control, as opposed to a central banking authority. Cryptocurrency operates through distributed ledger technology, known as blockchain. Bitcoin was the first cryptocurrency, and it rose to attention beginning in 2008. Today, there are many other cryptocurrencies, including Ethereum, Tether, Solana, and Cardano. How many cryptocurrencies are there and what are they worth? According to CoinMarketCap, there are now more than 16,000 cryptocurrencies. They vary in value. The market capitalization of Bitcoin is almost $900 billion, as it is by far the largest cryptocurrency. The market capitalization of the second largest cryptocurrency, Ethereum, is less than $500 billion. It is difficult to estimate the total market size of all cryptocurrencies, since, unlike the public equities markets, there is no official data source. Some estimates of the total size of the cryptocurrency markets place it around $3 trillion. In addition to facilitating the transfer of value, each cryptocurrency may have different technical features. Why are cryptocurrencies so popular? Cryptocurrencies allow parties to transfer value online without the use of a central counterparty, such as a bank. Cryptocurrencies also facilitate the quick global transfer of value, 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Some argue that cryptocurrency is a superior form of value transfer because it offers a level of privacy, security, and immutability (irreversibility) that traditional money does not offer. Are cryptocurrencies a good investment? Cryptocurrencies can be thought of in several different ways. For example, some consider cryptocurrency to have money-like qualities, particularly Bitcoin. For something to be considered money, it is typically thought of to possess three basic traits: (1) it is a store of value, (2) it is a medium of exchange, and (3) it is a unit of account. On the other hand, cryptocurrency may also be considered to be an asset class for investment, similar to a stock. As with stocks, cryptocurrency may offer the potential for a high level of returns, but also the possibility of significant price volatility as well as losses. For these reasons, whether cryptocurrency is a good investment may depend on the profile of the particular investor. For example, a retiree seeking to draw on a stable pool of income may not find highly volatile cryptocurrency appropriate for their portfolio. On the other hand, a younger investor able to tolerate a high level of volatility may consider cryptocurrency to be an important and/or diversifying component of their portfolio. How do I buy cryptocurrency? Cryptocurrency can be purchased through a broker or exchange, such as Coinbase. To purchase cryptocurrency, the individual must open an account, deposit cash, and place a trade order (buy). If an individual is seeking exposure to cryptocurrency, they can also purchase an ETF [exchange traded fund], buy a cryptocurrency focused mutual fund, or own the stock of a company that focuses on cryptocurrency, such as Square. Are cryptocurrencies legal? Regulations surrounding cryptocurrency are still evolving. A great deal of attention is paid to whether particular cryptocurrencies fall within the legal definition of ‘security’ and therefore would be subject to the disclosure and registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In addition, policymakers are focused on regulation of stablecoins, or cryptocurrencies that are pegged to a stable asset such as the U.S. dollar or gold, as well as the regulation of exchanges that trade cryptocurrencies. Other evolving legal issues surrounding cryptocurrencies and blockchain include the regulation of Decentralized Autonomous Organizations (DAOs), tax treatment, and anti-money laundering requirements. How do I protect myself? To be sure, this information is not intended to serve as investment advice, and individuals should consult with their personal financial advisors with specific questions. Generally, individuals should follow basic principles of good investing, read information carefully, and avoid investments that claim to offer unreasonable returns. Credits Dee Patel Writer Date January 26, 2022 Subtopics Business, Finance, Q&A Schools Wharton School Share Twitter Facebook Twitter Facebook Read Next Class of 2023 celebrates Hey Day Campus & Community A celebration of the ‘resilient creativity’ of the Class of 2022 Penn’s 266th Commencement showcased graduates who Interim President Wendell Pritchett said demonstrated an “advanced ability to roll with the challenges.” Campus & Community Ben Franklin: A voice from the past that speaks to our time At the 2022 Silfen Forum, Penn Interim President Wendell Pritchett chatted with filmmaker Ken Burns about his new two-part documentary on Benjamin Franklin. Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Inspiring the next generation of archive scholars Through Inside the Archive, a course taught by Liliane Weissberg of the School of Arts & Sciences, Penn students explore what an archive is, how history gets written, and what is ahead in a digital future. Campus & Community Exploration awaits as Penn Abroad ramps up student trips Two years after the pandemic forced Penn Abroad to brings students home, trips are back on and a busier-than-normal abroad schedule is coming in fall 2022. Penn Today Logo logo-new-2 If there’s news at Penn, you’ll find it here. We strive to bring you faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. Office of University Communications Suite 200 3901 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3608 215.898.8721 upnews@pobox.upenn.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Flickr YouTube © 2022 Penn Today, University of Pennsylvania Penn Homepage Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement