Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site Browse Administrative Areas Browse Schools & Colleges University Organizational Chart Need Help? Search Mobile Site Schools & Colleges School of Architecture College of Arts and Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication Division of Continuing and International Education School of Education and Human Development College of Engineering Graduate School School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science Leonard M. Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing and Health Studies Browse Administrative Areas Browse Schools & Colleges University Organizational Chart Need Help? Home Schools and Colleges AAA Schools & Colleges School of Architecture The School of Architecture's rigorous curriculum is rooted in the historical and theoretical framework at the core of intelligent and thoughtful design. View People College of Arts and Sciences With 20 departments and 12 interdisciplinary programs, the College of Arts and Sciences offers degrees in anthropology, biology, computer science, psychology, political science, philosophy, theatre arts, and much more. View People Miami Herbert Business School With its location at the crossroads of the Americas, the Miami Herbert Business School is a leader in preparing individuals and organizations to excel in the complex, dynamic, and interconnected world of international business. View People School of Communication Find your voice in a place that blends innovation and real-world experience to equip you to tell the stories that impact the world around you. View People School of Education and Human Development Well-being is at the core of the School of Education and Human Development's mission. Professors in the School are internationally known in the education, psychology, and health fields. View People College of Engineering The College of Engineering is renowed for its research efforts in health care and technobiology, informatics, risk management, and sustainable and smart systems. View People School of Law The School of Law provides a rigorous foundation in the intellectual underpinnings of law, a profound understanding of the transnational dimensions of contemporary practice, and a solid preparation for a successful career. View People Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science From sharks to sediment, corals to climate—discoveries about marine life and earth science are made every day at the Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science, the only subtropical oceanographic institute of its kind in the continental United States. View People Leonard M. Miller School of Medicine Through its dedication to the best in biomedical research, education of future physicians, and breakthrough clinical care, the Leonard M. Miller School of Medicine is at the forefront of innovative approaches to improve health care. View People Frost School of Music One of the most industry-relevant music schools in the nation, the Phillip and Patricia Frost School of Music ensures that students stay on top of all the changes in today’s highly competitive music profession. View People School of Nursing and Health Studies An innovator in health care education, the School of Nursing and Health Studies provides a range of undergraduate study options. Faculty members are internationally recognized health care educators and scientists. View People The Graduate School The Graduate School at UM is among the most comprehensive in the country. The diversity of academic programs is only matched by the diversity of the student body both culturally and geographically. View People University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices