Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site Browse Administrative Areas Browse Schools & Colleges University Organizational Chart Need Help? Search Mobile Site How the People Site Works Contact Us or Share Feedback People Profile Managers About the People Site Project Terms of Use Browse Administrative Areas Browse Schools & Colleges University Organizational Chart Need Help? Home Help How Does the People Site Work? AAA How Does the People Site Work? How the People Site Works Contact Us or Share Feedback People Profile Managers About the People Site Project Terms of Use Browse this page for a brief explanation of how the University of Miami People Web site works. The site pulls basic information from Workday and can also display more information that can be added by working with a People Profile Managers from your respective area. How is People Information Displayed?﻿ UM People consists of two main components, People Profile Pages and People Lists. People Profile Pages﻿ The "Basic" information that appears on a people profile page is created using data derived from Workday, which users can edit and update themselves in Workday, and which then will be automatically fed to the People profile. In addition, individuals can work with their People Profile managers to consider and add additional "Advanced" information to their profile pages that can contain more material. By adding additional material, your profile page can begin to look different with the new material added. People List Pages People list pages are pages containing lists of people. The People Site allows People Profile Managers the ability to create lists of people to display on other Websites at UM. The nice thing about these lists is that they reflect information that comes from Workday as well. If a person leaves the University, changes e-mail, phone, location, name, etc..., the People List Page can be updated easily to display the correct information. This makes having to hard-code and build directory list pages easier to maintain. Some examples of People List pages are here, here, and here. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices