Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site Browse Administrative Areas Browse Schools & Colleges University Organizational Chart Need Help? Search Mobile Site Browse Administrative Areas Browse Schools & Colleges University Organizational Chart Need Help? AAA Linda L. Neider Professor Department Chair, Management lneider@miami.edu Phone: (305) 284-6123 Locator Code: 6548 Address: Log in to view address About Career Research About Biography Linda L. Neider is a tenured Professor of Management with a secondary appointment as Professor in the Department of Health Management and Policy in the Miami Herbert Business School. She currently serves as the Chairman of the Department of Management, and the Chair of the University of Miami Faculty Senate. Dr. Neider has a long history as a distinguished academic leader, having served as the developer/Director of the MS, Leadership Program; Vice Dean for Internal University Relations, Global/Cross-Disciplinary Initiatives and Undergraduate Programs; Vice Dean for Undergraduate Business Programs; past Chairman of the Management Department; Vice Dean for Faculty Affairs in the School of Business Administration; Co-Director (and co-creator) of the Masters in Technology Management; and Director of the Ph.D. program in Industrial/Organizational Psychology. Most recently, she was the instructor ad Director of the MS Program in Leadership, now in its' fifth year. The capstone course in the program entails one-on-one executive coaching which she personally facilitates with each student. Given the success of the MS, Leadership Program, Dr. Neider worked with faculty to create an undergraduate major in Leadership which will culminate with having each student shadow an outstanding leader in their chosen field. During her role as Vice Dean for Internal University Relations, Global/Cross-Disciplinary Initiatives and Undergraduate Programs, Dr. Neider was part of a three-prong strategic Management team with former Dean of the Miami School of Business, Dr. Barbara Kahn (now at Wharton), working as the interface between the MBS and all other areas within the university, including developing and overseeing collaborative cross-disciplinary programs; and overseeing all of the functions associated with the 2000+ undergraduate business students. Selected accomplishments in this role were: developing, compiling, and writing materials necessary for the AACSB accreditation review; launching a new freshman (orientation) honor code; establishing an accelerated honors program in business/law; developing new outreach programs for undergraduate placement; and conducting focus groups with undergraduate students to develop new strategic initiatives. In her role as Vice Dean for Undergraduate Business, Dr. Neider worked with recruiters, faculty, staff, and students to revitalize and restructure the undergraduate curriculum. Believing strongly in the importance of social responsibility, community engagement, and ethics, she initiated a new required freshmen course called FIRST STEP (Freshmen Integrity, Responsibility, and Success Through Teamwork). All incoming freshmen were exposed to cases, interactive exercises, and teamwork, facilitated by trained upper-class peer leaders, to complete hands-on projects for a variety of community non-profit organizations.. As Vice Dean, Dr. Neider also initiated a formalized undergraduate student research program pairing students with faculty mentors; front loaded the business curriculum to expose students earlier to business core areas; established a student tutorial system; worked with faculty and staff to develop new minors and majors in Health Management and Policy, Real Estate, EcoSystems, Pre-med/Business, and helped to create co-majors between the School of Business and the College of Arts and Sciences. Fast-track undergraduate/graduate programs were also instituted in Accounting. Other accomplishments included working with community leaders to launch mentoring programs; hiring a dedicated business career counselor to work with students; organizing and overseeing development of AACSB assurance of learning objectives as well as an undergraduate exit examination; promoting undergraduate community outreach programs to build micro-business skill sets in underserved communities; and helping to develop student organizations (Undergraduate Dean’s Advisory Council) designed to increase as well as encourage student input into accomplishing strategic objectives. As the first female Department Chair in the Miami Herbert Business School, a position she held for more than two decades before taking on a Vice Dean role, Dr. Neider worked collaboratively with 25 faculty representing areas including Entrepreneurship, Health Management, Strategic Management, Operations Management, Organizational Behavior, Human Resource Management, and International Business. While Chair, she also established a $1,000,000 endowment; hired two endowed Chair Professors; developed majors in entrepreneurship and human resources; and hired close to two-thirds of the current faculty, many of whom have won both school as well as university research and teaching awards. Dr. Neider, herself, has received over two dozen outstanding teaching awards, including the University of Miami Excellence in Teaching Award, for her Organizational Behavior and Human (Capital) Resource classes in both graduate and undergraduate programs. Her most recent Outstanding Teaching Awards were awarded by the 2019 MS in Leadership graduating class, the 2018 Executive MBA Class in Health Management and Policy, and the 2017 MS in Management class. In 2017, she was also the recipient of the Miami Business School Outstanding Faculty Service Award. Dr. Neider’s scholarly work is primarily in the leadership area where her contributions may be viewed in a variety of journals, including the Academy of Management Journal, Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, and Leadership Quarterly. She is a co-author of the book series, Research in Management, now in its eleventh edition. Dr. Neider has mentored for and served on numerous Ph.D. committees for students, many of whom hold faculty positions in accredited programs throughout the world. Her consulting and executive coaching work has included clients from organizations such as American Express, Florida Power and Light, the Miami Heart Institute, the City of Miami, Dade County Public Schools, United Way of Dade County, and YPO, to name a few. She serves on the Board of Directors for the Humane Society of South Florida, and is on the Board of Governors for Young Patronnesses of the Opera. Professor Neider’s Ph.D. and M.B.A. degrees were awarded from the State University of New York at Buffalo, where she also earned an M.A. degree. She graduated summa cum laude from Daemen College after serving as President of the senior class, Editor of the school newspaper, a research assistant, and head resident advisor. Related Links Miami Herbert Business School Related Links Miami Herbert Business School Related Links Miami Herbert Business School Career Education Ph.D. State University of New York at Buffalo MBA State University of New York at Buffalo Psychology State University of New York at Buffalo B.A. Summa Cum Laude Daemen College LIST OF SPECIALTIES: Organizational behavior | Human resource management/human capital | Leadership and influence | Leadership in organizations | Team processes | Performance appraisal systems | Organizational change, development, and culture Related Links Miami Herbert Business School LIST OF SPECIALTIES: Organizational behavior | Human resource management/human capital | Leadership and influence | Leadership in organizations | Team processes | Performance appraisal systems | Organizational change, development, and culture Related Links Miami Herbert Business School Professional Experience 2017 - Chair, Department of Management, Miami Herbert Business School 2007 - 2011 Vice Dean, Undergraduate Business Programs, University of Miami School of Business Administration 1986 - 2007 Chair, Department of Management, University of Miami School of Business Administration 1991 - 2007 Co-Director, MS, Management of Technology, University of Miami School of Business Administration 1989 - 1992 Vice Dean, Faculty Affairs, University of Miami School of Business Administration Honors & Acknowledgements Excellence in Teaching Award, University of Miami School of Business Administration, 2019 (graduating class, MS, Leadership); 2018 (graduating class, Exec MBA Health Management and Policy Class); 2017 (graduating classes in MS Leadership and Exec MBA, Health Management and Policy) Excellence in University Service, Miami Business School, 2017 Outstanding Paper Award, Research Methods Track, Southern Management Association Conference, 2009 Outstanding Teacher Award, University of Miami, 1999 (Provost) Related Links Miami Herbert Business School Research LIST OF SPECIALTIES: Leadership and organizational effectiveness; transforming organizational cultures; human resource systems, health care management, training and development needs assessment; and survey design, development and analysis Related Links Miami Herbert Business School Related Links Miami Herbert Business School Publications Schriesheim, C.A. and Neider, L.L. Transforming Organizations (11 Research in Management. Charlotte, NC: Information Press Publishing.. ). Neider, L.L. and Schriesheim, C. A. Authentic Ethical Leadership (10 Research in Management. Charlotte, NC: Information Press Publishing.. ). Schriesheim, C. A. and Neider, L. L. Trust and Justice in Organizations (9 Research in Management, Connecticut: Information Age Publishing.. ). Neider, L. and Schriesheim, C. Research in Management: The “Dark” Side of Management (8 Connecticut: Information Age Publishing.. ). Schriesheim, C. and Neider, L. Abuse and Supportive Leadership: Two Sides of the Same Coin? 49-68 (8 Research in Management: The “Dark” Side of Management. ). Neider, L. and Schriesheim, C. C. Research in Management: Affect and Emotion (New Directions In Management Theory and Research. (Guest Editor: Ronald H. Humphrey), Volume 7, Connecticut: Information Age Publishing.. ). Neider, L. and Schriesheim, C. Research in Management: International Perspectives (6, Connecticut: Information Age Publishing.. ). Schriesheim, C. and Neider, L. Power and Influence in Organizations: New Empirical and Theoretical Perspectives (Volume 5, Connecticut: Information Age Publishing. ). Neider, L. and Schriesheim, C. Understanding and Managing Teams (4 Research in Management. Connecticut: Information Age Publishing.. ). Schriesheim, C. and Neider, L. New Directions in Human Resource Management (3 Research in Management. Connecticut: Information Age Publishing.. ). MORE PUBLICATIONS Related Links Miami Herbert Business School University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices