Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Physical Education and Recreation Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Physical Education Membership Fitness Club Sports Intramurals Camps Wellness About Us Registration Information Course Descriptions Attendance, Grading, & Medical Waivers Swim Test Requirement Benefits-Spring 2022 Eligibility Summer Memberships Functional Fitness Group Fitness Youth Swim Lessons Personal Training Program Policies Outdoor Activities Cycling Equestrian Hiking Road Runners Rock Climbing Sailing Ski and Snowboard Triathlon Whitewater Kayaking Martial Arts Aikido Brazilian Jiu Jitsu Goju Ryu Karate Kendo Naginata Shotokan Karate Tae Kwon Do Individual Sports Badminton Ballroom Dance Swing Dance Table Tennis Tennis Team Sports Esports Ice Hockey (M) Lacrosse (M) Rugby (W) Rugby (M) Ultimate (W) Ultimate (M) Volleyball (W) Volleyball (M) Water Polo (W) Water Polo (M) Wrestling (W) Hall of Fame Registration Information Rules and Policies Little Lions Camp Sports Camps Free Fitness Events Hours of Operation Member Portal & Resources Our Team Student Employment Frequently Asked Questions Physical Education and Recreation Home The Physical Education & Recreation Program of Columbia University meets the educational, recreational, and wellness needs and interests of our University community. Find Out if You're Eligible Purchase Your Membership Hours of Operation Recreational Areas Tri-Level Fitness Area Dodge Fitness Center has three levels of cardiovascular and strength training equipment. To reserve cardio equipment, please go here. Blue Gym The Blue Gym is a multi-purpose athletic facility with a rubberized performance surface. Functional Fitness Studio The Functional Fitness Studio is located on the 3rd floor of DFC and provides open rec access to suspension training, kettlebells, medicine balls, as well as small group training classes. Aerobics Room 4 Aerobics Room 4, located on the 4th floor of DFC, is where you'll find our yoga classes. To participate, check out our Group Fitness Program offerings! Running Track The running track is located on the 4th floor. Ten laps around the track is equal to one mile. Squash Courts Squash Courts are located on the 3rd floor and are available for reservation. To reserve a court, please go here. Personal Training Studio The Personal Training Studio is located on the 3rd floor and is used exclusively by the Personal Training Program. Uris Pool Uris Pool is Olympic sized and located on the 1st floor. Stay tuned for future programming, which may be used for recreational swim, individual lessons, and group classes. Aerobics Room 3 Aerobics Room 3, located on the 3rd floor of the DFC, hosts many of our Group Fitness Program offerings each semester, such as Body Sculpting, Cardio, Zumba and more. Dodge Fitness CenterColumbia University, Morningside Campus, 3030 Broadway Dodge, Mail Code 1900 · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-7149 Follow Us Facebook Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close