Skip to main content MENU About Message from the Dean Outreach & Engagement Departments & Programs Employment Opportunities Locations & Buildings Directory Academics Majors & Minors Global Education Cornerstone Honors Program Scholarships & Financial Aid Departments & Programs Research Centers & Institutes Areas of Focus Research Support & Services For Faculty & Staff IT Help Documents, Forms, & Guidelines Climate & Inclusion Committees Media & Marketing Resources Giving Development Councils Donor Spotlight Methods of Giving Future Students Undergraduate Graduate Current Students Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Staff Faculty Staff Former Students A Name With An Aggie Ring Stella Lee ‘23, an international studies major, is commemorating her time at Texas A&M University in a unique way. Future Undergrad Students Former Students Staff Faculty Current Grad Students Current Undergrad Students Future Grad Students The College of Arts & Sciences The colleges of Geosciences, Liberal Arts, and Science are becoming the College of Arts and Sciences in Fall 2022. As the academic heart of Texas A&M, the College of Arts & Sciences will provide world-class teaching, research, service, & resources. Learn More We Are Liberal Arts | Broaden Your Horizons Admissions Advising Course Catalog Majors and Minors Departments & Programs Scholarships & Financial Aid Global Education Transfer Student Admissions Calendar Communication Professor Featured In History Channel Documentary May 27, 2022 Communication professor helps explore how Teddy Roosevelt’s rhetoric holds up in a Memorial Day documentary on The History Channel. Madelaine Setiawan: Choosing Aggieland May 24, 2022 Madelaine Setiawan is an international student from Indonesia with a passion for American Civil War history and an eagerness to join the Aggie family. Samantha “Sami” Schramm ‘22: Pursuing Leadership May 20, 2022 Samantha “Sami” Schramm ‘22 graduated with a degree in international studies and a passion for the Aggie spirit. More News 20:1 Student to teacher ratio 2,613 Degrees awarded in 2019 25% First generation college students $17.5M Annual research expenditures Source: TAMU Accountability for FY 2019 – September 2020 Message from the Dean Howdy, and welcome to the College of Liberal Arts! We invite you to come and learn about yourself, others, and the world around you. The phrase “liberal arts” goes back to ancient Greece and Rome. The artes liberales involved a broad but extensive education: mathematics and geometry, astronomy, grammar, public speaking, philosophy, logic, ethics, and physics. It was the very breadth and depth of knowledge that allowed a free citizen to serve the public good. Today, scholars in liberal arts study the human condition in many fields of humanities and social sciences. Our professors stand at the forefront of the production and dissemination of new knowledge; they are nationally and internationally recognized for their scholarship. But, they are not just renowned researchers—they are dedicated instructors who teach a third of the core curriculum for all Aggies. They train our undergraduate majors to become the next generation of leaders and citizens and mentor our graduate students who study in nationally and internationally ranked programs. Employers value liberal arts students’ broad-based and interdisciplinary education but also their skillsets: communication, critical thinking, collaborative and creative problem solving, commitment to diversity, and cultural sensitivity. It’s no surprise then that over a third of all Fortune 500 CEOs have a liberal arts degree. Forget stereotypes: a major in liberal arts is not a pathway to teaching and non-profits (although it can be); it puts you on a journey to a rewarding career. Whether you’re visiting our website as a student, potential student, parent, former student, donor, or simply a friend of the college, please accept my most warm and sincere welcome! I’m glad you decided to stop by and hope you find the College of Liberal Arts at Texas A&M University as broad and extensive in our depth of knowledge as the Greeks and Romans found the artes liberales! Thanks and Gig ‘em, Steven M. Oberhelman Interim Dean Fact Sheet We Are Liberal Arts | A Port in the Storm Departments Anthropology Communication Economics English Hispanic Studies History International Studies Performance Studies Philosophy Political Science Psychological and Brain Sciences Sociology Centers and Institutes Texas Research Data Center Center for Maritime Archaeology and Conservation Center for the Study of First Americans Glasscock Center for Humanities Research Center of Digital Humanities Research Public Policy Research Institute Race and Ethnic Studies Institute Programs Africana Studies Latino/a and Mexican American Studies Religious Studies Women's and Gender Studies Developing Initiatives Center for Research Impact of Social Sciences Connect with us College of Liberal Arts Coke Building 4223 TAMU 415 Houston St College Station, TX 77843-4223 (979) 845-5141 Get the Liberal Arts Weekly 2017 College of Liberal Arts at Texas A&M University Contacts Accessibility Site Policies