Main navigation Home HMS History HMS Interviews HSDM/Oral Health History HSDM/Oral Health Interviews Historical Context Resources Your Story Acknowledgments Welcome Harvard Medical School History Harvard School of Dental Medicine / Oral Health History Historical Context INTRODUCTION This exhibit explores the history of Harvard Medical School (HMS) and Harvard School of Dental Medicine (HSDM) diversity, inclusion and belonging for students of color and other underrepresented groups. Perspectives of Change: The story of civil rights, diversity, inclusion and access to education at HMS and HSDM highlights stories of trailblazing students, faculty, trainees, and health leaders from the 19th century through today. Recorded interviews and a review of historical resources place the exhibit in a broad context as it captures themes of inequity, injustice, and health disparities, locally and nationally. The exhibit simultaneously depicts gains that have been made and directions for the future. Perspectives of Change: The story of civil rights, diversity, inclusion and access to education at HMS and HSDM includes an oral history project and crowd-sourced collection of stories, images, and videos related to the historic and ongoing efforts to advance diversity and inclusion at Harvard Medical School, Harvard School of Dental Medicine, and their affiliates. more... INTERVIEWS “…December 7th, 1941 was a turning point for my life and the life of every boy in our nation because we knew that we were going to be at war." Harold May, MD, HMS Class of 1951 “The thing that tipped the balance was the Martin Luther King assassination. It was April 4th, 1968.” Edward Kravitz, PhD (HMS Faculty 1960—present) “So as soon as I came to Harvard, I realized that I was among the very first Latinos to come to medical school at Harvard.” J. Emilio Carrillo, MD, MPH, HMS Class of 1976 “…it was just a horrible editorial. And it instantly kind of put me in this -- the spirit of wanting to fight back, to prove him wrong, to really raise a voice against this statement...” Eve Higginbotham, MD, HMS Class of 1979 “And he paused and he kind of steepled his fingers and he said, “Well, there’s too many doctors in the country right now for us to worry about training a handicapped physician…" Lisa Iezzoni, MD, MSc, HMS Class of 1984 “…for them to just light up when they see this black girl walking in the room with the rest of her team, which usually was mostly white, and to just look at me with such pride, and such joy in their eyes.” Mary Tate, MD, HMS Class of 2018 “To be referred to as a Black Panthers was extremely shocking, because, you know, we thought Boston would be different.” Matthew W. Plummer, Jr., DMD, MPH, HSDM Class of 1973 “In El Salvador, most of the dentists are women.” Sonia Molina, DMD, MPH, HSDM Class of 1989 “…I took them to Ethiopia for the first International Dental Conference in that country of 76 million people that only had 48 dentists.” Brian Swann, DDS, MPH (HSDM faculty) “When you feel overwhelmed and want to quit, think of my name as a symbol of hope.” George Blue Spruce, Jr., DDS, MPH (First American Indian Dentist, Founder Society of American Indian Dentists) SLIDESHOW Main navigation Home HMS History HMS Interviews HSDM/Oral Health History HSDM/Oral Health Interviews Historical Context Resources Your Story Acknowledgments Accessibility Policy Center for the History of Medicine at Countway Library 10 Shattuck Street | Boston, MA 02115 617-432-2136 | Website Office for Diversity Inclusion and Community Partnership 164 Longwood Avenue | Boston, MA 02115 617-432-2413 | Website ©2020 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College