Skip to main content Search: Select Search Options This Site Cornell Search Personal Finance at Cornell Skip to content Home Money at Cornell Bursar Financial Aid Student Employment Living Off-Campus Saving at Cornell Emergency Funds Essentials Budgeting Saving Interest Debt Credit and Debit Cards Student Loans Insurance Programs Resources Be engaged with your money, now and into the future! Learning how to manage your finances is an important skill that you will hone throughout your life. Everyone has different values around money, different priorities, and will use different methods to balance wants and needs. Here is a start to navigating your financial life. This site aims to help you sort through the myriad of information about personal finance. We will present information relevant to the financial lives of Cornell students and beyond. We are grateful to a grant provided by the Council for Graduate Schools and TIAA-CREF that funded the creation of this site. Emergency Funds Emergencies happen. Let us help. Emergency Funds Living Off-Campus Learn more about how your finances work when you live off-campus. Living Off-Campus Protect Your Credit Consumer Information from the Federal Trade Commission Protect Your Credit Student Employment Working part-time can help you meet your expenses. Student Employment Financial Planner Our Financial Planner worksheet can help you plan for the year. Financial Planner Follow us on Twitter! @CornellFinAid is about much more than financial aid. We post personal finance information relevant... Follow us on Twitter! The information on this site is provided is for general educational purposes only, and is not intended to substitute for the advice of your investment, legal, tax advisors and/or credit counselors or to be the basis of specific trading, investment or debt consolidation and management activities. If you need investment, legal, tax advice, and/or credit counseling, please consult with one of these professionals. Non-Cornell web site links on this site are not part of Cornell University, and their inclusion does not imply any endorsement by the university. Home About Us ©2015 Cornell University Hosted by CampusPress