Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Research subbio Research Main IBB Home About Overview Awards Directions People Directory Leadership Faculty Research Professionals Professional Staff Advisory Board Career Opportunities Research Overview Training Grants Research Centers Seed Grants Funding Opportunities Core Facilities Overview Getting Started Rate Schedule Contacts Education Overview Graduate Programs Petit Undergraduate Research Scholars Program Project ENGAGES BBUGS Commercialization News Events Upcoming Events Bioengineering Seminars Breakfast Club Seminars Commercialization Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Suddath Symposium Annual Distinguished Lecture Resources Open Search Search Search Parker H. Petit Institute for Bioengineering and Bioscience Biomaterial Improves Islet Transplants for Treatment of Type 1 Diabetes An Evolution of Astrobiology Alfred P. Sloan Foundation Awards Georgia Tech $1.5 Million for Matter-to-Life Research HELP Didn’t find what you are looking for? We'd like to help! GT Community Inquiries Contact: Office of EVPR Team All Other Inquiries Contact: Georgia Parmelee, Director of Research Communications Breadcrumb Home Bioengineering and Bioscience Overview Welcome to IBB The Petit Institute for Bioengineering and Bioscience (IBB) is in the business of creating the next—the next collaborative discovery, the next educational opportunity, the next startup company. We are an incubator for tackling complex research problems by bringing together engineers, scientists, and clinicians to turn discoveries into game-changing solutions. With 19 research centers, 200+ faculty members, and state-of-the-art core facilities, the possibilities for innovation are limitless. Project ENGAGES High school education program that raises awareness to the world of engineering, science, and technology Bio Launchpad Seminars Helps GT entrepreneurs learn how to fund and commercialize their technology Bioengineering Program One of the three interdisciplinary graduate programs supported by IBB Core Facilities The Petit Institute (IBB) is a unique, interdisciplinary research and educational institute composed of state-of-the-art laboratories and globally recognized academic and research engineers and scientists. In concert with its affiliated centers and faculty, IBB provides access to more than $400M of combined research tools and laboratories for education and technology transfer. Researchers are encouraged to take advantage of our shared user laboratories, equipment, and expertise, and we welcome you to explore our facilities and the opportunities supported by our buildings and laboratories. Learn More » News Levine Co-authors Article on Value of Real-time Data in Cell Therapy Aaron Levine, associate professor in the School of Public Policy and associate dean for research and outreach in the Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts, co-authored an article published in Current… 3D in a Snap: Jia Lab Develops Next Generation System for Imaging Organoids Biomedical researchers develop and use organoids as a tool for studying human development and disease. These little lab-grown cultures mimic human organs and provide a sharp view of tissue… NASA Astrobiology Unveils New Research Coordination Network at AbSciCon 2022 This release first published in the NASA.gov newsroom: NASA's Astrobiology program has announced its newest Research Coordination Network (RCN) ‘LIFE: Early Cells to Multicellularity,’ bringing… More News » Events Wednesday June 1 Bench2Market Talks "Med-Tech Funder Perspective" Tuesday June 7 Get to Know Georgia Tech Pediatric Technologies! Virtual info session about opportunities on campus to collaborate in pediatric research. Wednesday June 15 Pediatric Tech Walk Webinar “Mapping Autism Service Inequities through Interdisciplinary Research" - Jennifer Singh, Ph.D., Georgia Tech Tuesday August 2 Bio LaunchPad Symposium 2-day meeting - "Navigating the Early Stages of Biotech Commercialization" Tuesday August 2 Bio LaunchPad Symposium 2-day meeting - "Navigating the Early Stages of Biotech Commercialization" More Events » Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Accessibility Download PDF Reader Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN