Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Research subbio Research Main IBB Home About Overview Awards Directions People Directory Leadership Faculty Research Professionals Professional Staff Advisory Board Career Opportunities Research Overview Training Grants Research Centers Seed Grants Funding Opportunities Core Facilities Overview Getting Started Rate Schedule Contacts Education Overview Graduate Programs Petit Undergraduate Research Scholars Program Project ENGAGES BBUGS Commercialization News Events Upcoming Events Bioengineering Seminars Breakfast Club Seminars Commercialization Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Suddath Symposium Annual Distinguished Lecture Resources Open Search Search Search Parker H. Petit Institute for Bioengineering and Bioscience HELP Didn’t find what you are looking for? We'd like to help! GT Community Inquiries Contact: Office of EVPR Team All Other Inquiries Contact: Georgia Parmelee, Director of Research Communications Breadcrumb Home Bioengineering and Bioscience Overview Research Systems Biology Systems Biology Systems biology is an interdisciplinary field that focuses on complex interactions in biological systems in order to improve the design of molecular and cell-based technologies. Instead of studying one biological component at a time, scientists use systems biology approaches to obtain, integrate and analyze complex data from multiple experimental sources to understand how molecules act together within the network of interaction that makes up life. IBB investigators are using engineering approaches to develop a quantitative understanding of cell function and to apply this understanding for improved technologies to study biological systems such as the immune system or the nervous system. In addition, scientists and engineers use mathematics and computation to reliably model, predict, manipulate and optimize biomedical systems for the advancement of medicine, drug development, and biotechnologies. Researchers are focusing on understanding the complexity of gene and protein networks involved in individual cell signaling, communication between cells in communities, and cellular metabolic pathways. In order to study biological systems, tools are required for collecting information across a larger scale than traditional biological or biochemical methods. The technology platforms under development for high-throughput data collection and analysis at IBB focus on genomics, epigenetics, proteomics, and metabolomics. Systems Biology Faculty Research Areas Biomaterials Cancer Biology Chemical Biology Drug, Design, Development & Delivery Molecular Evolution Molecular, Cellular and Tissue Biomechanics Neuroscience Regenerative Medicine Systems Biology Kyle Allison Assistant Professor, Department of Medicine/Infectious Disease, Emory University Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Turgay Ayer Professor Georgia Institute of Technology H. Milton Stewart School of Industrial and Systems Engineering Guy Benian Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Professor Emory University Emory Department of Pathology Mark Borodovsky Regents' Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Sam Brown Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Lily Cheung Assistant Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Ahmet Coskun Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology James Dahlman Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Constantine Dovrolis Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Computer Science Christoph Fahrni Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Chemistry and Biochemistry Yuhong Fan Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Andrei Fedorov Professor & Rae S. and Frank H. Neely Chair; School Mechanical Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School Mechanical Engineering Facundo Fernandez Vasser Woolley Foundation Chair in Bioanalytical Chemistry Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Chemistry and Biochemistry Greg Gibson Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Daniel Goldman Dunn Family Professor; School of Physics Georgia Institute of Technology School of Physics Christine Heitsch Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Mathematics Melissa Kemp Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Kostas Konstantinidis Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Civil and Environmental Engineering Joel Kostka Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences David Ku Regents Professor Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering Julia Kubanek Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Gabe Kwong Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Hang Lu Love Family Professor; School of Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Nael McCarty Marcus Professor of Cystic Fibrosis Emory University Emory+Children's Pediatric Research Center John McDonald Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Patrick McGrath Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Julien Meaud Assistant Professor Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering Annalise Paaby Assistant Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Muralidhar Padala Assistant Professor Emory University Emory Department of Surgery Manu Platt Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Boris Prilutsky Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Felipe Garcia Quiroz Assistant Professor Emory University Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Amit Reddi Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Chemistry and Biochemistry Frank Rosenzweig Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences A. Fatih Sarioglu Associate Professor; School of Electrical & Computer Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Electrical and Computer Engineering Minoru Shinohara Associate Professor; School of Biological Sciences Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Terry Snell Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Mark Styczynski Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Shuichi Takayama Professor Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Matthew Torres Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Denis V. Tsygankov Associate Professor Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Eberhard O. Voit Professor Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering May Dongmei Wang Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Joshua Weitz Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Marvin Whiteley Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Levi Wood Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering Ronghu Wu Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Chemistry and Biochemistry Soojin Yi Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Peter Yunker Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Physics Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Accessibility Download PDF Reader Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN