Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Research subbio Research Main IBB Home About Overview Awards Directions People Directory Leadership Faculty Research Professionals Professional Staff Advisory Board Career Opportunities Research Overview Training Grants Research Centers Seed Grants Funding Opportunities Core Facilities Overview Getting Started Rate Schedule Contacts Education Overview Graduate Programs Petit Undergraduate Research Scholars Program Project ENGAGES BBUGS Commercialization News Events Upcoming Events Bioengineering Seminars Breakfast Club Seminars Commercialization Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Suddath Symposium Annual Distinguished Lecture Resources Open Search Search Search Parker H. Petit Institute for Bioengineering and Bioscience HELP Didn’t find what you are looking for? We'd like to help! GT Community Inquiries Contact: Office of EVPR Team All Other Inquiries Contact: Georgia Parmelee, Director of Research Communications Breadcrumb Home Bioengineering and Bioscience Overview Research Cancer Biology Cancer Biology Cancer is a disease in which a group of cells displays uncontrolled growth through division beyond normal limits. It is an invasion that intrudes upon and destroys adjacent tissues, and sometimes metastasis, in which cancer cells spread to other locations in the body. Symptoms and treatment of cancer depend on the type and location of the tumor. The Petit Institute is home to several research labs that focus on various elements of cancer biology research. Interests include basic studies in molecular biology, biochemistry, genetics, cell biology, immunology, in addition to translational research focused on problems of immediate clinical applicability. Petit Institute researchers are taking different approaches to answering questions in cancer biology. Research labs are focused on developing innovative basic and translational studies to intensively focus on cancer research to improve the understanding of cancer biology and the development of more effective cancer treatments, such as targeted drug therapies, diagnostics, and therapeutics. The Petit Institute investigators have adapted innovative approaches and views to cancer biology questions. For example, some believe that cancer is not a defect in any particular gene or protein, but as a de-regulated cellular/inter-cellular process that requires an understanding of complex processes. Therefore, treatment will require the implementation of an experimental approach that can provide an integrative holistic or "systems" view of the intra- and inter-cellular process. In addition, other Petit Institute labs are attempting to understand the role of bone marrow-derived cells in tumor growth and metastasis. While other researchers focus on cancer prevention and treatment. Cancer Biology Faculty Research Areas Biomaterials Cancer Biology Chemical Biology Drug, Design, Development & Delivery Molecular Evolution Molecular, Cellular and Tissue Biomechanics Neuroscience Regenerative Medicine Systems Biology Paul Benkeser Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Pamela Bhatti Assistant Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Electrical and Computer Engineering Julie Champion Professor; School Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Ahmet Coskun Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology James Dahlman Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Jaydev Desai Professor & Distinguished Faculty Fellow; Department of Biomedical Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Erik Dreaden Assistant Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Mostafa El-Sayed Regents' Professor Emeritus; School of Chemistry Georgia Institute of Technology Stanislav Emelianov Joseph M. Pettit Chair Georgia Institute of Technology Yuhong Fan Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Andrei Fedorov Professor & Rae S. and Frank H. Neely Chair; School Mechanical Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School Mechanical Engineering Facundo Fernandez Vasser Woolley Foundation Chair in Bioanalytical Chemistry Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Chemistry and Biochemistry Stefan France Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Chemistry and Biochemistry Greg Gibson Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Yonggang Ke Assistant Professor; Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology/Emory University Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Melissa Kemp Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Gabe Kwong Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Wilbur Lam Professor; Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology/Emory University Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Brooks Lindsey Assistant Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Kirill Lobachev Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Hang Lu Love Family Professor; School of Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering John McDonald Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Alfred Merrill Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Valeria Milam Associate Professor; School of Materials Science & Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology School of Materials Science and Engineering Shuyi Nie Assistant Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Yomi Oyelere Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Chemistry and Biochemistry Manu Platt Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Christopher Porter Associate Professor Emory University Emory+Children's Pediatric Research Center Mark Prausnitz Regents' Professor; School of Chemical & Bimolecular Engineering. Georgia Institute of Technology School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Amit Reddi Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Chemistry and Biochemistry Francisco Robles Associate Professor Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Krishnendu Roy Robert A. Milton Endowed Chair; Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Khalid Salaita Associate Professor Emory University Emory Department of Chemistry Philip J. Santangelo Professor Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering A. Fatih Sarioglu Associate Professor; School of Electrical & Computer Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Electrical and Computer Engineering Francesca Storici Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Mark Styczynski Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Shuichi Takayama Professor Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Susan Thomas Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering Eberhard O. Voit Professor Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering May Dongmei Wang Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Ronghu Wu Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Chemistry and Biochemistry Younan Xia GRA Eminent Scholar in Nanomedicine; Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Cheng Zhu Regents' Professor; Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Accessibility Download PDF Reader Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN