Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Research subbio Research Main IBB Home About Overview Awards Directions People Directory Leadership Faculty Research Professionals Professional Staff Advisory Board Career Opportunities Research Overview Training Grants Research Centers Seed Grants Funding Opportunities Core Facilities Overview Getting Started Rate Schedule Contacts Education Overview Graduate Programs Petit Undergraduate Research Scholars Program Project ENGAGES BBUGS Commercialization News Events Upcoming Events Bioengineering Seminars Breakfast Club Seminars Commercialization Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Suddath Symposium Annual Distinguished Lecture Resources Open Search Search Search Parker H. Petit Institute for Bioengineering and Bioscience HELP Didn’t find what you are looking for? We'd like to help! GT Community Inquiries Contact: Office of EVPR Team All Other Inquiries Contact: Georgia Parmelee, Director of Research Communications Breadcrumb Home Bioengineering and Bioscience Overview Research Chemical Biology Chemical Biology Chemical biology is the creation and use of chemical entities that influence or probe biological systems. Its development as a distinct field of research is a direct result of the fact that biology and medicine have become predominantly “molecular” over the past 20 years. Now, chemical biology is the fundamental science underpinning the discovery of most new diagnostics and therapeutics. For example, four of the five top-selling drugs are “biologics,” and every pharmaceutical company is heavily investing in this area. Chemical biology also provides new molecular tools to study biological systems, enabling the discovery of new fundamental knowledge. Chemical biology as a major focus is relatively new at Georgia Tech. However, we have an extraordinary density of customers for chemical biology here — researchers in both CoS and CoE (especially the strong biomedical engineering community) who use chemical biology tools or need better ones. At Georgia Tech, chemical biology, therefore, has a tremendous leveraged impact. Also, we nurture hopes and plans to establish Atlanta as the next major center for biomedical entrepreneurship. Strong chemical biology research capability at Georgia Tech will be very important to this effort. Chemical Biology Faculty Research Areas Biomaterials Cancer Biology Chemical Biology Drug, Design, Development & Delivery Molecular Evolution Molecular, Cellular and Tissue Biomechanics Neuroscience Regenerative Medicine Systems Biology Julia Babensee Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Edward Botchwey Professor; Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Nicholas Boulis Associate Professor Emory University Emory Department of Neurosurgery Marcus Cicerone Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Chemistry and Biochemistry Ahmet Coskun Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology Erik Dreaden Assistant Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Christoph Fahrni Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Chemistry and Biochemistry Andrés J. García Executive Director, Parker H. Petit Institute for Bioengineering and Bioscience Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering Robert Guldberg Vice President and Robert and Leona DeArmond Executive Director University of Oregon University of Oregon Phil and Penny Knight Campus for Accelerating Scientific Impact Melissa Kemp Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Gabe Kwong Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Raquel Lieberman Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Chemistry and Biochemistry Hang Lu Love Family Professor; School of Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Pamela Peralta-Yahya Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Manu Platt Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Amit Reddi Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Chemistry and Biochemistry Francisco Robles Associate Professor Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Steve Stice D.W. Brooks Distinguished Professor University of Georgia UGA Department of Animal and Dairy Science Mark Styczynski Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Johnna Temenoff Carol Ann and David D. Flanagan Professorship II Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Ronghu Wu Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Chemistry and Biochemistry Younan Xia GRA Eminent Scholar in Nanomedicine; Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Chunhui Xu Associate Professor Emory University Emory+Children's Pediatric Research Center Young-sup Yoon Professor of Medicine Emory University Emory Division of Cardiology Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Accessibility Download PDF Reader Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN