Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Research subbio Research Main IBB Home About Overview Awards Directions People Directory Leadership Faculty Research Professionals Professional Staff Advisory Board Career Opportunities Research Overview Training Grants Research Centers Seed Grants Funding Opportunities Core Facilities Overview Getting Started Rate Schedule Contacts Education Overview Graduate Programs Petit Undergraduate Research Scholars Program Project ENGAGES BBUGS Commercialization News Events Upcoming Events Bioengineering Seminars Breakfast Club Seminars Commercialization Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Suddath Symposium Annual Distinguished Lecture Resources Open Search Search Search Parker H. Petit Institute for Bioengineering and Bioscience HELP Didn’t find what you are looking for? We'd like to help! GT Community Inquiries Contact: Office of EVPR Team All Other Inquiries Contact: Georgia Parmelee, Director of Research Communications Breadcrumb Home Bioengineering and Bioscience Overview Research Biomaterials Biomaterials A biomaterial is any material, natural or man-made, that is made compatible with living tissues and performs, aids, or replaces a natural function and is used and adapted for a medical application. Biomaterials may have a benign function, such as being used for a heart valve, or may be bioactive with a more interactive functionality such as scaffolds for cell delivery and engraftment and a delivery vehicle for controlled delivery of biotherapeutics. The definition of a biomaterial does not just include man-made materials which are constructed of metals or ceramics. A biomaterial may also be an autograft, allograft, or xenograft used as a transplant material. Biomaterials must be compatible with the body, and there are often issues of biocompatibility that must be resolved before a product can be placed on the market and used in a clinical setting. Petit Institute investigators are working on next-generation biomaterial technologies that integrate synthetic materials with biological functionalities to create innovative biomaterials that specifically interact with biological systems to elicit prescribed responses and biological integration. This research encompasses analyses of fundamental mechanisms controlling host responses, design and synthesis of multi-functional materials, and evaluation in vitro and in vivo functional testbeds necessary for translation of these technologies into real-world applications. Current focus areas include culture supports to direct stem cell fate, coatings for musculoskeletal implants and neural electrodes, immunomodulatory and anti-thrombotic materials, biofunctional hydrogels for composite tissue engineering, biosensors, delivery matrices for oligonucleotide, protein and cell biotherapeutics, hydrogels and scaffolds for vascularization and cell delivery and engraftment. Biomaterials Faculty Research Areas Biomaterials Cancer Biology Chemical Biology Drug, Design, Development & Delivery Molecular Evolution Molecular, Cellular and Tissue Biomechanics Neuroscience Regenerative Medicine Systems Biology Julia Babensee Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Saad Bhamla Assistant Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Edward Botchwey Professor; Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Blair Brettmann Assistant Professor; Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering and Materials Science & Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Materials Science and Engineering Julie Champion Professor; School Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Jennifer Curtis Professor; School of Physics Georgia Institute of Technology James Dahlman Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Suman Das Morris M. Bryan, Jr. Chair & Professor; School of Mechanical Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering Lakshmi Dasi Professor Georgia Institute of Technology/Emory University Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Michael Davis Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Erik Dreaden Assistant Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Alberto Fernandez-Nieves Associate Professor; School of Physics Georgia Institute of Technology M.G. Finn Chair and Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Chemistry and Biochemistry Andrés J. García Executive Director, Parker H. Petit Institute for Bioengineering and Bioscience Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering Robert Guldberg Vice President and Robert and Leona DeArmond Executive Director University of Oregon University of Oregon Phil and Penny Knight Campus for Accelerating Scientific Impact Katherine Hekman, M.D., Ph.D. Assistant Professor Emory Department of Surgery Scott Hollister Professor and Patsy and Alan Dorris Chair in Pediatric Technology Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Yuhang Hu Associate Professor (with Tenure) Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering Yonggang Ke Assistant Professor; Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology/Emory University Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering YongTae Kim Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering David Ku Regents Professor Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering Gabe Kwong Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Michelle LaPlaca Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Rebecca Levit Assistant Professor of Medicine Emory University Emory Division of Cardiology Nian Liu Assistant Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Valeria Milam Associate Professor; School of Materials Science & Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology School of Materials Science and Engineering Muralidhar Padala Assistant Professor Emory University Emory Department of Surgery Jay Patel, Ph.D. Assistant Professor Manu Platt Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Felipe Garcia Quiroz Assistant Professor Emory University Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Krishnendu Roy Robert A. Milton Endowed Chair; Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Chengzhi Shi Assistant Professor Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering Shuichi Takayama Professor Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Johnna Temenoff Carol Ann and David D. Flanagan Professorship II Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Susan Thomas Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering Vladimir Tsukruk Regents' Professor; School of Materials Science & Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology School of Materials Science and Engineering Michael Varenberg Assistant Professor Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering Younan Xia GRA Eminent Scholar in Nanomedicine; Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Accessibility Download PDF Reader Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN