Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Research subbio Research Main IBB Home About Overview Awards Directions People Directory Leadership Faculty Research Professionals Professional Staff Advisory Board Career Opportunities Research Overview Training Grants Research Centers Seed Grants Funding Opportunities Core Facilities Overview Getting Started Rate Schedule Contacts Education Overview Graduate Programs Petit Undergraduate Research Scholars Program Project ENGAGES BBUGS Commercialization News Events Upcoming Events Bioengineering Seminars Breakfast Club Seminars Commercialization Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Suddath Symposium Annual Distinguished Lecture Resources Open Search Search Search Parker H. Petit Institute for Bioengineering and Bioscience HELP Didn’t find what you are looking for? We'd like to help! GT Community Inquiries Contact: Office of EVPR Team All Other Inquiries Contact: Georgia Parmelee, Director of Research Communications Breadcrumb Home Bioengineering and Bioscience Overview Research Regenerative Medicine Regenerative Medicine The promise of regenerative medicine is truly remarkable. Over the last two decades, significant breakthroughs in understanding within the regenerative medicine and tissue engineering fields have yielded a more intimate understanding of the functioning of human tissue. In the future, new technologies may deliver islet cells for diabetes, neural regeneration for spinal cord injuries, and more substantial heart repair. In addition, as biology, bioengineering, and medicine continue to converge, the regenerative medicine field may succeed in building three-dimensional organs like hearts, kidneys, or livers. Traditionally, researchers at The Petit Institute were focused on the replacement of tissues or growing cell-based substitutes outside the body for implantation into the body. However, as the field has evolved over the last decade, researchers have broadened their approach from a focus on tissue engineering to one that includes repair and regeneration. The Petit Institute has over 40 investigators whose research is focused on the regenerative medicine field. Projects range from creating better techniques for wound repair to peripheral nerve regeneration. In addition, researchers at The Petit Institute are using advanced bioengineering methods to develop technologies that will facilitate the transfer of research in musculoskeletal biology and regenerative medicine for the treatment of wounded soldiers. Regenerative Medicine Faculty Research Areas Biomaterials Cancer Biology Chemical Biology Drug, Design, Development & Delivery Molecular Evolution Molecular, Cellular and Tissue Biomechanics Neuroscience Regenerative Medicine Systems Biology Julia Babensee Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Edward Balog Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Paul Benkeser Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Pamela Bhatti Assistant Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Electrical and Computer Engineering Michael Borich Assistant Professor Emory University Emory Department of Rehabilitation Medicine Edward Botchwey Professor; Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Nicholas Boulis Associate Professor Emory University Emory Department of Neurosurgery Julie Champion Professor; School Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Hee Cheol Cho Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Anthony Clavo Medical Director, Spine Center Conyers Timothy Cope Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Ahmet Coskun Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology James Dahlman Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Lakshmi Dasi Professor Georgia Institute of Technology/Emory University Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Michael Davis Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering J. Brandon Dixon Professor Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering C. Ross Ethier Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Yuhong Fan Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Andrei Fedorov Professor & Rae S. and Frank H. Neely Chair; School Mechanical Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School Mechanical Engineering Andrés J. García Executive Director, Parker H. Petit Institute for Bioengineering and Bioscience Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering Rudolph Gleason Associate Professor - Joint Appointment in the School of Biomedical Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering Robert Gross MBNA Bowman Chair & Professor Emory University Emory Department of Neurosurgery Robert Guldberg Vice President and Robert and Leona DeArmond Executive Director University of Oregon University of Oregon Phil and Penny Knight Campus for Accelerating Scientific Impact Yuhang Hu Associate Professor (with Tenure) Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering Young Jang Assistant Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Brent Keeling Assistant Professor of Surgery, Division of Cardiothoracic Surgery Emory University Department of Surgery YongTae Kim Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering Michelle LaPlaca Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Joe Le Doux Professor, Associate Chair for Undergraduate Learning and Experience Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Aaron Levine Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Public Policy Rebecca Levit Assistant Professor of Medicine Emory University Emory Division of Cardiology Hang Lu Love Family Professor; School of Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering John Oshinski Professor, Emory/Georgia Tech Department of Biomedical Engineering Emory University Emory Department of Radiology and Imaging Sciences Muralidhar Padala Assistant Professor Emory University Emory Department of Surgery Anant Paravastu Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Machelle Pardue Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Jay Patel, Ph.D. Assistant Professor Alexandra Peister Associate Professor Morehouse College Morehouse Department of Biology John Peroni Professor University of Georgia UGA Department of Large Animal Medicine Manu Platt Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Boris Prilutsky Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Felipe Garcia Quiroz Assistant Professor Emory University Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Krishnendu Roy Robert A. Milton Endowed Chair; Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Stephen Sprigle Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Industrial Design Steve Stice D.W. Brooks Distinguished Professor University of Georgia UGA Department of Animal and Dairy Science Mark Styczynski Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Shuichi Takayama Professor Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Johnna Temenoff Carol Ann and David D. Flanagan Professorship II Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Susan Thomas Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering Randy Trumbower Director of Research & Assistant Professor Emory University Emory Department of Rehabilitation Medicine Edmund Waller Professor of Medicine, Medical Oncology and Pathology Emory University Emory Department of Hematology and Medical Oncology Levi Wood Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering Younan Xia GRA Eminent Scholar in Nanomedicine; Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Young-sup Yoon Professor of Medicine Emory University Emory Division of Cardiology Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Accessibility Download PDF Reader Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN