Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Research subbio Research Main IBB Home About Overview Awards Directions People Directory Leadership Faculty Research Professionals Professional Staff Advisory Board Career Opportunities Research Overview Training Grants Research Centers Seed Grants Funding Opportunities Core Facilities Overview Getting Started Rate Schedule Contacts Education Overview Graduate Programs Petit Undergraduate Research Scholars Program Project ENGAGES BBUGS Commercialization News Events Upcoming Events Bioengineering Seminars Breakfast Club Seminars Commercialization Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Suddath Symposium Annual Distinguished Lecture Resources Open Search Search Search Parker H. Petit Institute for Bioengineering and Bioscience HELP Didn’t find what you are looking for? We'd like to help! GT Community Inquiries Contact: Office of EVPR Team All Other Inquiries Contact: Georgia Parmelee, Director of Research Communications Breadcrumb Home Bioengineering and Bioscience Overview Research Neuroscience Neuroscience Neuroscience spans basic science studies of the brain and nervous system at multiple scales from cells to networks to behavior. Neuroscience research in the Petit Institute is highly interdisciplinary and includes studies of the genetic basis of neural systems and diseases, the functioning of neural cells and systems, relationships between neural activity and behavior, as well as cognitive processing and brain imaging. In addition, researchers are developing and using various technologies to study and interact with neural systems including biomaterials, imaging and optogenetic stimulation, electrophysiology, biomechanics, neural interfacing electronics, computational modeling, and multi-dimensional data analysis. Neuroscience Faculty Research Areas Biomaterials Cancer Biology Chemical Biology Drug, Design, Development & Delivery Molecular Evolution Molecular, Cellular and Tissue Biomechanics Neuroscience Regenerative Medicine Systems Biology Costas Arvanitis Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering Gary Bassell Professor and Chair Emory University Department of Cell Biology Pamela Bhatti Assistant Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Electrical and Computer Engineering Michael Borich Assistant Professor Emory University Emory Department of Rehabilitation Medicine Nicholas Boulis Associate Professor Emory University Emory Department of Neurosurgery Robert Butera Vice President for Research Operations Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Electrical and Computer Engineering Vince Calhoun, Ph.D. Director TReNDS Young-Hui Chang Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Timothy Cope Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Jaydev Desai Professor & Distinguished Faculty Fellow; Department of Biomedical Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Constantine Dovrolis Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Computer Science Eva Dyer Assistant Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering C. Ross Ethier Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Candace Fleischer Assistant Professor of Radiology and Imaging Sciences, Emory University Emory University Emory Department of Radiology and Imaging Sciences Ming-fai Fong Assistant Professor Craig Forest Professor Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering Eric Gaucher Adjunct Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Daniel Goldman Dunn Family Professor; School of Physics Georgia Institute of Technology School of Physics Michael Goodisman Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Robert Gross MBNA Bowman Chair & Professor Emory University Emory Department of Neurosurgery Bilal Haider Assistant Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Liang Han Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Young Jang Assistant Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Ravi Kane Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Shella Keilholz Associate Professor Emory University Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering YongTae Kim Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering Michelle LaPlaca Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Hang Lu Love Family Professor; School of Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Susan Margulies The Wallace H. Coulter Chair Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Sheldon May Regents' Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Chemistry and Biochemistry Patrick McGrath Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Julien Meaud Assistant Professor Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering Cassie Mitchell Assistant Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering T. Richard Nichols Professor and Chair Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Chethan Pandarinath Adjunct Assistant Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Machelle Pardue Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Boris Prilutsky Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Christopher Rozell Professor; School of Eletrical and Computer Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Electrical and Computer Engineering Chengzhi Shi Assistant Professor Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering Minoru Shinohara Associate Professor; School of Biological Sciences Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Simon Sponberg Dunn Family Associate Professor; Physics & Biological Sciences Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Physics Garrett Stanley McCamish Foundation Distinguished Chair Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Alberto Stolfi Assistant Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Todd Streelman Professor and Chair Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Lena Ting McCamish Foundation Distinguished Chair Emory University Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Randy Trumbower Director of Research & Assistant Professor Emory University Emory Department of Rehabilitation Medicine Eberhard O. Voit Professor Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Lewis Wheaton Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Levi Wood Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering W. Hong Yeo Associate Professor; School of Mechanical Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School Mechanical Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Accessibility Download PDF Reader Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN