Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Research subbio Research Main IBB Home About Overview Awards Directions People Directory Leadership Faculty Research Professionals Professional Staff Advisory Board Career Opportunities Research Overview Training Grants Research Centers Seed Grants Funding Opportunities Core Facilities Overview Getting Started Rate Schedule Contacts Education Overview Graduate Programs Petit Undergraduate Research Scholars Program Project ENGAGES BBUGS Commercialization News Events Upcoming Events Bioengineering Seminars Breakfast Club Seminars Commercialization Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Suddath Symposium Annual Distinguished Lecture Resources Open Search Search Search Parker H. Petit Institute for Bioengineering and Bioscience HELP Didn’t find what you are looking for? We'd like to help! GT Community Inquiries Contact: Office of EVPR Team All Other Inquiries Contact: Georgia Parmelee, Director of Research Communications Breadcrumb Home Bioengineering and Bioscience Overview Research Molecular, Cellular and Tissue Biomechanics Molecular, Cellular and Tissue Biomechanics Biomechanics is the application of mechanical principles to biological systems in order to better understand the physical properties in cells and other systems. Biomechanics emerged from the bioengineering field and uses traditional engineering principles to analyze complex biological systems. Biomechanical phenomena affect nearly every aspect of cellular biology and function, yet the underlying mechanisms of how mechanical forces and biochemical signals interact are not clearly understood. Petit Institute investigators are developing a fundamental understanding of biomechanics over a wide range of length scales. At the molecular level, researchers are answering questions about motion at the molecular and macromolecular levels. At the cellular level, researchers are trying to understand the mechanics or the structure, function, and properties of cells. At the tissue level, Petit Institute researchers are studying the physical properties of stress and strain on various tissue properties. Molecular, Cellular and Tissue Biomechanics Faculty Research Areas Biomaterials Cancer Biology Chemical Biology Drug, Design, Development & Delivery Molecular Evolution Molecular, Cellular and Tissue Biomechanics Neuroscience Regenerative Medicine Systems Biology Vinayak Agarwal Assistant Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Chemistry and Biochemistry Cyrus Aidun Professor Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering Saad Bhamla Assistant Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering John Blazeck Assistant Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Luke Brewster Assistant Professor, Division of Vascular Surgery Emory University Emory Department of Surgery Young-Hui Chang Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Hyojung Choo Assistant Professor Emory University Jennifer Curtis Professor; School of Physics Georgia Institute of Technology J. Brandon Dixon Professor Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering Hicham Drissi Professor Emory University Department of Cell Biology C. Ross Ethier Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Craig Forest Professor Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering Andrés J. García Executive Director, Parker H. Petit Institute for Bioengineering and Bioscience Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering Rudolph Gleason Associate Professor - Joint Appointment in the School of Biomedical Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering Daniel Goldman Dunn Family Professor; School of Physics Georgia Institute of Technology School of Physics Robert Guldberg Vice President and Robert and Leona DeArmond Executive Director University of Oregon University of Oregon Phil and Penny Knight Campus for Accelerating Scientific Impact Scott Hollister Professor and Patsy and Alan Dorris Chair in Pediatric Technology Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering David Hu Professor; School of Mechanical Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering Yuhang Hu Associate Professor (with Tenure) Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering Karl Jacob Professor; Materials Science & Engineering and School of Mechanical Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology Seung Soon Jang Professor; School of Materials Science & Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology School of Materials Science and Engineering Ravi Kane Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering YongTae Kim Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering David Ku Regents Professor Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering Wilbur Lam Professor; Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology/Emory University Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Michelle LaPlaca Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Raquel Lieberman Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Chemistry and Biochemistry Susan Margulies The Wallace H. Coulter Chair Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering T. Richard Nichols Professor and Chair Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Shuyi Nie Assistant Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Thomas Orlando Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Chemistry and Biochemistry John Oshinski Professor, Emory/Georgia Tech Department of Biomedical Engineering Emory University Emory Department of Radiology and Imaging Sciences Muralidhar Padala Assistant Professor Emory University Emory Department of Surgery Jay Patel, Ph.D. Assistant Professor Boris Prilutsky Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences H. Jerry Qi Professor; School of Mechanical Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering Felipe Garcia Quiroz Assistant Professor Emory University Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Frank Rosenzweig Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Khalid Salaita Associate Professor Emory University Emory Department of Chemistry Ingeborg Schmidt-Krey Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Chengzhi Shi Assistant Professor Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering Todd Sulchek Professor; School of Mechanical Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering Wei Sun Associate Professor Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Shuichi Takayama Professor Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Susan Thomas Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering Denis V. Tsygankov Associate Professor Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Raymond Vito Provost Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering Younan Xia GRA Eminent Scholar in Nanomedicine; Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Jeannette Yen Professor; School of Biological Sciences Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Aaron Young Associate Professor; School of Mechanical Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering Peter Yunker Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Physics Cheng Zhu Regents' Professor; Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Accessibility Download PDF Reader Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN