Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Research subbio Research Main IBB Home About Overview Awards Directions People Directory Leadership Faculty Research Professionals Professional Staff Advisory Board Career Opportunities Research Overview Training Grants Research Centers Seed Grants Funding Opportunities Core Facilities Overview Getting Started Rate Schedule Contacts Education Overview Graduate Programs Petit Undergraduate Research Scholars Program Project ENGAGES BBUGS Commercialization News Events Upcoming Events Bioengineering Seminars Breakfast Club Seminars Commercialization Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Suddath Symposium Annual Distinguished Lecture Resources Open Search Search Search Parker H. Petit Institute for Bioengineering and Bioscience HELP Didn’t find what you are looking for? We'd like to help! GT Community Inquiries Contact: Office of EVPR Team All Other Inquiries Contact: Georgia Parmelee, Director of Research Communications Breadcrumb Home Bioengineering and Bioscience Overview Research Drug, Design, Development & Delivery Drug, Design, Development & Delivery Pharmaceuticals save lives, alleviate suffering, and are highly cost-effective compared to other treatments. In the Petit Institute, researchers seek to further improve pharmaceuticals through research on drug design, drug development, and drug delivery. Our research on drug design emphasizes making new drugs to treat cancer, AIDS, bacterial infections, and other diseases. These new drugs are synthesized at Georgia Tech and are being tested for optimal activity. Drug development involves novel processes to manufacture drugs using cells, enzymes, and other biologically based approaches that increase purity and decrease cost. Much of this work occurs in collaboration with pharmaceutical companies in the context of a multi-university consortium lead by Georgia Tech. Drug delivery applies engineering technologies to make taking drugs easier, more effective, and less frequent for patients. A leading project in this area involves the use of painless microneedle patches that are being moved into clinical trials for influenza vaccination and insulin delivery to diabetics. Through this work, we will impact healthcare by making pharmaceuticals more effective, less expensive, and more convenient for patients. Petit Institute researchers have developed innovative educational programs for students interested in pharmaceuticals. Every year, undergraduate and graduate students from multiple departments in the sciences and engineering can take the class Drug Design, Development, and Delivery, which presents students with a holistic view of the field of pharmaceuticals, including technical and non-technical aspects, and features a series of four real-drug case studies led by the students. Associated with the class is an optional week-long trip to tour the pharmaceutical industry in Puerto Rico, which is one of the leading sites of drug manufacturing in the world. In addition to seminars, lunchtime roundtable discussions, and other activities, 10 – 15 doctoral students receive fellowships to support their pharmaceutical research. Drug, Design, Development & Delivery Faculty Research Areas Biomaterials Cancer Biology Chemical Biology Drug, Design, Development & Delivery Molecular Evolution Molecular, Cellular and Tissue Biomechanics Neuroscience Regenerative Medicine Systems Biology Julia Babensee Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Pamela Bhatti Assistant Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Electrical and Computer Engineering Andreas Bommarius Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Blair Brettmann Assistant Professor; Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering and Materials Science & Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Materials Science and Engineering Sam Brown Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Julie Champion Professor; School Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Marcus Cicerone Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Chemistry and Biochemistry James Dahlman Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering J. Brandon Dixon Professor Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering Donald Doyle Senior Lecturer Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Chemistry and Biochemistry Erik Dreaden Assistant Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Stanislav Emelianov Joseph M. Pettit Chair Georgia Institute of Technology Andrei Fedorov Professor & Rae S. and Frank H. Neely Chair; School Mechanical Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School Mechanical Engineering M.G. Finn Chair and Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Chemistry and Biochemistry Craig Forest Professor Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering Stefan France Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Chemistry and Biochemistry Andrés J. García Executive Director, Parker H. Petit Institute for Bioengineering and Bioscience Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering Eric Gaucher Adjunct Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Robert Guldberg Vice President and Robert and Leona DeArmond Executive Director University of Oregon University of Oregon Phil and Penny Knight Campus for Accelerating Scientific Impact Nicholas V. Hud Associate Director, Parker H. Petit Institute for Bioengineering and Bioscience Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Chemistry and Biochemistry Karl Jacob Professor; Materials Science & Engineering and School of Mechanical Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology Seung Soon Jang Professor; School of Materials Science & Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology School of Materials Science and Engineering Ravi Kane Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Yonggang Ke Assistant Professor; Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology/Emory University Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering YongTae Kim Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering Julia Kubanek Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Gabe Kwong Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Raquel Lieberman Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Chemistry and Biochemistry Brooks Lindsey Assistant Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Hang Lu Love Family Professor; School of Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Sheldon May Regents' Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Chemistry and Biochemistry Nael McCarty Marcus Professor of Cystic Fibrosis Emory University Emory+Children's Pediatric Research Center John McDonald Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Alfred Merrill Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Valeria Milam Associate Professor; School of Materials Science & Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology School of Materials Science and Engineering Yomi Oyelere Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Chemistry and Biochemistry Mark Prausnitz Regents' Professor; School of Chemical & Bimolecular Engineering. Georgia Institute of Technology School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Felipe Garcia Quiroz Assistant Professor Emory University Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Krishnendu Roy Robert A. Milton Endowed Chair; Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Philip J. Santangelo Professor Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering A. Fatih Sarioglu Associate Professor; School of Electrical & Computer Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Electrical and Computer Engineering Francesca Storici Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Mark Styczynski Professor Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Todd Sulchek Professor; School of Mechanical Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering Johnna Temenoff Carol Ann and David D. Flanagan Professorship II Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Susan Thomas Associate Professor Georgia Institute of Technology George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering Peter Thule Associate Professor Emory University Emory Division of Endocrinology, Metabolism, and Lipids Hua Wang Associate Professor; School of Electrical & Computer Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology School of Electrical and Computer Engineering Marvin Whiteley Professor Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences Younan Xia GRA Eminent Scholar in Nanomedicine; Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Chunhui Xu Associate Professor Emory University Emory+Children's Pediatric Research Center Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Accessibility Download PDF Reader Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN