Search the PGE website Home About Overview What is Petroleum Engineering? What is Geosystems Engineering? Facts and Rankings Strategic Plan History Events Contact Us Undergraduate Program Overview Admissions Degree Requirements Advising Sustainable Energy Minor Tuition and Funding Program Outcomes Transfer Students Careers Student Organizations First-year Experience FAQs Graduate Program Overview Admissions Tuition and Funding Degree Requirements Careers Student Organizations FAQs Faculty & Staff Overview Faculty Directory Academic Staff Faculty Openings Research Overview Research Areas Summer Undergraduate Research Internship Theses and Dissertations Connect Overview Hire A UT PE Giving Distinguished Alumni Alumni Events External Advisory Committee Alumni Profiles Industry Partners News Overview Press Coverage Energy One Magazine Communications Resources ☰ Search the PGE website Home About Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Faculty & Staff Research Connect News COVID-19 Updates Protect Texas Together Proactive Community Testing Welcome to Petroleum and Geosystems Engineering Learn More About the Hildebrand Department Congrats, Dr. Fukuyama!🤘 #WhatStartsHere @SongLabUT @hugh_daigle https://t.co/7IDL7b3kWo Follow @UT_PGE News Ravikumar to Co-Lead Cheniere Emissions Monitoring Initiative Hildebrand Department of Petroleum and Geosystems Engineering Research Associate Professor Arvind Ravikumar will co-lead an emissions monitoring initiative to investigate greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions at multiple natural gas facilities across Cheniere Energy’s supply chain, the company announced in April. Ravikumar will collaborate with Colorado State University’s Daniel Zimmerle on the first-of-its-kind project, which will take place over several months and provide comprehensive real-time emissions data. Keep reading Baum Wins President’s Outstanding Staff Award The Hildebrand Department’s longtime laboratory coordinator and building manager Glen Baum has won The University of Texas at Austin’s 2022 President’s Outstanding Staff Award, which recognizes nonteaching UT Austin employees who have made outstanding contributions to the continuing success of the university. Keep reading Karen Hagedorn Joins Alumni in Residence Program The Hildebrand Department welcomed Karen Hagedorn (BSPE ’86) in April as its newest participant in the Alumni in Residence program. Keep reading Fukuyama Wins AGU Outstanding Presentation Award Hildebrand Department of Petroleum and Geosystems Engineering graduate student David Fukuyama has won an Outstanding Student Presentation Award (OSPA) from the American Geophysical Union (AGU) for research presented during the organization’s annual meeting last fall. Keep reading Congrats, Class of 2022! Congratulations to our UT PGE B.S., M.S. and Ph.D. graduates from The University of Texas at Austin Class of 2022. We wish you all the best! See more photos Research Areas Drilling and Completions Drilling, well completions, and rock mechanics research includes: well bore stability in highly... Learn More Enhanced Oil Recovery Enhanced oil recovery research includes topics such as how to improve oil recovery from all types... Learn More Formation Evaluation Formation evaluation research understands and characterizes the physical properties of reservoir... Learn More Geologic Carbon Storage CO2 storage research investigates methods for CO2 sequestration, including storage in deep saline... Learn More Hydraulic Fracturing and Reservoir Geomechanics Hydraulic fracturing produces fractures in the rock formation that stimulate the flow of natural... Learn More Integrated Reservoir Characterization Integrated Reservoir Characterization research focuses on: 1. providing practical approaches for... Learn More Natural Gas Engineering Natural gas engineering research includes topics such as how to extract gas and natural gas... Learn More Petrophysics and Pore Scale Processes Petrophysics and pore-scale processes research develops the basics science that underlies all... Learn More Production Engineering Production engineering research covers a wide range of interests while presenting front-end... Learn More Reservoir Engineering Reservoir engineering research includes topics such as how to extract oil and gas efficiently from... Learn More Reservoir Simulation Reservoir simulation research focuses on development and application of reservoir simulators for... Learn More Unconventional Resources Unconventional resources research includes areas such as rock imaging, well monitoring, fluid... Learn More #1 Graduate and Undergraduate Petroleum Engineering Programs in the Nation $96K Average Starting Salary for BS Graduates 10% Of Alumni Serve in Executive Level Positions in Industry Spotlights Explore more from the Hildebrand Department of Petroleum and Geosystems Engineering What is petroleum engineering? Learn more What is geosystems engineering? Learn more Strategic Plan Learn more First-year Fall Retreat Learn more © The University of Texas at Austin 2019 | Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Canvas Student Resources ENGR Direct Faculty & Staff ENGR Direct Students UT Direct UT Directory Giving Contact Us Follow UT PGE