Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regions & Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Featured University Events Reunions Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Menu Planned Giving Survey Thank you for completing this 5 minute survey. We greatly appreciate your input. Your answers will help us understand why you support Brown, what programs are of interest to you, and learn how our supporters would like to make lasting gifts. Using the information gathered from this and hundreds of other respondents, we hope to be able to best implement our planned giving program for Brown University. You have been a longstanding, loyal donor to Brown. What has motivated you to give back? (Check all that apply) Brown’s mission Brown’s profile as an elite institution Sense of loyalty Family legacy Paying it forward for the next generation (Brown invested in me, I want to invest in others) Other, please specify: Enter other… How has Brown influenced your life since graduation? (Check all that apply) Impacted career trajectory and fulfillment Cultivated critical thinking and life-long learning Made lifelong friends Met my spouse Other, please specify: Enter other… What about Brown’s mission inspires you to give? (Check all that apply) Diversity Commitment to meet 100% of students' demonstrated financial need Educating of the next generation of thought leaders Recruitment and retention of world-class faculty Solutions to the world’s most pressing problems Groundbreaking research Other, please specify: Enter other… The University hosts a variety of in person and virtual events. What type of events are of most interest to you? (Check all that apply) Opportunities to engage in lifelong learning on a variety of subjects ranging from climate change solutions to brain science breakthroughs, public health initiatives, and advancements in engineering and critical thinking on social issues Presentations by Senior Administrators about University priorities Events featuring notable alumni In-person or virtual networking opportunities Overview of tax-efficient planning and giving opportunities from Brown’s planned giving professionals Opportunities to interact with students Brown events that you have attended have been: (Check all that apply) Well-organized and smoothly run Substantive, relevant, and informative Meaningful opportunities to connect with members of the Brown community Not worthwhile N/A Are you likely to attend more virtual events when in-person events can reconvene? Yes No Have you included planned giving as part of your philanthropy for the causes and organizations that you care about? Yes No Many alumni like you have provided for Brown through a planned gift or other estate arrangement. Have you considered including the University in your long-term plans? I have already left a gift to Brown in my long-term plans I might be interested in making this type of gift I am not interested in making this type of gift at this time I am not sure and would like to learn more Are you aware of the University's College Hill Society, which recognizes alumni and friends who have provided for the future of the University through a planned gift? Yes No If you were to join the College Hill Society, what benefits would be most attractive to you? (Check all that apply) Inclusion in donor honor rolls A small token of thanks Annual updates on University initiatives Invitations to events with Senior University leadership or faculty members Opportunities to meet with current Brown students Premier access to Brown’s planned giving professionals I would prefer my gift to be anonymous Who else participates in your philanthropic decisions, including planned gifts (check all that apply)? I make my own decisions My spouse or partner My children My accountant/tax advisor My lawyer My financial planner Other, please specify: Enter other… Did you know that Brown accepts the following assets as gifts (check all that apply)? Donor Advised Fund (DAF) distributions Retirement plans Appreciated stocks and/or mutual funds Cryptocurrency Real estate Are you interested in learning more about the benefits of donating the following assets to Brown? (check all that apply) Donor Advised Fund (DAF) distributions Retirement plans Appreciated stocks and/or mutual funds Cryptocurrency Real estate A retirement plan beneficiary designation is one of the simplest -- and often most tax-efficient -- ways to make a gift to Brown. Would such a gift be of interest to you? Very Likely Likely Unknown Unlikely Very Unlikely What is your age? Under 40 40-54 55-64 65-69 70-74 75-79 80 or older What is your marital status? Married Single Divorced Widowed My family includes: (check all that apply) Spouse No Children Independent children not living with me Dependent children living with me Grandchildren living with me Grandchildren living with parent I live with one of my children Other, please specify: Enter other… What most inspires you about Brown? Please use the space below to share your story. Thank you for completing this survey. We are so deeply appreciative of our students, families, faculty, staff, trustees, alumni and friends, who show their support by making financial gifts to Brown. Please contact me about making a planned gift. Name Phone Email Address City, State, Zip CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. What code is in the image? Enter the characters shown in the image. Get new captcha! Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Audience Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regions & Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Featured University Events Reunions Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search How to Give Open details for How to Give Bookmark this Page