retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Skip to main content MENU Header Menu Directory News Events Giving Search Search Degrees & Programs Admissions Pharm D Graduate Studies Lester Entrepreneurial Scholars Student Organizations Student Services Learning Resource Center (LRC) Experiential + Residencies & Fellowships Experiential Programs Residencies & Fellowships Research & Practice College Divisions Collaborative Areas of Research Excellence Centers, Institutes, & Core Facilities Research Support Professional Development Pharmacy Career Services Continuing Pharmacy Education About Alumni Assessment College Policies Dean’s Office Diversity, Equity, Accessibility, & Inclusion History Pharm.D. Program Quality Indicators Strategic Plan Student Affairs Contact Us Breadcrumb Home Professional Development Continuing Pharmacy Education (CPE) Accreditation Services Accreditation Services Continuing Pharmacy Education Accreditation Services Speaker Resources UT Continuing Pharmacy Education (UT CPE) routinely accepts requests from organizations (Joint Sponsors) who seek ACPE accreditation for educational programming and training for pharmacy audiences. More information about UT CPE Joint Sponsorship is provided below. UT CPE Joint Sponsorship Requesting ACPE Accreditation The UT College of Pharmacy has been accrediting programs for over 60 years and takes great pride in helping other organizations (Joint Sponsors) to meet their educational goals. Submit a request for accreditation with the form below, and UT CPE will follow up with additional information. Download CPE Accreditation Request Form (PDF) Read More About Joint Sponsorship UT CPE has been accrediting programs for over 60 years and takes great pride in helping other organizations to also meet their educational goals. By collaborating with a top-tiered college of pharmacy like The University of Texas at Austin College of Pharmacy, your learners will know to expect high-quality activities that are evidence-based and unbiased. We are experienced in producing outstanding and noteworthy activities that not only meet ACPE Standards, but also consistently exceed learners’ expectations. Our team shares its extensive experience with Joint Sponsors to help them achieve positive outcomes in knowledge, practice behaviors, and ultimately patient care. UT CPE accredits all formats of continuing education activities, including live virtual webinars, on demand home study activities, and live in-person activities - for audiences of all sizes. Accreditation Requirements & Fees CPE Accreditation Checklist UT CPE has created the CPE Accreditation Checklist as a tool for Joint Sponsors to submit ACPE documentation according to the required timeline. View the checklist below to get an idea of what is required for CPE accreditation. Download CPE Accreditation Checklist (PDF) Read More About Accreditation Requirements & Fees A more detailed explanation of each checklist item will be provided to Joint Sponsors in the Agreement Letter, and UT CPE accreditation coordinators are readily available for questions anytime. The initial set of ACPE requirements on the checklist must be submitted to UT CPE at least 45 days prior to the program start date or the date that promotion/marketing is set to begin, whichever comes first. Accreditation Fees: Accreditation Fees are based upon the number of programming CE activities / sessions: $1,000 for the initial CE activity* $250 for each additional CE activity* * Some service fees may vary depending on program details. Please contact us for more information. Project Support Services – Contact Us: Additional project support is available as needed, such as UT CPE developing activity content, coordinating speakers/venue logistics, writing grants, providing audio/visual technology support, and/or coordinating comprehensive online courses using their online learning platform. Please contact UT CPE to discuss these services and fees. Easier CE Credit for Participants UT CPE Online Learning Platform Partnering with UT CPE also allows participants to easily and efficiently claim their own CE credit online through our online learning platform. No more attendance forms or paperwork, learners just visit the UT CPE Online Learning Platform to submit an online evaluation. After a pharmacist submits an online evaluation, pharmacy credit will automatically upload to their individual CPE Monitor profile. UT CPE will make this process smooth and effortless for Joint Sponsors! The UT CPE online platform is not only useful for claiming CE credits, but it can also be used to house more comprehensive online courses that include pre/post assessments, downloadable course materials and easily viewable pre-recorded presentations. This type of programming falls under Project Support Services (see CPE Accreditation Requirements & Fees). Contact UT CPE Glen Baumgart, PhD Director gbaumgart@austin.utexas.edu Jennifer Bosworth, PharmD Assistant Director jbosworth@austin.utexas.edu Jody Michael Curtis Continuing Education Program Coordinator jody.curtis@austin.utexas.edu Per ACPE Standards for Commercial Support, UT CPE does not enter into joint sponsorship with commercial interests (commercial interests are entities producing, marketing, re-selling, or distributing healthcare goods or services consumed/used by patients; providers of clinical service directly to patients are not considered to be commercial interests). The University of Texas at Austin College of Pharmacy is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Pharmacy Education as a provider of continuing pharmacy education. Our mission is to provide exemplary education, training, research, and professional development in the pharmaceutical sciences; to advance discovery, innovation, and patient care; and to provide service to the university, professional and scientific communities, and society. FacebookFind us on Facebook TwitterFind us on Twitter InstagramSee us on Instagram LinkedinFind us on Linkedin YoutubeSee us on Youtube Footer menu Directory News Events Giving UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022