retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Skip to main content MENU Header Menu Directory News Events Giving Search Search Degrees & Programs Admissions Pharm D Graduate Studies Lester Entrepreneurial Scholars Student Organizations Student Services Learning Resource Center (LRC) Experiential + Residencies & Fellowships Experiential Programs Residencies & Fellowships Research & Practice College Divisions Collaborative Areas of Research Excellence Centers, Institutes, & Core Facilities Research Support Professional Development Pharmacy Career Services Continuing Pharmacy Education About Alumni Assessment College Policies Dean’s Office Diversity, Equity, Accessibility, & Inclusion History Pharm.D. Program Quality Indicators Strategic Plan Student Affairs Contact Us Breadcrumb Home About College Policies College Policies About Alumni Assessment College Policies Code of Conduct & Professionalism Scholastic Standing Technical Standards for Pharmacy Education Dean’s Office Diversity, Equity, Accessibility, & Inclusion History Pharm.D. Program Quality Indicators Strategic Plan Student Affairs Contact Us Code of Conduct & Professionalism Pharmacy practitioners enjoy a special trust and authority based on the profession’s commitment to a code of ethical behavior in its management of patient-centered pharmaceutical care. View the Code of Conduct & Professionalism Scholastic Standing Your grade point average (GPA) at UT-Austin is determined by the grades you earn at UT-Austin. Your scholastic standing is determined by your UT GPA and the total number of college hours you have completed here. Learn more about Scholastic Standing Technical Standards As an accredited program, the College is responsible for student selection and matriculation, curriculum design, implementation and evaluation, and determination of who should be awarded a degree in fulfillment of these requirements. View the Technical Standards for Pharmacy Education College Email Policy The College of Pharmacy adheres to the University Electronic Mail Student Notification Policy. The college will communicate with you using your official university email address; and, most faculty communicate with students through the Canvas course management system (which also uses your official email address.) To ensure you receive all college communication, we strongly encourage you to claim and use your UTmail address as your official university address. Email distribution lists are used by the Dean’s Office for official communication and are refreshed on the first of every month. If you update your official university email address, the change may take some time to go through. Please continue to check your former email address for important messages from the Dean’s Office until you are confident that the new address is being used. Visit this site to claim your UTmail. To update your official address, visit UT Direct. See also University Policy for Retroactive Withdrawal and Code of Conduct. Our mission is to provide exemplary education, training, research, and professional development in the pharmaceutical sciences; to advance discovery, innovation, and patient care; and to provide service to the university, professional and scientific communities, and society. FacebookFind us on Facebook TwitterFind us on Twitter InstagramSee us on Instagram LinkedinFind us on Linkedin YoutubeSee us on Youtube Footer menu Directory News Events Giving UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022