retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Skip to main content MENU Header Menu Directory News Events Giving Search Search Degrees & Programs Admissions Pharm D Graduate Studies Lester Entrepreneurial Scholars Student Organizations Student Services Learning Resource Center (LRC) Experiential + Residencies & Fellowships Experiential Programs Residencies & Fellowships Research & Practice College Divisions Collaborative Areas of Research Excellence Centers, Institutes, & Core Facilities Research Support Professional Development Pharmacy Career Services Continuing Pharmacy Education About Alumni Assessment College Policies Dean’s Office Diversity, Equity, Accessibility, & Inclusion History Pharm.D. Program Quality Indicators Strategic Plan Student Affairs Contact Us Breadcrumb Home Degrees & Programs Graduate Studies Graduate Studies Degrees & Programs Admissions Pharm D Graduate Studies Admissions for M.S. and Ph.D. Eligibility and Evaluation Graduate Fellowships & Financial Support Syllabi: Graduate Courses Graduate Student Resources Graduate Student Directory Lester Entrepreneurial Scholars Student Organizations Student Services Learning Resource Center (LRC) Choose Pharmacy at the University of Texas at Austin The University of Texas at Austin College of Pharmacy operates longstanding and well-developed graduate training programs in pharmaceutical sciences and translational sciences. The goal of graduate study at The University of Texas at Austin College of Pharmacy is to develop the intellectual breadth and specialized training necessary for a career in teaching, research or advanced professional practice. Emphasis is placed on the knowledge, methods and skills needed for scholarly teaching; original research and problem solving; intellectual leadership; creative expression; and professional prominence and recognition. We are committed to being intentionally diverse, equitable, accessible, and inclusive in the culture, curriculum, and practices of our graduate training program. Ready to apply? Let's Get Started Interested in learning more? Download the UT Austin College of Pharmacy graduate brochure. Pharmaceutical Science Degrees About Pharmaceutical Science Pharmaceutical Science is an interdisciplinary field that includes areas of study in chemical biology and medicinal chemistry, pharmaceutics, pharmacology, toxicology, pharmacotherapy, and health outcomes. Students applying to the graduate program in pharmaceutical sciences will select a division-specific training track that most closely matches their interests. The University of Texas College of Pharmacy offers a Ph.D. program with specialization in each of these areas of pharmaceutical sciences and a M.S. degree program that is limited to the pharmacotherapy and health outcomes areas of research. Graduate training in the pharmaceutical sciences program is housed within five different divisions. Students applying to pharmaceutical sciences select a division-specific training track that most closely matches their interests. Visit each of the division homepages to learn more about faculty research and to get details on the division specific graduate program objectives and curriculum. M.S. Programs Courses of study leading to a master of science degree are only offered in pharmacotherapy and in health outcomes. Each graduate student’s course of study may be uniquely tailored to meet the specific learning objectives of the student. Health Outcomes Pharmacotherapy Ph.D. Programs Graduate education, research, and scholarly work leading to a Ph.D. are developed uniquely for each student as part of his/her plan of work. Students applying to the graduate program in pharmaceutical sciences will select a division-specific training track that most closely matches their interests. Each of the five division specific tracks, listed below, have course work and research training specifically tailored for training in the track-specific field. Chemical Biology and Medicinal Chemistry Health Outcomes Molecular Pharmaceutics and Drug Delivery Pharmacology & Toxicology Pharmacotherapy Translational Science Degree Goal of Translational Science The Translational Science program is designed to provide training in the area of translational science toward the goal of applying basic biomedical scientific discoveries into strategies that will improve healthcare delivery, patient outcomes, and community health. What is Translational Science? For many years, extensive national resources have been devoted to basic biomedical (bench) and clinical (human subject) research; however, significant barriers continue to exist in moving knowledge bi-directionally between basic research, clinical research, and applications to improve health outcomes in individuals and the community. These barriers make it difficult to efficiently and effectively translate new knowledge into improved patient care. To remedy these problems, Translational Science has emerged as an academic and scientific discipline. Translational Science (TS) is a scientific discipline that investigates methods to move discovery more efficiently and effectively into application. TS investigators must respond, interact, facilitate change, and conduct research within and among varied organizational behaviors, structures, and cultures. TS conducts rigorous studies that close the knowledge gaps between different levels of the research process – the basic science laboratory, clinical research discoveries, and application of these research findings toward disease prevention and management, and strategies to improve human, community, and global health. Translational Science Ph.D. The doctoral degree program in Translational Science is offered as a multi-institutional joint degree program between The University of Texas at Austin, The University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio (UT Health San Antonio), and The University of Texas at San Antonio, in collaboration with The University of Texas School of Public Health regional campus in San Antonio. Graduate students complete their research on the campus of the university of their faculty mentor. The Translational Science graduate program is designed to leverage the existing resources and expertise in specific key areas of each university to offer a strong, diverse, and competitive Ph.D. training program. This program is designed to prepare the next generation of scientists to lead multi-disciplinary biomedical research teams in increasingly complex research environments. These scientists will advance knowledge in the area of translational research toward the goal of applying basic biomedical scientific discoveries into strategies that will improve healthcare delivery, patient outcomes, and community health. A complete description of the objectives of this graduate training program, course curriculum and milestones, eligibility for admission, and application process can be found on the UTHSCSA Translational Science site. Graduate Research Tracks at the College of Pharmacy Research Track Degrees Offered Chemical Biology & Medicinal Chemistry Ph.D. Health Outcomes M.S., Ph.D. Molecular Pharmaceutics & Drug Delivery Ph.D. Pharmacology & Toxicology Ph.D. Pharmacotherapy M.S., Ph.D. Translational Science Ph.D. Academic Advising Dr. Karen Rascati, the Graduate Adviser in the College of Pharmacy has overall responsibility for counseling and academic advising of graduate students in pharmaceutical sciences. However, each division within the College of Pharmacy appoints a Division Graduate Adviser, (DGA) who aids the students with course selection and programmatic progress. Each student must be advised by their DGA each semester before registering until they enter candidacy, to ensure the student is on track to graduate. Contact the Pharmacy Graduate Coordinator in PHR 4.220 (512-471-6590) for an appointment or contact your supervising professor. Our mission is to provide exemplary education, training, research, and professional development in the pharmaceutical sciences; to advance discovery, innovation, and patient care; and to provide service to the university, professional and scientific communities, and society. FacebookFind us on Facebook TwitterFind us on Twitter InstagramSee us on Instagram LinkedinFind us on Linkedin YoutubeSee us on Youtube Footer menu Directory News Events Giving UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022