Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS School of Pharmacy myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link Contact Events Select to follow link Campus Convention Calendar Pharmacy Summer Camp Departments Select to follow link Medicinal Chemistry Pharmaceutical Chemistry Pharmacology & Toxicology Pharmacy Practice Graduate Study in Neurosciences History Accreditation Status Educational Philosophy Nondiscrimination Policy Program Goals Strategic Plan Student Performance Give Academics Select to follow link Degrees Select to follow link Pharm.D. Select to follow link Program Overview Pharm.D. Dual Degrees Prerequisites Tuition Curriculum Select to follow link Pharm.D. Curriculum - Class of 2026 Pharm.D. Curriculum - Class of 2025 Pharm.D. Curriculum - Class of 2024 Pharm.D. Curriculum - Class of 2023 Pharm.D. Curriculum - Class of 2022 Sample Pre-Pharmacy Class Schedule Careers Why KU Pharmacy? About Our Students Pharm.D. - FAQ Apply - Pharm.D. Graduate Degrees Courses Experiential Education Select to follow link RxPreceptor Login Academic Support Graduate Programs Graduate School Deadlines Admissions Select to follow link Pharm.D. Select to follow link Apply - Pharm.D. Prerequisites Admissions FAQ Program Technical Standards Pharm.D. Overview Financial Aid Select to follow link Borchardt Award and Scholarships Matchett Award Multicultural Pharmacy Scholars Program Graduate Scholarly Presentation Travel Award Application Graduate Admissions Residencies People Select to follow link Administration Faculty Staff Emeritus Research News Resources Select to follow link Student Resources Faculty Resources Wichita-Specific Resources Student Organizations Select to follow link APhA-ASP ASCP CPFI IPhO Kappa Epsilon Kappa Psi NCPA PLS Research Rx Rho Chi SCCP SNPhA SSHP Drug Information Center Select to follow link Drug Information Center Overview Resources KU Resources Room Reservations STUCO Alumni Select to follow link Distinguished Service Award Give Graduate Programs Medicinal Chemistry Pharmaceutical Chemistry Pharmacology & Toxicology Pharmacy Practice Neuroscience myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo School of Pharmacy Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search KU School of Pharmacy KU School of Pharmacy is a world-class research institution and one of the country’s premier pharmacy schools. Pharm.D. Apply Request Info Visit KU Degree Programs Pharm.D. Program A doctor of pharmacy degree (Pharm.D) prepares students to become pharmacy practitioners in a wide variety of settings, including community and retail pharmacies, hospitals, managed care facilities and many more. About Pharm.D. Graduate Programs KU School of Pharmacy offers graduate degrees in Medicinal Chemistry, Neuroscience, Pharmacology & Toxicology and Pharmaceutical Chemistry, as well as residencies in Pharmacy Practice. About Graduate Programs Tradition of Excellence #17 Nationally in NIH Funding 95% NAPLEX first-time pass rate #2 In U.S. for MPJE Pass Rate Follow Us on Social FacebookTwitterLinkedIn More KU Pharmacy Why KU Pharmacy? You can get your Pharm.D. anywhere. So, why get your Pharm.D. from KU School of Pharmacy? Why KU Pharmacy? What Can You Do With a Pharm.D? A Pharm.D. from KU provides graduates with diverse career options. Learn about the careers you could pursue with a Doctor of Pharmacy degree from KU. Pharmacy Careers Our Research The KU School of Pharmacy is seventh in the nation in National Instutes of Health (NIH) funding. Research at KU Pharmacy Pharmacy Summer Camp KU Pharmacy Summer Camp gives high school students and incoming college freshmen a chance to see what the pharmacy profession is all about. We are are offering one-day camps on the Lawrence campus in summer 2022. Camp Info and Registration Our Departments Medicinal Chemisty Pharmaceutical Chemistry Pharmacology & Toxicology Pharmacy Practice Graduate Study in Neurosciences Read the statement from The National Pharmaceutical Association and 13 pharmacy associations (pdf) School of Pharmacy News Mon, 05/09/22 KU Alumnus pledges $1 million to support father's legacy in School of Pharmacy LAWRENCE — Family and the University of Kansas hold special places in physician and KU alumnus Jeff Lindenbaum’s heart. Sun, 05/08/22 Two Kansas Pharmacy faculty earn tenure and promotion KU Chancellor Doug Girod recently approved the University Committee on Promotion and Tenure’s recommendation to award promotion to two School of Pharmacy faculty members. Fri, 05/13/22 Ceremonies celebrate Pharmacy graduates At 3:30 p.m. May 14, 2022 at the Lied Center on the KU campus, 121 School of Pharmacy students will participate in their Doctor of Pharmacy (Pharm.D.) hooding and awards ceremony. An additional 10 Pharmacy graduate students will be hooded for their Ph.D. or master’s degrees at a 7 p.m. ceremony at Allen Fieldhouse. See all news Give to KU Pharmacy Giving Opportunities Giving Opportunities School of Pharmacy 2010 Becker Drive Lawrence, KS 66047-1620 Bus Route: 41 pharmacy@ku.edu 785-864-3591 facebook twitter linkedin Medicinal Chemistry Pharmaceutical Chemistry Pharmacology & Toxicology Pharmacy Practice Neuroscience Pharmacy Summer Camp Give to KU Pharmacy Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.