Prescriptions Services Locations Prescription Refill Meet Your Pharmacists LocationsBack Locations USC Pharmacy USC Health Center Pharmacy USC Medical Plaza Pharmacy Verdugo Hills Professional Pharmacy Keck Medicine of USC Specialty Pharmacy Quick LinksBack Quick Links Immunizations Naloxone International Travel Health Clinic Medication Disposal Options Frequently Asked Questions Refill COVID-19 Vaccine Available by Appointment Schedule your appointment today. Learn more Come in and let us help you achieve your best possible health. Services are available at various USC Pharmacy locations, including on the USC Health Sciences Campus and the University Park Campus. The individual service pages provide more information about what to expect and whom to contact for each service. Services The only pharmacy that accepts USCard! Healthy tips Meet Your USC Pharmacists Our expert pharmacists and highly trained staff are ready to help you achieve your best possible health. Come visit your Trojan pharmacist at one of our convenient locations. View all pharmacists “Don’t forget about the basics: sleep/rest, nutrition and hydration. Regardless of your health goals, these three things are the fundamentals of maintaining a healthy lifestyle. Get plenty of rest, choose an appropriate dietary pattern, and drink at least two liters of water throughout the day.” - Richard Dang Assistant Professor of Clinical Pharmacy, Residency Program Director - Community-Based Pharmacy Residency Program at USC Medical Plaza Pharmacy “Selecting the appropriate over-the-counter cough and/or cold medicine can be confusing. Pharmacists can be an invaluable and accessible resource to help choose the correct medication to appropriately address symptoms and avoid therapy overlap.” - Katty Hsu Clinical Coordinator “Dehydration can lead to a multitude of problems ranging from skincare to gut health. Hydrating throughout the day can have endless benefits for men and women of all ages.” - Elizabeth Khatchaturian Director, USC Verdugo Hills Professional Pharmacy About Us Being part of a premier educational institution allows USC pharmacies to provide a broad spectrum of services to ensure that you achieve the best results from your medications. Pharmacists are available to help manage all your medications – prescription, over-the-counter, vitamins, and other supplements. They are trained to spot possible interactions, and duplicative or expired therapies that often result when multiple physicians are involved in a patient’s care. It's all about your health 5 locations to serve you Unique among top pharmacy schools, the USC School of Pharmacy currently owns and operates five pharmacies, with the USC South Los Angeles Pharmacy set to become the sixth in fall 2023. Since the launch of the original USC Pharmacy in 1954, the USC Pharmacies have grown to offer an increasingly wide array of services and to employ some 26 staff pharmacists, 62 resource employees, 15 pharmacy technicians and more than 25 student workers. Learn More Statistics USC Pharmacy by the numbers 5 Convenient Locations 20+ Full time Pharmacists 20+ Available healthcare services University of Southern California 1985 Zonal Avenue Los Angeles, CA 90089-9121 Phone: (323) 442-1369 Locations Services Meet Your Pharmacists © 2022 The University of Southern California Privacy Notice Accessibility