retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Skip to main content MENU Header Menu Directory News Events Giving Search Search Degrees & Programs Admissions Pharm D Graduate Studies Lester Entrepreneurial Scholars Student Organizations Student Services Learning Resource Center (LRC) Experiential + Residencies & Fellowships Experiential Programs Residencies & Fellowships Research & Practice College Divisions Collaborative Areas of Research Excellence Centers, Institutes, & Core Facilities Research Support Professional Development Pharmacy Career Services Continuing Pharmacy Education About Alumni Assessment College Policies Dean’s Office Diversity, Equity, Accessibility, & Inclusion History Pharm.D. Program Quality Indicators Strategic Plan Student Affairs Contact Us Breadcrumb Home Professional Development Professional Development Professional Development Pharmacy Career Services Photo Gallery Continuing Pharmacy Education Accreditation Services Speaker Resources Professional development is learning to earn or maintain professional credentials such as academic degrees to formal coursework, attending conferences, and informal learning opportunities situated in practice. It has been described as intensive and collaborative, ideally incorporating an evaluative stage. There are a variety of approaches to professional development, including consultation, coaching, communities of practice, lesson study, mentoring, reflective supervision and technical assistance. Pharm.D. Career Services We offer resources that are tailored to the College of Pharmacy professional degree program students. We offer assistance in preparing you for positions in a wide range of practice settings. These services include, career development and planning, CV and resume preparation and review. Practice interviews and workshops, career fairs, residency showcase and interviews for summer internships and post-graduate employment. Visit Pharm D Career Services Office of Continuing Pharmacy Education We develop and deliver quality continuing education activities that aim to meet the life-long professional development needs of pharmacy-related audiences. We offer live conferences, online home study courses, and accreditation services. The University of Texas at Austin College of Pharmacy is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Pharmacy Education as a provider of continuing pharmacy education. See what CPE can do for you! Request Proof of IV Training Effective September 1, 2015, all pharmacists who compound sterile preparations or supervise pharmacy technicians and pharmacy technician trainees compounding sterile preparations must have completed a single course, of a minimum of 20 hours of instruction and experience, from an accredited college of pharmacy or a course sponsored by an ACPE accredited provider per Texas Administrative Code Rule 291.133 (Pharmacies Compounding Sterile Preparations). If you need proof of basic intravenous admixture training that was obtained as a student in the college of pharmacy, please click on the link below and provide ONLY the information requested. Request Certificate Please note that basic intravenous admixture is a required course in the Pharm.D. Curriculum. Prior to the all-Pharm.D. Degree curriculum, basic intravenous admixture was an elective. Please allow at least 2 weeks for processing and delivery. Our mission is to provide exemplary education, training, research, and professional development in the pharmaceutical sciences; to advance discovery, innovation, and patient care; and to provide service to the university, professional and scientific communities, and society. FacebookFind us on Facebook TwitterFind us on Twitter InstagramSee us on Instagram LinkedinFind us on Linkedin YoutubeSee us on Youtube Footer menu Directory News Events Giving UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022