retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Skip to main content MENU Header Menu Directory News Events Giving Search Search Degrees & Programs Admissions Pharm D Graduate Studies Lester Entrepreneurial Scholars Student Organizations Student Services Learning Resource Center (LRC) Experiential + Residencies & Fellowships Experiential Programs Residencies & Fellowships Research & Practice College Divisions Collaborative Areas of Research Excellence Centers, Institutes, & Core Facilities Research Support Professional Development Pharmacy Career Services Continuing Pharmacy Education About Alumni Assessment College Policies Dean’s Office Diversity, Equity, Accessibility, & Inclusion History Pharm.D. Program Quality Indicators Strategic Plan Student Affairs Contact Us Breadcrumb Home Professional Development Pharmacy Career Services Pharmacy Career Services Professional Development Pharmacy Career Services Photo Gallery Continuing Pharmacy Education Mission Pharm.D. Career Services provides a full range of services and resources to support students as they realize their full potential of their education and experiences. Job Placement The College of Pharmacy conducts several events during the year to assist students with finding practice opportunities upon graduation. Through the college’s Foundations of Professional Development (FPD) course sequence, students are exposed to a variety of different career options including post-graduate education and training opportunities including graduate degree options, residencies, and fellowships. Working collaboratively with the college’s student professional organizations, career events are hosted throughout the year including residency showcases, mock interview and CV writing workshops, career fairs, and onsite interviews. The College conducts a P4 Senior Interview Day during the fall semester for the benefit of graduating seniors seeking professional practice positions. Prior to this event, students are provided with information regarding available positions with local, state, and national pharmacist employers and given the opportunity to sign up for interviews with these companies. At least sixty percent of graduating seniors participate in Senior Interview Day and many are successful in gaining employment as a result of their interviews. Students that do not participate in this event utilize other mechanisms for attaining employment following graduation. Students who are pursuing residency and/or graduate programs, apply to these programs directly outside of the P4 Senior Interview Day. The College makes no promise to secure employment for each graduate. Additionally, the College in conjunction with the UT College of Pharmacy Chapter of the American Pharmacists Association Academy of Student Pharmacists (UT-APhA-ASP) and UT Chapter of the American Society of Health-System Pharmacists (UTSSHP) conducts Career Day each fall prior to P4 Senior Interview Day. College of Pharmacy students are invited to visit with major pharmacist employers, residency program directors, and graduate program representatives to learn more about career opportunities in the profession. Pharmacy Career Services Staff Keyanna Millinger-Killebrew Administrative Program Coordinator Justin Samuel, Ph.D. Assistant Dean for Student Affairs Assistant Professor of Practice Contact Us: In-person, Email, or Phone Office Location: Pharmacy (PHR) 5.112 Email Address: pharmdcareers@austin.utexas.edu Phone Number: 512-471-1737 Mailing Address The University of Texas at Austin College of Pharmacy 2409 University Ave A1900, PHR 5.112 Austin, TX 78712-1113 Student Resources Currently enrolled Pharm.D. students and graduates can access HireUTexas Powered by Handshake. Log in to Handshake system with your UT EID and password If you have any questions please email pharmdcareers@austin.utexas.edu or call (512) 471-1737 Past Career Event Employers Albertsons - Randalls - Tom Thumb Avella Pharmacy Baylor Scott & White Brookshire Brothers Cardinal Health CVS Health Healix H-E-B Kmart Pharmacy Kroger Methodist Health System Paragon Healthcare Inc. PharMerica Rite Aid Pharmacy Seton Shopko Texas Oncology Walgreens Walmart Past Mini Residency Showcase Participants H-E-B Pharmacy/UT Community Pharmacy Residency Program Rutgers Institute for Pharmaceutical Fellowship Seton Healthcare St. David’s South Austin Medical Center St. David’s North Austin Medical Center Tarrytown Pharmacy The University of Texas at Austin College of Pharmacy Affiliated Residency Programs Our mission is to provide exemplary education, training, research, and professional development in the pharmaceutical sciences; to advance discovery, innovation, and patient care; and to provide service to the university, professional and scientific communities, and society. FacebookFind us on Facebook TwitterFind us on Twitter InstagramSee us on Instagram LinkedinFind us on Linkedin YoutubeSee us on Youtube Footer menu Directory News Events Giving UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022