retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Skip to main content MENU Header Menu Directory News Events Giving Search Search Degrees & Programs Admissions Pharm D Graduate Studies Lester Entrepreneurial Scholars Student Organizations Student Services Learning Resource Center (LRC) Experiential + Residencies & Fellowships Experiential Programs Residencies & Fellowships Research & Practice College Divisions Collaborative Areas of Research Excellence Centers, Institutes, & Core Facilities Research Support Professional Development Pharmacy Career Services Continuing Pharmacy Education About Alumni Assessment College Policies Dean’s Office Diversity, Equity, Accessibility, & Inclusion History Pharm.D. Program Quality Indicators Strategic Plan Student Affairs Contact Us Breadcrumb Home About About About Alumni Assessment College Policies Dean’s Office Diversity, Equity, Accessibility, & Inclusion History Pharm.D. Program Quality Indicators Strategic Plan Student Affairs Contact Us Dean Samuel Poloyac The University of Texas at Austin College of Pharmacy is one of the premier institutions of pharmaceutical education and research in the country. Pharmacists have significant responsibility for managing drug therapy, counseling on medication use, and monitoring drug therapy outcomes. Our Doctor of Pharmacy program prepares future practitioners to meet these challenges as lifelong learners and leaders in drug therapy management. We offer graduate programs leading to research-focused M.S. or Ph.D. degrees in pharmacy including the inter-institutional Ph.D. program in translational research. An exceptional faculty brings cutting edge research and clinical expertise to the classroom and supervise student-learning experiences in both patient care and research. Our students are tomorrow’s pharmacy leaders. What starts here truly changes the world. National Ranking The University of Texas at Austin College of Pharmacy is recognized as one of the nation’s elite pharmacy programs for education and research. The most recent ranking by U.S. News and World Report places our program at No. 7 of the more than 100 pharmacy programs in the country. Read more about our national rankings State of the College Each year, a review on the previous year’s progress helps us to look back and evaluate how closely we have stuck to our vision to be the leading college of pharmacy for innovative interdisciplinary education, research, and service. Read our most recent report to learn more 125th Anniversary Beginning January 25, 2018, the College of Pharmacy honors its 125th anniversary, celebrating the institution’s beginnings in Galveston in 1893, to the hundreds of students who come to The University of Texas at Austin campus to learn at one of the premier institutions of pharmaceutical education and research in the United States. Through the end of the year, the College of Pharmacy celebrates its legacy with themed events and campaigns. Honor the college with: Monthly emails highlighting historical highlights and current accomplishments. The 125 Pharmacy Leadership Symposium, August 13-14, 2018. A special 125 Giving Campaign. The first 1,000 people who give $125 in 2018 will receive a commemorative 125 anniversary lapel pin. Donate now to receive your pin while supplies last. Accreditation The University of Texas at Austin College of Pharmacy is fully accredited by: The Accreditation Council for Pharmacy Education (ACPE) which has granted the Doctor of Pharmacy (Pharm.D.) program accreditation status through June 2025. The Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC) reaffirmed the University’s accreditation in 2018. Learn more about our Pharm.D. Program Quality Indicators, including: Graduation rates National Board exam scores Residency match rates First employment information Outstanding student achievements Facilities Austin Situated in the heart of The University of Texas at Austin campus, the college primarily makes its home in the two-building pharmacy complex. BME Building The college’s Divisions of Chemical Biology and Medicinal Chemistry and Pharmacology & Toxicology make their home in the Biomedical Engineering Building (BME), a short distance away from the original two building complex. The Dell Pediatric Research Institute (DPRI), located a few miles north up from the central campus, is home to some of the college’s faculty. San Antonio McDermott BuildingThe University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio has provided facilities for the education and training of pharmacy students, residents and fellows since 1972. The campus’ McDermott Clinical Sciences Building houses faculty and staff in the college’s Division of Pharmacotherapy. Cooperative Program Students in the college’s cooperative program are supported by facilities at either the University of Texas at El Paso or the University of Texas-Rio Grande Valley. Cooperative program students complete their first two pre-pharmacy academic years at their home campus, come to Austin for the for the first two professional years, and return to their home campuses for the final two years of the program. Our mission is to provide exemplary education, training, research, and professional development in the pharmaceutical sciences; to advance discovery, innovation, and patient care; and to provide service to the university, professional and scientific communities, and society. FacebookFind us on Facebook TwitterFind us on Twitter InstagramSee us on Instagram LinkedinFind us on Linkedin YoutubeSee us on Youtube Footer menu Directory News Events Giving UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022