Skip to content Apply Impact Give ProgramsBack Programs Doctor of Pharmacy (PharmD) Regulatory and Quality Sciences Graduate ProgramsBack Regulatory and Quality Sciences Graduate Programs Doctorate in Regulatory Science MS in Regulatory Science MS in Medical Product Quality MS in Management of Drug Development MS in Regulatory Management Certificate Programs in Regulatory Science Pharmaceutical and Health Economics Graduate ProgramsBack Pharmaceutical and Health Economics Graduate Programs PhD in Health Economics MS in Pharmaceutical Economics and Policy MS in Healthcare Decision Analysis Progressive MS in Healthcare Decision Analysis MS in Biopharmaceutical Marketing Progressive Masters of Science in Biopharmaceutical Marketing Pharmaceutical and Translational Sciences Graduate ProgramsBack Pharmaceutical and Translational Sciences Graduate Programs PhD Program MS in Molecular Pharmacology and Toxicology MS in Pharmaceutical Sciences Clinical Pharmacy ProgramsBack Clinical Pharmacy Programs MS in Clinical and Experimental Therapeutics Progressive MS in Clinical and Experimental Therapeutics PhD Program Undergraduate ProgramsBack Undergraduate Programs BA in Biopharmaceutical Sciences BS in Biopharmaceutical Sciences BA in Pharmacology and Drug Development BS in Pharmacology and Drug Development Undergraduate Minor: Biopharmaceutical Business Undergraduate Minor: Foundation in Regulatory Sciences Undergraduate Minor: Science and Management of Biomedical Therapeutics Trojan Admission Pre-Pharmacy Program (TAP) Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowships (SURF) Post-Graduate ProgramsBack Post-Graduate Programs Fellowship Programs Residency Programs Certificate Programs in Regulatory Science Graduate Certificate in Advanced Pharmacy Practice (GCAPP) Graduate Certificate in Healthcare Decision Analysis Continuing Education Continuing Education Admissions & AidBack Admissions & Aid PharmD Admissions Department of Pharmaceutical and Health Economics Admissions Department of Pharmacology and Pharmaceutical Sciences Admissions Department of Regulatory and Quality Sciences Admissions Titus Family Department of Clinical Pharmacy Admissions ResearchBack Research Faculty Directory Research Centers Core Facilities DepartmentsBack Departments Department of Pharmaceutical and Health Economics Department of Pharmacology and Pharmaceutical Sciences Department of Regulatory and Quality Sciences Titus Family Department of Clinical Pharmacy About UsBack About Us Dean’s Welcome Board of Councilors Academic Leadership Faculty Directory Staff Directory Impact Results Magazine Campus Life Alumni & Giving Global Initiatives News EventsBack Events Commencement Town Hall Talks Alumni Awards Gala Advancing health through innovation We are transforming the face of pharmacy by leading the convergence of science, healthcare and policy. Select ProgramDoctor of Pharmacy (PharmD)Regulatory and Quality Sciences Graduate ProgramsPharmaceutical and Health Economics Graduate ProgramsPharmaceutical and Translational Sciences Graduate ProgramsClinical Pharmacy ProgramsUndergraduate ProgramsPost-Graduate Programs Area of Study Learn more The USC Advantage Innovation Alumni Community Innovation Innovation Forging New Frontiers Since our founding in 1905, the school has fueled pioneering initiatives in research, education and practice while fostering new generations of leaders. Our impact includes groundbreaking laboratory discoveries, novel regulatory approaches, meaningful health policy reforms, and transformative collaborations in medication management and chronic disease prevention. Curricular advances include launching the first PharmD, regulatory science doctorate and healthcare decision analysis programs, among many others. 8th most innovative university, citing research from the school’s Papadopoulos Lab (ranked by Reuters) 4 American Pharmacists Awards Pinnacle Awards (a national record) Learn more Alumni ALUMNI NETWORK Lifelong, Worldwide The moment you join the school, you become part of the renowned Trojan Family—a vast, supportive international network. Our alumni hold leadership roles at major pharmaceutical companies, government agencies, top medical centers, NASA and Jet Propulsion Lab, and many other dynamic environments—and are dedicated to helping USC students and fellow graduates. We give you a world of opportunity. 20K+ global USC pharmacy alumni 32 USC pharmacy global partners 8 USC international offices Community COMMUNITY COMMITMENT Building a Healthier Society Through health fairs, community clinic partnerships, public health campaigns and unparalleled collaborations to manage chronic disease, the school’s students, faculty and alumni demonstrate an ongoing commitment to improving the health of the community we serve. And through our Science, Technology and Research (STAR) program, we help new generations of underrepresented high school students pursue careers in the life sciences. 50+ annual health fairs 600+ graduates of our STAR program 10 fotonovelas in multiple languages on public health issues Full Spectrum Our programs span the entire pharmaceutical continuum—from discovery and development to regulation and from translation to patient care and outcomes. News Planning for a New USC Pharmacy in South Los Angeles Soon after Vassilios Papadopoulos became dean of the USC School of Pharmacy in October 2016, he approached Raffi Svadjian, executive director of community pharmacies, with a bold idea. What about launching a new pharmacy in South Los Angeles, an underserved area for pharmaceutical care? Learn more More News Stats Our school by the numbers Learn More #1 Private Pharmacy School 97% PharmD Licensure Pass Rate 20 Different Degree Programs Stats Our school by the numbers. Learn More #1 Private Pharmacy School 97% PharmD Licensure Pass Rate 20 Different Degree Programs Stats Our school by the numbers. Learn More #1 Private Pharmacy School 97% PharmD Licensure Pass Rate 20 Different Degree Programs Location is Everything In the Heart of Los Angeles Our location on a major academic medical center campus in the heart of a vibrant city offers extraordinary opportunities for internships, community engagement and mentoring. With 140 countries represented and 224 languages spoken, Los Angeles is filled with diverse cuisine, cultural institutions and recreational offerings. L.A. is home to more theaters, music venues and museums than any other U.S. city, and you can ski, hike and surf in nearby beaches and mountains. Events View All A Conversation on America’s Mental Health Crisis Thursday June 2, 2022 Approval and Reimbursement of Alzheimer’s Disease Therapies Monday June 6, 2022 USC School of Pharmacy Alumni Reception at the DIA Annual Meeting Tuesday June 21, 2022 Why did you choose USC? “USC has always been one of my top choices for the exciting research opportunities that take place not only in the School of Pharmacy but across the university. I’m sincerely happy to have made the choice to pursue my degrees here and I’m proud to be a part of the Trojan Family.” Joshua Silva PhD Clinical and Experimental Therapeutics ’21, MS Management of Drug Development ’20 Principal Medical Writer & Lead at Omni Tech Medical Why was USC a good fit for you? “As an international student, it was important for me to get a well-rounded experience in terms of the curriculum, faculty, research interests, prospects after graduation, culture and even the location. USC ticked all the boxes. I was lucky to have been accepted into my dream school!” Anushka Rajesh MS Pharmaceutical Sciences ’21 Research Associate at Vir Biotechnology, Inc. What career possibilities are available to USC PharmD grads? “One of the most unique aspects of pharmacy is that one is able to go into so many different fields. There’s retail, inpatient, ambulatory care, managed care, industry, compounding, specialty, the list goes on and on … If you’re able to find the crossroads where competency and passion intersect, then you will have found that dream career where you pinch yourself every morning, not believing someone is actually paying you to do what you love. And that’s why USC is one of the best pharmacy schools out there in the nation. The amount of exposure and alumni connections available to you are second to none.” Michael Pazirandeh PharmD ’11 Principal Medical Scientist, Managed Care and Government Accounts at Gilead Sciences What inspired your career choices after USC? “I became interested in finding innovative ways to improve health outcomes for patients because I spent nearly a decade leading advocacy efforts in California to change pharmacy laws to improve patient access to care. I became interested in improving access to patient care, because I was looking for ways for pharmacists to create next-gen business models. The possibilities truly are endless.” Komal Patel PharmD ’04 Clinical Pharmacist, Product Development, Catalia Health What does the Trojan Family mean to you? “The Trojan Family is like an instant network of friends all over the world that you have something in common with. It’s intangible but real.” Lisa Gunther Lum PharmD ’86 Immediate Past President of the California Society of Health-System Pharmacists What does the Trojan Family mean to you? “Being part of the Trojan Family has opened so many doors for me that I’ve lost track. Whether it’s because it brings prestige to my résumé or inspires a long conversation about football with a stranger, I am proud to be a part of the Trojan Family.” Vinnie Dam PharmD ’07, MS Regulatory Science ’07 Co-Founder & Chief Pharmacy Officer at Mixlab Why did you decide to pursue a dual degree? “Because of the HCDA program and its wide array of guest lecturers all coming from high-level executive positions in biotech, pharma, managed care, medical devices and diagnostics, I quickly discovered that there’s so much more I can do with a PharmD and, when coupled with the MS in HCDA, I would get to where I wanted to be fast.” Jonathan Sedaghat PharmD ’18, MS Healthcare Decision Analysis ’18 Marketing Manager, Patient Access at Amgen Why did you choose USC? “USC has allowed me into its extensive family and Trojan network, ensuring that I’m never alone during this next chapter of my life. I loved my experience during undergrad so much that I decided to stay for another four years. In fact, I only applied to one PharmD program — USC’s, of course.” Teny Khachadourian BS, Pharmacology and Drug Development ’21, PharmD ’25 The only pharmacy school in the nation to own and operate 5 pharmacies Learn more University of Southern California 1985 Zonal Avenue Los Angeles, CA 90089-9121 Phone: (323) 442-1369 Alumni and Friends USC Pharmacies MyPharmacySchool Contact Us Sign Up for Our Newsletter © 2022 The University of Southern California Privacy Notice Accessibility Information for USC students, staff and faculty about COVID-19