retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Skip to main content MENU Header Menu Directory News Events Giving Search Search Degrees & Programs Admissions Pharm D Graduate Studies Lester Entrepreneurial Scholars Student Organizations Student Services Learning Resource Center (LRC) Experiential + Residencies & Fellowships Experiential Programs Residencies & Fellowships Research & Practice College Divisions Collaborative Areas of Research Excellence Centers, Institutes, & Core Facilities Research Support Professional Development Pharmacy Career Services Continuing Pharmacy Education About Alumni Assessment College Policies Dean’s Office Diversity, Equity, Accessibility, & Inclusion History Pharm.D. Program Quality Indicators Strategic Plan Student Affairs Contact Us Breadcrumb Home About Alumni Giving Giving About Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Recognition Stay Connected Alumni Reunion Toolkit Class Notes Giving Dean's Advisory Council Assessment College Policies Dean’s Office Diversity, Equity, Accessibility, & Inclusion History Pharm.D. Program Quality Indicators Strategic Plan Student Affairs Contact Us As one of the finest institutions of higher learning in the nation, the UT College of Pharmacy upholds a standard of excellence of which all Longhorns can be proud. We are consistently ranked as a top school of pharmacy in the country. The UT College of Pharmacy can most effectively achieve its mission of providing an exemplary pharmacy education with your financial support. Gifts from alumni and friends are critical to ensuring we continue to provide an exemplary pharmacy education to produce the finest pharmacists, researchers, educators and leaders in the industry. Thank you for your interest in supporting our program! Give Now Contact Us Susan K. Brown Assistant Dean for Development & Alumni Relations Ways to Give Gifts to the College of Pharmacy are tax-deductible, and there are many ways you may make your contribution. Give Online Give to the UT College of Pharmacy Area of Greatest Need fund or search for a specific program or endowment that is most meaningful to you. Give by Mail Mail a check made payable to The University of Texas at Austin to the address listed below. Please note your gift’s designation to the UT College of Pharmacy in the memo line. Download a gift form. Mail all checks and documentation in support of the UT College of Pharmacy to: College of Pharmacy The University of Texas at Austin ATTN: Development and Alumni Relations 2409 University Avenue, Stop A1900 Austin, TX 78712 Give by Phone 1-866-4UTEXAS (488-3927) Download a Gift Form Types of Gifts Beneficiary Designations Maximize your support and minimize taxes through gifts of IRA distributions, retirement plan assets or life insurance. Read beneficiary guide Endowment Gifts Endowments are gifts that keep on giving. They provide perpetual support for the College and our students and are an investment in the future of pharmacy education. Your gift is invested—never spent—and the original gift amount is protected while distributions support the endowment’s purpose. The current minimum funding levels to establish an endowment at The University of Texas at Austin are: Chair: $2 million Professorship: $500,000 Endowed Presidential Graduate Fellowship: $250,000 Faculty Fellowship: $250,000 Graduate Fellowship: $100,000 Endowed Excellence Funds: $25,000 You can also support one of the following established endowments: Pharmacy Administration Graduate Student Endowment Provide financial support for graduate students enrolled in Pharmacy Administration. Pharmacy Alumni Association Endowed Scholarship Help students with financial needs succeed professionally and academically. Pharmacy Student Professional Development Endowment Support student travel to pharmacy meetings and conferences across the country. Endowment for Excellence in Psychiatric Pharmacy and Clinical Neuroscience Programmatic support and work in Psychiatric Pharmacy and Clinical Neuroscience. Lynn and Jeanette Crismon Endowed Excellence Fund Honor former Dean M. Lynn Crismon and support Psychiatric Pharmacy. Celyna Delgado Endowed Presidential Scholarship Honor Dr. Celyna Delgado and support students from underserved communities. Learn more endowment details Estate and Planned Gifts Leave a legacy of generosity with gifts that can help meet your financial and philanthropic goals. Start planning your legacy Gifts of Stock Gifts of appreciated securities are easy to make and provide great tax benefits. Explore benefits of securities gifts Matching Gifts Your donation can make double—possibly even triple—the impact if your employer offers a matching gift program. Some employers will even match gifts made by retirees and/or spouses. Search for your employer to see if your company participates. If they do, request their matching gift form. Include the signed, completed form with your gift and we’ll take care of the rest. Search matching employers Sponsorships The College of Pharmacy is proud to have such strong connections to its business partners, including corporations, small businesses, foundations and associations. We recognize that a large part of the excellent education we offer includes providing experiential experiences and professional development opportunities to our students. To this end, we rely on our business partners to provide financial and in-kind support to make these opportunities possible. There are many ways companies choose to support the UT College of Pharmacy: Providing scholarship support to offset the financial burdens our students experience is a fantastic way to support students. You may set up a pass-through scholarship or endowment in your company’s name to support students. Sponsoring a student organization activity or initiative is a great way to support our pharmacy student professional development and connect with our student leaders. These functions include Project Collaborate, professional speakers, New Student Orientation and award banquets. Offering opportunities to apply for grants to fund activities and scholarships. Interested in one of these opportunities or have other ideas for ways your business could partner with the College of Pharmacy? Please do not hesitate to contact our Development team. Contact the Development team UT Employee Gifts Your work is the foundation of everything we do on campus. Build on it with an easy payroll deduction. Get started with payroll deduction UT College of Pharmacy Dean’s Advisory Council Because of the dedicated leadership, service and financial support of our Dean’s Advisory Council, the College continues to maintain its reputation as one of the preeminent schools of pharmacy in the nation. The College of Pharmacy Advisory Council is comprised of distinguished alumni and friends under the leadership of our chair, Marissa Schlaifer. Dean's Advisory Council Members Our mission is to provide exemplary education, training, research, and professional development in the pharmaceutical sciences; to advance discovery, innovation, and patient care; and to provide service to the university, professional and scientific communities, and society. FacebookFind us on Facebook TwitterFind us on Twitter InstagramSee us on Instagram LinkedinFind us on Linkedin YoutubeSee us on Youtube Footer menu Directory News Events Giving UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022