Home Contact Us Calendar of Events D423 Schedule K550 Schedule About Message from the Chair Administration Locations Funding Opportunities Diversity People Faculty Primary Faculty Graduate Students Postdoctoral Fellows Research Staff Graduate Program Overview Admissions First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth & Subsequent Years Final Examination Research Drug Discovery & Precision Medicine Gene Architecture & Action Intracellular Signaling Molecular Basis of Disease Neurobiology & Behavior Protein Structure Seminars Seminar Series Krebs Lecture Laura Sheard Lecture Calendar of Events News Funding Opportunities UW Resources PIONEERING NEW KNOWLEDGE Innovative, out-of-the box thinking has led to major breakthroughs in Pharmacology. Our fresh approaches and groundbreaking science have made us vanguards in the field. NEWS INTERACTIONS CREATE NETWORKS When people with different views exchange ideas, those people become a network. And networks test and refine those ideas, creating a proving ground for important discoveries, and powerful solutions to difficult problems. BROWSE OUR RESEARCH LOCATION INSPIRES CREATIVITY A thriving and vibrant community in a breathtaking natural setting is what makes Seattle the perfect environment to learn, create and pursue your scientific interests. DIVERSITY DRIVES DISCOVERY The more diverse a group is, the broader the cultural and intellectual milieu from which its ideas spring, the more powerful and far-reaching those ideas tend to be. At UW we foster and encourage diversity as essential to scientific advancement. Pharmacology Department News Read all about what we're doing in the department Pharmacology Dept. News May 3, 2022 Congratulations, Melissa MacEwen! Melissa has been named one of the Husky 100! We congratulate you on all of your achievements and thank you for the support you have provided the Department of Pharmacology. Melissa MacEwen Graduate Student READ MORE Pharmacology Dept. News April 7, 2022 Tool Uses Light to Inhibit Neural Activity in Mice Dr. Michael Bruchas In a study led by Bryan Copits, Ph.D., of the University of Washington School of Medicine, St. Louis, and Michael Bruchas, Ph.D., of the University of Washington, Seattle, researchers developed a tool that can precisely control and inhibit individual neurons. Michael Bruchas Professor READ MORE Pharmacology Dept. News February 22, 2022 HIRING Assistant Professor (tenure track) The Department of Pharmacology at the University of Washington invites applications for one full time, tenure-track assistant professor position with an anticipated start date of September 2022. READ MORE Pharmacology Dept. News October 8, 2021 Charles Chavkin elected as ASPET 2021 Fellow Dr. Charles Chavkin Selection as a Fellow of the American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics (FASPET) is an honor bestowed to our most distinguished members. Fellows are recognized for their meritorious efforts to advance pharmacology, through their scientific achievements, mentorship, and service to the Society. Charles Chavkin Professor READ MORE Pharmacology Dept. News December 17, 2020 Vincenzo Cirulli elected to Board of Directors Dr. Vincenzo Cirulli Vincenzo Cirulli elected to the board of directors of the Diabetes Research Connection Vincenzo Cirulli Associate Professor READ MORE Pharmacology Dept. News November 17, 2020 John D. Scott elected as ASPET 2020 Fellow Dr. John Scott Selection as a Fellow of the American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics (FASPET) is an honor bestowed to our most distinguished members. Fellows are recognized for their meritorious efforts to advance pharmacology, through their scientific achievements, mentorship, and service to the Society. John Scott Professor and Chair READ MORE Pharmacology Dept. News October 9, 2020 Structural basis of salicylic acid perception by Arabidopsis NPR proteins Dr. Ning Zheng Zheng lab reveals how the plant immunity hormone, salicylic acid, which is also the precursor of Aspirin, is perceived by its receptor protein in plants. The results give us a hint on what the same molecule might be able to do in human cells besides targeting the cyclooxygenases. Ning Zheng Professor READ MORE Pharmacology Dept. News April 13, 2020 Balancing Cellular Oxygen and Iron Levels. Dr. Ning Zheng Discovery of an unexpected iron-sulfur cluster embedded in a human ubiquitin ligase sheds light on how fluctuations in iron and oxygen levels regulate iron homeostasis in human cells through an oxygen-sensitive protein-protein interface. Ning Zheng Professor READ MORE Pharmacology Dept. News April 1, 2020 Dr. William Catterall Elected Fellow of ASPET Dr. William Catterall The American Society for Pharmacology & Experimental Therapeutics has elected our own Dr. William Catterall as Fellow. Congratulations, Bill! William Catterall Professor READ MORE Pharmacology Dept. News December 19, 2019 Atomic View of the Trigger for the Heartbeat Sodium Channels Atomic-level studies of the architecture of tiny sodium channel proteins, critical to generating electrical signals that start off each beat of the heart, are imparting striking details about their function, malfunctions, disruption by many disease mutations, and response to medication. … Ning Zheng Professor READ MORE UW Pharmacology is consistently ranked among the best in the nation and worldwide. John D. Scott Chairman MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIR Questions about UW Pharmacology? Here are a couple of our most popular questions about studying Pharmacology at UW. EMAIL US FOR MORE INFO Are GRE Scores required to apply to the Pharmacology Graduate Program? GRE Scores are not required to apply to our graduate program. How do I apply to the UW Pharmacology graduate PhD program? We consider top applicants who have prior research experience that can add to the diversity of our program. If you wish to apply, visit our admissions section for more information. To get started on your application, apply to the Graduate School on-line at https://www.grad.washington.edu/applForAdmiss/ Do you offer Application Fee Waivers? Please visit the UW Graduate School website for information on who qualifies for fee waivers, how to apply and FAQ’s at https://www.grad.washington.edu/admission/application-fee-waivers/ How long does it take to get a PhD in the Department of Pharmacology? The current time to earning the PhD is 5.5 years. This of course depends on your field of study, and how long it takes to complete your dissertation. For a year by year breakdown of the degree requirements please visit this page. How do I approach faculty to become a postdoctoral fellow? If interested in a postoctoral fellowship, we encourage you to contact the faculty member you wish to study with, directly. Please go to our people page and click on primary faculty. To learn more about their research, browse the Research section. YOUR PHARMACOLOGY ADVENTURE STARTS NOW A degree from the University of Washington in Pharmacology can open up career opportunities in academics, industry, policy, and venture investing. ADMISSIONS About Us Message from the Chair Diversity Locations Administration Research People Faculty Graduate Students Postdoctoral Fellows Quick Links Home Contact Us Make a Gift Privacy Policy Terms of Use University of Washington • School of Medicine Department of Pharmacology • Box 357280 Seattle, WA 98195-7280 • (206) 543-1970 phcol@uw.edu © 2022 The University of Washington Dept. of Pharmacology. All Rights Reserved