Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box College of Pharmacy Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search About History of the College News and Events Strategic Plan 2022 Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Contact Academic Programs Pharm.D. Program PharmD Early Assurance Program Pharm.D./Ph.D Pre-Pharmacy Ph.D. Program Student Resources Pharm.D/MBA Pharm.D./Ph.D How to Apply Experiential Education Residency/Post Graduate Research Pharmaceutical Sciences Center for Innovative Drug Delivery and Imaging High-Throughput Screening Seminar Schedule Pharmacy Practice Undergraduate Research Opportunities Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Directory Pharmaceutical Sciences Pharmacy Practice Resources Faculty Log in Alumni and Partners Rx for Success BeaveRx News Alumni MBA Pharmacy Job Openings Icons of Pharmacy Pharmacy Partners Women In Pharmacy Coast to Coast Supporting the College Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift About History of the College News and Events Strategic Plan 2022 Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Contact Academic Programs Pharm.D. Program PharmD Early Assurance Program Pharm.D./Ph.D Pre-Pharmacy Ph.D. Program Student Resources Pharm.D/MBA Pharm.D./Ph.D How to Apply Experiential Education Residency/Post Graduate Research Pharmaceutical Sciences Center for Innovative Drug Delivery and Imaging High-Throughput Screening Seminar Schedule Pharmacy Practice Undergraduate Research Opportunities Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Directory Pharmaceutical Sciences Pharmacy Practice Resources Faculty Log in Alumni and Partners Rx for Success BeaveRx News Alumni MBA Pharmacy Job Openings Icons of Pharmacy Pharmacy Partners Women In Pharmacy Coast to Coast Supporting the College Pre-Pharmacy Undergraduate Study Oregon State undergraduates who are interested in becoming pharmacists can choose any major, but should complete all of the prerequisite courses for the Pharm.D. program. Most pre-pharmacy undergraduates choose majors in the College of Science, and receive academic advising and other support services from that college while undergraduates. Many students choose to major in BioHealth Sciences with a Pre-Pharmacy option. Completing the prerequisite courses prepares students to apply to the Pharm.D. program. There are many benefits to completing your undergraduate prerequisite coursework at Oregon State, including opportunities to study and conduct research with College of Pharmacy faculty members, access to College of Pharmacy advisors, and participation in the Early Assurance Program. Apply for undergraduate admission to Oregon State through the Office of Admissions. Individuals who have already completed a bachelor's degree, but who want to take prerequisite courses at Oregon State, should apply for admission as post-baccalaureate or non-degree seeking students. Contact the Office of Admissions for more information. Contact Info College of Pharmacy Oregon State University Corvallis, OR 97331 Phone: 541.737.3424 Fax: 541.737.3999 Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook Twitter About History of the College News and Events Strategic Plan 2022 Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Contact Academic Programs Pharm.D. Program PharmD Early Assurance Program Pharm.D./Ph.D Pre-Pharmacy Ph.D. Program Pharm.D/MBA Pharm.D./Ph.D How to Apply Experiential Education Residency/Post Graduate Research Pharmaceutical Sciences Pharmacy Practice Undergraduate Research Opportunities Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Directory Pharmaceutical Sciences Pharmacy Practice Resources Faculty Log in Alumni and Partners Rx for Success BeaveRx News Alumni MBA Pharmacy Job Openings Icons of Pharmacy Pharmacy Partners Women In Pharmacy Coast to Coast Supporting the College