retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Skip to main content MENU Header Menu Directory News Events Giving Search Search Degrees & Programs Admissions Pharm D Graduate Studies Lester Entrepreneurial Scholars Student Organizations Student Services Learning Resource Center (LRC) Experiential + Residencies & Fellowships Experiential Programs Residencies & Fellowships Research & Practice College Divisions Collaborative Areas of Research Excellence Centers, Institutes, & Core Facilities Research Support Professional Development Pharmacy Career Services Continuing Pharmacy Education About Alumni Assessment College Policies Dean’s Office Diversity, Equity, Accessibility, & Inclusion History Pharm.D. Program Quality Indicators Strategic Plan Student Affairs Contact Us Breadcrumb Home Degrees & Programs Degrees & Programs Degrees & Programs Admissions Pharm D Graduate Studies Lester Entrepreneurial Scholars Student Organizations Student Services Learning Resource Center (LRC) Plan > Apply > Interview > Enroll The University of Texas at Austin is recognized as one of the top programs of pharmacy education in the country. We are excited that you are considering our program. The College of Pharmacy is located on the main campus about a block north of the Main Building and Tower. Each fall, approximately 125 new students are admitted, but the application process begins almost a year earlier. Get all the info on applying for admission Tuition & Financial Support Attaining a quality pharmacy education does not come without cost, so the College of Pharmacy has worked in partnership with generous donors to establish a wealth of scholarship opportunities. Approximately 85% of our students received some form of financial assistance from UT Austin’s Student Financial Services and/or the College of Pharmacy. Learn about Pharmacy tuition and assistance Pharmacy Doctorate The Pharmacy Doctorate (Pharm.D.) is the entry-level professional degree program. The curriculum is designed to prepare future practitioners to provide patient-oriented pharmaceutical care in contemporary settings including community practice, hospital environments and long-term care facilities. The professional curriculum takes an integrated approach to drug therapy management which emphasizes a problem-based approach to disease management as the core of the didactic and laboratory program of study. The capstone of the Pharm.D. program is a series of seven, six-week rotations, which provide on-site experience supervised by practitioner faculty. Learn more about the Pharm. D. program Graduate Studies The graduate studies program (M.S., Pharm.D./Ph.D, and Ph.D.) offers degree opportunities in the pharmaceutical sciences and a multi-institutional joint degree program in translational science. The Pharmaceutical Sciences graduate program offers specialized training in five different tracks: Health Outcomes & Pharmacy Practice, Chemical Biology and Medicinal Chemistry, Pharmaceutics, Pharmacology and Toxicology, and Pharmacotherapy. The Translational Science graduate program is designed to provide training in the area of translational research toward the goal of applying basic biomedical scientific discoveries into strategies that will improve healthcare delivery, patient outcomes, and community health. Learn more about the Graduate Studies program Our mission is to provide exemplary education, training, research, and professional development in the pharmaceutical sciences; to advance discovery, innovation, and patient care; and to provide service to the university, professional and scientific communities, and society. FacebookFind us on Facebook TwitterFind us on Twitter InstagramSee us on Instagram LinkedinFind us on Linkedin YoutubeSee us on Youtube Footer menu Directory News Events Giving UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022