skip to main content About Administration & Leadership Campuses Departments Diversity Directory First Generation Students History News Academics Admissions ASPIR2E Current Students PharmD PharmD-MBA PhD Program Preceptors Residency Programs Community Community Education Partnerships & Initiatives Professional Education Research Pharmacy Practice Pharmaceutical Sciences Research Contacts Coronavirus RCOP Key COVID-19 Information Give Search Search Close Menu Collapsed content that can be toggled with the menu button. Apply Alumni Contact News About Administration & Leadership Campuses Departments Diversity Directory History Academics Admissions ASPIR2E Current Students PharmD PharmD-MBA PhD Program Preceptors Residency Programs Community Community Education Partnerships & Initiatives Professional Education Research Pharmacy Practice Pharmaceutical Sciences Research Contacts Alumni Apply Calendars Contact College Directory Texas A&M Directory Employment Give News Parking Press & Media Webmail PharmD/MBA Double Degree Home Pharmacy Degrees PharmD/MBA Double Degree Doctor of Pharmacy Degree FAQs for Applicants How to Apply to the PharmD Program How To Be A Competitive Applicant PharmD/MBA Double Degree PharmD Curriculum Professional Licensure and Certification Disclosure Statements Recent Class Stats Tuition and Financial Aid Visit the College of Pharmacy Contact Student Affairs The Texas A&M Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy has partnered with the College of Business Administration at Texas A&M University-Kingsville to provide professional student pharmacists with an opportunity to earn a Master of Business Administration (MBA) while working towards a Doctor of Pharmacy (PharmD) degree. Students who choose to earn both a PharmD and MBA are not only well prepared for the clinical aspects of pharmacy practice, they also have the requisite knowledge, skills and training to pursue management positions within pharmacies. How the PharmD/MBA works Students must be enrolled in the PharmD program to apply for the PharmD/MBA program. Students apply for the MBA program near the end of the first professional (P1) year of the PharmD program. If accepted, PharmD students begin taking MBA courses during the summer before the second professional (P2) year begins. In general, PharmD/MBA students enroll in one MBA course during the fall and spring semesters of their P2 and third professional (P3) years, while enrolling in all required pharmacy courses. PharmD/MBA students may also enroll in two MBA courses during summer sessions. Students who participate in the PharmD/MBA program earn an MBA degree in less time, and at a lower expense, than if they pursue the two degrees individually. How to Apply to the PharmD/MBA Students interested in applying to the PharmD/MBA double degree program must: Be accepted into the PharmD program at the Rangel College of Pharmacy. Successfully complete the first (P1) year of the PharmD program and all pre-MBA foundations courses. Submit a letter of recommendation from the dean of the Rangel College of Pharmacy to: Texas A&M University-Kingsville, College of Business Administration MSC 182, 700 University Blvd. Kingsville, TX 78363-8202 Complete and submit an application on ApplyTexas.org. Please submit official PCAT scores in place of GRE or GMAT Scholarship Opportunities Merit-based scholarships are available through the Texas A&M University-Kingsville MBA program. Contact Amanda Barrera Texas A&M University-Kingsville MBA Program Coordinator Phone: 361.593.2501 MBA@tamuk.edu Kim Tanzer, PharmD, RPh Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, Clinical Professor of Pharmacy Practice 1010 W. Ave. B, Kingsville, Texas, 78363 Phone: 361.221.0620 kdtanzer@tamu.edu Facebook Twitter Instagram Flickr RSS YouTube Back to top Institution Health Science Center Dentistry Medicine Nursing Pharmacy Public Health Information Calendars Contact Us Diversity Emergency Information Emergency Plans Maps & Parking Press & Media Title IX Clery Annual Reports Resources Directory eCampus Facilities Work Request Howdy Portal Information Technology Intranet Libraries Mental Health Resources Webmail Texas A&M University · Texas A&M University System · State of Texas · Open Records · Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline · State Link Policy · Equal Opportunity / Nondiscrimination · Employment · Texas Veterans Portal · Security · Site Policies · Accessibility