Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS School of Pharmacy myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link Contact Events Select to follow link Campus Convention Calendar Pharmacy Summer Camp Departments Select to follow link Medicinal Chemistry Pharmaceutical Chemistry Pharmacology & Toxicology Pharmacy Practice Graduate Study in Neurosciences History Accreditation Status Educational Philosophy Nondiscrimination Policy Program Goals Strategic Plan Student Performance Give Academics Select to follow link Degrees Select to follow link Pharm.D. Select to follow link Program Overview Pharm.D. Dual Degrees Prerequisites Tuition Curriculum Select to follow link Pharm.D. Curriculum - Class of 2026 Pharm.D. Curriculum - Class of 2025 Pharm.D. Curriculum - Class of 2024 Pharm.D. Curriculum - Class of 2023 Pharm.D. Curriculum - Class of 2022 Sample Pre-Pharmacy Class Schedule Careers Why KU Pharmacy? About Our Students Pharm.D. - FAQ Apply - Pharm.D. Graduate Degrees Courses Experiential Education Select to follow link RxPreceptor Login Academic Support Graduate Programs Graduate School Deadlines Admissions Select to follow link Pharm.D. Select to follow link Apply - Pharm.D. Prerequisites Admissions FAQ Program Technical Standards Pharm.D. Overview Financial Aid Select to follow link Borchardt Award and Scholarships Matchett Award Multicultural Pharmacy Scholars Program Graduate Scholarly Presentation Travel Award Application Graduate Admissions Residencies People Select to follow link Administration Faculty Staff Emeritus Research News Resources Select to follow link Student Resources Faculty Resources Wichita-Specific Resources Student Organizations Select to follow link APhA-ASP ASCP CPFI IPhO Kappa Epsilon Kappa Psi NCPA PLS Research Rx Rho Chi SCCP SNPhA SSHP Drug Information Center Select to follow link Drug Information Center Overview Resources KU Resources Room Reservations STUCO Alumni Select to follow link Distinguished Service Award Give Graduate Programs Medicinal Chemistry Pharmaceutical Chemistry Pharmacology & Toxicology Pharmacy Practice Neuroscience myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo School of Pharmacy Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Academics Pharm.D. Program The KU School of Pharmacy offers one of the nation’s top-ranked Doctor of Pharmacy (Pharm.D.) programs. Graduates are pharmacy practitioners who work in a wide variety of settings, including retail, hospitals, academia, government, industry, managed care and more. The six-year course of study includes two years of pre-pharmacy coursework, three years of full-time classroom and laboratory work and a final year of clinical rotations. Learn More Apply Now Graduate Programs Medicinal Chemistry The KU Department of Medicinal Chemistry offers Master of Science (M.S.) and Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) degrees. Our world-class researchers cover a broad range of scientific interests, including synthetic and medicinal chemistry, biochemistry and peptide chemistry, and natural products chemistry. Learn about KU Medicinal Chemistry Pharmacology & Toxicology The KU Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology offers Master of Science (M.S.) and Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) degrees. Ph.D. students are prepared to teach and perform research at a university, pharmaceutical, biotechnology, or government laboratory setting. Learn about KU Pharmacology & Toxicology Pharmaceutical Chemistry The KU Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry offers Master of Science (M.S.) and Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) degrees. Students receive a strong background in the physical and chemical sciences as they relate to pharmaceutical research through a comprehensive set of coursework. Learn about KU Pharmaceutical Chemistry Pharmacy Practice The KU Department of Pharmacy Practice offers a Master of Science (M.S.) degree and residency programs. Faculty members teach students in the Pharm.D. Program and serve as mentors for the residents. They train students to be well-rounded pharmacists, regardless of their work setting. Our faculty specialize in a wide variety of areas including ambulatory care, cardiology, drug information, diabetes care, geriatrics, oncology and more. Learn about KU Pharmacy Practice Neurosciences The multidisciplinary KU Graduate Program in Neurosciences offers students broadly based training in neuroscience and advanced training in specialized research areas. Learn about KU Neuroscience School of Pharmacy 2010 Becker Drive Lawrence, KS 66047-1620 Bus Route: 41 pharmacy@ku.edu 785-864-3591 facebook twitter linkedin Medicinal Chemistry Pharmaceutical Chemistry Pharmacology & Toxicology Pharmacy Practice Neuroscience Pharmacy Summer Camp Give to KU Pharmacy Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.