retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Skip to main content MENU Header Menu Directory News Events Giving Search Search Degrees & Programs Admissions Pharm D Graduate Studies Lester Entrepreneurial Scholars Student Organizations Student Services Learning Resource Center (LRC) Experiential + Residencies & Fellowships Experiential Programs Residencies & Fellowships Research & Practice College Divisions Collaborative Areas of Research Excellence Centers, Institutes, & Core Facilities Research Support Professional Development Pharmacy Career Services Continuing Pharmacy Education About Alumni Assessment College Policies Dean’s Office Diversity, Equity, Accessibility, & Inclusion History Pharm.D. Program Quality Indicators Strategic Plan Student Affairs Contact Us Breadcrumb Home Degrees & Programs Pharm D Pharm D Degrees & Programs Admissions Pharm D Course of Study Syllabi: Required Pharmacy Courses Syllabi: Electives & Signature Courses Research Programs (Honors & Ph.D.) International Exchange (UT-Pharmobility) Graduate Studies Lester Entrepreneurial Scholars Student Organizations Student Services Learning Resource Center (LRC) The professional curriculum is structured around an integrated approach to drug therapy management. The Pharm.D. program emphasizes an integrated and problem-based approach to disease management as the core of the didactic and laboratory program of study. The capstone of the Pharm.D. program is a series of seven, six-week rotations known as the internship. Each internship course includes 40 to 50 hours per week of on-site experience (Experiential Programs) supervised by practitioner faculty. Visit our admissions pages for information about eligibility and applying. Doctorate of Pharmacy (Pharm D) Introductory professional degree Research Programs Includes the Honors Program and the Sequential Pharm D & PhD International Exchange Also called "UT Pharmobility" The Pharm.D. Student Affairs office provides a variety of opportunities and services to support admissions and academic advising, along with enhancing students’ character, community, and career-readiness. Visit the Student Affairs page to learn more. Pharm.D. Student Affairs Pharm. D. Curriculum Visit Syllabi for Required Pharmacy Courses for specific courses. First Year [P1] P1 Fall Semester Pharm Biochem (3) Phys & Chem Drugs (3) Med Chem Principles (1) Basic Pharm Sci Lab (1) Biopharmaceutics (2) Physiology/Pathophysiology I (4) Pharm Communications (1) Foundations of Patient-Centered Care (FPCC) I (1) Pharmacy Practice Lab (PPL) I (1) Foundations of Professional Development (FPD) I (1) Foundations of Interprofessional Collaborative Practice (FICP) I (1) —- Total (19 SCH) P1 Spring Semester Health Behavior and Health Outcomes (2) Pharm Biochem II (2) Pharmaceutics (3) Pharmaceutics Lab (1) Physiology/Pathophysiology II (4) PTher of Vaccine-Preventable Diseases (1) Biomed and Professional Ethics (1) Foundations of Patient Centered Care (FPCC) II (1) Pharmacy Practice Lab (PPL) II (1) Foundations of Professional Development (FPD) II (1) Foundations of Interprofessional Collaborative Practice (FICP) II (1) —- Total (18 SCH) Second Year [P2] P2 Fall Semester Non-Rx PTher I (2) Drug Info/Evidence Based Practice (2) Healthcare Systems (3) PTher of the Renal and Autonomic Systems (1) PTher of the Respiratory System (1) PTher of the Cardiovascular System (3) Pharmacy Practice Lab (PPL) III (1) Foundations of Professional Development (FPD) III (1) Foundations of Interprofessional Collaborative Practice (FICP) III (1) Professional Elective(s) (3) —- Total (18 SCH) Patient Counseling (half of the students) (1) P2 Spring Semester Pharmacokinetics (3) Non-RX PTher II (2) Non-RX PTher IPPE (1) PTher of the GI System and Nutrition (2) PTher of Diabetes (1) PTher of Infectious Diseases (4) Pharmacy Practice Lab (PPL) IV (1) Foundations of Professional Development (FPD) IV (1) Foundations of Interprofessional Collaborative Practice (FICP) IV (1) Professional Elective(s) (2) —- Total (18 SCH) Patient Counseling (half of the students) (1) P2 Summer Semester Institutional IPPE (3) —- Total (3 SCH) Third Year [P3] P3 Fall Semester IV Admixtures (1) IV Admixtures Lab (1) Adv Evidence-Based Practice (2) PTher of the Endocrine Sys (1) PTher of Oncology and Transplant (2) PTher of the Reproductive Sys (1) PTher of Derm and Inflammation (1) Community IPPE (2) Ambulatory IPPE (1) Pharmacy Practice Lab (PPL) V (1) Foundations of Professional Development (FPD) V (1) Foundations of Interprofessional Collaborative Practice (FICP) V (1) Professional Elective(s) (3) —- Total (18 SCH) P3 Spring Semester Pharmacy Law (3) Pharmacoeconomics and Pharmacy Mgmt (3) PTher of Pain and Addiction (2) PTher of Psychiatric Disorders (2) PTher of Neurologic Disorders (1) Pharmacy Practice Lab (PPL) VI (1) Foundations of Professional Development (FPD) VI (1) Foundations of Interprofessional Collaborative Practice (FICP) VI (1) Professional Elective(s) (3) —- Total (17 SCH) Fourth Year [P4] Rotations P4 Summer Semester Rotation #1 (6) —- Total (6 SCH) P4 Fall Semester Rotation #2 (6) Rotation #3 (6) Rotation #4 (6) —- Total (18 SCH) P4 Spring Semester Rotation #5 (6) Rotation #6 (6) Rotation #7 (6) —- Total (18 SCH) Advising for Pharm.D. Students The College of Pharmacy takes pride in providing excellence in academic advising through a team of informed, dedicated advisors who help students navigate through the opportunities the Pharm.D. curriculum has to offer while providing direction in career path explorations. The academic advising office follows an open door policy in that we encourage pharmacy students to drop by the office to see if an advisor is available. However, in the event an advisor is not available, setting up an appointment at the front desk or contacting them via email then would be recommended. Academic advising within the College of Pharmacy not only encompasses advising on course direction. We also provide resource guidance in personal concerns/issues that may affect an academic outcome. Our office is here to support our students in successfully completing the Pharm.D. program and hopefully be a part of their development and growth of becoming the best pharmacist possible. Pharm.D. Admissions & Advising Office Hours: Monday- Friday, 8:00am - 5:00pm No appointments/visits between 12:00pm and 1:00pm Walk-ins welcome, but appointments highly recommended. Renee Acosta, R.Ph., M.S. Associate Dean for Academic Affairs Clinical Professor of Pharmacy Practice Abbott Centennial Fellow in Pharmacy Provost’s Teaching Fellow Health IPE Fellow Gregory Caldera Director of Admissions & Student Services Lynn Douglass Senior Academic Program Coordinator Patricia Gutierrez Academic Advising Coordinator Justin Samuel, Ph.D. Assistant Dean for Student Affairs Assistant Professor of Practice Our mission is to provide exemplary education, training, research, and professional development in the pharmaceutical sciences; to advance discovery, innovation, and patient care; and to provide service to the university, professional and scientific communities, and society. FacebookFind us on Facebook TwitterFind us on Twitter InstagramSee us on Instagram LinkedinFind us on Linkedin YoutubeSee us on Youtube Footer menu Directory News Events Giving UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022