Skip to main content Search Take a Tour Request Information Message from the Dean Diversity Apply TUMAIL TUPORTAL School of Pharmacy School of Pharmacy Admissions PharmD - How to Apply PhD/MS, Pharmaceutical Sciences - How to Apply Admissions Requirements - All Programs International Applicants Tuition and Financial Aid Academics PharmD Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance (RAQA) PhD/MS, Pharmaceutical Sciences MS, Regulatory Affairs & Quality Assurance MS, Pharmaceutical Regulatory Sciences (non-thesis) Certificate Programs, Regulatory Affairs & Quality Assurance MS, Global Clinical & Pharmacovigilance Regulations (GCPR) Pharmacy Practice Residency Programs Student Resources Research Research Faculty Moulder Center Proteomics Facility In Vitro ADME and Pharmacokinetics Jayne Haines Center Current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) Services Student Research Opportunities Giving Give Now Where to Give How to Give Donor Recognition Endowments & Other Ways to Give Alumni About Accreditation Statement History Take a Tour Office of the Dean Department of Pharmacy Practice Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences Office of Student Services Office of Experiential Education Office of Admissions Museum and Gallery Libraries Frequently Asked Questions News Contact Become a Preceptor Adjunct Faculty Guidelines Student Pharmacist (PHARMD) Newsletters Graduate Student Newsletters (AAPS Chapter) Graduate Students Office of Admissions ≡ Menu Admissions PharmD - How to Apply PhD/MS, Pharmaceutical Sciences - How to Apply Admissions Requirements - All Programs International Applicants Tuition and Financial Aid Academics PharmD Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance (RAQA) PhD/MS, Pharmaceutical Sciences MS, Regulatory Affairs & Quality Assurance MS, Pharmaceutical Regulatory Sciences (non-thesis) Certificate Programs, Regulatory Affairs & Quality Assurance MS, Global Clinical & Pharmacovigilance Regulations (GCPR) Pharmacy Practice Residency Programs Student Resources Research Research Faculty Moulder Center Proteomics Facility In Vitro ADME and Pharmacokinetics Jayne Haines Center Current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) Services Student Research Opportunities Giving Give Now Where to Give How to Give Donor Recognition Endowments & Other Ways to Give Alumni About Accreditation Statement History Take a Tour Office of the Dean Department of Pharmacy Practice Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences Office of Student Services Office of Experiential Education Office of Admissions Museum and Gallery Libraries Frequently Asked Questions News Contact Become a Preceptor Adjunct Faculty Guidelines Student Pharmacist (PHARMD) Newsletters Graduate Student Newsletters (AAPS Chapter) Graduate Students Office of Admissions Celebrate the class of 2022 Click above to watch the ceremony, view the program, and more. Click to learn more Apply Now for Fall 2022 Click to learn more Now accepting applications for Fall 2022. Click to take the tour now Explore labs, classrooms, and more. Click to learn more Now accepting Pre- and Post-Master applications Virtual Tour Pharm.D. Graduate Certificate Residency About The Pharm.D. Program The Pharm. D. program offers a dynamic curriculum preparing students for practice in clinical, academic, industrial and government settings. Our students have numerous opportunities to differentiate their professional degree with elective offerings. Admission Requirements Courses and Curriculum Technical Standards Graduate Program Modern research facilities with cutting edge technology and faculty with extensive research backgrounds afford our graduate students comprehensive and real world experiences. The MS in Quality Assurance and Regulatory Affairs features advanced courses in the quality principles and regulatory issues affecting today's pharmaceutical industry. Admission Requirements (MS/Ph.D.) Courses and Curriculum (MS/Ph.D.) Admission Requirements (MS in QA/RA) Courses and Curriculum (MS in QA/RA) Online and Classroom Choose from a wide range of specialized certificate programs in Quality Assurance and Regulatory Affairs. Courses can be completed online, or at night and on weekends at our suburban Fort Washington campus. Learn About Certificates Courses and Curriculum About The Residency Program Our ASHP accredited programs in association with the Temple University Health System offer PGY-1 and PGY-2 rotations in exciting clinical settings with highly experienced board certified clinicians. Become a Pharmacy Resident PharmD Program News 2021 NAPLEX Pass Rate School Pass Rate 85.5% National Pass Rate 83.7% Pharmacy College Admissions Test (PCAT) No Longer Required Shape your future. Start today. TUSP Video Supplemental Application Fee Waived* 1901 The year Temple School of Pharmacy was founded 35 Different countries represented at the School of Pharmacy 8500+ Alumni from Temple's School of Pharmacy 389 Different experiential sites offered for students Faculty in the Department of Pharmaceutical Receive Cannabis Grant Funding In July 2020, two Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences faculty received funding from Laurel Harvest Labs in partnership with Temple University Hospital to leverage the medicinal potential of cannabis... Read more on Faculty in the Department... The PY4 Global Health Rotation Kept it Local in 2020 Temple University School of Pharmacy students kept it local-global during the COVID-19 pandemic. Watch the video tribute. Each year, Nicole Sifontis, Pharm.D., FCCP, BCPS, Clinical Professor in the De... Read more on The PY4 Global Health... Research Facilities Moulder Center for Drug Discovery Research Jayne Haines Center Center for Pharmacogenomics cGMP Services Current Good Manufacturing Practices Proteomics Laboratory Pharmacokinetics and Bioanalysis Laboratory Libraries Temple Health Sciences Libraries Temple University School of Pharmacy 3307 North Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19140 Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact School of Pharmacy Facebook Twitter YouTube Linkedin Instagram Flickr Navigation - Global TUPortal TUMail Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Copyright , Temple University. All rights reserved.