retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Skip to main content MENU Header Menu Directory News Events Giving Search Search Degrees & Programs Admissions Pharm D Graduate Studies Lester Entrepreneurial Scholars Student Organizations Student Services Learning Resource Center (LRC) Experiential + Residencies & Fellowships Experiential Programs Residencies & Fellowships Research & Practice College Divisions Collaborative Areas of Research Excellence Centers, Institutes, & Core Facilities Research Support Professional Development Pharmacy Career Services Continuing Pharmacy Education About Alumni Assessment College Policies Dean’s Office Diversity, Equity, Accessibility, & Inclusion History Pharm.D. Program Quality Indicators Strategic Plan Student Affairs Contact Us Breadcrumb Home Degrees & Programs Student Services Student Services College Resources Degrees & Programs Admissions Pharm D Graduate Studies Lester Entrepreneurial Scholars Student Organizations Student Services Learning Resource Center (LRC) Learning Resources Center (LRC) The College’s Learning Resource Center (LRC) offers a variety of instructional resources to students and faculty members. The LRC provides state-of-the-art two-way digital video teleconferencing transmission of core curriculum courses among the Austin campus, the Health Science Center in San Antonio, and sites in the Rio Grande Valley, and Dallas so that faculty members can teach students at two or more locations simultaneously. Many of these courses are available streaming through Canvas. The staff of the LRC provide faculty members and students with computer hardware and software consulting as well as advice on the use of media in the classroom. Facilities and equipment are available for video and data projection, and the College’s web site provides additional informational and curriculum support for students and faculty. The goal of the Learning Resource Center is to provide the highest quality learning technology infrastructure and support services. Academic Advising Academic advising will be conducted by an academic advisor each semester prior to the registration cycle opening. Students are required to attend an academic advising session in order to register for classes. Academic advising is available at all times by appointment. Student should contact the Student Affairs Office for appointments with an academic advisor or the Assistant Dean for Admissions and Advising. College of Pharmacy Peer Tutoring Through the generous support of the College’s Pharmaceutical Foundation, the college is able to support a tutoring program for pharmacy students who find themselves in academic difficulty. Upperclassmen who have done well in courses are recruited to help students adjust to the challenges of a professional curriculum. Students who received an A or a strong B in a pharmacy course and are interested in becoming a tutor should fill out the appropriate paperwork at the Student Affairs Office and to receive a “Guide for Tutors”. Students who need assistance from a tutor should fill out the appropriate paperwork at the Student Affairs Office. Financial Aid Financial Assistance and Scholarships are available through The College Of Pharmacy. The College of Pharmacy has worked in partnership with generous donors to establish a wealth of scholarship opportunities for both Pharm.D. and graduate students. Approximately 85% of our students received some form of financial assistance from UT Austin’s Student Financial Services and/or the College of Pharmacy. Computer Access Students are required to have a laptop computer that is able to run Microsoft Office and the Mac OS X (10.9 or later) or Windows (7, 8, Vista or 10) operating system. While many students choose to use tablets or other mobile devices for a variety of classroom activities, there will be times when a laptop computer, as described above, is required. If you are uncertain if your laptop meets these requirements, or need a recommendation on purchasing a new laptop, please contact Charles Guajardo at the College of Pharmacy Learning Resource Center. The University of Texas has a financial arrangement with Microsoft that allows students to purchase Microsoft Office Suite at a much reduced rate. For a complete list of available products, pricing, and payment information, please contact the Campus Computer Store. Job Placement The College of Pharmacy conducts several events during the year to assist students with finding practice opportunities upon graduation. Through the college’s Foundations of Professional Development (FPD) course sequence, students are exposed to a variety of different career options including post-graduate education and training opportunities including graduate degree options, residencies, and fellowships. Working collaboratively with the college’s student professional organizations, career events are hosted throughout the year including residency showcases, mock interview and CV writing workshops, career fairs, and onsite interviews. The College conducts a P4 Senior Interview Day during the fall semester for the benefit of graduating seniors seeking professional practice positions. Prior to this event, students are provided with information regarding available positions with local, state, and national pharmacist employers and given the opportunity to sign up for interviews with these companies. At least sixty percent of graduating seniors participate in Senior Interview Day and many are successful in gaining employment as a result of their interviews. Students that do not participate in this event utilize other mechanisms for attaining employment following graduation. Students who are pursuing residency and/or graduate programs, apply to these programs directly outside of the P4 Senior Interview Day. The College makes no promise to secure employment for each graduate. Additionally, the College in conjunction with the UT College of Pharmacy Chapter of the American Pharmacists Association Academy of Student Pharmacists (UT-APhA-ASP) and UT Chapter of the American Society of Health-System Pharmacists (UTSSHP) conducts Career Day each fall prior to P4 Senior Interview Day. College of Pharmacy students are invited to visit with major pharmacist employers, residency program directors, and graduate program representatives to learn more about career opportunities in the profession. CARE Counselor - Laura Dupuis, LCSW-S Laura Dupuis (pronouns: she/her) is a Counselor in the Counselors in Academic Residence (CARE) Program, a program that provides mental health services in academic offices to facilitate students' academic and life goals. She provides clinical services two days a week in the College of Pharmacy. Office: PHR 2.102A Pharmacy phone: (512) 232-5923 CMHC office: (512) 475-6914. Please leave a message with your EID. Office hours are Tuesdays from 11 a.m to noon and Fridays from 1 to 2 p.m. For more information about mental health services on campus: www.cmhc.utexas.edu Career Counseling The college provides career counseling to students in the professional sequence of courses. Throughout the year, staff is available in the Office of Student Affairs to assist students in examining the career options available to them upon graduation. In addition, a systematic exploration of professional career options is conducted as part of the Foundations of Professional Development (FPD) course sequence. Guest lecturers include successful pharmacists representing a variety of pharmacy practice models, other health care and regulatory settings, careers in professional organizations, education, research, and the pharmaceutical industry. The College of Pharmacy, under the supervision of the Assistant Dean for Student Affairs, conducts a P4 senior interview day for graduating seniors. This event gives seniors an opportunity to interview for professional practice positions with major employers of pharmacists in Texas and throughout the nation. A workshop including mock interviews is conducted to prepare students for interviews and is held prior to the P4 senior interview day. A college-wide Career Day each fall, featuring major employers, allows students in all years of the curriculum to interact with numerous pharmacist employers and explore practice opportunities. The college also facilitates interaction between employers and professional students interested in obtaining competitive internships. More information on this process is provided to all students during the first professional year. A limited number of competitive internships both in and outside of Texas are available by application only. Information is available in the Office of Student Affairs, Pharmacy Building 5.112; from individual faculty members; and via the student’s own internship search. As a complement to the assistance available from the college, the University’s Vick Center for Strategic Advising and Career Counseling in the School of Undergraduate Studies provides comprehensive career services to all students. The center offers professional assistance to students in choosing or changing their majors or careers, seeking an internship, and planning for a job search or graduate study. The University makes no promise to secure employment for each graduate. Students of Pharmacy Recovery Network (SPRN) The purpose of the Student Pharmacist Recovery Network (SPRN) is to provide resources to help fight the stigma against mental health, substance misuse/dependence, and recovery. It was designed by conscientious students, faculty members, and staff members of the college. SPRN students, faculty, and staff members are able to refer others to the appropriate University and Austin resources that best address their particular needs. To focus pharmacy student activities in the college on educating others about drug problems including overuse, misuse, and addiction, and how the healthcare team works together in their diagnosis and treatment; To enhance interprofessional collaboration in these areas among health professional students at the university; To provide an organization that can serve as a safety net for information and referral to help students who are having problems with mental and drug issues; To advocate for curricular changes that will increase pharmacy students’ knowledge about how to handle drug problems in patients. If you need assistance or think you know someone that does, please contact the PRN helpline with the Texas Pharmacy Association at 1-800-727-5152. Other sources of help are: The University of Texas at Austin Alcohol and other Drugs Counseling Program (512) 471- 3515. The University of Texas Counseling and Mental Health Center at (512) 471-3515 or the 24-hour hotline at (512) 471-CALL. More detailed information on the SPRN committee is outlined in a brochure available through the Office Student Affairs. University Resources The Vick Center If slow reading or other study-related problems are wasting too much of your valuable time as a pharmacy student, the Vick Center for Strategic Advising and Career Counseling may be able to help. Many topics such as study techniques, time management, note-taking, memory, concentration, procrastination, paper writing, “test anxiety desensitization,” and speed reading are offered in free one-month classes or by instant self-help reference in the LSC library lab. Additionally, focus groups that meet just once are offered to explain the major points of certain study-related topics. These programs and many more academic aids can be found in A332, Jester Center (471-3614), and many are available at the Center’s web site. Student Ombuds If the University seems to be strangling you with red tape, don’t despair. There is a place that can help — the Office of the Student Ombuds. The Ombuds’ staff serves as a neutral third party, investigating non-legal, UT-related student complaints. Counselors assist students with problems such as grade disputes, parking citations, and registration and financial bars. The Ombuds’ Office represents neither the University nor the student, but serves as an advocate for fairness. That impartiality has earned the office respect from all parts of the University community — administration, faculty, and students. The Ombuds, as well as the three Assistant Ombuds, are students with substantial personal experience in the University environment. They understand students’ problems and know the path of least resistance to have them resolved. If it seems as if the University bureaucracy is hunting you down, contact them. They’ll help set you free from the red tape monster. Parking and Shuttle Buses Cars, parking, and traffic are major topics of conversation and frustration every semester. A student may register a car belonging to himself/herself, his/her parent, or his/her spouse, and is eligible to purchase a C parking permit. Motorcycles need an M permit. Even students with a parking permit are not assured of a parking space since permit parking is on a first-come, first- served basis. If parking tickets are not paid in 12 calendar days, the fine will include a late service charge. In the absence of satisfactory parking for all students, many choose to ride shuttle buses from areas in the city having a high concentration of students. A portion of the Student Services Fee pays for this service; therefore, students with a valid ID may ride the buses as needed without further charge. In some cases, students may be able to catch the bus near their homes, and in others, students drive to a remote parking lot from which they may catch buses. University Health Services The University Health Services in the first floor of the Student Services Building at 100 W. Dean Keeton offers to University students services in general medicine, gynecology, internal medicine, orthopedics, nutrition and health education. Laboratory, radiology, pharmacy and physical therapy services are provided to support the primary care areas. A portion of the Student Services Fee paid by enrolled students each semester covers the cost of clinic visits during regular clinic hours. Student Health Insurance is available to cover the cost of some services not covered by the Student Services Fee. Further information concerning the Student Health Insurance plan may be obtained from the SHC Accounts and Insurance office. Services for Students with Disabilities The University of Texas at Austin provides a variety of special programs and services to assist students with disabilities in their academic pursuits. Based on the needs of the individual, many different kinds of services are offered to students with visual impairments, hearing impairments, mobility impairments, learning disabilities, and other disabilities. Staff in the area also work with faculty and staff to ensure that all University classes and services are accessible to all students. The office is in the fourth floor of the Student Services Building. The phone number is 471-6259. The Speech and Hearing Center, located in CMA 2.200, provides evaluation, remediation, and referral services for speech and hearing problems. These services are rendered on a sliding fee scale. Their phone number is 471-3841. The Texas Commission for the Blind, Flawn Academic Center, Room 7, 471-6693, has a professional staff available for academic, career, and personal counseling. Reserved reading rooms and tape recorders are provided in the Undergraduate Library ( Flawn Academic Center). Office of the Dean of Students The Office of the Dean of Students is committed to helping all students at the University of Texas at Austin reach their fullest potential. Our office provides a variety of student support services along with opportunities for leadership experience, diverse student work environments, engaging programming and specialized resources. The Office of the Dean of Students includes 10 specialized units: Leadership and Ethics Institute, Legal Services for Students, Legislative Student Organizations, Dean of Students Research Institute, Sorority and Fraternity Life, Student Activities, Student Conduct and Academic Integrity, Student Emergency Services, Student Veteran Services, and Title IX Training and Investigations. UT Student Child Care Center (UTSCCC) UTSCCC provides part-time child care for University student, faculty and staff families. Space is limited, so there is often a waiting list. Wait times vary between 1 and 3 years depending on the age of the child. Younger ages have longer waiting lists. Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid Financial assistance is a necessity for many students. Aid can come in the form of scholarships, loans, or grants. To apply for financial aid, a student must fill out a Free Application for Federal Student Aid, available from the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid (475-6282). Texas One Stop for Student Success Texas One Stop offers an integrated website to maximize services to students and make it easier for them to get help with registration, financial aid, and billing in one central location. It also includes Bevo Bot, an automated chatbot to provide immediate answers to questions and connect students to resources. Texas Union The Texas Union is the community center of the University, and its programs, service centers and facilities are open to all students, faculty and staff. It’s almost easier to list activities and services that don’t take place through the Union than to list those that do. Programs and services include food, recreation, entertainment, special events, and study space locations. Legal Aid The Legal Services for Students’ Office offers many resources. The three Students’ Attorneys, a Legal Assistant, and a law clerk staff advise students on problems of landlord and tenant disputes, consumer protection, employee rights, auto accidents, traffic tickets, insurance, and most legal areas affecting students. The attorneys and law clerks are available by appointment only The International Office The College of Pharmacy, along with other UT schools and colleges, is comprised of students of varying nationalities. The International Office can advise international students concerning finances, housing, legal affairs, employment, immigration status, and personal problems. Instruction in English as a second language is available throughout the calendar year. Informal gatherings and weekly English classes are given, with transportation and child care provided. Many other programs are offered as well. Libraries UT Library System A student just wouldn’t look natural without a book, and that holds for Pharmacy students as well as English majors. Buying all the necessary references for all professional sequence courses would take a Howard Hughes’ checking account; but fortunately, many are on reserve in the various libraries of the UT Library System. The University Library System, the sixth largest academic library in the United States, includes the General Libraries, the Tarlton Law Library, and the Harry Ransom Humanities Research Center. The General Libraries consist of the Perry-Castaneda Library, the Undergraduate Library, eight branch libraries, the Wasserman Public Affairs library, and various special collections. These units together house more than six million volumes, covering almost all fields of academic and scientific research. The Undergraduate Library or Flawn Academic Center (FAC), is designed as a central area for study for all students on the campus, and is only one block from the College. Areas for individual and group study are readily available. See Pharmacy students may expect to find the majority of the resources they need online through strong cooperation between the Life Sciences Library and the College. The portal for these resources is the Clinical Information Center. Reference assistance is provided in the Life Science Library from 8:00 am to 5:00 pm, Monday through Friday. The library staff can assist with additional information on library services, library collections, or with specific reference questions. Instruction and orientation services are available upon request. Related Collections Medical material in the Life Science Library is complemented by the psychology and nursing collections of the Perry-Castaneda Library. Perry-Castaneda Library and the Public Affairs Library house collections relevant to health education, the health care industry, and health care policy. The Mallet Chemistry Library, WEL 2.132, provides complementary collections in biochemistry, nutrition, and medicinal chemistry. The McKinney Engineering Library, ECJ 1.300, is a depository library for United States patents. Patents are a valuable pharmacy information source, especially for pharmaceutics. UT Library Online Catalog The UT Library Online Catalog Plus (UTCAT) provides access to the vast array for resources available to the campus. Resources are also available to campus electronic holding off campus as well. If there are any problems with any of the libraries, complaints can be directed to the Chairman of the College’s Academic Support Committee, or to any of the librarians in charge of each library. They are eager to be of assistance, and suggestions are welcome. Study Areas Since a great deal of study time is spent on campus, it is important to find just the right study spot to get the most work done. The Life Science Library, with its wealth of resources, is a great place to get lots of work done. Also, there are areas with large tables where group work may be completed without disturbance. The Chemistry Library in Welch is also a good place to work, especially if you like soft chairs and large tables on which to spread your work. The Delgado Library of the Learning Resource Center is located in PHR 3.114 in the College of Pharmacy is a favorite study space for students alone or in groups. The Undergraduate Library (FAC) has extensive study areas on the first floor, and is available 24/7. The atmosphere is very formal and good for individual work. Conference rooms are available for group studying. For those of us who are “night owls,” studying best at midnight, the Law Library (Townes Hall, Room 211 at the Law School) is a quiet place to study after most of the other libraries close. The Physics-Math-Astronomy Library (Robert Lee Moore Hall 4.200) is nearby with an atmosphere similar to that in the Undergraduate Library. The Engineering Library in Cockrell Hall, the Perry-Castenada Library, and the Biology Library all provide additional quiet study places. Some pharmacy students like to study in the empty classrooms of the Pharmacy, Burdine, and the Hackerman Sciences Building. Others prefer quiet outdoor areas, weather permitting — these may be found on the balcony of the fifth floor in the Pharmacy Building and on all sides of the exterior of the Pharmacy Buildings. Pharmacy Building hours are 7:30 a.m.-10:00 p.m., Monday – Friday, and 7:30 a.m.-6:00 p.m. Saturday. Try one or try them all; studying will definitely help you get through Pharmacy School! Our mission is to provide exemplary education, training, research, and professional development in the pharmaceutical sciences; to advance discovery, innovation, and patient care; and to provide service to the university, professional and scientific communities, and society. FacebookFind us on Facebook TwitterFind us on Twitter InstagramSee us on Instagram LinkedinFind us on Linkedin YoutubeSee us on Youtube Footer menu Directory News Events Giving UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022