retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Skip to main content MENU Header Menu Directory News Events Giving Search Search Degrees & Programs Admissions Pharm D Graduate Studies Lester Entrepreneurial Scholars Student Organizations Student Services Learning Resource Center (LRC) Experiential + Residencies & Fellowships Experiential Programs Residencies & Fellowships Research & Practice College Divisions Collaborative Areas of Research Excellence Centers, Institutes, & Core Facilities Research Support Professional Development Pharmacy Career Services Continuing Pharmacy Education About Alumni Assessment College Policies Dean’s Office Diversity, Equity, Accessibility, & Inclusion History Pharm.D. Program Quality Indicators Strategic Plan Student Affairs Contact Us Breadcrumb Home Research & Practice Centers, Institutes, & Core Facilities Centers, Institutes, & Core Facilities Research & Practice College Divisions Collaborative Areas of Research Excellence Centers, Institutes, & Core Facilities Addiction Science Research & Education Center Center for Molecular Carcinogenesis and Toxicology Drug Dynamics Institute Targeted Therapeutic Drug Discovery & Development Program Texas Center for Health Outcomes Research & Education (TxCORE) Research Support College of Pharmacy-based Centers, Institutes, and Core Facilities Addiction Science Research & Education Center The Addiction Science Research & Education Center communicates the latest findings in addiction science as a service to professionals, clinicians, and the public. Center for Molecular Carcinogenesis & Toxicology The CMCT fosters interdisciplinary research collaborations and provides the prerequisite ancillary research infrastructure to support interdisciplinary graduate training programs. Center participants represent a wide variety of scientific disciplines: Pharmacology, Toxicology, Chemical Biology & Medicinal Chemistry, Pharmaceutics, Neuroscience, Nutrition, Biochemistry, Chemistry, Marine Biology, and Civil and Mechanical Engineering. Drug Dynamics Institute The Drug Dynamic Institute (DDI) is a multi-disciplinary research center where scientists, educators, businesses and regulatory agencies collaborate in finding solutions to a wide range of biomedical, pharmaceutical and public health issues. The DDI brings together an extensive network of faculty and researchers to cultivate ideas and programs that enhance the discovery, development and commercialization of human disease therapies. Targeted Therapeutic Drug Discovery & Development Program The goal of TTDDDP is focused on assisting cancer scientists and clinicians by utilizing a truly integrated approach of targeted molecular drug discovery, uniting every key discipline to achieve their goals in a single platform. Texas Center for Health Outcomes Research & Education (TxCORE) TxCORE (formerly the Center for Pharmacoeconomic Studies) is comprised of faculty and researchers with skills in health outcomes research, pharmacoeconomics, epidemiology, public health, patient health behavior, and clinical practice. Our mission is to be a leader in addressing population and individual patient health through innovative, high-quality research and education, and to serve our community by responding to critical health care issues that impact patients’ daily lives. Associated Institutes and Centers with the College of Pharmacy The Center for Health Interprofessional Practice and Education (IPE) The Center for Health IPE serves as UT Austin’s central body to promote innovative learning experiences, disseminate best practices, convene key health and education stakeholders, and champion impact-driven scholarship that advances collaborative, person-centered care. In partnership with the College of Pharmacy, Dell Medical School, School of Nursing, and Steve Hicks School of Social Work, the Center for Health IPE supports programs that advance interprofessional education among health professions learners on campus and in the community. The Center for Infectious Disease Established in 2013, the John Ring LaMontagne Center for Infectious Disease (CID) bridges the gap between basic and translational research into microbial and viral pathogenesis. These efforts also include characterizing and predicting the spread of infectious diseases through populations, and supporting programs to define the human and animal responses to challenge by infectious agents and how human genetics impact susceptibility to infection. Waggoner Center for Alcohol and Addiction Research at the University of Texas The Center (WCAAR) was established in 1999 as an organized research unit of UT’s College of Natural Sciences. WCAAR’s objective is to create the world’s premier center for alcohol and addiction research, thereby developing solutions for the prevention and cure of alcoholism. The Institute for Cellular and Molecular Biology In 1993 The University established the Institute for Cellular and Molecular Biology to focus efforts on the revolutionary developments occurring in molecular biology, genetics, cell biology, and genomics. The University of Texas Institute for Neuroscience The Institute of Neuroscience is the intellectual and administrative center for neuroscience research at the University of Texas at Austin. The Cancer Therapy & Research Center at University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio The Cancer Therapy & Research Center (CTRC) is one of only four National Cancer Institute-designated Cancer Centers in Texas. CTRC specialists bring a multidisciplinary approach to cancer care through cancer prevention, diagnosis, patient care treatments, clinical trials and research. The CTRC offers integrated, multidisciplinary care by the world’s leading experts in different types of cancer. Core Facilities in other colleges at UT Austin Center for Biomedical Research Support The Center for Biomedical Research Support (CBRS) provides access to cutting-edge technology and expert advice to enhance research. University Core Facility Listing A research core facility is a shared research facility that houses specialized scientific instruments and provides expert consultation and services to investigators. Additional Partnerships Dell Medical School UT’s College of Pharmacy (COP) collaborates with the Dell Medical School’s Dell Pediatric Research Institute (DPRI) to translate research findings into practical health applications. DPRI is Dell Medical School’s state-of-the-art medical research facility designed to advance understanding of childhood diseases and disorders. Dell Pediatric Research Institute The Dell Pediatric Research Institute (DPRI) is The University of Texas at Austin’s state-of-the-art medical research facility designed to advance understanding of childhood diseases and disorders. The DPRI collaboration with College of Pharmacy researchers translates research findings into practical health applications. Industry Engagement The UT College of Pharmacy (COP) creates partnerships with businesses to advance health care, support UT students and support research excellence. Our mission is to provide exemplary education, training, research, and professional development in the pharmaceutical sciences; to advance discovery, innovation, and patient care; and to provide service to the university, professional and scientific communities, and society. FacebookFind us on Facebook TwitterFind us on Twitter InstagramSee us on Instagram LinkedinFind us on Linkedin YoutubeSee us on Youtube Footer menu Directory News Events Giving UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022