retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Skip to main content MENU Header Menu Directory News Events Giving Search Search Degrees & Programs Admissions Pharm D Graduate Studies Lester Entrepreneurial Scholars Student Organizations Student Services Learning Resource Center (LRC) Experiential + Residencies & Fellowships Experiential Programs Residencies & Fellowships Research & Practice College Divisions Collaborative Areas of Research Excellence Centers, Institutes, & Core Facilities Research Support Professional Development Pharmacy Career Services Continuing Pharmacy Education About Alumni Assessment College Policies Dean’s Office Diversity, Equity, Accessibility, & Inclusion History Pharm.D. Program Quality Indicators Strategic Plan Student Affairs Contact Us Breadcrumb Home Degrees & Programs Pharm.D. Admissions Pharm.D. Admissions Admissions Discover Plan Visit Apply Interview Enroll Tuition & Financial Support Contact Us The University of Texas at Austin strives to be the leading College of Pharmacy for innovative interdisciplinary education, research, and service, revolutionizing patient care and health outcomes in Texas and the world. The college provides exemplary education, training, research, and professional development for Pharm.D. students, graduate students, and postgraduates in the pharmaceutical sciences; to advance discovery, innovation, and patient care; and to provide service to the university, professional and scientific communities, and society. Discover Discover whether a pharmacy career is right for you and learn what it means to be a pharmacist. Discover Plan Plan ahead for the prerequisites and requirements for being accepted. Plan Visit Visit via an information session with student ambassadors or through UT Austin Visits. Visit Apply Apply for admission into the PharmD program by completing the application process. Apply Interview Interview for acceptance with the Multiple Mini Interview (MMI) format. Interview Enroll Enroll in the program by completing action items and matriculation steps. Enroll Contact Us UT Austin College of Pharmacy is temporarily suspending pharmacy school tours and in-person appointments. This is in accordance with the action The University of Texas at Austin Main Admissions related to the Coronavirus (COVID-19). If you have questions, please contact our Admissions Team. Meet our Pharmacy Ambassadors. Follow us on Facebook @ https://www.facebook.com/UTexasPharmacy Follow us on Twitter @ https://twitter.com/UTexasPharmacy Our mission is to provide exemplary education, training, research, and professional development in the pharmaceutical sciences; to advance discovery, innovation, and patient care; and to provide service to the university, professional and scientific communities, and society. FacebookFind us on Facebook TwitterFind us on Twitter InstagramSee us on Instagram LinkedinFind us on Linkedin YoutubeSee us on Youtube Footer menu Directory News Events Giving UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022