retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Skip to main content MENU Header Menu Directory News Events Giving Search Search Degrees & Programs Admissions Pharm D Graduate Studies Lester Entrepreneurial Scholars Student Organizations Student Services Learning Resource Center (LRC) Experiential + Residencies & Fellowships Experiential Programs Residencies & Fellowships Research & Practice College Divisions Collaborative Areas of Research Excellence Centers, Institutes, & Core Facilities Research Support Professional Development Pharmacy Career Services Continuing Pharmacy Education About Alumni Assessment College Policies Dean’s Office Diversity, Equity, Accessibility, & Inclusion History Pharm.D. Program Quality Indicators Strategic Plan Student Affairs Contact Us Breadcrumb Home Degrees & Programs Learning Resource Center (LRC) Learning Resource Center (LRC) Learning Resource Center (LRC) Webex Zoom Panopto Canvas Captioning Teaching in a Zoom Classroom Jaime N. Delgado Library Poster Services Presentation Equipment & Video Production The Learning Resource Center (LRC) provides technology services and support for the College of Pharmacy, including teaching technology, virtual learning, and computer support. Fill out a help ticket to request technology services for the topics below Desktop Computer Support A/V Reservations and Assistance Computer Purchasing Networking Desk Phone (VoIP) IT Security Get Help with Virtual Learning Looking for central UT-supported technologies like Canvas, Zoom, or Panopto? Faculty Course Guide for Teaching Online Webex The College uses Webex to connect to UT Health San Antonio, as well as many other sites in Texas, the United States, and the world. The Webex Meetings platform provides connections to desktop, room system, and telephone participants. Get Webex Help Zoom The College uses Zoom for video meetings and for connecting classrooms. Visit our Zoom page for additional information on teaching and learning with Zoom-connected classes. Get Zoom Help Panopto The Panopto video management system makes it easy to record videos and lectures. Panopto provides a robust suite of features including auto-captioning and creating a table of contents with timestamps. Get Panopto Help Canvas Canvas is a cloud-based learning management system used by The University of Texas at Austin and the College of Pharmacy. We provide additional FAQ information about the integration between Canvas and other technologies. Get Canvas Help Captioning We have gathered a wide variety of support resources for recording and captioning technologies related to virtual learning. Visit the Captioning page to learn how to arrange captioning for a single recording or for your entire course (via Panopto Video). Get Captioning Help Teaching in a Zoom Classroom We provide step-by-step guidance to starting a Zoom class in classrooms in Austin (PHR) or San Antonio (MCD), including a lectern tour and descriptions of classroom layout modes, volumes, presentation sharing, and touch panel menu controls. Get Classroom Help LRC Support Services Jaime N. Delgado Library The Jaime N. Delgado Library is a unique service dedicated to serving Pharmacy students for convenience and educational benefit. The library provides study space, seminar rooms, and materials for checkout. Library Information Page Poster Services Poster printing services are available at locations on the UT Austin campus. Visit the poster information page to learn more. Poster Information Page Presentation Equipment and Video Production The LRC maintains an inventory of presentation equipment that may be checked out by faculty, staff, and students of the college. Video production services are also available. Presentation Equipment and Video Production Page Contact Us Samantha Brenner Administrative Associate Oliver Gomez Director, Information Technology Charles Guajardo Systems Administrator II, Learning Resource Center Jay Hamman Development Researcher, Learning Resource Center Sarah Jimenez Senior Desktop Support Specialist John Reineke Senior Information Technology Manager, Learning Resource Center Kimberly Wood Web Content Administrator Our mission is to provide exemplary education, training, research, and professional development in the pharmaceutical sciences; to advance discovery, innovation, and patient care; and to provide service to the university, professional and scientific communities, and society. FacebookFind us on Facebook TwitterFind us on Twitter InstagramSee us on Instagram LinkedinFind us on Linkedin YoutubeSee us on Youtube Footer menu Directory News Events Giving UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022