Skip to Main Content Brown University Philosophy Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Philosophy: What & Why? History of the Department Affiliated Programs People Undergraduate Courses Current Courses Concentration Requirements Senior Capstone A Priori: Undergraduate Philosophy Journal Graduate How to Apply Courses Ph.D.s Awarded Ph.D. Placements Events Past Events News Search Philosophy Philosophy Department at Brown University The Philosophy Department at Brown University offers programs leading to the full range of graduate and undergraduate degrees. Philosophy Department at Brown University The Philosophy Department at Brown University offers programs leading to the full range of graduate and undergraduate degrees. How charming is divine philosophy! Not harsh and crabbed as dull fools suppose But musical as is Apollo's lute And a perpetual feast of nectared sweets John Milton The Department of Philosophy has had a long distinguished history at Brown University. The department's faculty offers expertise in all main areas of philosophy and beyond, including: ethics and political philosophy philosophy of mind metaphysics epistemology philosophy of logic philosophy of science philosophy of art history of philosophy (including 19th and 20th century European philosophy) philosophy of/in literature feminist philosophy Discover more Undergraduate Program The undergraduate concentration in philosophy offers courses covering all of the main areas of the discipline, from epistemology and metaphysics to philosophy of religion, philosophy of literature, and feminist philosophy. Visit Page Open details for Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Brown University Ph.D. program in Philosophy is designed to provide strong support for students’ research. Visit Page Open details for Graduate Program Departmental News Visit Page Open details for Departmental News Contact Us Box 1918 45 Prospect St. Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-6346 Fax 401-863-2719 philosophy_dept@brown.edu Bernard Reginster Department Chair, Romeo Elton Professor of Natural Theology Bernard_Reginster@brown.edu Christopher Hill Director of Graduate Studies, William Herbert Perry Faunce Professor of Philosophy Christopher_Hill@brown.edu Richard Kimberly Heck Director of Undergraduate Studies, Professor of Philosophy Richard_Heck@brown.edu Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Philosophy: What & Why? History of the Department Affiliated Programs People Undergraduate Courses Current Courses Concentration Requirements Senior Capstone A Priori: Undergraduate Philosophy Journal Graduate How to Apply Courses Ph.D.s Awarded Ph.D. Placements Events Past Events News This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Philosophy Department at Brown University Open details for Philosophy Department at Brown University Bookmark this Page