Skip to Main Content Brown University Philosophy Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Philosophy: What & Why? History of the Department Affiliated Programs People Undergraduate Courses Current Courses Concentration Requirements Senior Capstone A Priori: Undergraduate Philosophy Journal Graduate How to Apply Courses Ph.D.s Awarded Ph.D. Placements Events Past Events News Search Philosophy People People Faculty Back to Top Felicia Nimue Ackerman Felicia_Ackerman@brown.edu 401-863-3240 Corliss Brackett 212 Office Hours On leave Spring 2022 Nomy Arpaly Nomy_Arpaly@brown.edu 401-863-7437 Corliss Brackett 204A Office Hours Mondays 3-5pm, held at Brown Bookstore Café Justin Broackes Justin_Broackes@brown.edu 401-863-3183 Corliss Brackett 301B Office Hours Thursdays 1-3 and by appointment over email David Christensen David_Christensen@brown.edu 401-863-3214 Corliss Brackett 306 Office Hours Mondays 1:15-3:15pm via Zoom (make appointment), and by appointment Ryan Doody ryan_doody@brown.edu Political Theory Project Room 204 25 George Street Providence, RI 02912 Office Hours Tuesdays 2:30-3:30pm and by appointment Jamie Dreier James_Dreier@brown.edu 401-863-3226 Corliss Brackett 107 Office Hours Wednesdays 10-11 David Estlund David_Estlund@brown.edu 401-863-3096 Corliss Brackett 206 Office Hours Wednesdays 2:30-4:00pm, appointment required Mary-Louise Gill Mary-Louise_Gill@brown.edu 401-863-3219 Corliss Brackett 204 Office Hours Tuesdays 2-4PM Paul Guyer Paul_Guyer@brown.edu 401-863-2460 Corliss Brackett 103 Office Hours Monday 2-4pm and by appointment Richard Kimberly Heck Richard_Heck@brown.edu 401-863-3217 Corliss Brackett 216 Office Hours Monday 2-3 (https://brown.zoom.us/j/92705928838), Wednesday 3-4 (https://brown.zoom.us/j/99591098476) Christopher Hill Christopher_Hill@brown.edu 401-863-3204 Corliss Brackett 207 Office Hours Tuesdays 4-5pm office 207 in CB; Wednesdays 7-8 PM, zoom (by appointment). Emily Kress Emily_Kress@brown.edu 401-863-1589 Corliss Brackett 214 Office Hours Thursdays 2:30-4:30pm in CB lounge Charles Larmore Charles_Larmore@brown.edu 401-863-3001 Corliss Brackett 218 Office Hours By appointment Elizabeth Miller Elizabeth_Miller@brown.edu 401-863-5723 Corliss Brackett 304 Office Hours by appointment Adam Pautz Adam_Pautz@brown.edu 401-863-1883 Corliss Brackett 201 Office Hours On leave Spring 2022 Bernard Reginster Bernard_Reginster@brown.edu 401-863-9132 Corliss Brackett 301A Office Hours By appointment Joshua Schechter Joshua_Schechter@brown.edu 401-863-3225 Corliss Brackett 307 Office Hours Thursdays 2-4PM and by appointment Postdocs Back to Top David Frank David_Frank@brown.edu Corliss Brackett Rm 308 David Anton Johnson david_a_johnson@brown.edu Corliss Brackett Rm 002 Emeritus Faculty Back to Top Ernest Sosa Rutgers University, Department of Philosophy ernsosa@rci.rutgers.edu Rutgers Profile Visiting Faculty Back to Top The department hosts frequent visiting scholars and professors from all over the world, and a Distinguished Visitor for one semester every other year. Eric Guindon Fall 2021 and Spring 2022 e.guindon@gmail.com Corliss Brackett Rm 308 Office Hours Wednesdays 3:00-4:30PM (zoom, make an appointment); Fridays 3:00-4:30pm Corliss Brackett Seminar Room 106 Anna Bjurman Pautz Fall 2021 and Spring 2022 anna_pautz@brown.edu Corliss Brackett Rm 308 Office Hours Thursdays 10AM-12PM Affiliated Faculty Back to Top Corey Brettschneider Department of Political Science Corey_Brettschneider@brown.edu Research Profile Pauline Jacobson Department of Cognitive and Linguistic Sciences Pauline_Jacobson@brown.edu Research Profile David Konstan Department of Classics David_Konstan@brown.edu Research Profile Sharon Krause Department of Political Science Sharon_Krause@brown.edu Research Profile William Warren Department of Cognitive and Linguistic Sciences William_Warren_Jr@brown.edu Research Profile Graduate Students Back to Top Mark Christman Mark_Christman@brown.edu Mark received his B.A. in Philosophy from the University of Rochester along with a degree in Physics. While he enjoys dabbling in all areas of Philosophy, his primary interests are in Logic, Philosophy of Physics, and playing devil's advocate. Conrad Damstra Conrad_Damstra@brown.edu Conrad received his BA in philosophy from Williams College. He is primarily interested in Kant’s theoretical philosophy but also has interests in early modern philosophy, political philosophy, and German idealism. Outside of philosophy, he enjoys reading (fiction and history) and watching sports, especially the Philadelphia Eagles. Leonard Feldblyum Leonard_Feldblyum@brown.edu Leonard received his MA from Georgia State University. His interests include history of philosophy (Kant, Hegel, Nietzsche) and ethics. Meredith Gilman Meredith_Gilman@brown.edu Louis Gularte Visiting Assistant Professor at Tulane University Louis_Gularte@brown.edu Website Louis received his B.A. in psychology and philosophy from Notre Dame and his M.A. in philosophy from NIU. His dissertation is about suffering and whether it (or anything) is bad. He tells people his main interests are in metaethics and philosophy of emotion, but he's also interested in philosophy of language, philosophy of mind, epistemology, Buddhist philosophy, and pretty much everything else. He is also pursuing an M.S. in cognitive neuroscience through Brown's Open Graduate Education (OGE) program. Marc Hewitt Marc_Hewitt@brown.edu Marc is from Vancouver, British Columbia. He received his B.A. in philosophy from UBC in 2015 and his M.A. in theology from Regent College in 2018. His main philosophical interests are in political philosophy, ethics, and epistemology. Yiran Hua Yiran_Hua@brown.edu Ying Huang Ying_Huang@brown.edu Ying’s main interests lie in the philosophy of mind and cognitive science. She is also interested in the philosophy of science, metaphysics, aesthetics and Kant. Laurence Kenny Laurence_Kenny@brown.edu Larry received his B.A. in linguistics from Dartmouth and his M.A. in philosophy from Tufts. His interests are in phenomenology and translation and especially the early translation of Western philosophy into Japanese. He makes a hobby of starting, and sometimes even continuing, to study languages and musical instruments, with a current focus on German and the flute. Rachel Leadon Rachel_Leadon@brown.edu Rachel is from Seattle, Washington. She received her BA from Willamette University and her MA in Philosophy from Tufts University. Her main areas of philosophical interests include philosophy of mind, ethics, metaethics, and action theory. She has served as a member of AmeriCorps, working with Adult Basic Education students and Adult ESL students. Rachel spent the last year teaching 7thgraders for an extended-day program in Roxbury, Massachusetts. Sam McGrath Sam_McGrath1@brown.edu Originally from Miami Beach, FL, Sam McGrath received his BA from the University of Chicago in 2014 with a thesis focused on Wittgenstein’s Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus. Upon graduating, he moved to rural Japan, where he worked as an English Teacher. In 2016, he completed an MPhil in Philosophy at Trinity College, Dublin, writing his thesis on Carnap, Quine, and the concept of metalinguistic negotiation. His general philosophical interests thus far have centered on language, metaphysics, and the history of analytic philosophy. Patrick McKee Patrick_McKee@brown.edu Patrick grew up in Maryland, received his A.B. in applied mathematics (focusing on economics) from Harvard College in 2007, and worked in the financial services industry for a decade. He joined the philosophy PhD program at Brown in 2020. His philosophical interests include ethics, metaethics, epistemology and philosophical logic. Haigen Messerian Haigen_Messerian@brown.edu Haigen is originally from Southern California, and received his B.A. from UC Berkeley. His philosophical interests are mainly in philosophy of mind, epistemology, and the history of analytic philosophy. He also loves listening to jazz music and playing his banjo. Samuel Musker Samuel_Musker@brown.edu Sam is from Johannesburg, South Africa. After beginning his studies in engineering at the University of Cape Town, he transferred to the University of Pennsylvania. There he received his BA in 2019 with a major in philosophy and science, and with minors in mathematics and "logic, information, and computation". Before joining the philosophy program, Sam worked at the Boston Consulting Group for a year in Boston. At Brown he is excited to pursue research at the intersection between philosophy and computer science. Mary Renaud Mary_Renaud@brown.edu Visit Mary on the Web Mary received her B.A. and M.A. in Philosophy from Carleton University (Ottawa, Canada). Her main areas of interests are in Metaethics and Philosophy of Action, with additional interests in Philosophy of Language, Formal and Informal Logic, and Buddhist Ethics & Metaphysics. Matthew Schrepfer Matthew_Schrepfer@brown.edu Matthew grew up in rural Pennsylvania. He received his BA from Fordham University and an MA from Georgia State University, both in philosophy. His interests are in political philosophy and history, especially Hegel and Marx. Taylan Susam Taylan_Susam@brown.edu Taylan is from Amsterdam, the Netherlands. He studied music composition the Royal Conservatoire of The Hague, and philosophy and political science at the University of Leuven and at Boğaziçi University, Istanbul. His current philosophical interests include Kant’s practical philosophy, moral psychology and the self. Anna Tsvetkov Anna_Tsvetkov@brown.edu Anna is from Brooklyn, New York. Her research is primarily in philosophy of mind and metaphysics. Before coming to Brown, she completed her B.A. in Philosophy at SUNY Binghamton. Taojie Wang Taojie_Wang@brown.edu Taojie received a BA in English from University of Liverpool, a BA in philosophy from KU Leuven, and an MA in philosophy from University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee. His philosophical interests are broad. They include philosophy of mind, philosophy of action, philosophy of language, epistemology, Kant, and Wittgenstein. He also has a growing interest in aesthetics and moral psychology. Stavros Orfeas Zormpalas stavros_orfeas_zormpalas@brown.edu Orfeas grew up in Athens, Greece and got his BA in philosophy at Dartmouth College. His philosophical interests are still forming, and still very, very broad. They include metaphysics, language, philosophical logic, epistemology, and many questions in metaethics that overlap with any of the above. In his spare time, he likes to be with friends, and to be outside, walking, biking, camping, climbing and sitting around. He also loves music. Staff Back to Top Emily Greenberg Administrative Coordinator emily_greenberg@brown.edu 401-863-6346 Katherine Scanga Academic Department Manager Katherine_Scanga@brown.edu 401-863-2718 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Philosophy: What & Why? History of the Department Affiliated Programs People Undergraduate Courses Current Courses Concentration Requirements Senior Capstone A Priori: Undergraduate Philosophy Journal Graduate How to Apply Courses Ph.D.s Awarded Ph.D. Placements Events Past Events News This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search People Open details for People Bookmark this Page