Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Philosophy Department of Philosophy Contact Us Philosophy@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home People Curriculum Overview Major and Minor Course Schedule Honors Past Honors Theses Foreign Study Logic Software Back to Top Nav Foreign Study News & Events News & Events Student Prizes Gramlich Prize Winners Story Prize Winners Philosophy Faculty Prize Winners Lecture Series Gramlich Sapentia Race, Gender & Justice Workshops Philosophy & The Struggle Against Racism Social Justice Research Grants Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Share Social and Environmental Justice Research Grants Social and Environmental Justice Research Grants The Philosophy department, with kind support from the Irving Institute, will fund independent philosophical research on issues of social justice related to race, class, gender, energy, and/or the environment. We hope students become lifelong independent researchers, and these grants give you the chance to pursue a project of your own devising during a leave term or Winterim. They provide $1500 for projects that should take up roughly three weeks of full time work, which can be spread over the entirety of a leave term. The research done during the grant period is not a course and it cannot be used for credit. Eligibility All Dartmouth students are eligible to apply for these grants. Since they are intended to support research during leave terms or Winterim, they cannot be used while enrolled in Dartmouth courses. Recipients who change their D-plans to be in residence during a grant term must forfeit the grant, but may re-apply for funding during a later period. International students should consult OVIS to ensure that their visas permit them to receive funding for independent research while they are away from campus. Applying The deadlines for 2022 are as follows, and will be updated yearly: Winter term research: January 30 Spring term: February 10 Summer term: May 1 Fall term: July 28 Interested students should contact a member of the Philosophy Department who is willing to serve as an advisor and formulate a research plan with their help. Since applications are due roughly at the fifth week of a term, contacting potential advisors in the first couple of weeks of the term is recommended. Applications for Winterim grants are due at the same time as Winter term grant applications. No late or incomplete applications will be accepted. Complete applications include: An application statement (1000 words max) describing the intended research project, your reasons for pursuing it, and a tentative schedule of work. It is not required that students produce term papers on their selected topics. The end result could be an annotated bibliography, an instructional video, a short paper, a website, an op-ed, or a critical summary of the research undertaken. A bibliography containing at least ten sources, articles or books, that are relevant to the project. An unofficial transcript. The name of the faculty advisor consulted in creating the proposal. Each of these parts should be combined into a single pdf, and submitted using the form at: https://forms.gle/RUVA35UQuPa3C13Z7. Applications will be reviewed by members of the philosophy department. Members of the review committee are ineligible to be faculty advisors. Proposals will be evaluated in terms of their feasibility, topicality, and relation to philosophy, broadly construed. Students are required to meet with their advisors at the beginning and toward the end of their projects. The faculty member's role is mainly to offer advice for how to proceed with the research. At the beginning of the term after the end of the project, students should submit their final work, whatever it happens to be, to their faculty advisor. We hope to host events highlighting the independent research our students have done. At the end of each academic year, the Department will post a list of grant recipients and brief descriptions of their projects on our website. Tags: Philosophy Department Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Philosophy People Curriculum Overview Major and Minor Course Schedule Honors Past Honors Theses Foreign Study Logic Software Foreign Study News & Events News & Events Student Prizes Gramlich Prize Winners Story Prize Winners Philosophy Faculty Prize Winners Lecture Series Gramlich Sapentia Race, Gender & Justice Workshops Philosophy & The Struggle Against Racism Social Justice Research Grants My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback