Skip to Main Content Brown University Philosophy Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Philosophy: What & Why? History of the Department Affiliated Programs People Undergraduate Courses Current Courses Concentration Requirements Senior Capstone A Priori: Undergraduate Philosophy Journal Graduate How to Apply Courses Ph.D.s Awarded Ph.D. Placements Events Past Events News Search Philosophy Breadcrumb Home People Sub Navigation In This Section All Faculty Richard Kimberly Heck Director of Undergraduate Studies, Professor of Philosophy Richard_Heck@brown.edu 401-863-3217 Corliss Brackett 216 Research Profile Website Office Hours Monday 2-3 (https://brown.zoom.us/j/92705928838), Wednesday 3-4 (https://brown.zoom.us/j/99591098476) Biography Richard Kimberly Heck received their PhD from MIT in 1991 and have taught at Brown since 2005. Heck is best known for their work on Gottlob Frege's philosophy of logic and mathematics, having written two books on that topic: Frege's Theorem and Reading Frege's Grundgesetze, both from Oxford University Press. Heck has also worked extensively on philosophy of language, philosophy of logic, and philosophy of mind. Most recently, however, they have been working on a range of issues concerning gender and sexuality. Concerning the former, Heck is primarily interested in understanding the notion of gender identity, that is, the subjective experience of oneself as a gendered person. Concerning the latter, Heck is working toward a book on pornography, with special attention to the transformative potential of queer and feminist pornography. Heck is Associate Editor for Philosophy of Mathematics at Thought and is a member of the editorial boards of Philosophers' Imprint, Philosophia Mathematica, and the Journal of Philosophical Logic. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Philosophy: What & Why? History of the Department Affiliated Programs People Undergraduate Courses Current Courses Concentration Requirements Senior Capstone A Priori: Undergraduate Philosophy Journal Graduate How to Apply Courses Ph.D.s Awarded Ph.D. Placements Events Past Events News This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Richard Kimberly Heck Open details for Richard Kimberly Heck Bookmark this Page