Skip to main content Philosophy College of Liberal Arts About Us About Us Welcome Newsletter News Recently Published People Faculty Directory Graduate Students Staff Directory Emeritus Faculty In Memoriam Contact Us The Department of Philosophy 301 YMCA Building College Station, TX 77843-4237 tel: (979) 845-5660 fax: (979) 845-0458 Graduate Studies Graduate Programs Courses Admissions Financial Aid Advising Placement Undergraduate Studies Philosophy in the Classroom Degree Programs Courses Honors Study Abroad Philosophy at Work Aletheia Internships Undergraduate Research Advising Get an Appointment Waitlist Request Support at Texas A&M Contact Us Research About Our Research Africana Philosophy American Philosophy Applied and Professional Ethics Continental Philosophy Decision Theory Environmental & Animal Ethics Epistemology Ethics Feminist Philosophy History and Philosophy of Logic History of Philosophy Jewish Philosophy Latin American & Latinx Philosophy Metaphysics Philosophy & Ethics of Engineering & Technology Philosophy of Art and Aesthetics Philosophy of Language Philosophy of Mathematics Philosophy of Religion Social and Political Philosophy Resources Faculty & Staff Committees Department Bylaws Students Current Students Former Students Travel Policies Outreach Welcome to Philosophy coming soon The Department of Philosophy is becoming part of the College of Arts and Sciences in Fall 2022. Learn more about the College of Arts and Sciences. Dr. Linda Radzik Named to University Professorship Posted May 19, 2022 Congratulations to Dr. Linda Radzik for being named to a University Professorship for Undergraduate Teaching Excellence (UPUTE). Selected professors demonstrate themselves as exceptional instructors, and innovators in pedagogy, pushing the field by exploring new teaching methods. The Thamann Professorship in Undergraduate Teaching Excellence, made possible through an endowment from Arthur J. and Wilhelmina Dore Thamann, […] 5th Annual Bovay Workshop on Engineering and Applied Ethics Posted April 21, 2022 On Tuesday April 26th, 2022, the Philosophy Department at Texas A&M University will be hosting the Fifth Annual Bovay Workshop on Engineering and Applied Ethics. Bringing in scholars from around the country and this year’s conference will focus on A.I and the ethical engineering of complex systems. The conference will be in the YMCA Building, […] Texas A&M University Philosophy Graduate Student Conference Posted April 14, 2022 Victoria Green and Jyothis James have partnered with the Melbern G. Glasscock Center for Humanities Research to present the Spring 2022 Texas A&M University Graduate Student Conference featuring Dr. Sean Kirkland from DePaul University. Dr. Kirkland specializes in Ancient Greek Philosophy and phenomenology. Dr. Kirkland has also agreed to participate in a workshop with the […] More News Recent Posts Dr. Linda Radzik Named to University Professorship 5th Annual Bovay Workshop on Engineering and Applied Ethics Texas A&M University Philosophy Graduate Student Conference Congratulations to Denise Meda Calderon Michael Portal Named a Fulbright Scholar Dr. Katz elected to Board of the National Humanities Alliance Dr. George Named 2021 Texas A&M Presidential Impact Fellow Denise Meda Calderon Earns Graduate Fellowship Dr. Palmer awarded an Association of Former Students Distinguished Achievement Award Dr. Pappas named 2021 National Humanities Center Fellow Dr. Katz Named 2020-2021 Piper Professor Congratulations Undergraduate Winners Search Our Site Search for: Departments Anthropology Communication Economics English Hispanic Studies History International Studies Performance Studies Philosophy Political Science Psychological and Brain Sciences Sociology Centers and Institutes Texas Research Data Center Center for Maritime Archaeology and Conservation Center for the Study of First Americans Glasscock Center for Humanities Research Center of Digital Humanities Research Public Policy Research Institute Race and Ethnic Studies Institute Programs Africana Studies Latino/a and Mexican American Studies Religious Studies Women's and Gender Studies Developing Initiatives Center for Research Impact of Social Sciences Connect with us! Philosophy (979) 845-5660 2022 College of Liberal Arts at Texas A&M University Contacts Accessibility Site Policies