Skip to Main Content Brown University Philosophy Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Philosophy: What & Why? History of the Department Affiliated Programs People Undergraduate Courses Current Courses Concentration Requirements Senior Capstone A Priori: Undergraduate Philosophy Journal Graduate How to Apply Courses Ph.D.s Awarded Ph.D. Placements Events Past Events News Search Philosophy Undergraduate Sub Navigation In This Section Courses Current Courses Concentration Requirements Senior Capstone A Priori: Undergraduate Philosophy Journal Undergraduate The undergraduate concentration in philosophy offers courses covering all of the main areas of the discipline, from epistemology and metaphysics to philosophy of religion, philosophy of literature, and feminist philosophy. It also offers courses covering all the various periods in the history of philosophy. Concentrators can expect to strengthen their knowledge of and skills in ancient philosophy, early modern philosophy, logic, epistemology, metaphysics and philosophy of value. While the concentration provides a strong general education in philosophy, concentrators are required to identify an area of specialization. Students with questions about the concentration should contact the Director of Undergraduate Studies, Richard Kimberly Heck. Physics and Philosophy Concentration These pages primarily describe the "standard" concentration in Philosophy. There is also a related but separate concentration in Physics and Philosophy. Physics Department Registrar's Office Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Philosophy: What & Why? History of the Department Affiliated Programs People Undergraduate Courses Current Courses Concentration Requirements Senior Capstone A Priori: Undergraduate Philosophy Journal Graduate How to Apply Courses Ph.D.s Awarded Ph.D. Placements Events Past Events News This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Undergraduate Open details for Undergraduate Bookmark this Page