Skip to Main Content Brown University Philosophy Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Philosophy: What & Why? History of the Department Affiliated Programs People Undergraduate Courses Current Courses Concentration Requirements Senior Capstone A Priori: Undergraduate Philosophy Journal Graduate How to Apply Courses Ph.D.s Awarded Ph.D. Placements Events Past Events News Search Philosophy About Sub Navigation In This Section Philosophy: What & Why? History of the Department Affiliated Programs About Like all of Brown's fine departments, the Philosophy Department takes special pleasure in contributing to the teaching and training of undergraduates, as part of Brown's overall commitment to a liberal education. The Department offers a range of courses suited to newcomers to philosophy, covering subjects from the philosophy of religion, to the philosophy of science, to the philosophy of literature, as well as survey courses on various periods of the history of philosophy. Ph.D. Program Brown's Ph.D. program has longstanding strengths in epistemology, philosophy of mind, metaphysics, ethics, and history of philosophy; and we have more recently developed additional strengths in political philosophy and in aesthetics. Undergraduate Program For undergraduates with a deeper interest in the subject, there are programs leading to the A.B. degree, the A.B. degree with honors, and the combined A.B.-M.A. degrees. As well as the standard philosophy concentration, there is an interdisciplinary concentration in Physics and Philosophy. The standard concentration also encourages an inter-disciplinary approach by allowing students to apply related courses in other departments towards the fulfillment of their concentration requirements. The requirements also allow ample room for concentrators to pursue their individual interests, as these develop. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Philosophy: What & Why? History of the Department Affiliated Programs People Undergraduate Courses Current Courses Concentration Requirements Senior Capstone A Priori: Undergraduate Philosophy Journal Graduate How to Apply Courses Ph.D.s Awarded Ph.D. Placements Events Past Events News This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search About Open details for About Bookmark this Page