Skip to Main Content Brown University Philosophy Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Philosophy: What & Why? History of the Department Affiliated Programs People Undergraduate Courses Current Courses Concentration Requirements Senior Capstone A Priori: Undergraduate Philosophy Journal Graduate How to Apply Courses Ph.D.s Awarded Ph.D. Placements Events Past Events News Search Philosophy Departmental News Departmental News Congratulations to Paul Guyer April 13, 2022 Congratulations to Paul Guyer for being chosen to present the annual De Gruyter Kant Lecture. He was chosen by the American Philosophical Association Committee on Lectures, Publications and Research and the Walter de Gruyter & Co. His lecture will be titled "Re-creating the Empire of Ends." Congratulations to Elizabeth Miller April 8, 2022 Professor Elizabeth Miller has been awarded the Henry Merritt Wriston Fellowship by Brown University. This fellowship aims to recognize junior faculty who have distinguished themselves both in their research and in their teaching. Since her arrival at Brown, Professor Miller has been developing innovative and increasingly influential ideas in the philosophy of physics, and new teaching methods, including conversational norms and procedures for class discussions. Congratulations to Arianna Falbo April 8, 2022 Congratulations to Arianna Falbo for a successful dissertation defense titled, "Inquiring Minds". Her committee chair was David Chirstensen. Congratulations to Charles Larmore April 8, 2022 Professor Charles Larmore has been awarded the inaugural Hans-Georg Gamader Prize by the Hans-Georg Gadamer Society for Hermeneutic Philosophy. The award is in recognition of his much noted contributions to moral philosophy and political theory (especially political liberalism), to fundamental topics such as the essence of freedom and the rational nature of human beings, and to the philosophy of language and the ethics of reading. Congratulations to Yongming Han Congratulations to Yongming Han for a successful dissertation defense titled, "Subjectivism about Love and Moral Concern". His committee chair was Nomy Arpaly. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Philosophy: What & Why? History of the Department Affiliated Programs People Undergraduate Courses Current Courses Concentration Requirements Senior Capstone A Priori: Undergraduate Philosophy Journal Graduate How to Apply Courses Ph.D.s Awarded Ph.D. Placements Events Past Events News This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Departmental News Open details for Departmental News Bookmark this Page