Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Philosophy Department of Philosophy Contact Us Philosophy@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home People Curriculum Overview Major and Minor Course Schedule Honors Past Honors Theses Foreign Study Logic Software Back to Top Nav Foreign Study News & Events News & Events Student Prizes Gramlich Prize Winners Story Prize Winners Philosophy Faculty Prize Winners Lecture Series Gramlich Sapentia Race, Gender & Justice Workshops Philosophy & The Struggle Against Racism Social Justice Research Grants Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Curriculum Our Curriculum Our overall goal is to offer a wide array of courses that reflects the diversity of philosophical topics, participants to these debates, and student interest in philosophy. We also want to assist our students in developing critical reading and writing skills, and to give them the opportunity to work closely with professors. Check the FAQ to the right for more information. Still have questions? Just send any faculty member an email and we will help you out. Small Classes We have capped all introductory classes at 30 students, and all intermediate classes at 25. We believe that students learn philosophy well in small groups. Introductory Options We offer a great variety of exciting topical introductions to philosophy. Try out courses such as Phil 1.03 Philosophy and Economics, Phil 1.14 Knowledge, Truth, and Power, or Phil 9.08 Ethics and Information Technology. Other introductory courses (PHIL 1-9) include Phil 3 Reason and Argument and Phil 4 Philosophy and Gender. Decimalized Course Numbers Many philosophy courses use decimal notation. In addition to a general course such as Phil 31: Metaphysics, we also offer a wide range of topical courses under that general heading: Phil 31.05 Time, Truth, and Fate; 31.06 Free Will, Agency, and Responsibility; 31.07 The Social World, and so on. Each of these decimalized courses focuses on a different set of issues under the rubric of Metaphysics. A Customized Major We would like students to structure a major or minor around their interests and in consultation with our faculty. To that end, we encourage students to work closely with their major or minor advisors in the Philosophy Department to coordinate their plans of study. Curriculum FAQ I already took Phil 1.01. Can I also take Phil 1.02, or 1.03? Yes. Courses with different decimal designations are different courses. Students can enroll in as many different introductory courses as they like, although only a limited number can count toward a philosophy major or minor. Does this also apply to intermediate courses? Yes. Phil 35.01 will not cover the same ground as Phil 35.02, so students may enroll in either one, or both, and count both of them toward the major. We will advise our majors and minors to study a range of topic areas, of course, but students who would like to focus their studies have options for doing so. But can I take Phil 35.01 twice, if it is offered by different professors? No. Phil 35.01 is one course, which might be offered by different professors in different terms, but students may not take it twice for credit. My major requires me to take two courses in the history of philosophy. Can I take Phil 16.01 and 16.02 to satisfy the requirement? Yes. Because 16.01 and 16.02 are different courses, both count toward the history distributive requirement within the major. How do I get started planning a major or minor? Students are encouraged to contact a faculty member in the Philosophy Department as soon as possible in the course of their studies. Planning course selections in an informed way is best accomplished in consultation with major or minor advisors. For more information, see the Major or Minor webpage. Overview Major and Minor Course Schedule Honors Foreign Study Logic Software Undergraduate Apply To Dartmouth Quit your technology job Learn about our Edinburgh FSP Share Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Philosophy People Curriculum Overview Major and Minor Course Schedule Honors Past Honors Theses Foreign Study Logic Software Foreign Study News & Events News & Events Student Prizes Gramlich Prize Winners Story Prize Winners Philosophy Faculty Prize Winners Lecture Series Gramlich Sapentia Race, Gender & Justice Workshops Philosophy & The Struggle Against Racism Social Justice Research Grants My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback