Skip to main content Resources Give Now Join Our Network Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Search form Search Toggle navigation Home About Programs & Events Resources Publications Support Give Now Join Our Network Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Search form Search THE PHILADELPHIA WRITING PROJECT Welcome to PhilWP PhilWP is a practitioner network, connecting K-university educators with teachers, principals, parents, and out-of-school-time leaders to explore literacy, writing, teaching, and learning across grade levels and disciplines. Each year, new teacher-leaders join the PhilWP network and work in classrooms and other education spaces, supporting young people as writers and learners. A site of the National Writing Project, PhilWP has served Philadelphia schools since 1986. News & Events Invitational Summer Institute on Writing and Literacy Since 1986, the Philadelphia Writing Project has sponsored an Invitational Summer Institute (ISI) on Writing and Literacy for K-16 educators in the Philadelphia region. The institute engages teachers in reflective inquiries into practice and the processes of teaching and learning. This year's ISI is supported by a Teaching with Primary Sources (TPS) grant from the Library of Congress. In the ISI, teachers will consider how texts such as historical primary sources can support interdisciplinary learning, challenge assumptions of a single story, and connect to contemporary issues and civic conversations". The institute will open inquiries into community, equity, justice, and civically engaged argument writing. Program Dates: Orientation: Saturday, June 4 Two-Week Institute: Monday-Friday, June 21-24 and June 27-July 1, 9:30am to 3pm Two Saturday Meetings in October and November Hybrid Format: Monday – Thursday – in-person Friday – Virtual asynchronous activities Visit the ISI page for more information and to apply. Advanced Invitational Summer Institute on Writing and Literacy This year's Advanced ISI is supported by a grant from National Endowment for Humanities. In the ISI, teachers will consider how to make visible the hidden histories of Black women leaders in Philadelphia. The institute will open up inquiries into community, equity, justice, and civically engaged argument writing. In addition to featuring resources from the African American Museum in Philadelphia, the Advanced ISI will engage with Rogers & Taylor's text, “They Carried Us: The Social Impact of Philadelphia's Black Women Leaders and Dr. Gholdy Muhammad's Culturally and Historically Responsive Literacy Framework.” Program Dates: One-Week Institute: Monday-Friday, June 27-July 1, 9:00am to 3:00 pm Follow up celebration & monthly panel discussions at The African American Museum in Philadelphia. Click here for more information and to apply to the Advanced Invitational Summer Institute on Writing and Literacy. Summer Youth Programs The Black Girls Literacies Project July 11-14 and July 18-21, 1:00 pm - 3:00 pm The Black Girls Literacies Project presents “A Black Girl’s Love Story”, a program designed to support adolescent Black girls, ages 14-18, in defining and practicing self-love. We will read, write, tell stories, and create multimodal artifacts. The cost is $300. Scholarships are available for Philadelphia students. Limited to 20 students. Register here for The Black Girls Literacies Project. Project Write July 19-22 and July 26-29, 9:30 a.m. - 12:30 p.m. In collaboration with Independence National Historical Park, PhilWP welcomes students entering grades 9-12 who want to write, explore history, and develop digital and artistic talent. This summer, students will participate in a two-week online program (with some face-to-face opportunities, if possible) to explore the power of language and learn about the city where our nation began. The cost is $300. Scholarships are available for Philadelphia students. Limited to 25 students. Register here for Project Write. Humor Writing Camp July 25 -July 29, 5:00 p.m. - 8:00 p.m. PhilWP Humor Writing Camp welcomes students entering grades 8- 12 who want to focus on parody/satire news writing and have the opportunity to learn from and explore various types of humorous texts. Students will write, workshop their writing, and discuss tips, tricks, and theories related to humor writing. The cost is $150. Scholarships are available for Philadelphia students. Limited to 25 students. Register here for Humor Writing Camp Philly Journalism Camp August 1-5 and Aug. 8, 10:00 a.m. - 2:00 p.m. Students entering grades 9-12 will explore journalism as a way of making an impact through writing. This six-day hybrid program will include presentations by professional journalists and multiple opportunities for publication using text, photography and short videos. Students will research and write about events and ideas of interest and get feedback from journalism teachers and other participants. The cost is $150. Scholarships are available for Philadelphia students. Limited to 30 students. Register here for Philly Journalism Camp. Scholastic Art and Writing Awards The Philadelphia Writing Project serves as the Regional Writing Affiliate for the Scholastic Art & Writing Awards. The Art & Writing Awards are coordinated by the Alliance for Young Artists & Writers, which seeks to identify and support exceptional writers and artists. Learn more about the Scholastic Art & Writing Awards. Congratulations 2022 Scholastic Art & Writing Awards honorees. View the list of local winners. Teaching with Primary Sources Since 2018, PhilWP Teacher Consultants (TCs) have integrated sources and strategies from the Library of Congress' Teaching with Primary Sources (TPS) Program into our professional development offerings. PhilWP has also partnered with School District of Philadelphia Learning Networks 2 and 11 to expand our leadership capacity around teaching with primary sources. This work has been funded by generous PhilWP supporters and grants from the Library of Congress. PhilWP TCs are currently developing curriculum collections and hosting a series of webinars for supporting civically engaged argument writing with primary sources. Teachers are invited to apply to our June 2022 Invitational Summer Institute, which will focus on teaching with primary sources and argument writing. More about PhilWP Programs and Events PhilWP Update The PhilWP Update provides news and current information for local teachers and partners. Sign up for the PhilWP Update. Contact Us The Philadelphia Writing Project Mailing Address: PO Box 30941 | Philadelphia, PA 19104 Office Address: Solomon Labs | 3720 Walnut Street, B-15 | Philadelphia, PA 19104 ©Copyright 2022 Penn GSE Report accessibility issues and request help Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter