/ Jump to main navigation Jump to section navigation Jump to main content Cornell University Department Homepage Academics Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Current Graduate Students Graduate Program in Ancient Philosophy Courses Faculty Affiliated Faculty Klarman Fellows Emeritus Faculty Office Hours In Memoriam Ethics & Public Life Law & Society Minor Hatfield Business Ethics Funding Neil Lubow Prize Ethics Colloquium Cornell Workshop on Mind and Value: Acquaintance Philosophers at Risk EPL Contacts About Us Department Contacts Student Resources Diversity and Inclusion History of the Sage School Journals The College of Arts & Sciences Open search Open nav Search for: An atmosphere supporting vibrant philosophical exchange Sage School of Philosophy The Sage School of Philosophy has a distinguished tradition of philosophical research and teaching. Students at every level and in every area of intellectual endeavor find opportunity to engage with great philosophical ideas and problems and develop the critical thinking and analytical skills necessary for advancing our understanding of them. Philosophy Links Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Courses Faculty Contacts Philosophy News Students tackle community projects in moral psychology course Students spent the semester working with local non-profits addressing issues from migrant family justice to food insecurity to sustainable agriculture. Read More Who was Jack Karp? Behind the Karp Fund for the Study of Ancient Philosophy at Cornell Since 2004, Cornell’s Sage School of Philosophy has been the beneficiary of the Karp Fund for the study of ancient philosophy, endowed by Jack Karp ‘58 to honor his parents for their unwavering support of his education. Read More Dr. Monima Chadha ~ Inaugural Karp Fellow Dr. Monima Chadha (Monash University) will be the Sage School of Philosophy’s first Jack Karp Fellow, in Fall 2022. Read More Dead men tell no tales Tad Brennan, Professor of Ancient Greek Philosophy at the Sage School of Philosophy as well as Professor of Classics, is morally invested in allowing ancient thinkers, such as Plato and Aristotle, to be heard more clearly. Read More Humanities students present diverse research projects Humanities students studying an array of topics presented their work at the A.D. White House. Read More Grateful to be together: Meet the extraordinary class of 2022 Hear about the Cornell experiences of some of the amazing students in our graduating class. Read More Philosophize Like Jazz Scott MacDonald, Professor at the Sage School of Philosophy and Norma K. Regan Professor in Christian Studies, loves jazz, and he finds philosophy to be similar to jazz. Read More Human, All Too Human Karolina Hübner, Associate Professor in the Sage School of Philosophy as well as the Himan Brown Fellow for the Jewish Studies Program at Cornell, is a leading scholar in Early Modern Philosophy. Read More More Philosophy News Philosophy events Jun 17 The Moral Psychology of Social Tech Conference 150 Warren Hall Jun 21 6-Week Summer Session Begins Campus-wide Aug 22 Instruction Begins Campus-wide Sep 05 Labor Day - No Classes Campus-wide Sage School Events See All Events Ethics & Public Life The Cornell Program on Ethics and Public Life promotes interdisciplinary learning about morally central questions concerning public policies and social, political and economic processes. Learn more about EPL 218 Goldwin Smith Hall Ithaca, NY 14853 United States Email Sage School of Philosophy 607-255-3687 Cornell University The College of Arts & Sciences Website Accessibility Privacy Policy Equal Education & Employment Emergency Information Land Acknowledgment © 2022 College of Arts & Sciences Top