Skip to Main Content Brown University Philosophy Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Philosophy: What & Why? History of the Department Affiliated Programs People Undergraduate Courses Current Courses Concentration Requirements Senior Capstone A Priori: Undergraduate Philosophy Journal Graduate How to Apply Courses Ph.D.s Awarded Ph.D. Placements Events Past Events News Search Philosophy Breadcrumb Home People Sub Navigation In This Section All Faculty Christopher Hill Director of Graduate Studies, William Herbert Perry Faunce Professor of Philosophy Christopher_Hill@brown.edu 401-863-3204 Corliss Brackett 207 Research Profile Office Hours Tuesdays 4-5pm office 207 in CB; Wednesdays 7-8 PM, zoom (by appointment). Biography Chris Hill has been at Brown since 2002. He previously taught at the University of Pittsburgh, Case Western Reserve University, and (for many years) at the University of Arkansas and has been a visiting professor at the University of Michigan and MIT. He mainly teaches courses in philosophy of mind but occasionally strays into other areas, including epistemology, logic, philosophy of cognitive science, and philosophy of language. He enjoys teaching and takes great pleasure in the many achievements of his students, past and present. Hill is the author of numerous papers and four books. Sensations (Cambridge University Press, 1991) argues for a radical physicalism concerning qualitative mental states (like pain), specifically, for the view that qualitative states are type-identical with high level brain states. He no longer holds this version of physicalism, having converted to a form of representationalism several years ago, but continues to write about it from time to time, seeking ways of improving upon the earlier exposition. Thought and World (Cambridge University Press, 2002) defends a deflationary account of semantic properties and relations. The foundation of Hill's approach is a family of logical operators that are known as substitutional quantifiers. According to the theory, truth and relational semantic concepts such as reference and denotation can be explicitly defined in terms of these logical operators, and therefore count as a priori concepts. The correspondence relation that links thoughts to states of affairs is also given a deflationary analysis. Consciousness (Cambridge University Press, 2009) offers explanations of six forms of consciousness: agent consciousness, propositional consciousness (the form that is expressed by the conscious that construction), introspective consciousness (the form that is possessed by mental states that are objects of introspective awareness), relational consciousness (the form that is expressed by the conscious of construction), phenomenal consciousness, and experiential consciousness (the form that is common to all mental states that count as experiences). Among other things, it argues that all awareness involves representations, including even awareness of qualitative states like pain, and that it is therefore possible to extend the appearance/reality distinction to qualia: There is the way that qualia are represented as being, and the way that they are in themselves. Hill then uses this doctrine to undercut the case for property dualism. Meaning, Mind, and Knowledge (Oxford University Press, 2014) is a collection of papers, half previously published and half new. Some of the papers are concerned with truth and reference; others explore the pros and cons of type-physicalism; the members of a third group develop the aforementioned representationalist account of phenomenal consciousness; and the rest explore topics in epistemology. Hill was the editor of Philosophical Topics for a number of years, and he has co-edited two free-standing volumes: New Perspectives on Type Identity (Cambridge University Press, 2012), with Simone Gozzano, and Sensory Integration and the Unity of Consciousness (MIT Press, 2014), with David Bennett. Publications Reviews "I Love Machery’s Book, But Love Concepts More", Philosophical Studies 149 (2010), 411-421 Review of Peter Hylton, Quine, Philosophical Review 120 (2011), 117-123 Review of Paul Horwich, Truth, Meaning, Reality, Mind 120 (2011), 1262-1270 Review of Derk Pereboom, Consciousness and the Prospects of Physicalism, Philosophical Review 122 (2013), 511-518 Critical Notice of Allan Gibbard, Meaning and Normativity, Notre Dame Philosophical Reviews (2013) "Tim Bayne on the Unity of Consciousness", Analysis Reviews (2014) Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Philosophy: What & Why? History of the Department Affiliated Programs People Undergraduate Courses Current Courses Concentration Requirements Senior Capstone A Priori: Undergraduate Philosophy Journal Graduate How to Apply Courses Ph.D.s Awarded Ph.D. Placements Events Past Events News This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Christopher Hill Open details for Christopher Hill Bookmark this Page