Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Philosophy Department of Philosophy Contact Us Philosophy@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home People Curriculum Overview Major and Minor Course Schedule Honors Past Honors Theses Foreign Study Logic Software Back to Top Nav Foreign Study News & Events News & Events Student Prizes Gramlich Prize Winners Story Prize Winners Philosophy Faculty Prize Winners Lecture Series Gramlich Sapentia Race, Gender & Justice Workshops Philosophy & The Struggle Against Racism Social Justice Research Grants Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search News & Events Student Prizes Lecture Series Gramlich Sapentia Race, Gender & Justice Workshops Philosophy & The Struggle Against Racism Share Race, Gender and Justice Lecture Series As part of our commitment to social justice, the philosophy department is developing a 5-year series of public lectures on Race, Gender and Justice, beginning in 2021. Funded by the Mark J. Byrne 1985 Fund in Philosophy, which is an endowment established in 1996 to help support the study of philosophy at Dartmouth College. A two-day workshop: Friday, April 8 and Saturday, April 9, 2022 2021-2022 Workshop Day 1: Friday, April 8, 2022 Faculty Lounge, Hopkins Center 1:00-2:00pm Ayanna Spencer (University of Connecticut),Talk Title: "Mapping an Epistemological Quagmire for Criminalized Black Girl Survivors in the US." 2:00-2:15 Break 2:15-3:15 Adebayo Oluwayomi (ACLS Emerging Voices Fellow, Dartmouth College), Talk Title: "On Becoming an Antiracist Philosopher in a Polarized Society: Challenges and Possibilities" 3:15-3:30 Break 3:30-5:00 Panel discussion: "What can philosophy do for social justice?" Terry Guo '23, Ana Noriega Olazabal '24, Adebayo Oluwayomi, Yarran Hominh, Esther Rosario Saturday April 9 Carson 60 9:00-10:00am Catherine Clune-Taylor (Princeton University), Talk Title: "Covid-19 Anti-Vaxxers, White Supremacist Suicidality and Racialized "Risk" 10:00-10:15 Break 10:15-11:45 Student Papers: Clara Pakman '23, "Feminist Perspectives on Cognitive Science: From Computationalism to Embodiment" Kristal Wong '22, "Philosophy, Medicine, and Social Justice: The Cases of Gender and Race" 11:45-12:00 Break 12:00-1:00 Tina Botts (Visiting Scholar, Dartmouth College), Talk Title: "Is the U.S. Constitution an Anti-Racist Document?" A Pod Called Quest Goes to Dartmouth 2020-2021 Workshop Friday, April 30, 2021 at 4pm The nature, practice, and responsibilities of student social justice activism Dr. Derrick Darby, Rutgers University Dr. Christian Davenport, University of Michigan Spotify Recording of the Podcast Episode 12 – A Pod Called Quest Goes to Dartmouth Description: "A Pod Called Quest" is a podcast taking on everything that people concerned about injustice care about, from the wealth gap to voting rights, to police brutality, to reparations, to health and well-being, to climate change, to state repression and much more. Sage and Science want listeners to think with them about problems of injustice, just futures, and evidence-based solutions. Derrick Darby (aka Sage) is a philosopher at Rutgers University. Christian Davenport (aka Science) is a political scientist and sociologist at the University of Michigan. Join our quest to impose logic as well as data on the struggle for justice in America and globally. Give us your time, we give you power, wealth, and culture. Dr. Derrick Darby is a Henry Rutgers professor of philosophy. He holds a B. A. from Colgate and a Ph.D. from Pittsburgh. He is the founding director of the Rutgers Social Justice Solutions Research Collaboratory and also directs its renowned Summer Institute for Diversity in Philosophy. Dr. Christian Davenport is the Walgreen's Professor of Human Understanding in the department of Political Science, Faculty Associate at the Institute for Social Research at the University of Michigan, Research Professor at the Peace Research Institute Oslo and Elected Fellow at the American Association for the Arts and Sciences. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Philosophy People Curriculum Overview Major and Minor Course Schedule Honors Past Honors Theses Foreign Study Logic Software Foreign Study News & Events News & Events Student Prizes Gramlich Prize Winners Story Prize Winners Philosophy Faculty Prize Winners Lecture Series Gramlich Sapentia Race, Gender & Justice Workshops Philosophy & The Struggle Against Racism Social Justice Research Grants My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback