Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Contact us Department of Philosophy Home Graduate Graduate Program Overview Philosophy Program Description Classics and Philosophy Combined Ph.D. Program Philosophy and Psychology Combined Ph.D. Program Graduate courses 2021-2022 Graduate courses 2020-2021 Graduate Courses 2019-2020 Admissions Graduate Placement Yale Graduate School Undergraduate Undergraduate Program Undergraduate Courses 2021-2022 Undergraduate Courses 2020-2021 Undergraduate Courses 2019-2020 Undergraduate Courses 2018-2019 Calendar News People Faculty Faculty Books Graduate Students Staff Special Events Philosophy Department Colloquium Series The Ruth Barcan Marcus Memorial Lecture Timothy Williamson, Visiting Professor Working Groups Working Groups Department of Philosophy The Yale Philosophy Department offers a wide range of courses in various traditions of philosophy, with strengths and a well-established reputation in the history of philosophy, ethics, metaphysics, epistemology, philosophy of art as well as other central topics. We also have affiliated faculty members in the Law School, the Classics Department, the Linguistics Department, the Political Science Department, and the Divinity School, and have close connections with the Cognitive Science Program. Our graduate program welcomes students from various backgrounds, and our placement record is excellent. The Department is committed to providing a safe, respectful, and supportive environment for all of its students, faculty, and staff. In addition to being necessary for health and welfare, nothing is more important to the quality of philosophical community we share and value. The Department takes concerns about sexual misconduct and other forms of discrimination very seriously, and the University maintains a number of resources to address questions concerning them: Sexual Misconduct Response at Yale Office of the Provost-Title IX Office for Equal Opportunity Programs Upcoming Events Please see the calendar for upcoming events. News Prof. Kenneth Winkler awarded Yale Teaching Prize May 10, 2022 Prof. Kenneth Winkler has been awarded the Harwood F. Byrnes / Richard B. Sewall Teaching Prize, awarded to any faculty member who over a long period of service has inspired... Michael Della Rocca, Sterling Professor of Philosophy December 8, 2021 Michael Della Rocca, previously the Andrew Downey Orrick Professor of Philosophy, has been named Sterling Professor of Philosophy. A Sterling Professorship is the highest... Joanna Lawson receives Marc Sanders Foundation fellowship December 7, 2021 Joanna Lawson is one of the recipients of the Philosophy in the Media Fellowships sponsored by the Marc Sanders Foundation. You’ll find the details on their website... More news... Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Facebook Twitter iTunes YouTube Sina Weibo Tumblr