Skip to Main Content Brown University Philosophy Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Philosophy: What & Why? History of the Department Affiliated Programs People Undergraduate Courses Current Courses Concentration Requirements Senior Capstone A Priori: Undergraduate Philosophy Journal Graduate How to Apply Courses Ph.D.s Awarded Ph.D. Placements Events Past Events News Search Philosophy Courses Breadcrumb Home Undergraduate Sub Navigation In This Section Courses New Course Numbers Current Courses Concentration Requirements Senior Capstone A Priori: Undergraduate Philosophy Journal For a list of our current courses, see this page. For a list of past and future courses, please see Courses@Brown. There is a drop-down box at the left which will allow you to see only courses in philosophy. The Philosophy Department offers a wide range of courses spanning the discipline and its history. Unlike in some other fields, however, there is no clear sequence of courses to take in philosophy, and there is no obvious first course that is best. Rather, the Department offers a range of courses suitable for beginners on a range of different topics, and students are encouraged to choose their first course on the basis of what most interests them. Courses numbered under 0100 are specifically designed for students new to philosophy. As well as introducing students to a particular set of issues (equality, or the nature of personhood, say), they also focus on teaching the basic skills of how to read, write, and discuss philosophy. It is not, however, necessary to start with one of these courses. None of the courses numbered under 0990 assume any prior experience with philosophy, and most of them do also teach the basis skills. (The exception is Logic, which is more mathematical.) It is even possible to start with a 1000-level course, especially when the student has some prior familiarity with the subject matter. For example, students who have a background in linguistics might start with a course in Philosophy of Language; those who have a background in Political Science could potentially jump into a more advanced course in Political Philosophy. Students just starting out are encouraged to speak with the Director of Undergraduate Studies or any other member of the faculty if they would like more advice about choosing a first course, or a second or third! The Department's courses are (as of Fall 2021) numbered thematically. The grid below explains the numbering system. 00xx Introductory Courses (Only one can count towards the concentration) 10xx Courses that do not fit elsewhere 20xx Required Graduate Courses 01xx 11xx 21xx Ancient and other pre-Modern History of Philosophy 02xx 12xx 22xx Early Modern Philosophy 03xx 13xx 23xx Post-Kantian History of Philosophy 04xx 14xx 24xx Ethics and Ethical Theory, Aesthetics 05xx 15xx 25xx Political and Social Philosophy, Other Value Theory 06xx 16xx 26xx Logic, Philosophy of Logic and Mathematics 07xx 17xx 27xx Epistemology, Metaphysics, Philosophy of Science 08xx 18xx 28xx Philosophy of Mind and Language 09xx 19xx Seminars, Independent Studies, Etc 29xx Independent Studies, Prospectus and Thesis Preparation, Etc Courses numbered below 0990, as said above, do not presuppose any prior experience with philosophy. The 0990-level courses are undergraduate seminars intended primarily for junior and senior concentrators. Courses under 1000 and are open to undergraduates only. 1000-level courses are more advanced, and it is recommended (though not required) that students have taken at least one, preferably two, prior philosophy courses before attempting them. (Courses in logic are an exception, though these have their own prerequisites.) They range in difficulty from just above the introductory-level courses to quite advanced. 1000-level courses are open to both undergraduate and graduate students. 2000-level courses are intended primarily for graduate students in philosophy, though undergraduates can enroll, with permission from the instructor (an 'override'). Usually, an instructor will want an undergraduate to have significant prior experience with philosophy. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Philosophy: What & Why? History of the Department Affiliated Programs People Undergraduate Courses Current Courses Concentration Requirements Senior Capstone A Priori: Undergraduate Philosophy Journal Graduate How to Apply Courses Ph.D.s Awarded Ph.D. Placements Events Past Events News This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Courses Open details for Courses Bookmark this Page