Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Philosophy Department of Philosophy Contact Us Philosophy@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home People Curriculum Overview Major and Minor Course Schedule Honors Past Honors Theses Foreign Study Logic Software Back to Top Nav Foreign Study News & Events News & Events Student Prizes Gramlich Prize Winners Story Prize Winners Philosophy Faculty Prize Winners Lecture Series Gramlich Sapentia Race, Gender & Justice Workshops Philosophy & The Struggle Against Racism Social Justice Research Grants Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Major and Minor Course Schedule Honors Foreign Study Logic Software Study Abroad Edinburgh, Scotland Philosophy Major, Minor, Modified Requirements (ORC) Share Major and Minor Declaring a major or minor Students should select a major advisor from the following list of professors of Philosophy (links to email addresses): Susan Brison John Kulvicki Sam Levey Peter Lewis David Plunkett Timothy Rosenkoetter Adina Roskies Christie Thomas Amie Thomasson Kenneth Walden Students will meet with their advisor to discuss the major and to have their major plan approved in DegreeWorks. We encourage students to select an advisor based on their areas of philosophical interest. See the Faculty section of the Philosophy website for faculty Areas of Interest. 1. Request a meeting with a prospective major advisor. (Note: Exemptions, special permissions, and proposals need to be addressed by the Department Chair.) 2. Review the requirements of the major and minor*, and fill in your worksheet with your proposed course of study. *The requirements have recently changed, please check the ORC of the year of your matriculation; previous ORC can be found here. Philosophy Major Worksheet Philosophy Minor Worksheet for class years 2022 and Earlier. Philosophy Minor Worksheet for class years 2023 and Later. Philosophy Modified Major Worksheet 3. Bring the completed major worksheet to your advisor's office. 4. Be prepared to discuss your philosophical interests, specific courses that you would like to take, and any questions you may have regarding the major. 5. Confirm your proposed course of study for approval by your advisor in DegreeWorks. Watch for occasional email announcements (Events of Interest, Major Degree Requirements, Commencement, etc) from the Philosophy Department. Educational Aims Students who major or minor in philosophy learn to follow complex lines of reasoning, expose presuppositions, weigh evidence, craft arguments, make objections and replies, offer creative answers to philosophical questions, and construct independent solutions to philosophical problems. Majors in philosophy are knowledgeable about the main contemporary and historical areas, authors, concepts, methodologies, techniques and problems of philosophy. The benefits of a philosophy major extend well beyond philosophy, and our students go on to pursue careers in many areas, including law, medicine, finance, the arts, and academia. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Philosophy People Curriculum Overview Major and Minor Course Schedule Honors Past Honors Theses Foreign Study Logic Software Foreign Study News & Events News & Events Student Prizes Gramlich Prize Winners Story Prize Winners Philosophy Faculty Prize Winners Lecture Series Gramlich Sapentia Race, Gender & Justice Workshops Philosophy & The Struggle Against Racism Social Justice Research Grants My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback