Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Philosophy Department of Philosophy Contact Us Philosophy@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home People Curriculum Overview Major and Minor Course Schedule Honors Past Honors Theses Foreign Study Logic Software Back to Top Nav Foreign Study News & Events News & Events Student Prizes Gramlich Prize Winners Story Prize Winners Philosophy Faculty Prize Winners Lecture Series Gramlich Sapentia Race, Gender & Justice Workshops Philosophy & The Struggle Against Racism Social Justice Research Grants Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Top Stories Previous Next Q&A: Philosophy professor Esther Rosario on reproductive rights and bodily autonomy Professor Rosario discussed how the leaked draft decision to potentially overturn Roe v. Wade could impact college students. Welcome Bailey Thomas as Postdoctoral Fellow in the Department of Philosophy Welcome Bailey Thomas as Postdoctoral Fellow in the Department of Philosophy! This coming Fall term 2022, Professor Bailey Thomas will teach: PHIL 1.17 Race and Modernity; AND PHIL 50.38 Epistemologies of Oppression, Ignorance, and Resistance. Barry Prize Honors 'Dedication to the Academic Vocation' The scholarships will allow two Dartmouth students to study theology at Oxford. Beth Robinson '86 becomes first out LGBTQ+ woman appointed to federal circuit court An active player in the decision to legalize same-sex marriage in Vermont, Robinson previously served as a lawyer and judge on the Vermont Supreme Court. Postdoctoral Fellow in Philosophy of Race, African-American Political Thought, or Africana Philosophy The Department of Philosophy at Dartmouth College invites applications for a two-year residential postdoctoral fellowship, beginning July 1, 2022. Dartmouth's Adina Roskies Explores the Nature of Free Will A new article investigates the link between activity in the brain and human behavior. Quoted: Brad Carney '20 in 'Kokomo Perspective' "Philosophy demands that we think about our assumptions. What I learned has helped me in business, sports, and life," says the alumnus and veteran, who fell in love with philosophy after taking a class called "Ethics of Freedom." Race, Gender and Justice Podcast A Pod Called Quest Goes to Dartmouth: The nature, practice, and responsibilities of student social justice activism Dr. Derrick Darby, Rutgers University Dr. Christian Davenport, University of Michigan Government Major Ezekiel Vergara named 2021-2022 APSA Diversity Fellow Ezekiel Vergara is a rising senior majoring in government and philosophy at Dartmouth College. Social and Environmental Justice Research Grants The Philosophy department, with kind support from the Irving Institute, will fund independent philosophical research on issues of social justice related to race, class, gender, energy, and/or the environment. Recent Publications view all Modeling the Meanings of Pictures John Kulvicki Oxford University Press, 2020 Norms and Necessity Amie L. Thomasson Oxford University Press, 2020 Conceptual Engineering and Conceptual Ethics David Plunkett, ed. with Herman Cappelen and Alexis Burgess Oxford University Press, 2020 'Learning' and Learning at Euthydemus 275d-278d' Christine J. Thomas Australasian Philosophical Review, Vol 3. No. 3, 307-313 (2020) Philosophy and the Struggle Against Racism Learn more about the philosophy department's commitment to social justice and to working towards a better future.learn more Race, Gender and Justice Lecture Series Learn more about Philosophy's commitment to social justice and its upcoming public lecture series. For Students Philosophy's Social Justice Research Grants The grants give students the chance to pursue a project of their own devising during a leave term or Winterim.learn more Events view all Sep 23 9:00AM Workshop on Constitutional Theory and General Jurisprudence To be announced This workshop aims to examine the philosophical foundations of some of the most pressing debates in contemporary American constitutional theory. Sep 24 9:00AM Workshop on Constitutional Theory and General Jurisprudence To be announced This workshop aims to examine the philosophical foundations of some of the most pressing debates in contemporary American constitutional theory. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Philosophy People Curriculum Overview Major and Minor Course Schedule Honors Past Honors Theses Foreign Study Logic Software Foreign Study News & Events News & Events Student Prizes Gramlich Prize Winners Story Prize Winners Philosophy Faculty Prize Winners Lecture Series Gramlich Sapentia Race, Gender & Justice Workshops Philosophy & The Struggle Against Racism Social Justice Research Grants My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback