Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Philosophy Department of Philosophy Contact Us Philosophy@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home People Curriculum Overview Major and Minor Course Schedule Honors Past Honors Theses Foreign Study Logic Software Back to Top Nav Foreign Study News & Events News & Events Student Prizes Gramlich Prize Winners Story Prize Winners Philosophy Faculty Prize Winners Lecture Series Gramlich Sapentia Race, Gender & Justice Workshops Philosophy & The Struggle Against Racism Social Justice Research Grants Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Share Barry Prize Honors 'Dedication to the Academic Vocation' Posted on May 02, 2022 by Charlotte Albright News subtitle The scholarships will allow two Dartmouth students to study theology at Oxford. Image Image Victoria Xiao ’22, left, and Rachel Gambee ’21 have won Barry Scholarships. Body Victoria Xiao ’22 and Rachel Gambee ’21, who will both graduate this spring, will attend the University of Oxford next year, supported by the John and Daria Barry Scholarship, which was awarded for the first time this year to Dartmouth students. “The Barry Scholarship is unique in that students cannot apply for it directly. Instead, candidates are nominated by an independent body of scholars, in recognition of their academic vocation and pursuit of truth. Because they have to be recognized by senior scholars, rather than putting themselves forward, candidates must be of the highest merit. We are thrilled to have our first two recipients this year. It’s an acknowledgement of their successes and the academic and community networks on campus that mentored them,” says Christie Harner, assistant dean of faculty for fellowship advising. Quote We are thrilled to have our first two recipients this year. It’s an acknowledgement of their successes and the academic and community networks on campus that mentored them. Attribution Christie Harner, assistant dean of faculty for fellowship advising Barry Scholars receive full funding for tuition, a generous living stipend, a yearly research allowance, and a yearly travel allowance. Gambee, from Vero Beach, Fla., majors in religion and Middle Eastern studies. “In my senior thesis, I investigate the intellectual roots of Humanae Vitae, the 1968 Encyclical Letter of Paul VI, which banned birth control for Catholics,” she says. At Oriel College, Oxford, where she will read the MPhil in theology, Gambee will study how certain branches of theology intersect with political theory, examining “the role of faith in theories of liberalism and the ethical questions raised by the influence of theology on public institutions.” She’ll pursue a two-year master’s in theology, specializing in Christian ethics. “American programs tend to be focused on the history of religion, comparative religion, or the anthropology of religion,” says Gambee. “I want to go to the UK to get a better grounding in political theology, and theology more broadly, before returning to the U.S. perhaps to enter a doctoral program.” Xiao was born in the U.S., but her parents live in China, and she grew up in Beijing. A philosophy major who studies phenomenology, Xiao is interested in Christian theology. Reading the MPhil in theology (New Testament) at St Cross College, Oxford, she plans to explore the “personal and immanent” dimensions of metaphysics. “We tend to think about ‘the subjective’ and ‘the objective,’ as separate things, but I think differently,” says Xiao, who has also researched topics related to political economy, with the help of the Dartmouth Political Economy Project and Undergraduate Advising and Research. “Theology also provides an important lens for understanding political ideologies,” she says. Among the big questions she’ll be posing over the next two years is one about her own future in academia. “The Barry Scholarship gives you the chance to consider how to build a career on a philosophical foundation, and the financial support is a huge help,” she says. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Philosophy People Curriculum Overview Major and Minor Course Schedule Honors Past Honors Theses Foreign Study Logic Software Foreign Study News & Events News & Events Student Prizes Gramlich Prize Winners Story Prize Winners Philosophy Faculty Prize Winners Lecture Series Gramlich Sapentia Race, Gender & Justice Workshops Philosophy & The Struggle Against Racism Social Justice Research Grants My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback