Skip to Main Content Brown University Philosophy Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Philosophy: What & Why? History of the Department Affiliated Programs People Undergraduate Courses Current Courses Concentration Requirements Senior Capstone A Priori: Undergraduate Philosophy Journal Graduate How to Apply Courses Ph.D.s Awarded Ph.D. Placements Events Past Events News Search Philosophy Senior Capstone Breadcrumb Home Undergraduate Sub Navigation In This Section Courses Current Courses Concentration Requirements Senior Capstone Senior Thesis A Priori: Undergraduate Philosophy Journal Senior Capstone The capstone will be normally be completed in a student’s last undergraduate year, and it should make use of a significant portion of what the student has learned in their undergraduate education, broadly interpreted. There are three options for the capstone course in philosophy: A Senior Thesis: A substantial paper, typically about 40-60 pages, that is researched and written over the course of the senior year under the supervision of a faculty advisor. Typically, students writing a thesis will enroll in PHIL 1995, Senior Thesis, both semesters. (In order for a student to be permitted to write a Senior Thesis, they must have completed at least six courses in the concentration and have received a grade either of A or of Satisfactory with Distinction in more than half of them.) An Independent Study: A one-semester reading course PHIL 1990 under the direction of a faculty advisor, leading to a substantial research paper, typically 15-25 pages. A Special Project undertaken in connection with a philosophy course at or above 0990: Examples include a more-in-depth final paper than is otherwise required or a presentation of some of the material to the class, though students are encouraged to make creative proposals, as well. The specific project should be discussed with, and must be approved by, the instructor of the relevant course. Every philosophy concentrator must file the Declaration of Capstone Project (which is part of the concentration declaration) by the end of shopping period in their final semester. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Philosophy: What & Why? History of the Department Affiliated Programs People Undergraduate Courses Current Courses Concentration Requirements Senior Capstone A Priori: Undergraduate Philosophy Journal Graduate How to Apply Courses Ph.D.s Awarded Ph.D. Placements Events Past Events News This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Senior Capstone Open details for Senior Capstone Bookmark this Page