Skip to Main Content Brown University Philosophy Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Philosophy: What & Why? History of the Department Affiliated Programs People Undergraduate Courses Current Courses Concentration Requirements Senior Capstone A Priori: Undergraduate Philosophy Journal Graduate How to Apply Courses Ph.D.s Awarded Ph.D. Placements Events Past Events News Search Philosophy Graduate Sub Navigation In This Section How to Apply Courses Ph.D.s Awarded Ph.D. Placements Graduate Student Handbook Find more information about graduate studies in philosophy at Brown University view the handbook Find a Job in Philosophy Search PhilJobs.org Graduate Brown University Ph.D. program in Philosophy is designed to provide strong support for students’ research. In the first year, students focus exclusively on course work. Teaching responsibilities begin in the second year, continue through the fourth year, and return in the sixth year. After devoting two years to coursework, students begin their research in the third year by conducting literature reviews under the supervision of faculty members, and by enrolling in a seminar intended to promote work aimed at publication. These special courses help students identify dissertation topics. Dissertation Dissertation work begins in earnest in the fourth year. In that year and in succeeding years, students enroll every semester in a special seminar, the dissertation workshop, in which they present their research and receive feedback from faculty and peers. During this time they also work closely with dissertation advisers and other members of their dissertation committees. In the fifth year, students set teaching aside so they can concentrate on dissertation research. In this year, they may, if they like, spend periods of time at other universities, interacting with faculty and students who share their interests. Teaching responsibilities generally take the form of work as assistants in courses run by faculty, but in the fourth and sixth years, students may apply to be teaching fellows, in which case they have full responsibility for undergraduate courses. There are also opportunities for summer teaching. Ph.D. Requirements The preliminary requirements for the Ph.D. are satisfied by demonstrating competence in logic, philosophy of science, language, and mind, ethics, epistemology, metaphysics, and history of philosophy. This may be done either by passing prescribed courses with a quality grade or through satisfactory completion of an individually tailored major-minors program, planned in consultation with the Director of Graduate Studies and submitted to the department for approval. Within seven semesters of full-time or equivalent residency at Brown, the student must gain admission to Ph.D. candidacy. Admission to candidacy is granted after satisfaction of the preliminary evaluation and distribution requirements and upon approval of a dissertation prospectus by a dissertation committee. An oral defense of the dissertation is required once it is completed. Master's Degree Any student who has completed the preliminary requirements for the Ph.D. is eligible to be awarded an M.A., either as an additional or a terminal degree. The degree may also be awarded to Brown undergraduates admitted to the A.B./A.M. program. Funding and Financial Support Financial support is guaranteed for the first five years of study, and also for the first four summers. It is not guaranteed for the sixth year, but in almost all cases thus far, applications for sixth year support have been successful. The Brown Graduate School makes substantial awards in support of travel by graduate students. The Open Master's Program allows students to apply to pursue an M.A. degree in another discipline while pursuing a Ph.D. in Philosophy. Students admitted in this program automatically receive an additional year of financial support to complete their M.A. degree. Graduate Student Handbook Find more information about graduate studies in philosophy at Brown University view the handbook Find a Job in Philosophy Search PhilJobs.org Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Philosophy: What & Why? History of the Department Affiliated Programs People Undergraduate Courses Current Courses Concentration Requirements Senior Capstone A Priori: Undergraduate Philosophy Journal Graduate How to Apply Courses Ph.D.s Awarded Ph.D. Placements Events Past Events News This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Graduate Open details for Graduate Bookmark this Page