Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Humanities and Social Sciences Department of Philosophy and Religious Studies Philosophy Philosophy Home Major Minor Honors Philosophy Courses Logic Courses Activities and Events Religious Studies Religious Studies Home Major Minor Honors Religious Studies Courses Activities and Events Minors Minors Home Philosophy Religious Studies Cognitive Science (Undergraduate) Cognitive Science (Graduate) Ethics Health, Medicine and Human Values Logic and Methodology People Philosophy Faculty Religious Studies Faculty Department Administration Courses Courses Home Logic Philosophy Religious Studies Graduate Studies Logic and Cognitive Science Initiative LACSI Home Cognitive Science Program Cognitive Science Minor (Undergraduate) Cognitive Science Minor (Graduate) Give Now Philosophy Religious Studies Minors People Courses Graduate Studies Logic and Cognitive Science Initiative Full Site Navigation Philosophy Philosophy Home Major Minor Honors Philosophy Courses Logic Courses Activities and Events Religious Studies Religious Studies Home Major Minor Honors Religious Studies Courses Activities and Events Minors Minors Home Philosophy Religious Studies Cognitive Science (Undergraduate) Cognitive Science (Graduate) Ethics Health, Medicine and Human Values Logic and Methodology People Philosophy Faculty Religious Studies Faculty Department Administration Courses Courses Home Logic Philosophy Religious Studies Logic and Cognitive Science Initiative LACSI Home Cognitive Science Program Cognitive Science Minor (Undergraduate) Cognitive Science Minor (Graduate) Expand Your Horizons Our programs develop critical, creative and independent thinking skills that lead to excellence in graduate studies, professional training and many careers. What We Offer Explore Your Options Philosophy Religious Studies Minors Graduate Studies NC State’s Department of Philosophy and Religious Studies offers an undergraduate major in Philosophy (B.A. and B.S., with a selection of concentrations), an undergraduate major in Religious Studies (B.A.) and undergraduate minors in the following fields: Philosophy; Religious Studies; Cognitive Science; Ethics; Health, Medicine and Human Values; Logic and Methodology. We also offer several graduate-level courses in Philosophy, Religious Studies, and Logic plus a graduate minor in Cognitive Science. Core Business Hours The department is currently understaffed. Until further notice, its core business hours will be as follows: Monday: 10:30 a.m. – 12:30 p.m. and 1:00 – 4:00 p.m. Tuesday: 10:30 a.m. – 12:30 p.m. and 1:00 – 4:00 p.m. Thursday: 10:30 a.m. – 12:30 p.m. and 1:00 – 4:00 p.m. Friday: 9:00 a.m. – 12:30 p.m. and 1:00 – 3:00 p.m. The department administrative office will normally be open at the above times. The may also be open at other times. Inquiries Student Affairs At this point we do not have a Student Services Associate. Questions concerning student affairs should be directed philos_relstuds@ncsu.edu. Administration, Finance and General Department Affairs Contact Ms. Stephanie Jacobs, Business Services Coordinator, in Withers Hall 340A, or at srmcbroo@ncsu.edu or 919-515-6103, OR Contact Dr. Michael Pendlebury, Department Head, at mjpendle@ncsu.edu.Further Contact Details of Faculty and Staff Further Contact Details of Faculty and Staff See https://philrel.chass.ncsu.edu/people/. NC State Covid Information Site‌ Upcoming Events Activities and Events in Philosophy‌ Activities and Events in Religious Studies‌ News More stories Department Faculty Receive Awards A remarkable number of the faculty in the Department of Philosophy and Religious Studies received awards during the 2021-22 academic year. These include two significant NC State awards and three prestigious external awards. Read more‌ Alum Uses Philosophy as Data Science Director Chris Becker, B.S. in Philosophy with a Concentration in Logic, Representation and Reasoning and winner of the Logic and Cognitive Science Initiative Award in 2015, is director of data science at Medarrive, an IT healthcare startup, where he draws on philosophy in his daily work. Read more‌ Newsletters The department issues an annual newsletter each June. Current and recent issues‌ Department Mission Read the department's Mission Statement and Statement of Strategic Priorities. Available here‌ Department History Read a very brief history of the department. Available here‌ At MIT, the humanities are just as important as STEM Read about it‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌ Information and Resources for Department Faculty‌ Humanities and Social Sciences Philosophy and Religious Studies 340 Withers Hall, Campus Box 8103, Raleigh, NC 27695-8103 919.515.3214 Humanities and Social Sciences NC State Accessibility Authenticate Main Campus Map © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.