Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia University Photo Library Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Columbia University Photo Library Home Image Carousel with 3 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1 Slide 2 Slide 3 Organize, Find, and Share Images Log In Search for images in one place Log In Manage Rights and Permissions Log In Previous Next About Columbia Photo Library The public portion of the library can be accessed by all current faculty, students, and staff. cloud icon Subscribe and Store A cloud-based digital library hosted externally by Canto and cost-shared between University administrative units archive icon Tag and Retrieve Tag images, documents, and presentations, as well as video and audio files, with global or custom keywords. Then create custom filters and tags to make finding files easy. share-square icon Collaborate and Share All public photos uploaded to the library can be searched and downloaded by the Columbia community and shared via email address, social media, or project management tool. expeditedssl icon Control Access Manage permissions for uploading, downloading, and sharing by group or individual. Customize roles, groups, and permissions to fine tune access. code-fork icon Version Control Keep track of modifications and updates to images, documents, and presentations. copyright icon Manage Digital Rights Save copyright, terms of usage, and restricted use information with individual photos. See More Features Best Practices File Naming Conventions Follow this guide to understand how to use file naming conventions to optimize SEO and organize your files. Copyright and Fair Use Columbia Libraries maintains a number of guides on copyright and fair use. Photo Usage Release Form Use this form to secure permission to use images. Get Help Join the Photo Library The Office of Communications and Public Affairs manages the University subscription. Units that would like to purchase space for their team should contact content strategist Monique Berkley. Find an Image Columbia-specific filters are designed to help you quickly locate the perfect image for your project. And Jennifer Pellerito, associate director of photo and digital communications, can offer additional guidance. Learn the Basics Canto's extensive library of how-to videos is at your disposal to learn the ins and outs of using this digital asset management system. Watch a tutorial to get started. Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close