Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Contact Us! Videos Visit Outreach DONATE Department of Physics Home About Research Academics People Media Events Opportunities Diversity For Prospectives PHYS 260/261 (2018-19) reunion. Photo by Steven Girvin Hoodie Ceremony 2021 Edward Bouchet mural by Kwadwo Adae on Henry Street, New Haven Research group Quantum sensors Instrumentation Lunch presentation Optical table Seminar PROSPECT assembly Presentation SBND APA Poster session Outreach Physics graduates Yale Pathways to Science outreach Outreach with Yale Pathways to Science Optical trapping of microspheres HAYSTAC CUORE Cryostat COSINE-100 CHIME ALICE event Women in Physics PROSPECT team Laser cooling and magneto-optical trapping of strontium monofluoride. (Matt Steinecker) PROSPECT photo multiplier tubes (Ke Han) Colored phase contrast images of Chlamydomonas Reinhardtii cells. (Veikko F. Geyer, Benjamin M. Friedrich) Displacing oxygens in the interfacial layer of a LSMO/BTO interface. (Alexandru Bogdan Georgescu) Confocal image of mouse keratinocytes. (Aaron Mertz) ATLAS detector from above (Lawrence Lee) Quantum Mixmaster Excitation State (2,1) in Minisuperspace (Joseph Bae) Welcome Discover Physics at Yale Welcome to the Yale Physics Department, a center of research and training, in which our vibrant community works together with each other, and with collaborators across Yale’s campus, the country, and the world to answer fundamental scientific questions that are pushing the frontiers of our current understanding of the universe. News Reina Maruyama and Meg Urry recognized as Mentors at the 2022 Equity in the Job Search Symposium May 25, 2022 The sixth annual Equity in the Job Search Symposium was held partially online and in person on Friday, May 13, 2022. This year’s theme was “Mastering Inclusive... 2022 Physics Undergraduate Prize Winners May 24, 2022 Congratulations to Amanda Butler (Physics-Intensive, advisor: Daisuke Nagai), Sarah Dickson (Physics-Intensive, advisor: David Moore), Pablo Garza (Physics, Advisor: Steve... Sanah Bhimani awarded the Yale Physics Graduate Diversity Fellowship May 23, 2022 Sanah Bhimani, Yale Physics graduate student and a member of Yale’s Wright Lab, has been awarded the Yale Physics Graduate Diversity Fellowship for 2022 to work with... A new step in the search for room-temperature superconductors May 23, 2022 Eduardo H. da Silva Neto, assistant professor of physics, is co-author of a new study finding a new, nanoscale link between superconductivity–the flow of electric... Yale News Insights & Outcomes: Get in line, galaxies May 23, 2022 Over the past four years, Yale astronomer Pieter van Dokkum and his collaborators have identified a pair of galaxies, DF2 and DF4, that have little or no dark matter and are... More news... Statement on Ukraine The Yale Physics Department stands in solidarity with our colleagues and collaborators in the Ukraine and everyone affected by this tragic war. We express and offer our support to colleagues and their friends and families. Click here for the American Physical Society’s statements on the invasion of Ukraine. Click here for Yale’s response to the invasion of Ukraine. Featured Opportunities Faculty Positions Associate/Full Professor, Experimental Atomic, Molecular, and Optical Physics Assistant/Associate/Full Professor, Experimental Quantum Science Postdoc Positions Yale Center for Astronomy & Astrophysics Prize Postdoctoral Fellowship Yale Mossman Fellowship Yale Prize Postdoctoral Fellowship in Condensed Matter Theory Upcoming Events June 1, 2022 - 11:00am YCRC Research Support Office Hours June 1, 2022 - 1:00pm NPA Seminar, Leticia Cunqueiro Mendez, Sapienza University, “Jet substructure: the Lund plane, the dead cone and other effects in QCD” June 8, 2022 - 11:00am YCRC Research Support Office Hours June 9, 2022 - 1:00pm Condensed Matter Theory Seminar: Carolyn Zhang - University of Chicago: Exactly solvable model for a deconfined quantum critical point in one dimension more COVID-19 & Physics Due to COVID-19, please note that most scheduled events will be either hybrid or online events and will include information on how to participate. Yale COVID-19 Site Yale Physics during COVID-19 Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Physics Internal Pages | Comment Form | Submit Physics Department Images Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Flickr