Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Physics and Astronomy Department of Physics and Astronomy Contact Us Physics.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Information for New Students Physics Major Astronomy Major Engineering Physics Major Undergraduate Awards Honors Recent Senior Theses Undergraduate Requirements Physics and Astronomy Course Offerings Physics Society Student Research Opportunities Careers in Physics and Astronomy Astronomy and Your Career Undergraduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav Graduate Overview Graduate Awards Apply Financial Aid Degree Requirements Courses Recent PhD Graduates Graduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview Astronomy FSP in South Africa Back to Top Nav Research Overview All Projects Astrophysics Current Projects Particles, Fields, Gravitation, and Cosmology Current Projects Gravitational Quantum Physics Quantum and Condensed Matter Current Projects Plasma and Space Physics Current Projects Back to Top Nav Resources Overview Weather Archive Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Colloquia Physics and Astronomy Colloquia Colloquium Archives (before 2017) Symposiums Symposium on Charles Young's 1869 Discovery of Coronium Jay Lawrence Symposium Archive Pressure of Light Symposium Public Lecture Archives Public Observing Back to Top Nav People Faculty & Staff Students Alumni Advisory Board Membership Directory Committee Assignments Department Chair Diversity Statement Graduate Advisor Undergraduate Advisor Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Faculty & Staff Students Alumni Advisory Board Membership Directory Committee Assignments Department Chair Diversity Statement Graduate Advisor Undergraduate Advisor Share Alumni Advisory Board Charter Purpose This Board is established to provide the College and the Department with the help and advice of its professional physics alumni. It is anticipated that the Board will assist the Faculty and the Department Chair in the development of new opportunities and strategies, while maintaining its unique areas of teaching and research excellence. It is particularly important for the Board to alert the Department of extramural educational and research programs and to provide appropriate funding information and advice. Synergistic opportunities at Dartmouth within the Sciences, Engineering and Medicine will be evaluated. The effectiveness of the Department within Dartmouth's liberal arts setting will also be reviewed periodically, including its curricular and independent outreach to students majoring in the Arts & Humanities and Social Sciences Divisions, the Interdisciplinary Programs, and also the Department's public lecture offerings to the community. Charter Organization The Associate Dean for the Sciences appoints the Members of the Board for three-year terms. Reappointment to additional three-year terms may be made when mutually agreeable. The Chair (Co-Chairs) of the Board should be suggested by the Department Chair, and formally appointed by the Associate Dean for three-year terms. The Board will be autonomous of the Department, and will act solely in an advisory role. Thus, it will in no way dictate or set policy, or be involved at any level with personnel matters, including faculty searches, tenure and promotion decisions. Board members will serve without compensation. It is anticipated that the Board will consist of approximately fifteen physics and astronomy alumni representing a broad range of postgraduate experiences. The Board may be asked to advise the Department Chair and the Associate Dean on the make-up and frequency of external reviews of the Department. Charter Activities An annual meeting of the Board will be held on campus on a Saturday in October or early November, beginning in 2012. The Chair (Co-Chairs) will set the agenda, in concert with the Department Chair, and will send out invitations. The format of the meeting may change from year-to-year. The Charter may be reviewed at the meeting and necessary changes made in consultation with the Board. Information with regard to strategic plans and budget should be made available to the Board prior to the meeting. It is suggested that a Department Colloquium be given by one of the Board members on the Friday afternoon preceding the Saturday meeting. The Department Chair will give a summary description of the "state of the department" on Saturday morning followed by faculty and/or student presentations. Time should be allowed for tours of laboratories and new facilities. The Board will host a reception for senior College administrators, faculty, students and the Board. An annual report of the Board will be sent to the Associate Dean within a month of the annual meeting. This annual meeting of the Board should be regarded as an important social event for the Department, its faculty, students, and colleagues from other departments at Dartmouth. Operational expenses and staff support will be provided, when necessary, by the Department and not by the Dean's office. The Board will have access to non-confidential departmental materials. The Chair (Co-Chairs) will be responsible for orchestrating interactions amongst the members on "matters of importance". The Department Chair will help to identify and originate these items, with the assistance, as necessary, of the Associate Dean. It is expected that only a subset of the full Board membership will/can attend the meeting each year, but a quorum of five members is regarded as necessary. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Physics and Astronomy Undergraduate Overview Information for New Students Physics Major Astronomy Major Engineering Physics Major Undergraduate Awards Honors Recent Senior Theses Undergraduate Requirements Physics and Astronomy Course Offerings Physics Society Student Research Opportunities Careers in Physics and Astronomy Astronomy and Your Career Undergraduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Graduate Overview Graduate Awards Apply Financial Aid Degree Requirements Courses Recent PhD Graduates Graduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Foreign Study Overview Astronomy FSP in South Africa Research Overview All Projects Astrophysics Current Projects Particles, Fields, Gravitation, and Cosmology Current Projects Gravitational Quantum Physics Quantum and Condensed Matter Current Projects Plasma and Space Physics Current Projects Resources Overview Weather Archive News & Events News & Events Colloquia Physics and Astronomy Colloquia Colloquium Archives (before 2017) Symposiums Symposium on Charles Young's 1869 Discovery of Coronium Jay Lawrence Symposium Archive Pressure of Light Symposium Public Lecture Archives Public Observing People Faculty & Staff Students Alumni Advisory Board Membership Directory Committee Assignments Department Chair Diversity Statement Graduate Advisor Undergraduate Advisor My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback