Skip to content Georgia Institute of Technology School of Physics Menu Close About Mission Programs Organizations Employment Opportunities Faculty Position - Tenured/Tenured-Track Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics History Directions Guest Travel Contact Us Diversity Academics Courses Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Programs Research Research Activities Centers Undergraduate Research Conferences & Symposia People Professors Adjunct Faculty Professors of Practice Professors Emeriti Research Scientists Academic Professionals Postdoctoral Researchers Graduate Students Staff Awards and Honors In Remembrance News & Events Upcoming Events Events Archive News Archive Video Archive 2020 Speaker Series Alumni Alumni News & Events Giving Stories Apply Contact Georgia Tech Home Campus Map Directory Offices Facebook Twitter Google Plus LinkedIn Flickr YouTube Search Search form Enter your keywords School of Physics Condensed Matter Graduate Program ranked No. 18 by U.S. News & World Report Read More MD Simulations of Structure, Segregation & Diffusion of Adsorbed Liquid Mixture Films Read More Full-configuration-interaction quantum simulations of 3e-double-well hybrid qubits Read More Welcome Undergrad Grad Welcome The School of Physics offers programs of study leading to B.S., M.S. and Ph.D. degrees. The School is comprised of 44 faculty members, 225 undergraduate majors (one of the largest programs in the United States) and 130 graduate students. The Howey Physics Building is comprised of 26,000 sq. ft. of instructional space (classrooms and laboratories), 156,000 sq. ft. of research laboratory space, and adequate office space for faculty, post-doctoral fellows, graduate students and visitors. Undergraduate With a degree from the Georgia Tech School of Physics, you'll have the tools you need to succeed whether you decide to go to graduate school or into the industry after graduation. The Bachelor of Science in Physics prepares students for physics graduate programs while the Bachelor of Science in Applied Physics is better suited for entry into industry or preparation for graduate study in some other discipline. The School of Physics also offers Astrophysics Certificate and Astrophysics Concentration. Graduate The graduate program in the School of Physics provides the background and training needed to conduct and complete high quality, world-recognized research. Moreover, owing to the experiences we offer for supervised teaching of undergraduate laboratory courses, graduate students from diverse backgrounds develop into creative physicists who can function effectively in educational, industrial or government laboratory settings. Successful completion of the Ph.D. program in Physics requires (a) completion of course work, (b) participation in seminars and Special Problems, (c) acceptance into Ph.D. candidacy, and (d) thesis research. Job Opportunities Faculty Position -- Chair and tenure-track Professor of Physics Faculty Position -- Tenure-track Professor of Physics specializing in Astrophysics Faculty Position -- Tenure-track Professor of Physics specializing in Quantum Science News Double Major Yashvardhan Tomar Receives 2022 Love Family Foundation Scholarship Dual physics and aerospace engineering major Yashvardhan Tomar has been selected to receive the 2022 Love Family Foundation Scholarship, one of the highest academic honors given to an undergraduate... May 17 2022 Neutron Scattering Society Honors Martin Mourigal With 2022 Science Prize School of Physics associate professor Martin Mourigal is recognized by NSSA for "significant and insightful use of neutron inelastic scattering in the study of quantum materials." May 13 2022 An Evolution of Astrobiology Three researchers from the Colleges of Engineering and Sciences are leading astrobiology’s largest national conference focused on the origins of life. May 12 2022 Outstanding Students Honored at Annual Celebration Several College of Sciences students were recognized for excellence this year at the annual Student Honors Celebration on Thursday, April 21. May 12 2022 Sciences Students and Alumni Receive 2022 NSF Graduate Research Fellowships More than a dozen College of Sciences student researchers and alumni are among nearly 90 Georgia Tech students and alumni being awarded five-year fellowships and honorable mentions for their work. May 05 2022 Research Areas Astrophysics, Astroparticles, & Gravitation Atomic, Molecular, & Optical Physics Condensed Matter and Quantum Materials Non-linear Physics Physics of Living Systems Soft Matter Centers Center for Nonlinear Sciences Center for Relativistic Astrophysics Organizations Graduate Association of Physicists Society of Physics Students Society of Women in Physics Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum School of Physics Resources Guest Travel Academics Current Courses Course Catalog Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Apply now! About the School Contact Information Administration Committees History Giving to the School School of Physics Resources Job Opportunities Research Astrophysics, Astroparticles, & Gravitation Atomic, Molecular, & Optical Physics Condensed Matter & Materials Non-linear Physics Physics of Living Systems Soft Matter Undergraduate Research School of Physics Resources Other Resources Computer Support Information Security Policy On-campus Signage Room Request Safety Committees Staff: Who does what? School of Physics Georgia Institute of Technology 837 State Street Atlanta, Georgia 30332-0430 Phone: (404) 894-5201 Fax: (404) 894-9958 Site Map Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment GT Login Standard Login © Georgia Institute of Technology