Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS College of Liberal Arts & Sciences Physics & Astronomy myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link Welcome Community Outreach Contact Us DEI External Resources For Visitors Giving Academics Select to follow link Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Course Listing Admissions Select to follow link Graduate Admissions Graduate Funding Opportunities Undergraduate Astronomy Admissions Undergraduate Engineering Physics Admissions Undergraduate Physics Admissions Research Select to follow link Applied Physics Astronomy and Astrophysics High Energy Particle and Nuclear Physics People Select to follow link Faculty Administration Staff Graduate Students Emeriti Faculty Adjunct and Courtesy Faculty Postdocs and Research Associates Alumni & Friends Select to follow link Giving Physics & Astronomy Alumni Board Talks & Events Select to follow link Colloquium Calendar Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo College of Liberal Arts & Sciences Physics & Astronomy Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Academics Undergraduate Program The department offers a number of degree options in the areas of physics, astronomy, and engineering physics. Physics Physics is the foundational science for virtually all fields within the natural sciences and engineering. The research efforts underway at KU encompass both pure and applied physics and address topics ranging from the fundamental nature of matter and energy to nanotechnology, renewable energy, and physics education. The goals of the undergraduate physics program at KU are to help students identify their area of interest and the tools to succeed within that specialty tailored to their specific career interests. Undergraduate Physics Degrees Physics BS Physics BA Physics Minor Astronomy Astronomy is the oldest science and in many ways one of the newest. The research efforts underway at KU span the universe: from planets around other stars near the sun, and the gas and dust surrounding the Milky Way’s supermassive black hole, to distant black holes that are as bright as a billion suns, and the formation of the earliest galaxies that are some of the most distant objects we can see. This observational work is complemented by related research in cosmology, plasma astrophysics, and astroparticle physics. Undergraduate Astronomy Degrees Astronomy BS Astronomy BA Astronomy Minor Astrobiology Minor Engineering Physics KU's Engineering Physics program is designed for students with interest in both science and engineering. This collaborative degree program, jointly administered with the KU School of Engineering, focuses on applying physics to modern technology and understanding the physics underlying modern engineering practice. Students have the opportunity to pursue one of four specializations - Aerospace Systems, Chemical Systems, Digital Electronic Systems, and Electromechanical Control Systems – and are provided with excellent preparation for a career in industry or for advanced graduate work in STEM. Engineering Physics Degree Engineering Physics BS Advising Information Current or prospective students are encouraged to contact the College Academic Advisor or Faculty Advisors for physics, astronomy, and engineering physics majors (note advisors are assigned alphabetically by last name). College Academic Advisor Click to expand TBD Physics Mentors Click to expand A-E: Email Prof. Daniel Tapia Takaki at jdtt@ku.edu. F-L: Email Prof. Tom Cravens at cravens@ku.edu. M-R: Email Prof. Michael Murray at mjmurray@ku.edu. S-Z: Email Prof. Ian Lewis at ian.lewis@ku.edu. Astronomy Mentors Click to expand A-E: Email Prof. Ian Crossfield at ianc@ku.edu F-L: Email Prof. Tom Cravens at cravens@ku.edu. M-R: Email Prof. Jennifer Delgado at jdelgado@ku.edu S-Z: Email Prof. Elisabeth Mills at eacmills@ku.edu. Engineering Physics Advisors Click to expand A-K: Email Prof. Chris Fischer at shark@ku.edu. L-Z: Email Prof. Jack Shi at shi@ku.edu. Malott Hall, room 1082 1251 Wescoe Hall Dr. Lawrence, KS 66045 physics@ku.edu 785-864-4626 facebook twitter youtube Code of Conduct Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion Class Permissions Anonymous Suggestion / Comment Form Colloquium Calendar Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.