Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS College of Liberal Arts & Sciences Physics & Astronomy myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link Welcome Community Outreach Contact Us DEI External Resources For Visitors Giving Academics Select to follow link Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Course Listing Admissions Select to follow link Graduate Admissions Graduate Funding Opportunities Undergraduate Astronomy Admissions Undergraduate Engineering Physics Admissions Undergraduate Physics Admissions Research Select to follow link Applied Physics Astronomy and Astrophysics High Energy Particle and Nuclear Physics People Select to follow link Faculty Administration Staff Graduate Students Emeriti Faculty Adjunct and Courtesy Faculty Postdocs and Research Associates Alumni & Friends Select to follow link Giving Physics & Astronomy Alumni Board Talks & Events Select to follow link Colloquium Calendar Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo College of Liberal Arts & Sciences Physics & Astronomy Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Understanding the Universe Starts Here The KU Department of Physics & Astronomy is a bridge to understanding the world, educating future physicists and astronomers, unearthing new scientific discoveries, and challenging the perception of the Universe. Through the commitment that faculty, students, and staff have to transformational education and interdisciplinary research, "Understanding the Universe Starts Here," at the KU Department of Physics & Astronomy. Undergraduate Program Discover information about earning a degree in physics, astronomy, and more! GET STARTED Graduate Program Information about the Graduate Program - including degrees options, resources, and more! GET STARTED Department Testimonials A video from department faculty, students, and staff. See why they chose KU Physics & Astronomy! To the video KU Physics & Astronomy Research Our Research KU Physics & Astronomy News Graduate Student Appreciation Week In honor of our graduate students and in recognition of Graduate Student Appreciation Week, the department will be hosti Physics & Astronomy Department - Annual Award Winners Please visit this link (PDF) for information about the 2021 award winners. KU Physics & Astronomy REU Applications are open now and due by March 15th! For more information and to apply, you can visit the REU website. KU Astronomers Help Point The Way Forward For America's Research Priorities View all news Malott Hall, room 1082 1251 Wescoe Hall Dr. Lawrence, KS 66045 physics@ku.edu 785-864-4626 facebook twitter youtube Code of Conduct Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion Class Permissions Anonymous Suggestion / Comment Form Colloquium Calendar Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.