Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Physics and Astronomy Department of Physics and Astronomy Contact Us Physics.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Information for New Students Physics Major Astronomy Major Engineering Physics Major Undergraduate Awards Honors Recent Senior Theses Undergraduate Requirements Physics and Astronomy Course Offerings Physics Society Student Research Opportunities Careers in Physics and Astronomy Astronomy and Your Career Undergraduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav Graduate Overview Graduate Awards Apply Financial Aid Degree Requirements Courses Recent PhD Graduates Graduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview Astronomy FSP in South Africa Back to Top Nav Research Overview All Projects Astrophysics Current Projects Particles, Fields, Gravitation, and Cosmology Current Projects Gravitational Quantum Physics Quantum and Condensed Matter Current Projects Plasma and Space Physics Current Projects Back to Top Nav Resources Overview Weather Archive Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Colloquia Physics and Astronomy Colloquia Colloquium Archives (before 2017) Symposiums Symposium on Charles Young's 1869 Discovery of Coronium Jay Lawrence Symposium Archive Pressure of Light Symposium Public Lecture Archives Public Observing Back to Top Nav People Faculty & Staff Students Alumni Advisory Board Membership Directory Committee Assignments Department Chair Diversity Statement Graduate Advisor Undergraduate Advisor Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search News & Events Colloquia Symposiums Public Lecture Archives Public Observing Directions and Parking Map Astrophysics at Dartmouth Share Public Observing Public observing will be held every Friday night from January 7th to March 11th (weather permitting) between 8 and 10pm. For more up to date information regarding cancellations please check the public observing website at https://www.dartmouthpo.wordpress.com Note that public observing takes place behind Shattuck observatory. Photo by William J. Kaufman '20. PreviousNext Covid 19 Restrictions Due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, public observing will look a little different than past terms. We ask that all in attendance help us keep public observing an ongoing activity by following the restrictions: Everyone (regardless of vaccination status) attending is required to always wear masks. Only one related group OR a maximum of 4 people will be allowed in the roll-out-shed (where the telescope is) at a time. Anyone 12+ will need to be either fully vaccinated or a Dartmouth employee, student, or staff member. To be admitted either a valid Dartmouth ID must be presented or, for non-Dartmouth affiliated peoples, a vaccination card + Photo ID. To ease in proof of vaccination we encourage those attending to use the Bindle app. This is the same system the HOP has been using. You can find instructions for how to use it here. Thank you for your understanding and cooperation! Overview Public observing occurs in the North Telescope next to Shattuck Observatory north_telescope.jpg Public observing occurs in the North Telescope, a small white shed behind the Shattuck Observatory (pictured to the right). Red lights will guide the way to the public observing. Observing is only possible under good weather conditions, meaning mostly clear skies with little chance of rain or snow. If the weather is questionable, call (603) 646-9100 and select option 2 to find out the current status of an observing session. Selecting option 1 will give dates and times for the current term. Shattuck Observatory is the oldest scientific building on campus. Many astronomy classes use Dartmouth's observing resources. For the astronomical research carried out by the Department of Physics & Astronomy, Dartmouth owns a share of the largest telescope in the Southern Hemisphere, the 11-meter Southern African Large Telescope (SALT), as well as the MDM Observatory, consisting of 1.3 and 2.4 meter telescopes, on Kitt Peak in Arizona. In addition to SALT and MDM, Dartmouth astronomers, faculty, and students make use of many more of the world's leading space- and ground-based observational facilities, including the Hubble, Spitzer, and Herschelspace observatories, Chandra, XMM-Newton, NuSTAR, and Suzaku X-ray satellites, the Wide-Field Infrared Survey Explorer, W.M. Keck Observatory, MMT Observatory, and the Sloan Digital Sky Survey, as well as being involved in the planning of upcoming and proposed missions. Directions and Parking Traveling along East Wheelock Street toward the Dartmouth Green, take the first right after Alumni Gym (on left) onto Observatory Road. Traveling along West Wheelock Street toward the Dartmouth Green, take the second left after the Hanover Inn onto Observatory Road. From either direction: Once on Observatory Road, go up the hill and through one intersection. The Observatory is on the right as you reach the top of the hill. Click here for a map. Public observing uses the North Telescope. You may park anywhere in the nearby parking lots during observing hours. Please do not park in the small dirt lot just behind the Observatory. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Physics and Astronomy Undergraduate Overview Information for New Students Physics Major Astronomy Major Engineering Physics Major Undergraduate Awards Honors Recent Senior Theses Undergraduate Requirements Physics and Astronomy Course Offerings Physics Society Student Research Opportunities Careers in Physics and Astronomy Astronomy and Your Career Undergraduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Graduate Overview Graduate Awards Apply Financial Aid Degree Requirements Courses Recent PhD Graduates Graduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Foreign Study Overview Astronomy FSP in South Africa Research Overview All Projects Astrophysics Current Projects Particles, Fields, Gravitation, and Cosmology Current Projects Gravitational Quantum Physics Quantum and Condensed Matter Current Projects Plasma and Space Physics Current Projects Resources Overview Weather Archive News & Events News & Events Colloquia Physics and Astronomy Colloquia Colloquium Archives (before 2017) Symposiums Symposium on Charles Young's 1869 Discovery of Coronium Jay Lawrence Symposium Archive Pressure of Light Symposium Public Lecture Archives Public Observing People Faculty & Staff Students Alumni Advisory Board Membership Directory Committee Assignments Department Chair Diversity Statement Graduate Advisor Undergraduate Advisor My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback