Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Physics and Astronomy Department of Physics and Astronomy Contact Us Physics.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Information for New Students Physics Major Astronomy Major Engineering Physics Major Undergraduate Awards Honors Recent Senior Theses Undergraduate Requirements Physics and Astronomy Course Offerings Physics Society Student Research Opportunities Careers in Physics and Astronomy Astronomy and Your Career Undergraduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav Graduate Overview Graduate Awards Apply Financial Aid Degree Requirements Courses Recent PhD Graduates Graduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview Astronomy FSP in South Africa Back to Top Nav Research Overview All Projects Astrophysics Current Projects Particles, Fields, Gravitation, and Cosmology Current Projects Gravitational Quantum Physics Quantum and Condensed Matter Current Projects Plasma and Space Physics Current Projects Back to Top Nav Resources Overview Weather Archive Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Colloquia Physics and Astronomy Colloquia Colloquium Archives (before 2017) Symposiums Symposium on Charles Young's 1869 Discovery of Coronium Jay Lawrence Symposium Archive Pressure of Light Symposium Public Lecture Archives Public Observing Back to Top Nav People Faculty & Staff Students Alumni Advisory Board Membership Directory Committee Assignments Department Chair Diversity Statement Graduate Advisor Undergraduate Advisor Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Astronomy FSP in South Africa Discover Astronomical Observatory -SAAO Off-Campus Programs Office Share Foreign Study Astronomy Foreign Study Program The Physics and Astronomy Department launched a new FSP during the Winter 2015 term, and the program runs every other winter term. The FSP is based in Cape Town and Sutherland, South Africa at the South African Astronomical Observatory (SAAO), one of the darkest observatories on Earth. Sutherland is the home of Southern African Large Telescope (SALT). Dartmouth has a 9% share of SALT. This 10-meter telescope is the largest optical telescope in the Southern Hemisphere. The view of the night sky from Sutherland is spectacular. The Large and Small Magellanic Clouds (nearby galaxies) are larger than the full moon and easily visible to the naked eye. The center of our Milky Way galaxy can be seen high in the sky. In Hanover, the center of the Milky Way appears low on the horizon and is barely visible. No nearby galaxies are easily visible to the naked eye in the northern hemisphere. On a dark, clear night in Hanover, one can see approximately 1000 stars, while in Sutherland, South Africa one can see over 4000 stars. The astronomy FSP gives Dartmouth students an opportunity to see and observe the night sky as you have never seen it before. Cape Town is a dynamic city with a cosmopolitan mix of cultures and a metropolitan population of 3.7 million. It is the second largest city in South Africa, the seat of the National Parliament and a popular tourist destination for European travelers. It is a city of contrasts, from modern shopping centers and high end stores to townships where residents do not have running water in their one room accommodations. From majestic Table Mountain to numerous white sandy beaches, Cape Town is known for its stunning scenery. During the FSP, students take Astronomy 61 (Observational Techniques in Astronomy) and P31.03 (Research Methods in 21st Century Astronomy in South Africa) during the first five weeks. This is followed by one week observing in Sutherland, and students will spend their remaining time in Cape Town analyzing the data they obtained and receiving credit for Astronomy 81 (Independent Project). All three courses count towards both the physics and astronomy majors. Astronomy 61 satisfies the laboratory requirement, and Astronomy 81 satisfies the culminating experience requirement for the majors. During their stay in South Africa, students will participate in astronomy themed afterschool programs and public observing sessions which are offered by SAAO. Students will be trained by, and assist SAAO staff in these activities. This experience will reinforce many of the basic astronomical concepts students have learned in class and expose students to a range of South African culture. The Astronomy FSP is offered every other year, and the next Astronomy FSP will be in the Winter 2023 term. A brief overview of the 2023 astronomy FSP is provided by faculty director Professor Brian Chaboyer in this video. To apply for the Astronomy FSP, visit the Guarini Institute for International Education web site. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Physics and Astronomy Undergraduate Overview Information for New Students Physics Major Astronomy Major Engineering Physics Major Undergraduate Awards Honors Recent Senior Theses Undergraduate Requirements Physics and Astronomy Course Offerings Physics Society Student Research Opportunities Careers in Physics and Astronomy Astronomy and Your Career Undergraduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Graduate Overview Graduate Awards Apply Financial Aid Degree Requirements Courses Recent PhD Graduates Graduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Foreign Study Overview Astronomy FSP in South Africa Research Overview All Projects Astrophysics Current Projects Particles, Fields, Gravitation, and Cosmology Current Projects Gravitational Quantum Physics Quantum and Condensed Matter Current Projects Plasma and Space Physics Current Projects Resources Overview Weather Archive News & Events News & Events Colloquia Physics and Astronomy Colloquia Colloquium Archives (before 2017) Symposiums Symposium on Charles Young's 1869 Discovery of Coronium Jay Lawrence Symposium Archive Pressure of Light Symposium Public Lecture Archives Public Observing People Faculty & Staff Students Alumni Advisory Board Membership Directory Committee Assignments Department Chair Diversity Statement Graduate Advisor Undergraduate Advisor My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback