Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Physics and Astronomy Department of Physics and Astronomy Contact Us Physics.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Information for New Students Physics Major Astronomy Major Engineering Physics Major Undergraduate Awards Honors Recent Senior Theses Undergraduate Requirements Physics and Astronomy Course Offerings Physics Society Student Research Opportunities Careers in Physics and Astronomy Astronomy and Your Career Undergraduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav Graduate Overview Graduate Awards Apply Financial Aid Degree Requirements Courses Recent PhD Graduates Graduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview Astronomy FSP in South Africa Back to Top Nav Research Overview All Projects Astrophysics Current Projects Particles, Fields, Gravitation, and Cosmology Current Projects Gravitational Quantum Physics Quantum and Condensed Matter Current Projects Plasma and Space Physics Current Projects Back to Top Nav Resources Overview Weather Archive Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Colloquia Physics and Astronomy Colloquia Colloquium Archives (before 2017) Symposiums Symposium on Charles Young's 1869 Discovery of Coronium Jay Lawrence Symposium Archive Pressure of Light Symposium Public Lecture Archives Public Observing Back to Top Nav People Faculty & Staff Students Alumni Advisory Board Membership Directory Committee Assignments Department Chair Diversity Statement Graduate Advisor Undergraduate Advisor Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview All Projects Astrophysics Particles, Fields, Gravitation, and Cosmology Gravitational Quantum Physics Quantum and Condensed Matter Plasma and Space Physics Share Gravitational Quantum Physics Our group is focused on probing space-time, both at the classical and quantum level, using high-precision measurements on microscopic probes. The pioneering efforts of the Colella-Overhauser-Werner experiment have been followed by a diverse range of proposals and approaches, with strong links to low-temperature condensed matter physics, atomic, nuclear, and particle physics. Some of the research directions currently pursued by our group include gravitationally-induced decoherence, relativistic quantum information, tests of the equivalence principle, analog tests of Hawking and Unruh effects, quantum sensing and metrology, short-distance gravity, and precision measurements of spectroscopic shifts of astrophysical nature. Original plot of COW experiment data taken at beam port F at the Ford Nuclear Reactor, Phoenix Memorial Laboratory, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. Sam Werner, Albert Overhauser, Roberto Colella. Courtesy of Dr. Sam Werner PreviousNext Selected Publications L. M. Norris, G. A. Paz-Silva, and L. Viola, Qubit Noise Spectroscopy for Non-Gaussian Dephasing Environments, Phys. Rev. Lett. 116, 150503 (2016). B. N. Katz, M. P. Blencowe, and K. C. Schwab, Mesoscopic mechanical resonators as quantum noninertial reference frames, Phys. Rev. A 92, 042104 (2015). G. A. Wegner and R. Onofrio, Higgs shifts from electron-positron annihilations near neutron stars, Eur. Phys. J. C 75, 307 (2015). R. Onofrio and G. A. Wegner, Search for Higgs shifts in white dwarfs, Astrophys. J. 791, 125 (2014). M. P. Blencowe, Effective Field Theory Approach to Gravitationally Induced Decoherence, Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 021302 (2013). R. Onofrio, On weak interactions as short-distance manifestations of gravity, Mod. Phys. Lett. A 28, 1350022 (2013). R. Onofrio, Neutrino mass variability due to nonminimal coupling to spacetime curvature in neutrinophilic two-Higgs-doublet models, Phys. Rev. D 86, 087501 (2012). P. D. Nation, J. R. Johansson, M. P. Blencowe, and F. Nori, Colloquium: Stimulating uncertainty: Amplifying the vacuum with superconducting circuits, Rev. Mod. Phys. 84, 1 (2012). P. D. Nation and M. P. Blencowe, The trilinear Hamiltonian: a zero-dimensional model of Hawking radiation from a quantized source, New. J. Phys. 12, 095013 (2010). P. D. Nation, M. P. Blencowe, A. J. Rimberg, and E. Buks, Analogue Hawking Radiation in a dc-SQUID Array Transmission Line, Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 087004 (2009). W.-J. Kim, J. H. Brownell, and R. Onofrio, Detectability of Dissipative Motion in Quantum Vacuum via Superradiance, Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 200401 (2006). L. Viola and R. Onofrio, Contractive Schroedinger cat states for a free mass, New J. Phys. 5, 5.1 (2003). L. Viola and R. Onofrio, Testing the equivalence principle through freely falling quantum objects, Physical Review D 55, 455-462 (1997). M. P. Blencowe, The Hamiltonian constraint in quantum gravity, Nucl. Phys. B 341, 213 (1990). Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Physics and Astronomy Undergraduate Overview Information for New Students Physics Major Astronomy Major Engineering Physics Major Undergraduate Awards Honors Recent Senior Theses Undergraduate Requirements Physics and Astronomy Course Offerings Physics Society Student Research Opportunities Careers in Physics and Astronomy Astronomy and Your Career Undergraduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Graduate Overview Graduate Awards Apply Financial Aid Degree Requirements Courses Recent PhD Graduates Graduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Foreign Study Overview Astronomy FSP in South Africa Research Overview All Projects Astrophysics Current Projects Particles, Fields, Gravitation, and Cosmology Current Projects Gravitational Quantum Physics Quantum and Condensed Matter Current Projects Plasma and Space Physics Current Projects Resources Overview Weather Archive News & Events News & Events Colloquia Physics and Astronomy Colloquia Colloquium Archives (before 2017) Symposiums Symposium on Charles Young's 1869 Discovery of Coronium Jay Lawrence Symposium Archive Pressure of Light Symposium Public Lecture Archives Public Observing People Faculty & Staff Students Alumni Advisory Board Membership Directory Committee Assignments Department Chair Diversity Statement Graduate Advisor Undergraduate Advisor My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback