Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Physics and Astronomy Department of Physics and Astronomy Contact Us Physics.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Information for New Students Physics Major Astronomy Major Engineering Physics Major Undergraduate Awards Honors Recent Senior Theses Undergraduate Requirements Physics and Astronomy Course Offerings Physics Society Student Research Opportunities Careers in Physics and Astronomy Astronomy and Your Career Undergraduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav Graduate Overview Graduate Awards Apply Financial Aid Degree Requirements Courses Recent PhD Graduates Graduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview Astronomy FSP in South Africa Back to Top Nav Research Overview All Projects Astrophysics Current Projects Particles, Fields, Gravitation, and Cosmology Current Projects Gravitational Quantum Physics Quantum and Condensed Matter Current Projects Plasma and Space Physics Current Projects Back to Top Nav Resources Overview Weather Archive Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Colloquia Physics and Astronomy Colloquia Colloquium Archives (before 2017) Symposiums Symposium on Charles Young's 1869 Discovery of Coronium Jay Lawrence Symposium Archive Pressure of Light Symposium Public Lecture Archives Public Observing Back to Top Nav People Faculty & Staff Students Alumni Advisory Board Membership Directory Committee Assignments Department Chair Diversity Statement Graduate Advisor Undergraduate Advisor Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Kevin Wright |Assistant Professor of Physics and Astronomy Academic Appointments Assistant Professor of Physics Professor Wright is an experimental physicist who uses ultra-cold atomic gases to study quantum phases of matter, and fermionic superfluids in particular. He holds a B.S. in physics from Brigham Young University (2000), and a Ph.D. in Physics from the University of Rochester (2009). He received a Research Associate Fellowship from the National Research Council in 2009 for his postoctoral work at the Joint Quantum Institute in Maryland. Professor Wright joined the Dartmouth physics faculty in 2013. Personal Website Contact Kevin.Wright@Dartmouth.edu 603-646-2751 245 Wilder HB 6127 Education B.S. Brigham Young University Ph.D. University of Rochester Areas of Expertise Quantum physics /Degenerate quantum gases /Light-matter interactions /Optics Selected Publications Monolithic bowtie cavity traps for ultracold gases. Yanping Cai, Daniel G. Allman, Parth Sabharwal, and Kevin Wright. Journal of the American Optical society B, 37, 3596-3603 (2020) Topology, edge states, and zero-energy states of ultracold atoms in one-dimensional optical superlattices with alternating on-site potentials or hopping coefficients. Yan He, Kevin Wright, Said Kouachi, and Chih-Chun Chien Physical Review A, 97, 023618 (2018) Threshold for creating excitations in a stirred superfluid ring, K. C. Wright, R. B. Blakestad, C. J. Lobb, W. D. Phillips, and G. K. Campbell, Physical Review A, 88, 063633 (2013) Driving phase slips in a superfluid atom circuit with a rotating weak link, K. C. Wright, R. B. Blakestad, C. J. Lobb, W. D. Phillips, and G. K. Campbell, Physical Review Letters 110, 025302 (2013) Superflow in a Toroidal Bose-Einstein Condensate: An Atom Circuit with a Tunable Weak Link, A. Ramanathan, K. C. Wright, S. R. Muniz, M. Zelan, W. T. Hill, III, C. J. Lobb, K. Helmerson, W. D. Phillips, and G. K. Campbell, Physical Review Letters 106, 130401 (2011) Sculpting the Vortex State of a Spinor BEC, K. C. Wright, L. S. Leslie, A. Hansen, and N. P. Bigelow, Physical Review Letters 102, 030405 (2009) + View more Works In Progress Persistent currents in rings of ultracold fermionic atoms. Yanping Cai, Daniel G. Allman, Parth Sabharwal, and Kevin Wright - Preprint version on arXiv (Currently in review) 2021 NSF CAREER Award In 2021 Prof. Wright recieved an NSF CAREER award, providing $750k over 5 years for experimental studies using lithium quantum gases to simulate the behavior of electrons in solid materials, with special focus on how fluctuations, magnetization, and other factors affect resistance to the flow of currents through thin wires made of "quantum materials" like superconductors. The award also supports an integrated educational program aimed at developing more systematic ways of teaching students to "think like a physicist" in advanced lab courses, and improving their critical thinking and quantitiative reasoning skills. Double ring of lithium atoms cooled nearly to absolute zero temperature (top left), and interference patterns formed when the atoms are released. These patterns can be used to obtain information about quantized supercurrents flowing around the rings. PreviousNext Courses PHYS-101 Classical Mechanics PHYS-76 Methods of Experimental Physics PHYS-14 Introductory Physics II Related Links Wright Research Group Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Physics and Astronomy Undergraduate Overview Information for New Students Physics Major Astronomy Major Engineering Physics Major Undergraduate Awards Honors Recent Senior Theses Undergraduate Requirements Physics and Astronomy Course Offerings Physics Society Student Research Opportunities Careers in Physics and Astronomy Astronomy and Your Career Undergraduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Graduate Overview Graduate Awards Apply Financial Aid Degree Requirements Courses Recent PhD Graduates Graduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Foreign Study Overview Astronomy FSP in South Africa Research Overview All Projects Astrophysics Current Projects Particles, Fields, Gravitation, and Cosmology Current Projects Gravitational Quantum Physics Quantum and Condensed Matter Current Projects Plasma and Space Physics Current Projects Resources Overview Weather Archive News & Events News & Events Colloquia Physics and Astronomy Colloquia Colloquium Archives (before 2017) Symposiums Symposium on Charles Young's 1869 Discovery of Coronium Jay Lawrence Symposium Archive Pressure of Light Symposium Public Lecture Archives Public Observing People Faculty & Staff Students Alumni Advisory Board Membership Directory Committee Assignments Department Chair Diversity Statement Graduate Advisor Undergraduate Advisor My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback