Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Physics and Astronomy Department of Physics and Astronomy Contact Us Physics.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Information for New Students Physics Major Astronomy Major Engineering Physics Major Undergraduate Awards Honors Recent Senior Theses Undergraduate Requirements Physics and Astronomy Course Offerings Physics Society Student Research Opportunities Careers in Physics and Astronomy Astronomy and Your Career Undergraduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav Graduate Overview Graduate Awards Apply Financial Aid Degree Requirements Courses Recent PhD Graduates Graduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview Astronomy FSP in South Africa Back to Top Nav Research Overview All Projects Astrophysics Current Projects Particles, Fields, Gravitation, and Cosmology Current Projects Gravitational Quantum Physics Quantum and Condensed Matter Current Projects Plasma and Space Physics Current Projects Back to Top Nav Resources Overview Weather Archive Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Colloquia Physics and Astronomy Colloquia Colloquium Archives (before 2017) Symposiums Symposium on Charles Young's 1869 Discovery of Coronium Jay Lawrence Symposium Archive Pressure of Light Symposium Public Lecture Archives Public Observing Back to Top Nav People Faculty & Staff Students Alumni Advisory Board Membership Directory Committee Assignments Department Chair Diversity Statement Graduate Advisor Undergraduate Advisor Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Weather Archive Dartmouth College has records of weather observations dating back to 1827. Currently, observations dating back to 1950 are available online in xlsx format, and some records prior to 1950 are available as pdf documents, preserved in the data's original format. We are in the process of digitizing the data prior to 1950, and it will be posted as we progress. Journal cover 1841-1847 First month of data, 1827! Meteorological Register, 1843 Observations for November, 1845 Samuel Duncan's Observations, March 1857 PreviousNext RAUNER LIBRARY BLOG ENTRY REGARDING THE WEATHER ARCHIVE Oh, the weather outside is frightful.... The current weather data collected for a given day consists of The maximum temperature (F°) over a 24 hour period. The minimum temperature (F°) over a 24 hour period. Amount (in inches) of rain, melted snow, etc. that fell in the previous 24 hour period. (This includes snow and ice reported in #4 -- melted to ascertain their liquid equivalent.) Amount (in inches) of snow and ice pellets that fell in the previous 24 hour period. The level (in inches) of the snow, ice pellets, hail, ice on the ground at the Observatory. Historical data may contain different information. At times the wind speed was recorded, as was the humidity. When data collection was started, temperatures were recorded at specific times -- morning, noon, and evening -- rather than high and low for the day. There have been many changes over the years. Online data is currently available from 1950 to the current year, as well as for scattered years going back to 1827. We are in the process of digitizing the historic data, and it will be added to this site as we progress. All the data is also available for viewing at the Rauner Library. For more information about the weather archive, please email Alan Goldblatt with any questions you have. For years prior to 1950, data is available as pdf images of the originals, preserving the historical information. For the years 1950 through the year previous to the current year, the data is stored in zip files. Each zip file contains all of the weather data, stored as monthly xls or xlsx files, for a given decade. Individual xlsx files are available for the current year. xlsx files 2022 April March February January zip files (xlsx and xls) 1950-2021 2020s 2010s 2000s 1990s 1980s 1970s 1960s 1950s pdf files - photographs maintaining the original historical formats 1827-1949 1935 1927 1923 1880 1857 1854 1848 1844 1843 1839 1838 1837 1836 1835 1834 1829 1828 1827 Overview Weather Archive Share Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Physics and Astronomy Undergraduate Overview Information for New Students Physics Major Astronomy Major Engineering Physics Major Undergraduate Awards Honors Recent Senior Theses Undergraduate Requirements Physics and Astronomy Course Offerings Physics Society Student Research Opportunities Careers in Physics and Astronomy Astronomy and Your Career Undergraduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Graduate Overview Graduate Awards Apply Financial Aid Degree Requirements Courses Recent PhD Graduates Graduate Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Foreign Study Overview Astronomy FSP in South Africa Research Overview All Projects Astrophysics Current Projects Particles, Fields, Gravitation, and Cosmology Current Projects Gravitational Quantum Physics Quantum and Condensed Matter Current Projects Plasma and Space Physics Current Projects Resources Overview Weather Archive News & Events News & Events Colloquia Physics and Astronomy Colloquia Colloquium Archives (before 2017) Symposiums Symposium on Charles Young's 1869 Discovery of Coronium Jay Lawrence Symposium Archive Pressure of Light Symposium Public Lecture Archives Public Observing People Faculty & Staff Students Alumni Advisory Board Membership Directory Committee Assignments Department Chair Diversity Statement Graduate Advisor Undergraduate Advisor My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback