Jump to main content Search form Search Main menu For Students Explore Internships By Areas of Interest Arts Athletics Business Development Communications Community Development Criminal Justice Cultural Institutions Data Analysis Education Energy Engineering & Design Environment Finance Government Health Policy Human Rights Journalism & Media Legal Services Medical Services Music Public Policy Social Justice Social Services By Region Northeast Midwest West International Mid-Atlantic South By Program Global Health Policy History and Practice of Diplomacy Guggenheim Internships in Criminal Justice Leonard D. Schaeffer Fellows in Government Service By Format (In Person/Virtual) Hybrid In Person Virtual / Remote For Community Partners For Alumni 2021 Annual Report Princeton Internships in Civic Service About PICS Princeton Internships in Civic Service (PICS) is an alumni founded program with the John H. Pace, Jr. '39 Center for Civic Engagement that provides Princeton undergraduates paid summer internships in nonprofit organizations. As PICS interns, students live into Princeton’s informal motto, "in the nation's service and the service of humanity," by: Engaging in meaningful service opportunities Serving with community partner organizations in the U.S. & abroad Connecting academic lessons to real-world problems Developing leadership skills In 2020, more than 500 undergraduates applied to 200 PICS internship positions. PICS was founded by alumni from the Class of 1969 at their 25th reunion in 1996. Urged by the Class of 1955 (led by Ralph Nader and five of his classmates) to do something special and significant, they created the Class of 1969 Community Service Fund to offer Princeton undergraduates paid summer internships in nonprofit organizations. PICS has flourished for over two decades under the leadership of dedicated alumni from the classes of ‘63, ‘66, ‘67, ‘69, ‘70, ‘72, ‘75, and ‘77. The PICS Model PICS is a transformative experience that thrives at the intersection of students, community, and alumni. Students benefit from immersive summer internship opportunities in collaboration with community partners serving on the front lines of healthcare, education, the environment, and more. Alumni partners guide students as they grow from these professional experiences and introduce students to the Princeton alumni network. Many PICS students, community partners, and alumni form relationships that extend years beyond the initial internship experience. Explore Internships Find Summer Internships Host an Intern Become a Community Partner Engage with an Intern Become an Alumni Partner Secondary menu Facebook Twitter Instagram Princeton Internships in Civic Service Pace Center for Civic Engagement pics@princeton.edu © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University