Skip to main content Programs Fung Fellows World Politics Links for Faculty Members Graduate Students Undergraduate Students Visiting Scholars Princeton Community Global Seminars Princeton University Search Close Seminars Abroad PIIRS Global Seminars Exploration Seminars Certificates Program in African Studies Program in Contemporary European Politics and Society Program in Russian, East European and Eurasian Studies Program in South Asian Studies Program in Translation and Intercultural Communication Funding Research Labs Research Communities Faculty Initiatives Conference Co-sponsorship Graduate Support Undergraduate Fellowships Visiting Scholars News & Events News Events Annual Report World Politics Journal Princeton International Magazine Job Postings Join our Mailing List People Program Directors Executive Committee Advisory Council Joint Faculty Language Instructors Faculty Associates Administration Visiting Scholars Graduate Fellows Undergraduate Fellows Programs Fung Fellows World Politics Links for Global Seminars Explore by: Region Africa Middle East & North Africa Asia Russia, Europe, Eurasia South America Search Menu Search Close You are hereHome / News & Events / Princeton International Magazine / 2017 / Connecting His Past and Future In This Section News & Events News Events Annual Report World Politics Journal About Guidelines, Rights and Permissions Reviewers Editors Current Issue Forthcoming Articles Back Issues Visiting Fellows Princeton International Magazine Previous Issues 2021 ‘Language and Migration’ Symposium Explores Critical Issue Of Language Justice Class Snapshot: ‘Introduction to American Popular Culture’ Partner Up Queer Politics at Princeton Lost in ﻿Translation On Top of the World Only Theater ﻿Can Make Sense of It Summer in Seoul In My Own Words Letter From the Deputy Director Fung Global Fellows to focus on ‘Sustainable Futures’ Trevor Noah: Travel teaches you that the way you think the world is, isn’t PIIRS supports new faculty initiative on the handling of COVID-19 crisis internationally Princetonians Take Home Gold in Tokyo 2021 Overheard ﻿On & Off Campus 2020 Letter From the Associate Provost Then & Now Lessons From an Interrupted Semester Abroad In Conversation with TJ Lunardi Collaboration During Crisis Teaching History ﻿Globally Princeton ﻿Pivots Change of Plans Virtual ﻿(Tw)Internships Working Abroad, From Home Snapshots From a Remote Summer The World Is in Your Waiting Room Innovation and Digitization Photo Contest Winners Overheard ﻿Off Campus 2019 Letter From the Director InConversation with Anu Ramaswami University offers a new entrepreneurial immersion program in Shanghai Novogratz gift endows Bridge Year Program Meet the Dean PIIRS expands Princeton Exploration Seminars Arrivederci, Italy! Job Training “Nauru is what happens next.” At Home in Paris International On Campus International Princetonians return to their home countries for research and service. A Prescription for Medical Immersion Mpala on Film #TellUsTigers Overheard on Campus 2018 #PrincetonAbroad A Dramatic Finale Athens: ﻿a hub for graduate-student research and study Brazil is focus of new PIIRS hive of activity Community celebrates opening of M.S. Chadha Center for Global India Follow the Leader Forging ﻿a new path ﻿with French In Focus International visiting scholars make Princeton a ‘global university’ Letter From the Dean Mapping the ﻿Princeton Classroom Overheard on Campus PIIRS launches Princeton Exploration Seminars PIIRS supports new climate change and infectious disease research community Protect & (Pre)Serve Startup Nation Venice, ﻿eternal and ephemeral “Nothing really is final until it happens” 2017 A Letter From the Provost A Starry Collaboration All Abroad Bridge Year Launches New Site in Indonesia Building Robots and Relationships Connecting His Past and Future Creating an Arc of International Experiences Curiouser and Curiouser! Farewell My Concubine From East Coast to South Seas I have hardly heard Silence July 2017 Krahulik Named Senior Associate Dean for International Programs and Experiential Learning Louis A. Simpson International Building: A New Home for International Programs Princeton Athens Center: One Year Later Teaming Up for Impact The Paul and Marcia Wythes Center on Contemporary China Working in Conflict 2016 A Tale of Two Semesters Beyond Bridge Year Creating a Home for Princeton Scholars in Athens Experiencing China Far Flung but Pivotal Finding Family Away From Home From Princeton Orange to Army Green Global Seminar Historical Detectives Learning Across Borders Letter From The President Once Upon a Time in Cotsen Q&A With Amaney Jamal Scholars Collaborate to Discuss Territorial Sovereignty Ten Years later Transforming Perspectives Job Postings Join our Mailing List It was a challenging four years and I just want to make sure that before I jump back in, I'm in a good place. Achille Tenkiang Achille Tenkiang in front of the Carl A. Fields Center on Princeton’s campus. Achille Tenkiang ’17 makes his mark. By Leda Kopach When Nelson Mandela passed away near the end of 2013, Princeton’s Umqombothi African Music Ensemble gathered under the 1879 Arch and moonlit sky to perform a beautiful tribute to the revolutionary leader. Achille Tenkiang ’17 led the stirring performance of the a cappella group’s rendition of "Asimbonanga," an anti-apartheid protest song, and recited a powerful self-penned poem about Mandela amid the group’s striking harmonies. “But now I’m here in tears, and I’m not crying because you are dead. I’m crying because the world does not know who you are. Now that you’re gone, they’ll try to plasticize you, to soften the wrinkles on your face and erase the scars on your skin. They’ll pretend that you never existed and pretend that there were never any fires in Soweto. Now that you cannot speak, they’ll twist your words. Tata, more than ever, it’s important we share all chapters of your story. . .” Throughout his years at Princeton, Tenkiang was a politically and socially active student, often turning to music and poetry to express his interests in subjects like racial equality and diversity. Interestingly, Tenkiang didn’t arrive at Princeton to pursue the arts or English or even politics. He came to study engineering, having attended a STEM high school in Bear, Delaware. “I would not have considered myself an artistic person before coming to Princeton,” Tenkiang says. “My high school was very math and science heavy, and there weren't many outlets for students to express themselves artistically. I suppose I already had these inclinations but never had the space or resources to actualize them. Princeton made that possible.” After taking engineering classes his freshman year, Tenkiang’s academic trajectory changed dramatically when he traveled to Ghana that summer on a PIIRS Global Seminar called “African Cities: Their Past and Futures,” taught by Simon Gikandi, the Robert Schirmer Professor of English. “It was just an incredible experience for me,” says Tenkiang, who was born in Cameroon and moved to the States when he was 3 years old. “I came back home and decided I wanted to pursue African Studies full-time at Princeton.” Unfortunately, Princeton didn’t offer an African Studies major. After speaking with several professors who suggested that he initiate an independent concentration in African Studies and Development, Tenkiang petitioned the Dean of the College, who quickly approved the curriculum. This past spring, Tenkiang was the first student to graduate from the University with an independent concentration in African Studies, leaving an indelible mark on the Princeton. “When I look back, it was somewhat groundbreaking,” he says. “I really tried to curate my own academic experience at Princeton and make one that I thought would be most fulfilling to my personal and research needs. The questions that I wanted to explore wouldn't have been feasible in the existing academic ecosystem at Princeton, and I knew that I wanted my work to be interdisciplinary.” As a student, Tenkiang sought many opportunities to travel while expanding and deepening his studies both on campus and abroad. In addition to the Global Seminar, he traveled to Cameroon and Senegal to conduct research as a Mellon Mays Undergraduate Fellow at the end of sophomore year and then to France for the fall semester of his junior year to study Francophone Literature at the Sorbonne and Paris VII-Saint Denis. He was named a PIIRS Undergraduate Research Fellow later that year, which funded his trip to Ethiopia to conduct his senior thesis work. Tenkiang also earned undergraduate certificates in French language and culture, urban studies and African studies, in which he won the Senior Thesis Prize for his work on the role of public monuments and the work of memory in post-colonial African cities. In addition to his scholarly work, Tenkiang was also active in a variety of organizations on campus. He co-founded the Black Leadership Coalition, was co-president of the African Students Association, and served as a member of the CPUC Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Task Force. At graduation he was named a Young Alumni Trustee to the University’s Board of Trustees. Currently, Tenkiang is in Kenya working with Fatuma’s Voice, a grassroots arts and social justice organization, to organize a series of slam poetry workshops with urban refugee youth. He is pursuing this opportunity through the Henry Richardson Labouisse ’26 Prize, which awards funds to graduating seniors who pursue international civic engagement projects following graduation. “This project combines my passion for slam poetry, social justice and African cities,” says Tenkiang, who plans to work in human rights. By leading word poetry workshops, he hopes to learn “how the refugees define citizenship, and how they view themselves as bodies in the periphery while wanting to be a part of the national fabric at the same time.” In addition to his work in Africa, Tenkiang wants to give himself time to ponder the questions he wants to ask and the problems he’d like to solve moving forward in life. “It was a challenging four years and I just want to make sure that before I jump back in, I'm in a good place.” Kenya is a good starting point. PHOTO: Ben Weldon Princeton Institute For International and Regional Studies © 2017 The Trustees of Princeton University Louis A. Simpson International Building, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544 609-258-7799 Programs Fung Fellows World Politics Links for Global Seminars