Skip to main content Go to site search Go to primary navigation Go to resources navigation Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search About the Program Meet the Professors In the News Contact Toggle Site Search Resources Alumni Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Visitors Webmail Penn A - Z Penn Directory Offices & Services Penn Home Search Search Close Penn Integrates Knowledge Professorships "The time has come to lower the barriers that separate departments and schools. Discipline must reach across to discipline and build bridges of common understanding and shared purpose across all 12 of Penn’s schools and throughout the campus." Former Penn President Amy Gutmann Penn Integrates Knowledge University Professorships As the challenges of our time grow more complex and consequential, Penn is poised like no other to innovate and lead. Through the recruitment of faculty who cross disciplinary boundaries, Penn fosters innovation and expands the world’s knowledge in new and unanticipated ways. Penn Integrates Knowledge (PIK) Professors hold appointments in two or more schools at Penn, and draw on their breadth of knowledge to collaborate with colleagues on boundary-breaking research. With 12 schools on one contiguous campus, our world-class faculty – especially PIK Professors – are masterful collaborators. As they pursue their path-breaking work, they bring knowledge together across disciplines and use that knowledge to illuminate some of the most fundamental issues of our time. On Campus and in the World Genomic differences selected through evolution may offer clues as to why COVID-19 outcomes vary widely A team from the University of Pennsylvania analyzed genomic data from global populations, including thousands of ethnically diverse Africans, to identify genetic variants that may be associated with clinical COVID-19 outcomes. Dirk Trauner appointed Penn Integrates Knowledge University Professor Trauner, one of the world’s most innovative interdisciplinary chemists, will have joint appointments in the School of Arts & Sciences and in the Perelman School of Medicine. Ben Franklin: A voice from the past that speaks to our time At the 2022 Silfen Forum, Penn Interim President Wendell Pritchett chatted with filmmaker Ken Burns about his new two-part documentary on Benjamin Franklin. Social connections influence brain structure of rhesus macaques Researchers from Penn, Inserm, and elsewhere observed that the number of grooming partners an individual animal had predicted the size of brain areas associated with social decision-making and empathy. Keepers of the cultural memory In wartime, saving human lives is a top priority. But secondary considerations often include preserving the cultural heritage also under siege. Penn experts offer their thoughts as the situation in Ukraine continues to unfold. New COVID-19 roadmap: Four takeaways A report spearheaded by PIK Professor Ezekiel Emanuel, with input from other Penn experts, lays out a dozen priorities for the federal government to tackle in the next 12 months. The aim: to help guide the U.S. to the pandemic’s ‘next normal.’ Read More Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy REPORT ACCESSIBILITY ISSUES AND GET HELP REPORT COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-5000