About Research Publications Students Activities Contact About Research Publications Students Activities Contact Team Research Activities Students Team Welcome SCROLL DOWN Team Welcome Learn about us At the Harvard Law School Program on International Law and Armed Conflict (HLS PILAC), we seek to explore and understand contemporary challenges concerning armed conflict through the lens of international law. We combine traditional public international law research with targeted analysis of today’s changing security environments. Our mode is critical, independent, and rigorous. With a focus on depth over breadth, we aim to reaffirm the centrality of international law in regulating war-fighting, in diminishing harmful effects of armed conflict, and in protecting civilians. Gabriella Blum Naz K. Modirzadeh Dustin A. Lewis Radhika Kapoor Heather Brennan Current Research Assistants Featured Ryen Bani-Hashemi Mazelle Etessami Jillian Quigley Emma Svoboda Aizhan Tilenbaeva Juan Felipe Wills Research Research Research Research QUestions That We Explore Featured What criteria does international law provide to detect the end of an armed conflict? How can States uphold the humanitarian imperative in relation to counterterrorism contexts? How can elected members of the U.N. Security Council prepare for an effective tenure? When it comes to the use of artificial intelligence in armed conflict, how can respect for international law be secured? What does international law say about lack of responses to uses of force in international relations? How many times have U.N. members purported to exercise the right of self-defense? How can students learn about legal rules aimed at protecting civilians in partnered conflicts? What are the impacts of counterterrorism measures on humanitarian action? What tensions arise between legal protections for impartial medical care in war and state responses to terrorism? Activities Activities Activities Activities Engage in events and activities Recent Events Featured May 24 Webinar on UN Sanctions, International Humanitarian Law and Humanitarian Action Mar 31 Workshop on International Law Applicable to Urban Siege Warfare Mar 29 Not All State Silences 'Speak' Event Recordings Prof. Naz Modirzadeh — Implications of State Silence concerning the Right to Self-Defense Prof. Gabriella Blum — Ethics and the Global War on Terror Dustin Lewis — Panel on the AI conundrum: Algorithms and human responsibility in armed conflicts Not All State Silences 'Speak': A Theory of (Non-)Communicative State Silences - Dr. Danae Azaria The Humanitarian Civilian — Dr. Rebecca Sutton War and Algorithm: The End of Law? A Lecture by Professor Gregor Noll Prof. Kalpouzos - “The Recognition of War” Legal, Moral, and Military Implications of "Collateral Damage": A Lunch Talk with Prof. Janina Dill Perilous Medicine — Len Rubenstein Military Interventions in Internal Conflicts Upon Invitation of the Government - Dr. Chiara Redaelli Prof. Gabriella Blum and Benjamin Wittes: 'The Future of Violence' Unreliable Protection: Proportionality in Warfare Put to the Test, a talk by Daniel Statman Presentation by Dr. Gloria Gaggioli on "Self-Defense in Armed Conflicts" French Counterterrorism Practices: Criminal and Administrative Avenues - A Talk by Dr. Sharon Weill Michael N. Schmitt: HLS PILAC Lecture on Cyber Operations and IHL: Fault Lines and Vectors Students Students Students Students Find student opportunities Harvard Law School students contribute to numerous HLS PILAC projects. Top HLS PILAC Home Harvard Law School Harvard University Privacy Policy • Sign up for our e-newsletter here • © 2014–2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College.