Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today KU Places Directory Search form Search Home A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Buildings Offices/Units Parking Art, Fountains & Plazas Map Menu Home A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Buildings Offices/Units Parking Art, Fountains & Plazas Map Search Search form Search Home A-Z A-Z: F Building Facilities Administration Building 1503 Sunflower Road Lawrence, KS 66045 The limestone main building was designed by Superintendent E.F. Crocker and constructed by the Buildings & Grounds Department in 1906. A second story and entry were added in 1926. The complex south of Stauffer-Flint Hall includes the 1922 power plant, designed by State Architect Ray Gamble and John Shea of B&G, and class whistle; offices and shops for Facilities Services units including plumbing, electrical, engineering, major systems and maintenance departments; and the main storeroom. < Building Foley Hall 2021 Constant Ave. Lawrence, KS 66047 This redbrick building was originally the Frank C. Foley Geohydrology Center, an annex of the Kansas Geological Survey named for its director from 1954-70. It opened in spring 1980, and in 1989 the survey moved its office into Parker Hall. The Kansas Biological Survey was housed here from 1989 to 2003; Foley now houses Monarch Watch, which monitors the migrations and habitats of monarch butterflies and which was founded by Orley “Chip” Taylor, professor emeritus of ecology and evolutionary biology. Building Fraser Hall 1415 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 This building of cottonwood and silverdale limestone opened March 6, 1967. It sits on the second-highest point on Mount Oread — 1,031 feet — and is visible for miles. (The highest point is 1,037 feet, between Joseph R. Pearson Hall and Carruth-O'Leary Hall on West Campus Road.) Why KU Apply » One of 34 U.S. public institutions in the prestigious Association of American Universities 44 nationally ranked graduate programs. —U.S. News & World Report Top 50 nationwide for size of library collection. —ALA 5th nationwide for service to veterans —"Best for Vets: Colleges," Military Times Give to KU » Contact KU Places Directory marketing@ku.edu Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login