Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today KU Places Directory Search form Search Home A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Buildings Offices/Units Parking Art, Fountains & Plazas Map Menu Home A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Buildings Offices/Units Parking Art, Fountains & Plazas Map Search Search form Search Home A-Z A-Z: V Artwork The Victory Eagle Dyche Hall Lawrence, KS Thomas F. Roberts and Otto Widman, consultants, 1920 To honor World War I casualties, the Victory Highway Association began a campaign in 1921 to set a statue of a female bald eagle defending her eaglets at every county line along U.S. 40, then a transcontinental highway. The Douglas County statue, said to be the second in the country, was paid for by donations from local women’s clubs; its base was set on land donated by H.G. Van Neste north of the intersection of U.S. 40 and Kansas 32 at the Douglas-Leavenworth county line and dedicated May 27, 1929. Artwork Vietnam War Memorial Memorial Drive Lawrence, KS On May 25, 1986, KU's Vietnam War Memorial, the first on-campus commemoration in the nation, was dedicated. It honors 59 students and alumni who died or were declared missing in the conflict. The 65-foot, L-shaped wall of native Kansas limestone, at the west end of Memorial Drive, was created by Doran Abel, an architecture major; Stephen Grabow, professor of architecture; and Greg Wade, KU’s landscape architect. Student Senate appropriations and donations from students, alumni and veterans funded the memorial. Why KU Apply » One of 34 U.S. public institutions in the prestigious Association of American Universities 44 nationally ranked graduate programs. —U.S. News & World Report Top 50 nationwide for size of library collection. —ALA 5th nationwide for service to veterans —"Best for Vets: Colleges," Military Times Give to KU » Contact KU Places Directory marketing@ku.edu Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login