Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today KU Places Directory Search form Search Home A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Buildings Offices/Units Parking Art, Fountains & Plazas Map Menu Home A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Buildings Offices/Units Parking Art, Fountains & Plazas Map Search Search form Search Home A-Z A-Z: G Building Gertrude Sellards Pearson Residence Hall (GSP) 500 W. 11th St. Lawrence, KS 66045 Opened in 1955 as a women's residence hall, GSP is named for Gertrude Sellards Pearson, a 1901 alumna who with her husband, Joseph R. Pearson, in 1945 donated money to supplement the construction of five residence and scholarship halls. It now forms a single living unit connected by a crosswalk with Corbin, 420 W. 11th St., a women's hall. Building Grace Pearson Scholarship Hall 1335 Louisiana St. Lawrence, KS 66044 Funded by the gift of Joseph R. and Gertrude Sellards Pearson and named in memory of his niece, it is adjacent to and mirrors Douthart Hall, also designed by Raymond Coolidge of Topeka. The three-story brick building opened in fall 1955 as a women’s hall, but in fall 1960 it became a men’s hall. It has four-person suites and common living and dining areas. Building Green Hall 1535 W. 15th St. Lawrence, KS 66045 This five-story building west of Naismith Drive and Murphy Hall opened for classes Oct. 17, 1977, and was dedicated Feb. 20-21, 1978. It retained the name of the 1905 hall built on Jayhawk Boulevard to house the School of Law and named in honor of Dean James W. “Uncle Jimmy” Green. It was designed by Lawrence R. Good & Associates of Lawrence; in 1987 former Chancellor and Mrs. W. Clarke Wescoe donated “Tai Chi Figure,” a large sculpture by Zhu Ming on the hall's lawn. Building Max Kade Center for German-American Studies 1134 W. 11th St. Lawrence, KS 66044 Bequeathed to KU by the estate of Dr. Mervin T. Sudler (1874-1956), Lawrence physician, professor of anatomy, and dean of the Medical School 1921-24, this limestone house was built for him in 1927 by the Kansas City architectural firm of Buckley & van Brunt. Building University Guest House 1525 Pearson Place Lawrence, KS 66045 This small house on the grounds of the chancellor’s residence, also known as the Rock Cottage, was built in the 1930s of stone left from construction of a retaining wall on the property. It was designed by architecture professor Verner F. Smith to be used by guests at the Outlook and was part of Elizabeth Miller Watkins’ 1939 bequest to KU. During the housing shortage after World War II, faculty members lived there. In 1952 the university remodeled it as a guest house, furnishing it from estate bequests and museum holdings. It is managed by Student Housing. Why KU Apply » One of 34 U.S. public institutions in the prestigious Association of American Universities 44 nationally ranked graduate programs. —U.S. News & World Report Top 50 nationwide for size of library collection. —ALA 5th nationwide for service to veterans —"Best for Vets: Colleges," Military Times Give to KU » Contact KU Places Directory marketing@ku.edu Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login