Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today KU Places Directory Search form Search Home A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Buildings Offices/Units Parking Art, Fountains & Plazas Map Menu Home A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Buildings Offices/Units Parking Art, Fountains & Plazas Map Search Search form Search Home A-Z A-Z: K Building Kansas Memorial Union 1301 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 The core of the Kansas Union was funded by the Million Dollar Drive, begun in 1920 to fund memorials to the 127 men and two women of the KU community who died in World War I. The original brick and limestone building, designed by Irving K. Pond of the Chicago architectural firm Pond & Pond, was 80 by 135 feet when it opened in September 1927 Artwork Korean War Memorial Memorial Drive Lawrence, KS 66045 This memorial, honoring 44 members of the university community who died in the Korean conflict, was dedicated April 16, 2005. The brick and stone terrace overlooks Potter Lake west of the campanile. Its centerpiece is a 7-foot copper sculpture, “Korean Cranes Rising,” by design professor Jon Havener. The four entwined cranes, ancient symbols of peace in the Korean culture, represent the four nations in the conflict: the United States, China, North Korea and South Korea. Building Krehbiel Scholarship Hall 1301 Ohio St. Lawrence, KS 66044 Alumnus Carl Krehbiel of Moundridge, Kan., donated $4 million to KU Endowment to fund a men’s scholarship hall in honor of his parents, alumni Kathyrn Krehbiel and Floyd H. Krehbiel. Carl and Floyd Krehbiel lived in scholarship halls as students. Building KU Endowment Building 1891 Constant Ave. Lawrence, KS 66047 In April 1998 KU Endowment moved to this $5 million, 52,000-square-foot building in the West District designed by Nearing Staats Prelogar Jones of Prairie Village. It is at least the third home of the Endowment, established in 1891 as the first foundation of its kind at a U.S. public university. For many years its headquarters were in several buildings on the main campus, but in 1976 it moved to Irvin Youngberg Hall, which is named for the Endowment's longtime executive secretary. Building Kurata Building 2330 Crowell Drive Lawrence, KS 66047 The 5,000-square-foot building, dedicated Oct. 27, 1990, was designed by Hicks-Messick & Associates of Lawrence. It is named for Fred Kurata, a professor of chemical and petroleum engineering 1947-78 who held two distinguished professorships and was a leader in thermodynamics research. When it opened, it housed labs and mechanical and conference areas for thermodynamics research. Building Max Kade Center for German-American Studies 1134 W. 11th St. Lawrence, KS 66044 Bequeathed to KU by the estate of Dr. Mervin T. Sudler (1874-1956), Lawrence physician, professor of anatomy, and dean of the Medical School 1921-24, this limestone house was built for him in 1927 by the Kansas City architectural firm of Buckley & van Brunt. Why KU Apply » One of 34 U.S. public institutions in the prestigious Association of American Universities 44 nationally ranked graduate programs. —U.S. News & World Report Top 50 nationwide for size of library collection. —ALA 5th nationwide for service to veterans —"Best for Vets: Colleges," Military Times Give to KU » Contact KU Places Directory marketing@ku.edu Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login