Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today KU Places Directory Search form Search Home A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Buildings Offices/Units Parking Art, Fountains & Plazas Map Menu Home A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Buildings Offices/Units Parking Art, Fountains & Plazas Map Search Search form Search Home A-Z A-Z: O Building Chancellor’s Residence 'The Outlook' 1532 Lilac Lane Lawrence, KS 66044 In 1912, Lawrence banker Jabez B. Watkins (1845-1921) built the three-story, 26-room house, designed by W.J. Mitchell, for himself and his wife, Elizabeth Miller Watkins. She lived in the home until her death in 1939, bequeathing it to the university as a chancellor’s residence. It replaced the original brick chancellor’s residence at 1345 Louisiana St. Chancellor Deane W. Malott and his family were the first to live in the home. The first floor is used for receptions and other public functions; the upper stories are family living quarters. Artwork Old North College 1866 Historic Site GSP/Corbin Lawrence, KS 66045 Installed in a circular landscaped area south of Gertrude Sellards Pearson and west of Corbin residence halls are several artifacts of KU’s earliest days. Building Oliver Residence Hall 1815 Naismith Drive Lawrence, KS 66045 Opened in 1966 as a freshman women’s hall, it is named for the first chancellor, R.W. Oliver, in honor of the university’s centennial. It now houses men and women, coed by wing, in two-person or private rooms. The 22,000-square-foot South Dining Commons links Oliver Hall with the new Cora Downs Residence Hall, which opened in fall 2017 to the west. Oliver Hall's former dining hall has been renovated as an academic commons. (Naismith Hall, across Naismith Drive east of Oliver, is a private residence hall for men and women.) Artwork Oregon Trail Marker Jayhawk Boulevard at West Campus Road Lawrence, KS The bronze medallion of this marker, 16.5 inches in diameter, bears the image of a conestoga wagon pulled by oxen and guided by a pioneer. The work of sculptors J.E. and L.G. Fraser, it is mounted outside Lindley Hall on a limestone plinth about 4 feet tall and nearly 6 feet long. The whole is surrounded by a low ovoid stone wall; plantings and a flagpole complete the marker. Building Oswald Residence Hall 1620 Engel Road Lawrence, KS 66045 The southern of two five-story, freshman-focused residence halls designed by Treanor Architects of Lawrence, Oswald houses men and women in single-, two- and four-person suites; it is part of a quadrangle with Self, Templin, Lewis, Ellsworth, and Hashinger halls. Artwork The Owl Spooner Hall Lawrence, KS The inscription on the Spooner Hall portico reads: “Whoso findeth wisdom findeth life,” and a sandstone owl, the symbol of wisdom, sits in a niche on the gable. The owl may have been designed by the Spooner architect, Henry van Brunt (1832-1903), a partner in the Kansas City, Mo., firm of Van Brunt & Howe. He was an 1854 graduate of Harvard University and a student of Richard Morris Hunt, the most notable American proponent of the Gothic Revival and Renaissance Revival styles. Why KU Apply » One of 34 U.S. public institutions in the prestigious Association of American Universities 44 nationally ranked graduate programs. —U.S. News & World Report Top 50 nationwide for size of library collection. —ALA 5th nationwide for service to veterans —"Best for Vets: Colleges," Military Times Give to KU » Contact KU Places Directory marketing@ku.edu Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login