Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today KU Places Directory Search form Search Home A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Buildings Offices/Units Parking Art, Fountains & Plazas Map Menu Home A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Buildings Offices/Units Parking Art, Fountains & Plazas Map Search Search form Search Home A-Z A-Z: J Artwork Jayhawk Templin Hall Entrance to KU Visitor Center Lawrence, KS Mike Elwell This flat-panel bronze of a Jayhawk in profile at the Visitor Center is a gift of the Class of 1999. Elwell ia an alumnus who holds a 1964 undergraduate degree and a 1967 law degree. Artwork Jayhawk/Academic Jay In front of Strong Hall Lawrence, KS Elden C. Tefft, 1958 This distinctive Jayhawk in front of Strong Hall was commissioned by the Class of 1956 and designed and cast by Elden C. Tefft, professor of sculpture. He has said he was inspired by the sharp-beaked “fighting Jayhawks” that were mascots from 1929 to 1946, but the statue also has been called “the Pterodactyl.” Building Jayhawker Towers Apartments 1603 W. 15th St. Lawrence, KS 66045 This apartment complex, opened Sept. 30, 1969, was bought by KU in 1980. It is designed for single, nontraditional, upper-classmen or transfer students in four towers; a fifth tower has a service center, commons and Academic Resource Center. All apartments are two-bedroom and shared by either two or four residents. The project, designed by Woodward & Cape of Dallas, was the brainchild of alumni K.S. Adams, W.W. Keeler, and Stanley Learned. Building Joseph R. Pearson Hall (JRP) 1122 West Campus Road Lawrence, KS 66045 One of five residence and scholarship halls funded by a 1945 bequest from Joseph R. and Gertrude Sellards Pearson, it was designed by State Architect John E. Brink and opened in January 1959 as a men’s hall; it closed in the early 1990s. Why KU Apply » One of 34 U.S. public institutions in the prestigious Association of American Universities 44 nationally ranked graduate programs. —U.S. News & World Report Top 50 nationwide for size of library collection. —ALA 5th nationwide for service to veterans —"Best for Vets: Colleges," Military Times Give to KU » Contact KU Places Directory marketing@ku.edu Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login