Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today KU Places Directory Search form Search Home A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Buildings Offices/Units Parking Art, Fountains & Plazas Map Menu Home A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Buildings Offices/Units Parking Art, Fountains & Plazas Map Search Search form Search Home A-Z A-Z: D Building Danforth Chapel 1405 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 William H. Danforth, chair of Ralston Purina Co., provided the largest donation for the chapel through his foundation; the rest of the funding and most of the furnishings were donated by faculty, students, alumni, and Lawrence residents. Edward W. Tanner of Kansas City, MO, KU’s first architectural engineering graduate in 1916 and principal designer for the J.C. Nichols Co. of Kansas City, MO, 1919-64, designed the 90-seat Gothic Revival structure. Building DeBruce Center 1647 Naismith Drive Lawrence , KS 66045 The center houses Dr. James Naismith's original "Rules of Basket Ball" and has a student center, the Courtside Cafe and a coffee bar, a gift shop, a nutrition center for the men's and women's basketball teams, and meeting rooms. The three-story, $21.7-million building adjoins the northeast corner of Allen Feldhouse and the Booth Family Hall of Athletics and abuts the Allen Fieldhouse Parking Garage. Fountain Docking Family Gateway 13th Street and Oread Avenue Lawrence, KS Alumni Jill S. Docking and Tom Docking of Wichita gave $500,000 toward the construction of a gateway at the northeast edge of the main campus, near the Kansas Union. It comprises a fountain, brick pylon and plantings fitted into an oval stone surround. The Dockings’ children and his brother, William, also are alumni, as were his father and grandfather, former Kansas governors Robert Docking (1967-75) and George Docking (1957-61); and his mother, Meredith Gear Docking. Tom Docking was lieutenant governor of Kansas 1983-87. Building Dole Human Development Center 1000 Sunnyside Ave. Lawrence, KS 66045 The center was dedicated Aug. 25, 1990, and named in honor of Kansas Sen. Robert J. Dole, an advocate for people with disabilities. Kiene & Bradley Design Group designed the $12 million classroom and clinic space, which houses undergraduate and graduate departments and research and training centers, including the Department of Applied Behavioral Science, the Life Span Institute, the Edna A. Hill Child Development Center, the Sunnyside Toddler Program, and the Department of Speech-Language-Hearing: Sciences & Disorders. Building Dole Institute of Politics 2350 Petefish Drive Lawrence, KS 66045 This west campus building, dedicated in July 2003, is named for former Kansas Sen. Robert J. Dole. The $11 million, 28,000-square-foot facility, designed by ASIA of Lenexa, houses papers from Dole’s 35-year career and is the world’s largest congressional archive. The institute sponsors public and educational programs in bipartisan civic education and leadership training; it has seminar and meeting rooms, broadcast facilities, and exhibits on Dole’s life and career as well as on specific historical or political topics. Building Douthart Scholarship Hall 1345 Louisiana St. Lawrence, KS 66044 This hall has 12 suites comprising bedrooms and study areas. It opened in 1954 and was largely funded by the gift of Burt Chronister of Kansas City, Kan., in memory of his wife, Ava Douthart Chronister, a 1901 graduate, and her sister Lela Douthart, an 1899 alumna. The architect was Raymond Coolidge. Building Downs Residence Hall 1517 W. 18th St. Lawrence, KS 66045 This residence hall opened in fall 2017 as part of the Central District development. It houses women and men and is arranged in two- and four-bedroom suites. Features include a full kitchen, laundry rooms on each floor, and a recreation room. Residents may participate in an Academic Accelerator Program for international students. Building Dyche Hall 1345 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 One of KU’s signature buildings, Dyche Hall was built as the Museum of Natural History in 1901-02 to a design by Kansas City architects Walter C. Root and George W. Siemens; they used the Venetian Romanesque style characteristic of southern European churches of 1050-1200. Artwork Dyche Hall Grotesques Dyche Hall Lawrence, KS Joseph Robaldo Frazee and Vitruvius Frazee, 1901-02 Master mason and sculptor Joseph Robaldo Frazee and his son Vitruvius Frazee carved the 12 creatures that sat on pedestals lining the seventh floor of Dyche Hall in 1901 and 1902. The cottonwood limestone statues, each 44 inches tall, resemble the gargoyles used on medieval buildings to disguise drainpipes; the Dyche creatures are “grotesques,” because they lack the pipe and spout that permit gargoyles to function as downspouts. Why KU Apply » One of 34 U.S. public institutions in the prestigious Association of American Universities 44 nationally ranked graduate programs. —U.S. News & World Report Top 50 nationwide for size of library collection. —ALA 5th nationwide for service to veterans —"Best for Vets: Colleges," Military Times Give to KU » Contact KU Places Directory marketing@ku.edu Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login