Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today KU Places Directory Search form Search Home A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Buildings Offices/Units Parking Art, Fountains & Plazas Map Menu Home A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Buildings Offices/Units Parking Art, Fountains & Plazas Map Search Search form Search Home A-Z A-Z: U Artwork Green Memorial / 'Uncle Jimmy' Green Front of Lippincott Hall Lawrence, KS Daniel Chester French, 1924 James Woods Green (1842-1919) was the beloved first head of the KU Department of Law and the first dean when it became the School of Law in 1889; he served from 1878 until his death Nov. 4, 1919. A group of alumni and friends quickly formed an association to create a statue in memory of the beloved teacher and mentor. Building Kansas Memorial Union 1301 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 The core of the Kansas Union was funded by the Million Dollar Drive, begun in 1920 to fund memorials to the 127 men and two women of the KU community who died in World War I. The original brick and limestone building, designed by Irving K. Pond of the Chicago architectural firm Pond & Pond, was 80 by 135 feet when it opened in September 1927 Building University Press 2502 Westbrooke Circle Lawrence, KS 66045 The University Press of Kansas, which publishes scholarly books for the state regents institutions, other universities, and scholars, dedicated this building in the West District Oct. 11, 1991. Founded in 1946 specifically for KU but expanded in 1967 to other regents' schools, the press had been housed in Stauffer-Flint and Carruth-O’Leary halls. Building University Press Warehouse 1501 S. Crestline Drive Lawrence, KS 66045 The one-floor press warehouse, which has 7,000 square feet, adjoins the Public Safety Building, southeast of the University Press. It was designed by the Williams Huber Team of Lawrence and opened in 1990 to store books, catalogs and other university publications. The entomological collections and their curatorial staff have moved to the building. Artwork University Seal Budig Hall/Hoch Auditoria Lawrence, KS The Class of 1997 gave this reproduction of the University Seal depicting Moses kneeling before the burning bush. The image is surrounded by a Latin inscription that in English reads, “I will see this great vision in which the bush does not burn.” The bronze medallion is 36 inches in diameter and mounted on a marble slab set on a triangular stone base about 4 feet tall. The whole is set in a large, raised rectangular planter topped by a stone bench in front of Budig Hall/Hoch Auditoria. Artwork Untitled: Roughneck Moore Hall Lawrence, KS John Whitfield, 1985 This copper and bronze sculpture by Kansas artist John Whitfield, dedicated Nov. 1, 1985, was financed by state fees that also paid for a 1983 addition to Moore Hall. Its inscription notes that it is a “memento to the oil-field roustabout who does the nitty-gritty work” of the industry in Kansas. The piece is 7 feet 3 inches tall and 4 feet 7 inches wide; it is mounted at the south entrance of Moore on a base comprising three large slabs of Kansas limestone. Why KU Apply » One of 34 U.S. public institutions in the prestigious Association of American Universities 44 nationally ranked graduate programs. —U.S. News & World Report Top 50 nationwide for size of library collection. —ALA 5th nationwide for service to veterans —"Best for Vets: Colleges," Military Times Give to KU » Contact KU Places Directory marketing@ku.edu Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login