Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today KU Places Directory Search form Search Home A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Buildings Offices/Units Parking Art, Fountains & Plazas Map Menu Home A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Buildings Offices/Units Parking Art, Fountains & Plazas Map Search Search form Search The Places Directory provides the proper names of all Lawrence campus buildings and landmarks, mailing addresses, occupants, seating capacities for public spaces, and a history of the building or landmark and its namesake. It also lists outdoor courtyards, fountains, gateways, memorials, markers, and sculptures on the Lawrence campus. Sources include University Archives records; the Web sites This Week in KU History and Historic Mount Oread Fund; the Lawrence Journal-World and KU Alumni Association publications; and personal interviews. A primary source for sculptures and memorials was the 1994-95 compilation “SOS!: Save Outdoor Sculpture.” Texts consulted include "The University of Kansas: A History" by Clifford Griffin; "Across the Years on Mount Oread" by Robert Taft; "Historic Mount Oread" by Sandra Swanson Wiechert; and "On the Hill: A Photographic History of the University of Kansas" compiled by Virginia Adams, Katie Armitage, Donna Butler, Carol Shankel and Barbara Watkins. If you spot an error or an oversight, please let us know at marketing@ku.edu. Why KU Apply » One of 34 U.S. public institutions in the prestigious Association of American Universities 44 nationally ranked graduate programs. —U.S. News & World Report Top 50 nationwide for size of library collection. —ALA 5th nationwide for service to veterans —"Best for Vets: Colleges," Military Times Give to KU » Contact KU Places Directory marketing@ku.edu Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login