Texas A&M College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Menu Search for: Former Students Current Students Future Students Faculty/Staff Department of Plant Pathology and Microbiology Search for: Skip to content Home About Academics Undergrad Academics Bioenvironmental Sciences (BESC) Courses Honors Program Undergraduate Research Scholars Grant Poster Symposium Environmental Studies (ENST) University Studies Degree – Environmental Business (USAL) Internships & Research Poster Templates Study Abroad BESC Professional Board Members Graduate Academics About the Graduate Degree Admissions Courses Grad Student Club Graduate Student Forms & Resources Research Bacteriology Biology of Filamentous Fungi Disease Resistance Ecology & Evolutionary Biology Epidemiology Fungi & Mycology Host-Pathogen Interactions Integrated Disease Management Root Rhizosphere Virology Extension Extension Faculty Texas Plant Disease Diagnostic Lab Giving BESC Professional Board BESC Professional Board Members BESC Professional Board Meetings BESC Endowed Excellence Fund Former BESC Professional Board Members BESC Board Nomination Form BESC Professional Board Member Spotlight Contact Faculty Staff Post Docs Graduate Students BESC Professional Board Members Texas Plant Disease Diagnostic Lab Former Students Current Students Future Students Faculty/Staff The Texas High Plains Plant Disease Diagnostic Laboratory(THPPDDL) in Amarillo was recognized recently for excellence in diagnostic services to our Texas High Plains and Texas clientele. Shown (left to right): Joshua Brooks (District 1 Extension Administrator), Jaqueline Avila (technician), Jammie Moore (assistant) and Dr. Ken Obasa (THPPDDL Director and AgriLife Extension Plant Pathologist). Undergraduate research scholars advance bioenvironmental discovery College of Agriculture and Life Sciences celebrates faculty, staff, students Safeguarding seed health protects Texas agriculture Mobile drip irrigation results in high yields, saves water in watermelon research Finding solutions for environmental and water issues ‘Plugging in’ to produce environmentally friendly bioplastics Home of Bioenvironmental Sciences Our Mission: Conduct leading edge research on plant diseases and plant-microbe interactions that directly and indirectly impact: Our ability to feed the world; Human and animal health; Environmental stewardship and sustainability. Educate and prepare leaders in the STEM fields of plant and environmental health through a creative and challenging educational environment that integrates scholarship, fundamental knowledge, and experiential learning. Convey information relevant to society through effective outreach and services that address plant health, food safety and environmental health to the citizens of Texas, the United States and the World. An extension of this mission is to train the next generation of environmental professionals by providing them both the analytical and biological understanding to successfully protect the environment while promoting economic vitality. Our Vision: Positively impact our ability to “Feed the World”, “Protect our Environment”, and ”Improve our Health” by excelling in the education and preparation of students in the fields of Plant Health and Disease, Plant-Microbe Interactions and Bioenvironmental Sciences. Undergraduate Graduate A B.S. in the STEM field of Bioenvironmental Sciences equips you to play a direct role in developing and implementing solutions to environmental problems. Our graduates often enter careers in industry or government associated with prevention and remediation of environmental hazards, such as microbial threats, toxic wastes, and other damage to fragile ecosystems. Use of hands-on experiences in our classrooms, laboratories, and excellent internship opportunities ensure that you gain experience with the concepts and the technology essential for prevention, assessment, and abatement of environmental problems. Students in BESC have the unique opportunity to build their networking skills prior to graduation by participating in our student chapter of the National Association of Environmental Professionals, which hosts speakers from industry and government agencies involved in environmental careers. Our BESC Professional Board is composed of environmental professionals from across Texas eager to help you succeed. We host an annual BESC Symposium and career expo. We also teach a Study Abroad course on environmental issues in China to provide international experience in environmental issues and sampling. Plant Pathology is the STEM field focused on science on plant health and disease, including the organisms, vectors, “-omics” and environmental conditions that influence the outcome of the interactions. We train the next generation of professional phytopathologists. We emphasize fundamental organismal, physiological, molecular and genomic concepts associated with fungal, bacteriological, viral, mycoplasmal and physiogenic diseases. Research: Faculty programs focus on a diversity of plant-microbe interactions, from plant innate immunity, biocontrol, host-pathogen interactions (signals, volatiles), mycotoxins, pathogenicity mechanisms, control of programmed cell death, to biofuels. and bioinformatics. The department encompasses projects that attack applied problems like plant disease control with both classical and modern approaches. The department is associated with the Institute for Plant Genomics & Biotechnology (IPGB), other Texas A&M departments and the network of AgriLife Research & Extension Centers. Extension: We address the educational plant health needs in Texas of crop agriculture, green industry, homeowners, and other clientele with plant health issues. We provide accurate, state-of-the-art plant disease diagnostics, participate in national plant diagnostic networks, and train first responders. We support Texas Extension agents through county-based Extension programs as plant pathology resources are requested. We contribute to the applied, field research responsibilities of the Texas AgriLife Extension Service. Degrees All Undergraduate Degrees We offer 3 undergraduate degrees with a wide range of career options Bioenvironmental Sciences Degree Our featured degree program for undergrad students Graduate Program Offering a M.S. and Ph.D. customized to your desired focus News Undergraduate research scholars advance bioenvironmental discovery College of Agriculture and Life Sciences celebrates faculty, staff, students Artificial intelligence predicts algae potential as alternative energy source PLPM Spring 2022 Seminars Safeguarding seed health protects Texas agriculture Corn resistance to insect pests focus of Texas A&M study Texas A&M AgriLife Research develops bacteriophage treatment for Pierce’s disease Sampling a new classroom environment to stay engaged during COVID-19 Contact Us To learn more about our programs or to talk to an advisor, Contact Us. Plant Pathology and Microbiology 496 Olsen Blvd., 2132 TAMU College Station, Texas 77843-2132 Phone: (979) 845-7311 Fax: (979) 845-6483 Compact with Texans Privacy and Security Accessibility Policy State Link Policy Statewide Search Veterans Benefits Military Families Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Equal Opportunity Open Records/Public Information