Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation YALE PLANETARY SOLUTIONS PROJECT Home Work About Organizations Get Connected News Events Addressing our biodiversity and climate crises through innovative research, education, and engagement. Addressing our biodiversity and climate crises through innovative research, education, and engagement. Addressing our biodiversity and climate crises through innovative research, education, and engagement. Addressing our biodiversity and climate crises through innovative research, education, and engagement. Addressing our biodiversity and climate crises through innovative research, education, and engagement. Addressing our biodiversity and climate crises through innovative research, education, and engagement. Addressing our biodiversity and climate crises through innovative research, education, and engagement. Addressing our biodiversity and climate crises through innovative research, education, and engagement. Welcome Complex Challenges Require an Integrated Response No single discipline can solve the complex environmental challenges we face—climate change and biodiversity loss, health and economic disruption—at the pace required. By identifying productive connections across disciplines, the Planetary Solutions Project can accelerate the development of approaches that work. About Solutions to Match the Scale of the Problems At Yale, we are developing ways to improve life now, and for the next 10, 20, and 100 years. We must reduce greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, save species from extinction, create and deploy affordable clean energy, and enact political, economic, health, and legal changes that establish just, equitable systems across the globe. Learn more Work Insights from One Field Drive Breakthroughs in Another By bringing Yale’s exceptional capabilities together, we can make progress on the most daunting challenges human civilization has ever faced. We are exploring artificial photosynthesis to turn sunlight into liquid fuel. We are using genetic techniques to help threatened species adapt to rapid environmental changes. We are identifying nature-based methods of capturing carbon. And we are integrating diverse data streams to build policy tools supporting global climate action. View example projects “The Planetary Solutions Project epitomizes Yale’s approach to tackling global problems. We are rich in excellence across many fields and disciplines. We have remarkable collaborations in place, and insights from one field drive breakthroughs in another.” Yale President Peter Salovey News & Updates View all From Carbon Capture to Infectious Disease: Planetary Solutions Project seed grants span disciplines to address global environmental challenges In April, Yale University awarded nearly $1.5 million to 21 proposals in its inaugural round of Planetary Solutions Project Seed Grants; here, for the first time, these proposals are described in detail. Read more Climate Impact Innovation Fund Supports Creative Solutions The $15 million fund, launched in January by generous donors, is supporting ambitious new climate solutions through the Planetary Solutions Project seed grants, awarded at the beginning of April. Read more Complex Challenges Require an Integrated Response No single discipline can solve the complex environmental challenges we face—climate change and biodiversity loss, health and economic disruption—at the pace required. By identifying productive connections across disciplines, the Planetary Solutions Project can accelerate the development of approaches that work. About Solutions to Match the Scale of the Problems At Yale, we are developing ways to improve life now, and for the next 10, 20, and 100 years. We must reduce greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, save species from extinction, create and deploy affordable clean energy, and enact political, economic, health, and legal changes that establish just, equitable systems across the globe. Learn more Work Insights from One Field Drive Breakthroughs in Another By bringing Yale’s exceptional capabilities together, we can make progress on the most daunting challenges human civilization has ever faced. We are exploring artificial photosynthesis to turn sunlight into liquid fuel. We are using genetic techniques to help threatened species adapt to rapid environmental changes. We are identifying nature-based methods of capturing carbon. And we are integrating diverse data streams to build policy tools supporting global climate action. View example projects “The Planetary Solutions Project epitomizes Yale’s approach to tackling global problems. We are rich in excellence across many fields and disciplines. We have remarkable collaborations in place, and insights from one field drive breakthroughs in another.” Yale President Peter Salovey News & Updates View all Yale sets New Carbon Reduction Targets, Takes Divestment Steps Yale plans to reach zero carbon emissions by 2050, and net zero emissions by 2035 after offsets and other campus reductions in emissions are factored in. Read more Moving Toward an Inclusive Architecture “Given the global climate crisis, an architecture of the greater good is concerned about our shared environmental future.” In this interview, Deborah Berke, dean of the School of Architecture, describes new sustainability and diversity work at the school. Read more View all Upcoming Events No events to display. Be Part of the Solution Get ConnectedGive Now Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Photo Credits Unsplash photo credits: USGS, Balazs Busznyak, Curioso Photography, 66 north, Benjamin Sloth Lindgreen, Alvaro Matzumura Additional photo credits: Danny Grizzle, Mogana Das Murtey and Patchamuthu Ramasamy, Mattew Garrett, Stephan Hocking Facebook Twitter iTunes YouTube Sina Weibo Tumblr