Skip to content Home Give Now Online How to Make a Gift Support Ideas Support People Support Infrastructure Types of Gifts Planned Giving Impact Stories Philanthropic Impact Why We Give Honor Roll of Donors Contact Us Giving Main Menu Planned Giving 1913 Society Why Give? How You Can Give Contact Us Text + Text - Establish a Lasting Legacy Mobile Menu 1913 Society Why Give? How You Can Give Contact Us Talk to Us Our Office of Planned Giving » Call 617 432-8436 The Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health brings together dedicated experts from many disciplines to educate new generations of global health leaders and produce powerful ideas that improve the lives and health of people everywhere. We work together as a community of leading scientists, educators, and students to take innovative ideas from the laboratory to people’s lives, not only making scientific breakthroughs, but also working to change individual behaviors, public policies, and health care practices. Planned giving is a distinctive way to make a lasting contribution to Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. A thoughtful gift creates your personal legacy, while helping us improve the lives and health of people all over the world. In addition, a planned gift provides tax savings to the donor and/or an income for you or loved ones. See how you can help make this a healthier, happier world by supporting public health education today. Introduction to the 1913 Society - Dr. Timothy Johnson Our Office of Planned Giving » Call 617 432-8436 With great appreciation 1913 Society Roster The Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health would like to thank the individuals and organizations that have given gifts that allow the School to conduct research, educate public health leaders, and promote solutions to advance the health of everyone. View donors Meet Our Donors See Photos From Our Annual Luncheon Legacy MATTERS Newsletter Harvard Chan School Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College