Skip to main content Social Media Links Skip to main content College of Natural and Agricultural Sciences UCR Home Search Find People Quick Links UCR CNAS RED Grad Div Contact Us Seminars Give UC Riverside Department of Botany & Plant Sciences Search About About Plant Biology History Award Winning Scientists Find Us People Faculty Current BPSC Faculty Emeriti Cooperating Faculty CE Specialists Administrative Staff Graduate Students Graduate Student Alumni Employment Opportunities Find People Research Program Overview Centers & Institutes Cooperative Extension Research Facilities Graduate Program Overview Prospective Students How To Apply Info for Current Students Current Students - Information Current Graduate Students Graduate Student Handbooks BPSC Department Forms for Degree Graduate Division Deadlines, Forms and Regulations Seminar Schedules Funding Sources Deadlines: Registration, Classes and Fees Emergency Contacts FAQs Academics Resources for Graduate Students Botany Graduate Student Association Contact Us Undergraduate Program Overview Current and Prospective Students Contact Us News & Events News Seminars Newsletter Giving Documents Equity & Inclusion UCR Home Find People Quick Links UCR CNAS RED Grad Div Contact Us Seminars Discover Botany & Plant Sciences Interested in Graduate training in Plant Biology? 1,000 ACRES SERVE AS A REAL-LIFE LABORATORY FOR PLANT RESEARCH #7 PUBLIC RESEARCH UNIVERSITY IN THE NATION 6 NATIONAL ACADEMY MEMBERS Welcome Message from Chair Patricia Springer Welcome to the Department of Botany and Plant Sciences at the University of California, Riverside. Our mission is to conduct cutting-edge research in plant biology to advance fundamental scientific knowledge and solve critical issues for the state of California, and to educate and train graduate and undergraduate students to become science professionals and informed global citizens. Read More Why Botany and Plant Sciences? The department has strong programs in basic plant cell biology, responses of plants to environmental stresses, plant ecology, genetics, genomics, and evolution. These strengths in basic research complement applied research programs that use the traditional tools of plant science and the new technologies of genomics to meet the evolving needs of California's $27 billion agricultural industry. Development of new varieties and crop management strategies help address the challenges of climate change and new pest and disease. Most Influential Scientists AWARD WINNING FACULTY LEARN MORE RESEARCH UNDERGRADUATE GRADUATE May 19, 2022 New strategies to save the world’s most indispensable grain Plants — they’re just like us, with unique techniques for handling stress. To save one of the most important crops on Earth from extreme climate swings, scientists are mapping out plants’ own stress-busting strategies. A UC Riverside-led team has learned... Read More » May 10, 2022 UCR ecologists work toward post-fire rebirth of healthy landscapes The worst fire impacts this year are predicted to hit Northern California’s higher elevation forests and Southern California’s chaparral-clad mountainous National Forest lands. To aid recovery, UC Riverside ecologists are collaborating with the US Forest Service to target these spots... Read More » May 03, 2022 New technology offers fighting chance against grapevine killer Scientists at UC Riverside have a shot at eradicating a deadly threat to vineyards posed by the glassy-winged sharpshooter, just as its resistance to insecticide has been growing. When the half-inch-long flying insect feeds on grapevines, it transmits bacteria that... Read More » March 11, 2022 Fruit fungus for the win at Grad Slam Claire Whitaker loves fresh fruit. That’s why the botany and plant sciences doctoral student has spent the last three years researching how to prevent gray, fuzzy fungus from consuming fruits such as strawberries. That same passion is what garnered her... Read More » More News For more information about joining our graduate program, please fill out our Interest Form Online Application: Apply Now University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 Department Information Department of Botany & Plant Sciences 2142 Batchelor Hall Tel: (951) 827-4619 Fax: (951) 827-4437 Email: bpschair@ucr.edu Plant Biology Graduate Program CNAS Grad Student Affairs Office 1140 Batchelor Hall Toll: (800) 735-0717 Tel: (951) 827-4116 Fax: (951) 827-5517 Email: dawn.loyola@ucr.edu Hours: 8:00 am - 12:00 pm; 1:00 pm - 5:00 pm COLLEGE OF NATURAL & AGRICULTURAL SCIENCES CNAS Dean's Office Geology Building, Room 2258 900 University Ave Riverside, CA 92521 Campus Map Google Map Related Links About Prospective Students Careers Seminars Contact CNAS Home Give Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California Let us help you with your search × Enter your Search Criteria Search All UCR Search This Site Cancel