Calendar A-Z Index School of Arts and Sciences University of Pennsylvania Penn Language Center Search this site: About News & Events Languages Programs Services Resources People Links PROGRESS through the Language Direct Peer Tutoring Program. ENHANCE teaching and learning with and through technology. GROW through professional development workshops, lectures, and grant opportunities. EXPERIENCE the world through the Fulbright program. EMERGE through less commonly taught languages and languages for a specific purpose. Welcome to Penn Language Center’s dynamic and diverse language education community. Read More About News & Events Languages Programs Services Resources & Research People Links News Medical Spanish for Summer 2021 Spanish for Medical Professionals will be offered as an online 11-week course during Summer Sessions I and II. Summer 2021 Courses Language courses offered during Summer Sessions I and II will be delivered online. 2021 Language Teaching Innovation Grants Penn Language Center is pleased to announce a new cycle of SAS Language Teaching Innovation Grants. More News Welcome to your new Drupal website! Please follow these steps to set up and start using your website: Configure your website Once logged in, visit the administration section, where you can customize and configure all aspects of your website. Enable additional functionality Next, visit the module list and enable features which suit your specific needs. You can find additional modules in the Drupal modules download section. Customize your website design To change the "look and feel" of your website, visit the themes section. You may choose from one of the included themes or download additional themes from the Drupal themes download section. Start posting content Finally, you can create content for your website. This message will disappear once you have promoted a post to the front page. For more information, please refer to the help section, or the online Drupal handbooks. You may also post at the Drupal forum, or view the wide range of other support options available. Events 5/6 Language Educator Symposium 2022 This year's 11th annual PLC symposium will focus on "Collaborations for Change" 5/5 Grants Showcase and PLC Teaching Awards This year's event will feature projects from the 2021 SAS Language Teaching Innovation Grants cycle and honor Penn Language Center faculty. 4/22 Spring Technology Workshops PLC is pleased to offer a series of four workshops by Technology Director Betsy Kells this Spring. More Events Copyright © 2014 The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania PENN LANGUAGE CENTER | 715-716 Williams Hall | University of Pennsylvania | Philadelphia, PA 19104-6305 Phone: (215) 898-6039 | Fax: (215) 573-2139 | plc@ccat.sas.upenn.edu Penn Web Login