Skip to main content View all courses Art & Design Business Computer Science Data Science Education & Teaching Health & Medicine Humanities Mathematics Programming Science Social Sciences Harvard Online Courses Professional and Lifelong Learning In-person, blended, and online courses All Courses Online Courses Free Courses CS50 for Lawyers This course is a variant of Harvard University's introduction to computer science, CS50, designed especially for lawyers (and law students). Learn Moreon September 12, 2019 – December 31, 2022 Free* Online Duration 10 weeks long Time commitment 3 - 6 hours per week Pace Self-paced Subject Computer Science Course language English Video Transcript English Difficulty Introductory Credit Audit for Free Add a Verified Certificate for $199 Platform edX Topic(s) Computer Science Data Algorithms Data Structures Programming Databases SQL Python Law Business Law Associated Schools Harvard School of Engineering and Applied Sciences What you'll learn Challenges at the Intersection of Law and Technology Computational Thinking Programming Languages Algorithms, Data Structures Cryptography Cybersecurity Learn Moreon Course description This course is a variant of Harvard University's introduction to computer science, CS50, designed especially for lawyers (and law students). Whereas CS50 itself takes a bottom-up approach, emphasizing mastery of low-level concepts and implementation details thereof, this course takes a top-down approach, emphasizing mastery of high-level concepts and design decisions related thereto. Ultimately, it equips students with a deeper understanding of the legal implications of technological decisions made by clients. Through a mix of technical instruction and discussion of case studies, this course empowers students to be informed contributors to technology-driven conversations. In addition, it prepares students to formulate technology-informed legal arguments and opinions. Along the way, it equips students with hands-on experience with Python and SQL, languages via which they can mine data for answers themselves. Topics include algorithms, cloud computing, databases, networking, privacy, programming, scalability, security, and more, with a particular emphasis on understanding how the work developers do and the technological solutions they employ may impact clients. Students emerge from this course with a first-hand appreciation of how it all works and all the more confident in the factors that should guide their decision-making. Learn Moreon Instructors Doug Lloyd Senior Preceptor in Computer Science, Harvard University David J. Malan Gordon McKay Professor of the Practice of Computer Science, Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Enroll now.Learn Moreon You may also like Programming Online CS50's Introduction to Game Development Learn about the development of 2D and 3D interactive games in this hands-on course, as you explore the design of games such as... Free* 12 weeks long Available now Social Sciences Online Public Leadership Credential Developed by Harvard Kennedy School faculty, this professional credential program equips you with the skills necessary to advance... $995+ Available now Programming Online CS50: Introduction to Computer Science An introduction to the intellectual enterprises of computer science and the art of programming. Free* 11 weeks long Available now Get updates on new courses. Email address Subscribe Top Donate Accessibility Privacy Policy Terms of Use EEA Privacy Disclosures Harvard University Twitter Facebook Linked In