Skip to main content View all courses Art & Design Business Computer Science Data Science Education & Teaching Health & Medicine Humanities Mathematics Programming Science Social Sciences Harvard Online Courses Professional and Lifelong Learning In-person, blended, and online courses All Courses Online Courses Free Courses CS50's Introduction to Game Development Learn about the development of 2D and 3D interactive games in this hands-on course, as you explore the design of games such as Super Mario Bros., Pokémon, Angry Birds, and more. Learn Moreon June 30, 2018 – December 31, 2022 Free* Online Duration 12 weeks long Time commitment 6 - 9 hours per week Pace Self-paced Subject Programming Course language English Video Transcript English Difficulty Intermediate Credit Audit for Free Add a Verified Certificate for $199 Platform edX Topic(s) Programming Associated Schools Harvard Faculty of Arts & Sciences Harvard School of Engineering and Applied Sciences What you'll learn Principles of 2D and 3D graphics, animation, sound, and collision detection Unity and LÖVE 2D Lua, C# Basics of game design and development Learn Moreon Course description In a quest to understand how video games themselves are implemented, you'll explore the design of such childhood games as: Super Mario Bros., Pong, Flappy Bird, Breakout, Match 3, Legend of Zelda, Angry Birds, Pokémon, 3D Helicopter Game, Dreadhalls, and Portal. Via lectures and hands-on projects, the course explores principles of 2D and 3D graphics, animation, sound, and collision detection using frameworks like Unity and LÖVE 2D, as well as languages like Lua and C#. By class’s end, you'll have programmed several of your own games and gained a thorough understanding of the basics of game design and development. Learn Moreon Instructors David J. Malan Gordon McKay Professor of the Practice of Computer Science, Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Colton Ogden Technologist, Harvard University Enroll now.Learn Moreon You may also like Programming Online CS50: Introduction to Computer Science An introduction to the intellectual enterprises of computer science and the art of programming. Free* 11 weeks long Available now Computer Science Online CS50 for Lawyers This course is a variant of Harvard University's introduction to computer science, CS50, designed especially for lawyers (and law... Free* 10 weeks long Available now Computer Science Online CS50's Introduction to Artificial Intelligence with Python Learn to use machine learning in Python in this introductory course on artificial intelligence. Free* 7 weeks long Available now Get updates on new courses. Email address Subscribe Top Donate Accessibility Privacy Policy Terms of Use EEA Privacy Disclosures Harvard University Twitter Facebook Linked In