Skip to main content View all courses Art & Design Business Computer Science Data Science Education & Teaching Health & Medicine Humanities Mathematics Programming Science Social Sciences Harvard Online Courses Professional and Lifelong Learning In-person, blended, and online courses All Courses Online Courses Free Courses PredictionX: John Snow and the Cholera Epidemic of 1854 An in-depth look at the 1854 London cholera epidemic in Soho and its importance for the field of epidemiology. Learn Moreon Open January 1, 2019 – December 31, 2023 Free* Online Duration 1 week long Time commitment 3 - 5 hours per week Pace Self-paced Subject Health & Medicine Course language English Video Transcript English Difficulty Introductory Credit Audit for Free Add a Verified Certificate for $69 Platform edX Topic(s) Health Diseases Public Health History Associated Schools Harvard Faculty of Arts & Sciences What you'll learn John Snow’s role in creating modern epidemiology Description of 19th century London life Learn Moreon Course description In 1854, a cholera epidemic swept through the London neighborhood of Soho. In about three weeks, over 600 people died. This incident was, tragically, not unusual in London or the rest of the 19th-century world as a whole. The scourge of cholera seemed unstoppable and, even worse, unpredictable. But one doctor — ignored by the scientific community at large — set out to prove that he knew how cholera was spread. Join us for this one-week, immersive learning experience where we explore John Snow’s London, from the streets of Soho to the dataset that helped create the map that changed our understanding of cholera and epidemiology forever. This course features interactive tools including an interactive ArcGIS map of the 1854 cholera outbreak and a Timeline JS of John Snow’s investigation. This module is a part of PredictionX, which looks at the history of attempts to predict the future. PredictionX courses will cover topics from omens and oracles in ancient civilizations to modern computer simulations. Learn Moreon Instructor Alyssa Goodman Robert Wheeler Willson Professor of Applied Astronomy; Founding Director, Initiative in Innovative Computing, Harvard University Enroll now.Learn Moreon You may also like Health & Medicine Online Cognitive Fitness This online course from Harvard Health Publishing brings you information from Harvard experts on staying mentally sharp as you... $30 2 weeks long Available now Health & Medicine Online 6-Week Plan For Healthy Eating This online course from Harvard Health Publishing outlines a simple, 6-week plan assembled by Harvard experts to overhaul your... $30 2 weeks long Available now Health & Medicine Online Back Pain: Finding Solutions for Your Aching Back This Harvard Health Publishing online course provides insight into the sources of back pain, providing strategies on how to... $30 Available now Get updates on new courses. Email address Subscribe Top Donate Accessibility Privacy Policy Terms of Use EEA Privacy Disclosures Harvard University Twitter Facebook Linked In