Skip to main content View all courses Art & Design Business Computer Science Data Science Education & Teaching Health & Medicine Humanities Mathematics Programming Science Social Sciences Harvard Online Courses Professional and Lifelong Learning In-person, blended, and online courses All Courses Online Courses Free Courses Online Courses | Harvard University Seasonal and themed content chosen by the editors Featured Business Online Health Care Strategy Combine the best business strategies with the fundamentals of the health care sector. $1,600 5 weeks long Register by Jun 27 Data Science Online Data Science for Business Learn how to effectively use data to tackle your business decisions. Designed for managers, this course provides a hands-on... $1,600 4 weeks long Register by Jun 27 Business Online Managing Happiness Happiness is within your control. Write your own ending. Free* 6 weeks long Available now Subject Areas View all courses Art & Design Business Computer Science Data Science Education & Teaching Health & Medicine Humanities Mathematics Programming Science Social Sciences Trending Courses View all trending Computer Science Online CS50's Introduction to Artificial Intelligence with Python Learn to use machine learning in Python in this introductory course on artificial intelligence. Free* 7 weeks long Available now Data Science Online Data Science: Linear Regression Learn how to use R to implement linear regression, one of the most common statistical modeling approaches in data science. Free* 8 weeks long Available now Humanities Online Shakespeare’s Hamlet: The Ghost An exploration of the haunting figure at the heart of one of William Shakespeare’s most famous plays. Free* Available now Featured topics Entrepreneurship Self-Improvement Data Science Professional Development Data Visualization Strategic Management Leadership Data Analysis Business Analysis Career Development Workplace Culture Healthcare Management R Get updates on new courses. Email address Subscribe Recently Added View all recently added Health & Medicine In-Person, Online Live Global Health Care Leaders Program The Global Health Care Leaders Program (GHLP) is a multi-modular global program that aims to bring together the most important... $30,000 Register by Aug 31 Business Online Health Care Strategy Combine the best business strategies with the fundamentals of the health care sector. $1,600 5 weeks long Register by Jun 27 Business Online Webinar: Strategic Fundraising for Nonprofit Leaders Harvard Kennedy School and Harvard Business School's Arthur Brooks discusses fundraising and development in a recorded webinar. Free* Available now Starting Soon View all starting soon Business Online Live Women in Leadership: Online Program for Emerging Leaders Become a strategic leader by developing your key strengths and attributes. This online program invites emerging women... $2,150 1 month long Starts Jun 2 Health & Medicine Online Live Clinical Approach to Vascular Ultrasound and Registered Physician in Vascular Interpretation (RPVI) Prep Course This course is designed to develop a strong foundation in both performance and interpretation of vascular ultrasound. $450 - $550 Starts Jun 3 Health & Medicine Online Live Advanced Teaching Skills This innovative course is aimed at medical teachers who wish to learn new techniques to improve learners' engagement and... $75 - $550 Starts Jun 3 6,000,000+ learners 2160 courses 193 countries Harvard Business School Harvard Divinity School Harvard Extension School Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Harvard Kennedy School Harvard Law School Harvard Faculty of Arts & Sciences Harvard School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Harvard Graduate School of Design Harvard Graduate School of Education Harvard Medical School Harvard Summer School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Professional Development Programs Keep learning. View all courses Top Donate Accessibility Privacy Policy Terms of Use EEA Privacy Disclosures The header image is "Harvard Gates, Fall #2" by Tim Sackton, used under CC BY-SA 2.0 / Changes in tone have been made to the original image. Harvard University Twitter Facebook Linked In