Skip to main content View all courses Art & Design Business Computer Science Data Science Education & Teaching Health & Medicine Humanities Mathematics Programming Science Social Sciences Harvard Online Courses Professional and Lifelong Learning In-person, blended, and online courses All Courses Online Courses Free Courses PredictionX: Omens, Oracles & Prophecies An overview of divination systems, ranging from ancient Chinese bone burning to modern astrology. Learn Moreon Open January 29, 2020 – December 31, 2030 Free* Online Duration 1 week long Time commitment 3 - 5 hours per week Pace Self-paced Subject Humanities Course language English Video Transcript English Difficulty Introductory Credit Audit for Free Add a Verified Certificate for $69 Platform edX Topic(s) History Religion Sociology Associated Schools Harvard Faculty of Arts & Sciences What you'll learn A variety of methods from across cultures and history for divining the future A common framework that describes human attempts to predict the future Learn Moreon Course description Humans have always sought to know their own future, be it the destiny of an empire or an individual's fate. Across cultures and history, we find people trying to find their place in the Universe by attempting to gaze into the future. Join us for this one-week, immersive learning experience as we explore “pre-scientific” prediction systems ranging from ancient Chinese bone burning to the Oracle of Delphi to modern astrology and tarot, with practitioners and Harvard faculty leading the journey. We will examine the details of over a dozen prediction systems as well as theoretical frameworks connecting them. This module is a part of PredictionX, which examines our efforts to predict the future over all of recorded history. PredictionX courses will cover topics from omens and oracles in ancient civilizations, which this course discusses, to the evolution of the general approach to science most take today as well as modern computer simulations and the role they play in predicting our futures today. Learn Moreon Instructor Alyssa Goodman Robert Wheeler Willson Professor of Applied Astronomy; Founding Director, Initiative in Innovative Computing, Harvard University Enroll now.Learn Moreon You may also like Social Sciences Online Public Leadership Credential Developed by Harvard Kennedy School faculty, this professional credential program equips you with the skills necessary to advance... $995+ Available now Health & Medicine Online PredictionX: John Snow and the Cholera Epidemic of 1854 An in-depth look at the 1854 London cholera epidemic in Soho and its importance for the field of epidemiology. Free* 1 week long Available now Computer Science Online CS50 for Lawyers This course is a variant of Harvard University's introduction to computer science, CS50, designed especially for lawyers (and law... Free* 10 weeks long Available now Get updates on new courses. Email address Subscribe Top Donate Accessibility Privacy Policy Terms of Use EEA Privacy Disclosures Harvard University Twitter Facebook Linked In