Skip to main content View all courses Art & Design Business Computer Science Data Science Education & Teaching Health & Medicine Humanities Mathematics Programming Science Social Sciences Harvard Online Courses Professional and Lifelong Learning In-person, blended, and online courses All Courses Online Courses Free Courses CS50's Introduction to Artificial Intelligence with Python Learn to use machine learning in Python in this introductory course on artificial intelligence. Learn Moreon April 1, 2020 – December 31, 2022 Free* Online Duration 7 weeks long Time commitment 10 - 30 hours per week Pace Self-paced Subject Computer Science Course language English Video Transcript English Difficulty Introductory Credit Audit for Free Add a Verified Certificate for $199 Platform edX Topic(s) Computer Science Data Algorithms Artificial Intelligence Deep Learning Machine Learning Neural Networks Algorithms Programming Python Associated Schools Harvard School of Engineering and Applied Sciences What you'll learn Graph search algorithms Reinforcement learning Machine learning Artificial intelligence principles How to design intelligent systems How to use AI in Python programs Learn Moreon Course description AI is transforming how we live, work, and play. By enabling new technologies like self-driving cars and recommendation systems or improving old ones like medical diagnostics and search engines, the demand for expertise in AI and machine learning is growing rapidly. This course will enable you to take the first step toward solving important real-world problems and future-proofing your career. CS50’s Introduction to Artificial Intelligence with Python explores the concepts and algorithms at the foundation of modern artificial intelligence, diving into the ideas that give rise to technologies like game-playing engines, handwriting recognition, and machine translation. Through hands-on projects, students gain exposure to the theory behind graph search algorithms, classification, optimization, reinforcement learning, and other topics in artificial intelligence and machine learning as they incorporate them into their own Python programs. By course’s end, students emerge with experience in libraries for machine learning as well as knowledge of artificial intelligence principles that enable them to design intelligent systems of their own. Enroll now to gain expertise in one of the fastest-growing domains of computer science from the creators of one of the most popular computer science courses ever, CS50. You’ll learn the theoretical frameworks that enable these new technologies while gaining practical experience in how to apply these powerful techniques in your work. Learn Moreon Instructor David J. Malan Gordon McKay Professor of the Practice of Computer Science, Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Enroll now.Learn Moreon You may also like Programming Online CS50's Introduction to Game Development Learn about the development of 2D and 3D interactive games in this hands-on course, as you explore the design of games such as... Free* 12 weeks long Available now Programming Online CS50: Introduction to Computer Science An introduction to the intellectual enterprises of computer science and the art of programming. Free* 11 weeks long Available now Computer Science Online CS50 for Lawyers This course is a variant of Harvard University's introduction to computer science, CS50, designed especially for lawyers (and law... Free* 10 weeks long Available now Get updates on new courses. Email address Subscribe Top Donate Accessibility Privacy Policy Terms of Use EEA Privacy Disclosures Harvard University Twitter Facebook Linked In