Skip to main content View all courses Art & Design Business Computer Science Data Science Education & Teaching Health & Medicine Humanities Mathematics Programming Science Social Sciences Harvard Online Courses Professional and Lifelong Learning In-person, blended, and online courses All Courses Online Courses Free Courses Religion, Conflict and Peace Explore the diverse and complex roles that religions play in both promoting and mitigating violence. Learn Moreon Open September 21, 2020 – October 6, 2022 Free* Online Duration 8 weeks long Time commitment 4 - 8 hours per week Pace Self-paced Subject Humanities Course language English Video Transcript English Difficulty Introductory Credit Audit for Free Add a Verified Certificate for $99 Platform edX Topic(s) Culture Religion Theology Associated Schools Harvard Divinity School What you'll learn Tools for how to interpret the roles religions play in contemporary conflicts How religions are internally diverse How religions evolve and change How religions are embedded in all human cultures Learn Moreon Course description In this course, we will explore a series of contemporary conflicts in different regions of the world with a special focus on identifying and analyzing the diverse and complex roles that religions play in both promoting and mitigating violence in each context. Students will learn a method for recognizing and analyzing how religious ideologies are embedded in all arenas of human agency and not isolated from political, economic, and cultural life as is often assumed. In addition to examining the conflicts themselves, we will also explore the religious dimensions of the impacts those conflicts have on civic life in areas such as public health, education, and commerce by addressing a series of questions. What roles do religions play in fostering violence and what roles do they play in promoting peace? How do religious institutions and ideologies function to support and/or thwart public health initiatives? What are the ideological justifications for functional economic policies and how do they reflect and/or challenge diverse religious values? What roles do religions play in advancing or suppressing educational opportunities and for whom? Are media representations of the religious dimensions of conflict accurate? Possible countries of focus include Brazil, Egypt, France, Israel/Palestine, Myanmar, Nigeria, Qatar, the Philippines, Somalia, Syria, Turkey, and the United States. Final projects will be individually shaped based on interest and (where relevant) professional focus. The course is open to all and especially relevant for aspiring or professional educators, journalists, public health workers, foreign service officers and government officials who wish to better understand how religions function in contemporary world affairs. This course follows the popular World Religions Through Their Scriptures series, which explores the foundations of Buddhism, Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, and Judaism. Learn Moreon Instructor Diane L. Moore Senior Lecturer and the Director of the Religious Literacy Project, Harvard University Enroll now.Learn Moreon You may also like Health & Medicine Online PredictionX: John Snow and the Cholera Epidemic of 1854 An in-depth look at the 1854 London cholera epidemic in Soho and its importance for the field of epidemiology. Free* 1 week long Available now Humanities Online PredictionX: Omens, Oracles & Prophecies An overview of divination systems, ranging from ancient Chinese bone burning to modern astrology. Free* 1 week long Available now Health & Medicine Online The Health Effects of Climate Change Learn how global warming impacts human health, and the ways we can diminish those impacts. Free* 7 weeks long Available now Get updates on new courses. Email address Subscribe Top Donate Accessibility Privacy Policy Terms of Use EEA Privacy Disclosures Harvard University Twitter Facebook Linked In