Skip to main content View all courses Art & Design Business Computer Science Data Science Education & Teaching Health & Medicine Humanities Mathematics Programming Science Social Sciences Harvard Online Courses Professional and Lifelong Learning In-person, blended, and online courses All Courses Online Courses Free Courses Quantitative Methods for Biology Learn introductory programming and data analysis in MATLAB, with applications to biology and medicine. Learn Moreon December 17, 2020 – December 7, 2022 Free* Online Duration 10 weeks long Time commitment 3 - 5 hours per week Pace Self-paced Subject Computer Science Course language English Video Transcript English Difficulty Introductory Credit Audit for Free Add a Verified Certificate for $99 Platform edX Topic(s) Computer Science Data Analysis Medicine Programming Biology Associated Schools Harvard Medical School What you'll learn The basics of MATLAB How to troubleshoot your code Basic biological and medical applications Learn Moreon Course description Are you a biologist, health worker, or medical student who needs to learn how to program? Are you a programmer who wants a better understanding of the medical field? Are you looking for an introduction to MATLAB? For beginners, Quantitative Methods for Biology takes a unique approach, giving you an inside glimpse of a course and its learners. You'll study alongside students who are also learning to code. For expert programmers, this course has a will help you learn the MATLAB you need without getting slowed down by introductory concepts that you already know. Whether you're already comfortable with Python, Javascript, r, or some other language, we'll help you translate that knowledge to MATLAB. All learners will be able to access a copy of MATLAB that they can use during the run of the course, free of charge. There will also be opportunities to put code directly into assignments so that you can test your skills and work on authentic projects. In addition, this course uses an adaptive approach to its assignments. The more skilled you are, the fewer problems you'll need to complete in order to finish the course. If you're having difficulty, we'll make sure that you get the practice you need in order to succeed. Learn Moreon Instructor Michael Springer Associate Professor of Systems Biology, Harvard Medical School Enroll now.Learn Moreon You may also like Programming Online CS50's Introduction to Game Development Learn about the development of 2D and 3D interactive games in this hands-on course, as you explore the design of games such as... Free* 12 weeks long Available now Health & Medicine Online PredictionX: John Snow and the Cholera Epidemic of 1854 An in-depth look at the 1854 London cholera epidemic in Soho and its importance for the field of epidemiology. Free* 1 week long Available now Programming Online CS50: Introduction to Computer Science An introduction to the intellectual enterprises of computer science and the art of programming. Free* 11 weeks long Available now Get updates on new courses. Email address Subscribe Top Donate Accessibility Privacy Policy Terms of Use EEA Privacy Disclosures Harvard University Twitter Facebook Linked In