Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown University Program in Liberal Medical Education Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Information for Prospective Students Education Degree Options PLME Courses Pre-Clerkship Electives Research Summer Travel/Study Abroad Fellowships People Student Stories PLME Senate Programs Diversity Admission/Aid Requirements Application Process Eligibility Deadlines Financial Aid FAQ Student Resources Forms and Publications AMCAS International Programs Enrichment Activities Search Program in Liberal Medical Education Program in Liberal Medical Education An innovative program that combines undergraduate education and professional studies in medicine in a single eight-year program. Program in Liberal Medical Education An innovative program that combines undergraduate education and professional studies in medicine in a single eight-year program. Quick Links About The PLME program encourages students to take advantage of the breadth of a liberal arts education, to take charge of their education, and to become active learners. Visit Page Open details for About Admission & Aid Learn more about the application process and what options are available should you decide to apply to our program. Visit Page Open details for Admission &amp; Aid PLME Senate Programs The PLME Undergraduate Senate is the official representative body of PLME undergraduate students. Visit Page Open details for PLME Senate Programs What is PLME? The Program in Liberal Medical Education (PLME) is an eight-year continuum that allows students to combine both their undergraduate and medical school education at Brown. The PLME is the only combined baccalaureate-MD program in the Ivy League, and a major route of admission to The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. Information for Prospective Students PLME is the only combined baccalaureate-MD program in the Ivy League. Learn more about this unique program and find out if it's the right fit for you. Visit Page Open details for Information for Prospective Students Student Resources A handy guide of links, documents, and information for current PLME students. Visit Page Open details for Student Resources Student Stories Learn more about the students who have chosen the PLME path and their experiences along the way. Student Stories Program Information Degree Options As undergraduates, PLME students may choose to work toward an AB or ScB degree in the sciences, or toward an AB in the humanities, social sciences, or behavioral sciences. Eligibility PLME applicants are encouraged to take advantage of honors or advanced placement offerings available to them in high school. Financial Aid Brown University has implemented a need-blind admission policy for all U.S. citizens and permanent residents. Frequently Asked Questions Got questions? We're here to help. Answers to some of the most common queries can be found here. Visit Page Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Information for Prospective Students Education Degree Options PLME Courses Pre-Clerkship Electives Research Summer Travel/Study Abroad Fellowships People Student Stories PLME Senate Programs Diversity Admission/Aid Requirements Application Process Eligibility Deadlines Financial Aid FAQ Student Resources Forms and Publications AMCAS International Programs Enrichment Activities This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Program in Liberal Medical Education Open details for Program in Liberal Medical Education Bookmark this Page