Princeton Neuroscience Institute PNI Where Brain Science Lives. Search form Research PNI Facilities PNI Publications PNI Software Tools Programs and Projects People Faculty Research Summaries Faculty Fellows & Research Specialists Graduate Students Administrative Staff Full Directory Centers Bezos Center for Neural Circuit Dynamics The Regina and John Scully '66 Center for the Neuroscience of Mind and Behavior The McDonnell Center for Systems Neuroscience Education Graduate Program Undergraduate Concentration Undergraduate Certificate Undergrad Research Awards Princeton Neuroscience Network Summer Programs Summer Program Resources QCN Program Opportunities Faculty Postdocs CV Starr Fellow Administrative Staff News|Events News Events PNI Seminar Series Videos Climate and Inclusion Policy on Professional Conduct Diversity Statement Reporting a Concern Contact the Committee brainWAVES Empowering diversity and Promoting Scientific equity at PNI Diversity and Outreach About About PNI Contact PNI Visitor Information Apply to our PhD Program WELCOME Understanding behavior at all levels of function, from systems to cells, is one of the great challenges of modern biology. At Princeton University, faculty with research interests in neuroscience can be found in many departments, including Applied Math, Chemistry, Computer Science, Engineering, Molecular Biology, Physics, Philosophy and Psychology. This diversity mirrors the interdisciplinary nature of contemporary neuroscience research and provides a rich set of opportunities for research and training in neuroscience. This web site provides information about the shared and individual interests of neuroscience faculty at Princeton, the opportunities available for training at the graduate and undergraduate levels, and neuroscience-related activities on campus. PNI Centers Bezos Center for Neural Circuit Dynamics McDonnell Center for Systems Neuroscience Scully Center for the Neuroscience of Mind and Behavior Upcoming Events Public events and seminars have been temporarily postponed due to COVID-19. Please check back soon for updates. Past events can be viewed in the events archive. University updates, guidance and policies related to COVID-19 can be found here. Latest News Tracking Animals in Motion: SLEAP Article Published in Nature Methods A timely collaboration between several laboratories across the Princeton community, including the Murthy Lab in the Princeton Neuroscience Institute and the Shaevitz Lab in the ... Read more Gating through the richness of neural dynamics A central problem in neuroscience is developing network models that mimic brain function in its full complexity, providing a bridge to both experimental neuroscience where one c... Read more Two Lecturer Positions Open at PNI PNI is looking to fill two Lecturer positions for Fall 2022. One position will be to teach upper level laboratory courses in computational and human cognitive neuroscience. The ... Read more Catherine Jensen Peña receives the Frank A Beach Early Career Award In December 2021, the Society of Behavioral Endocrinology announced that Cate Peña had been awarded the pr... Read more PNI Researchers Featured in New Yorker Article PNI faculty members Ken Norman and Uri Hasson were featured in a recent New Yorker article entitled " Read more PNI Postdoc Christos Suriano awarded NIH-Funded NJ ACTS Fellowship Christos Suriano, a postdoctoral researcher in the Princeton Neuroscience Institute (PNI), was awarded a prestigious TL1 fellowship fr... Read more Former CV Starr Fellow Amitai Shenhav wins two prestigious awards Amitai Shenhav, an Assistant Professor in the Department of Cognitive, Linguistic, & Psychological Sciences at Brown University, ha... Read more Two Princeton Neuroscience Institute Postdoctoral fellows win prestigious Simons Foundation fellowships Princeton Neuroscience Institute is continuing to prove that it harbors a nurturing environment for the academic careers of its postdoctoral fellows on their route to independen... Read more Two Assistant Professor Positions Open at PNI The Princeton Neuroscience Institute at Princeton University invites applications at the Assistant Professor level (tenure track), in two areas: i) theoretical neuroscie... Read more The manifold mind: A pair of papers from PNI used advanced mathematical tools to tease out simplicity from complex neural responses Imagine you’re following directions to drive to a friend’s house: At the 3rd traffic light, take a right. To do this, you must keep in mind two pieces of information: your o... Read more Wiring Diagram of the Brain by Seung Lab Includes 200,000 Cells and 500 Million Synapses MICrONS, short for Machine Intelligence from Cortical Networks, is a cross-institutional project that has generated a publicly available dataset encompassing the morphology of o... Read more Annegret Falkner awarded the Klingenstein-Simons Fellowship in Neuroscience Dr. Annegret Falkner, an assistant professor at the Princeton Neuroscience Institute, has just been awarded the prestigious Klingenstein-Simons Fellowship in Neuroscience. The K... Read more New research from the Cohen lab sheds light on our capacity for multitasking Why can humans sometimes effortlessly perform multiple tasks simultaneously and sometimes not? For example, when sharing a meal with a friend you can eat, talk, listen, and even... Read more Neuroscience Research Awards Each year the Princeton Neuroscience Institute awards rising seniors funding to complete their senior thesis projects. The Institute has received several generous donations to f... Read more Sebastian Musslick is named 2021 Schmidt Science Fellow On June 3rd, 2021, Schmidt Futures and the Rhodes Trust named Sebastian Musslick to its 2021 cohort of Schmidt Science Fellows. Sebastian, a... Read more JavaScript is disabled! This Website REQUIRES JavaScript to function. Please enable JavaScript in your browser´s settings or choose another browser. Princeton Neuroscience Institute © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Directory Sitemap Contact Us PNI Intranet (Internal) Follow PNI on Twitter