Skip to main content Search Temple.edu Patients Alumni Students Faculty & Staff School of Podiatric Medicine Admissions Why TUSPM Requirements Apply Accelerated Program Internship Programs Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Visit Academics Degrees Curriculum and Residencies Summer Academic Reinforcement Program Departments Faculty Directory Calendar CME and Training CME Seminars Online CME Courses Research Gait Study Center Current Studies Charles E. Krausz Library Services Clinician Bio Temple Charcot Center Ambulatory Surgical Center Diabetic Center of Excellence Wound Care Center Physical Therapy Giving Where to Give How to Give Donors Learn More About History Accreditation News Directions Shoe Museum Contact ≡ Menu Admissions Why TUSPM Requirements Apply Accelerated Program Internship Programs Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Visit Academics Degrees Curriculum and Residencies Summer Academic Reinforcement Program Departments Faculty Directory Calendar CME and Training CME Seminars Online CME Courses Research Gait Study Center Current Studies Charles E. Krausz Library Services Clinician Bio Temple Charcot Center Ambulatory Surgical Center Diabetic Center of Excellence Wound Care Center Physical Therapy Giving Where to Give How to Give Donors Learn More About History Accreditation News Directions Shoe Museum Contact Home / About / Directions Directions Main building: The entrance to the Temple University School of Podiatric Medicine is located on 8th Street (one way, south), between Race (one way, east) and Cherry Streets (two ways, east/west). Foot and Ankle Institute: The main entrance to the Foot and Ankle Institute is located off the public parking lot which is accessible from Cherry Street. GPS or maps address: 148 N. 8th Street Philadelphia, PA 19107 215-238-6600 (main phone number) TUSPM map Car Main arterials to TUSPM include I-95 to I-676 (8th Street exit eastbound and Callowhill exit westbound) and I-76 to I-676. Public Transportation Bus The closest SEPTA bus stops are on 8th Street (every corner) and Arch Street at 8th Street (one block south of campus). Visit SEPTA for more information on schedules, routes and rates. Train The closest SEPTA regional rail line station is located at Market East (10th and Market), five blocks from campus. If traveling by Amtrak, a transfer must be made at 30th Street Station to the Market East Station. Visit SEPTA for more information on schedules, routes and rates. Subway There are two subway stations within two blocks of campus. Market-Frankford line: the 10th Street stop Broad Street line: the Chinatown stop at 8th and Race on the spur (closest to campus, although service is more limited) Visit SEPTA for more information on schedules, routes and rates. Plane The closest airport is Philadelphia International, located approximately 20 minutes from campus via I-95. History Accreditation News Directions Shoe Museum Contact TEMPLE UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF PODIATRIC MEDICINE 148 N. 8th Street Philadelphia, PA 19107 Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact TUSPM Accreditation Departments: Biomedical Science Community Health and Aging Podiatric Medicine Podiatric Surgery TUportal TUmail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers At Temple Copyright 2013, Temple University. All rights reserved.