Skip to Main Content Brown University University Policies Search Menu Site Navigation Home All Policies New & Updated Policies Search University Policies All Policies Policy Contact Joel Revill Senior Associate Dean of the Faculty and Associate Provost for Special Projects Email 401-863-9642 Employment and Education Verification of Finalists for Faculty Positions Policy and Reference Check Pilot Program Policy No. Issue Date Effective Date 02.10.01 April 6, 2020 April 6, 2020 1.0 Policy Purpose The purpose of this policy is to document how Brown conducts employment and education verification on final candidates for appointments to the Faculty. It also establishes a limited reference check pilot program for Associate and Full Professor appointments. 2.0 To Whom the Policy Applies This policy applies to Faculty. 3.0 Policy Statement Brown University is committed to creating and maintaining a community dedicated to the advancement, application, and transmission of knowledge and creative endeavors through academic excellence, where all individuals who participate in University programs and activities meet the highest standards of integrity, and can work and learn together in a safe and secure environment, free of violence, harassment, discrimination, exploitation, or intimidation. To support this commitment, Brown conducts employment and education verification on final candidates for appointments to the Faculty as described below. The current Faculty hiring process solicits information regarding candidates’ qualifications through outside letters. The reference check pilot program supplements that process and will enable Brown to obtain and review information about Associate Professor and Full Professor candidates’ conduct in their previous appointments that may be important to the appointment decision. 3.1 Requirements of Candidates– all Faculty Candidates will certify that they have had no discipline for any misconduct at previous institutions, and that all information provided (written or verbal) in their application is truthful, complete, and accurate. 3.2 Requirements of Candidates – Pilot Program for Faculty Positions of Associate Professor and Full Professor In making an application for an Associate Professor or Professor appointment, all candidates must complete and sign, the form entitled “Authorization to Release Information,” authorizing the University to investigate pertinent information about the candidate before a final appointment decision is made, and authorizing previous institutions to release information requested by the University concerning any misconduct related to teaching, research and service (and clinical care if applicable). 3.3 Reference Check – Pilot Program for Faculty Positions of Associate Professor and Full Professor The University will conduct a reference check for any external candidate to whom an offer of appointment to Associate Professor or Professor is made. The University will contact a dean or higher academic officer at the candidate’s current and previous employer(s) in the past five years before an offer is considered final. The University will seek to obtain job-related information from prior/current employers regarding the performance and abilities of candidates for Faculty positions. As part of the reference check the University will inquire of prior institutions whether there have been any disciplinary findings or pending investigations involving the candidate’s professional record in teaching, research, and service (and clinical care, if applicable), including but not limited to plagiarism, research misconduct, sexual harassment or misconduct, and harassment due to race, national origin, sexual orientation, gender, or other protected categories. Should an institution provide information on a finding of misconduct or a pending investigation, the University will inform the candidate and allow them to provide information, both verbal and written, in response. The University will conduct an individualized assessment of any information received including the nature and severity of the conduct, the length of time passed, any corrective action taken, any current risk to the Brown community, and any explanation offered by the finalist. After reviewing the information received, the University will determine whether the candidate is still eligible to be considered for the position and suitable for hire. 3.4 Employment Verification of all Faculty The University will verify that the finalist worked in the positions cited or listed in the finalist’s application, resume, or curriculum vitae. 3.5 Education Verification of all Faculty The University will verify that the finalist possesses the relevant educational credentials cited or listed in the finalist’s application, resume, or curriculum vitae. 3.6 Confidentiality All information obtained from the reference checks and employment and education verifications shall be kept confidential on a need to know basis at the Dean’s level and above. 4.0 Definitions For the purpose of this policy, the term below has the following definition: Faculty: Unless otherwise specified, the term means Full Professors, Associate Professors, Assistant Professors, Lecturers, and Instructors, including (research) faculty, (of the practice) faculty, visiting faculty, and adjunct faculty, but excludes clinical faculty not employed by Brown. 5.0 Responsibilities All individuals to whom this policy applies are responsible for becoming familiar with and following this policy. University supervisors are responsible for promoting the understanding of this policy and for taking appropriate steps to help ensure compliance with it. 6.0 Consequences for Violating this Policy Failure to comply with this and related policies is subject to disciplinary action, up to and including suspension without pay, or termination of employment or association with the University, in accordance with applicable (e.g., staff, Faculty) disciplinary procedures. Falsification of credentials constitutes gross misconduct and is grounds for immediate termination or revocation of an offer of employment. 7.0 Related Information Brown University is a community in which employees are encouraged to share workplace concerns with University leadership. Additionally, Brown’s Anonymous Reporting Hotline allows anonymous and confidential reporting on matters of concern online or by phone (877-318-9184). The following information complements and supplements this document. The information is intended to help explain this policy and is not an all-inclusive list of policies, procedures, laws, and requirements. 7.1 Related Policies N/A 7.2 Related Procedures N/A 7.3 Related Forms Authorization to Release Information Form 7.4 Frequently Asked Questions N/A 7.5 Other Related Information N/A Policy Owner and Contact(s) Policy Owner: Dean of the Faculty Policy Approved by: President Contact Information: Joel Revill Senior Associate Dean of the Faculty and Associate Provost for Special Projects Email 401-863-9642 Policy History Policy Issue Date: April 6, 2020 Policy Effective Date: April 6, 2020 Policy Update/Review Summary: N/A Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home All Policies New & Updated Policies This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Employment and Education Verification of Finalists for Faculty Positions Policy and Reference Check Pilot Program Open details for Employment and Education Verification of Finalists for Faculty Positions Policy and Reference Check Pilot Program Bookmark this Page