Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campus Map | Directions | Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Degree Search Browse by school Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today Policy Library Search form Search this site Search for -Any-Policy DocumentPolicy Document - PDF/DOC Responsible Office -Any- Academic Achievement & Access Center Academic Success ADA Resource Center for Equity and Accessibility Admissions Alumni Association Biodiversity Institute Bursar Business & Financial Planning Campus Operations Center for Faculty Development Center for Undergraduate Research College of Liberal Arts & Sciences Comptroller Continuing Education Counseling & Psychological Services Diversity & Equity Edwards Campus Enrollment Management Environment, Health & Safety Event Management & Protocol Facilities Planning and Development Faculty Code for the Lawrence Campus Finance Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Services Global Operations and Security Governance Graduate Studies Hilltop Child Development Center Human Resource Management Information Technology Internal Audit International Affairs International Programs Kansas Board of Regents KU Card Center KU Memorial Unions KU Recreation Services KUMC Equal Opportunity Office KUMC Facilities Management KUMC Faculty Affairs KUMC Human Research Protection Program KUMC Human Resources KUMC Information Resources KUMC Information Security KUMC Institutional Finance KUMC Office of Academic Affairs KUMC Office of Academic Affairs and Graduate Studies KUMC Office of Compliance KUMC Office of the Executive Vice Chancellor KUMC Office of the Registrar/Admissions KUMC Office of the Vice Chancellor for Administration KUMC Office of the Vice Chancellor for Research KUMC Postdoctoral Affairs and Graduate Studies KUMC Public Safety and Emergency Management KUMC Research Institute KUMC School of Health Professions KUMC Student Financial Aid KUMC Student Health Services KUMC Student Services Legal Services for Students Libraries Lifelong & Professional Education Moderation History Not Specified Office of Civil Rights and Title IX Office of First-Year Experience Office of Global Operations Office of Multicultural Affairs Office of Provost and Executive Vice Chancellor Office of Research Office of the Chancellor Office of the General Counsel Payroll Policy Office Policy Office-retired Procurement Public Affairs Public Safety Registrar School of Architecture and Design School of Business School of Education and Human Sciences School of Engineering School of Journalism School of Law School of Music School of Pharmacy School of Social Welfare Spencer Museum of Art State of Kansas Student Affairs Student Housing Student Information Systems Student Involvement & Leadership Center Student Senate Test Office Transportation Services Unclassified Senate Undergraduate Advising Center University Archive University Career Center University Faculty Evaluation Policies - Lawrence Campus Watkins Health Services Policy Category -Any- Academic Categories- Promotion & Tenure- Service Learning- Misconduct- Learning Communities- Intellectual Property- International- Study Abroad- Technology- Textbooks- Instruction- Holidays & Religious Holidays- Assistance with Disabilities- Assistance with Schoolwork- Advising- Admission to KU- Academic Programs- Academic Work & Evaluations- Conflict of Interest- Continuing Education- Graduation & Degrees- Grievance & Appeals- Governance- Examinations- Distance Education- Enrollment Financial Categories- Donations- Equipment & Inventory- Cash Management & Investments- Budgeting- Accounting- Financial Oversight- Disbursements- Payroll- Tuition & Fees- Student Financial Aid- Travel- Purchasing Information Access & Technology Categories- Information Access- Privacy & Security- Information Technology Operational Categories- Facilities- Legislative Affairs- Outreach & Solicitation- Environment- Emergencies- Communications- Health & Safety- Donations Personnel- Administrators Categories-- Leaves & Holidays-- Performance-- Hiring-- Grievance & Appeals-- Departure-- Promotion & Tenure-- Recognition-- Workplace Rules & Guidelines-- Recruitment-- Conflicts of Interest-- Compensation-- Childcare-- Benefits- Affiliates/Volunteers Categories-- Childcare-- Benefits-- Compensation-- Conflicts of Interest-- Leaves & Holidays-- Hiring-- Grievance & Appeals-- Departure-- Performance-- Promotion & Tenure-- Workplace Rules & Guidelines-- Recruitment-- Recognition- Faculty/Academic Staff Categories-- Hiring-- Leaves & Holidays-- Grievance & Appeals-- Departure-- Conflicts of Interest-- Performance-- Promotion & Tenure-- Workplace Rules & Guidelines-- Recruitment-- Recognition-- Compensation-- Childcare-- Benefits- Staff Categories-- Benefits-- Childcare-- Compensation-- Conflicts of Interest-- Departure-- Grievance & Appeals-- Hiring-- Leaves & Holidays-- Performance-- Promotion & Tenure-- Recognition-- Recruitment-- Workplace Rules & Guidelines- Student Employees Categories-- Workplace Rules & Guidelines-- Promotion & Tenure-- Recognition-- Recruitment-- Performance-- Leaves & Holidays-- Benefits-- Departure-- Grievance & Appeals-- Hiring-- Conflicts of Interest-- Compensation-- Childcare Research Category- Research Student Life Categories- Assistance with Disabilities- Childcare- Events, Protests & Organizations- Facilities Use & Scheduling- Financial Assistance- Finding a Job- Health & Wellness- Housing- Learning about the University- Legal Assistance- Misconduct- Multicultural & Minority Resources- Recreation School/College Policy Categories- Promotion & Tenure- Additional Policies- Code of Conduct/By-Laws- Grievance & Appeals Home Alphabetically By Category Academic Financial Information Access & Technology Operational Personnel Administrators Affiliates/Volunteers Faculty/Academic Staff Staff Student Employees Research and Sponsored Projects School/College Student Life By Location All University KU Medical Center By School/College By Office Resources Contributor Resources & Templates Getting Started Training Guide Style Guide Frequently Asked Questions Add New Policy Document Upload Policy-Related PDF or Word Document Edit Existing Policy Document Policy Library Template Adding Anchors & Linking Within Policy Documents Policy Library Categories & Subcategories Assigning URLs to New Policy Library Documents Add/Update Policies Policy Development Process Policy Office Menu Home Alphabetically By Category Academic Financial Information Access & Technology Operational Personnel Administrators Affiliates/Volunteers Faculty/Academic Staff Staff Student Employees Research and Sponsored Projects School/College Student Life By Location All University KU Medical Center By School/College By Office Resources Contributor Resources & Templates Getting Started Training Guide Style Guide Frequently Asked Questions Add New Policy Document Upload Policy-Related PDF or Word Document Edit Existing Policy Document Policy Library Template Adding Anchors & Linking Within Policy Documents Policy Library Categories & Subcategories Assigning URLs to New Policy Library Documents Add/Update Policies Policy Development Process Policy Office Search Search form Search this site Search for -Any-Policy DocumentPolicy Document - PDF/DOC Responsible Office -Any- Academic Achievement & Access Center Academic Success ADA Resource Center for Equity and Accessibility Admissions Alumni Association Biodiversity Institute Bursar Business & Financial Planning Campus Operations Center for Faculty Development Center for Undergraduate Research College of Liberal Arts & Sciences Comptroller Continuing Education Counseling & Psychological Services Diversity & Equity Edwards Campus Enrollment Management Environment, Health & Safety Event Management & Protocol Facilities Planning and Development Faculty Code for the Lawrence Campus Finance Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Services Global Operations and Security Governance Graduate Studies Hilltop Child Development Center Human Resource Management Information Technology Internal Audit International Affairs International Programs Kansas Board of Regents KU Card Center KU Memorial Unions KU Recreation Services KUMC Equal Opportunity Office KUMC Facilities Management KUMC Faculty Affairs KUMC Human Research Protection Program KUMC Human Resources KUMC Information Resources KUMC Information Security KUMC Institutional Finance KUMC Office of Academic Affairs KUMC Office of Academic Affairs and Graduate Studies KUMC Office of Compliance KUMC Office of the Executive Vice Chancellor KUMC Office of the Registrar/Admissions KUMC Office of the Vice Chancellor for Administration KUMC Office of the Vice Chancellor for Research KUMC Postdoctoral Affairs and Graduate Studies KUMC Public Safety and Emergency Management KUMC Research Institute KUMC School of Health Professions KUMC Student Financial Aid KUMC Student Health Services KUMC Student Services Legal Services for Students Libraries Lifelong & Professional Education Moderation History Not Specified Office of Civil Rights and Title IX Office of First-Year Experience Office of Global Operations Office of Multicultural Affairs Office of Provost and Executive Vice Chancellor Office of Research Office of the Chancellor Office of the General Counsel Payroll Policy Office Policy Office-retired Procurement Public Affairs Public Safety Registrar School of Architecture and Design School of Business School of Education and Human Sciences School of Engineering School of Journalism School of Law School of Music School of Pharmacy School of Social Welfare Spencer Museum of Art State of Kansas Student Affairs Student Housing Student Information Systems Student Involvement & Leadership Center Student Senate Test Office Transportation Services Unclassified Senate Undergraduate Advising Center University Archive University Career Center University Faculty Evaluation Policies - Lawrence Campus Watkins Health Services Policy Category -Any- Academic Categories- Promotion & Tenure- Service Learning- Misconduct- Learning Communities- Intellectual Property- International- Study Abroad- Technology- Textbooks- Instruction- Holidays & Religious Holidays- Assistance with Disabilities- Assistance with Schoolwork- Advising- Admission to KU- Academic Programs- Academic Work & Evaluations- Conflict of Interest- Continuing Education- Graduation & Degrees- Grievance & Appeals- Governance- Examinations- Distance Education- Enrollment Financial Categories- Donations- Equipment & Inventory- Cash Management & Investments- Budgeting- Accounting- Financial Oversight- Disbursements- Payroll- Tuition & Fees- Student Financial Aid- Travel- Purchasing Information Access & Technology Categories- Information Access- Privacy & Security- Information Technology Operational Categories- Facilities- Legislative Affairs- Outreach & Solicitation- Environment- Emergencies- Communications- Health & Safety- Donations Personnel- Administrators Categories-- Leaves & Holidays-- Performance-- Hiring-- Grievance & Appeals-- Departure-- Promotion & Tenure-- Recognition-- Workplace Rules & Guidelines-- Recruitment-- Conflicts of Interest-- Compensation-- Childcare-- Benefits- Affiliates/Volunteers Categories-- Childcare-- Benefits-- Compensation-- Conflicts of Interest-- Leaves & Holidays-- Hiring-- Grievance & Appeals-- Departure-- Performance-- Promotion & Tenure-- Workplace Rules & Guidelines-- Recruitment-- Recognition- Faculty/Academic Staff Categories-- Hiring-- Leaves & Holidays-- Grievance & Appeals-- Departure-- Conflicts of Interest-- Performance-- Promotion & Tenure-- Workplace Rules & Guidelines-- Recruitment-- Recognition-- Compensation-- Childcare-- Benefits- Staff Categories-- Benefits-- Childcare-- Compensation-- Conflicts of Interest-- Departure-- Grievance & Appeals-- Hiring-- Leaves & Holidays-- Performance-- Promotion & Tenure-- Recognition-- Recruitment-- Workplace Rules & Guidelines- Student Employees Categories-- Workplace Rules & Guidelines-- Promotion & Tenure-- Recognition-- Recruitment-- Performance-- Leaves & Holidays-- Benefits-- Departure-- Grievance & Appeals-- Hiring-- Conflicts of Interest-- Compensation-- Childcare Research Category- Research Student Life Categories- Assistance with Disabilities- Childcare- Events, Protests & Organizations- Facilities Use & Scheduling- Financial Assistance- Finding a Job- Health & Wellness- Housing- Learning about the University- Legal Assistance- Misconduct- Multicultural & Minority Resources- Recreation School/College Policy Categories- Promotion & Tenure- Additional Policies- Code of Conduct/By-Laws- Grievance & Appeals Home Bylaws Governing the Executive Council of Graduate Faculty Graduate Studies Policy Bylaws Governing the Executive Council of Graduate Faculty Policy Purpose: To establish the formal bylaws by which the Executive Council of Graduate Faculty conducts its business. Applies to: The Executive Council of Graduate Faculty Campus: Edwards Lawrence Table of Contents: Article 1: Membership in the Graduate Faculty Article 2: Executive Council of Graduate Faculty A. Activities B. Membership C. Removal of Members D. Meetings E. Administrative Support Article 3: Conduct of Business A. Voting Procedure B. Appointment of Committees C. Graduate Education Policy Development Procedure Article 4: Changes to the Bylaws Policy Statement: Article 1: Membership in the Graduate Faculty Membership requirements, nomination procedures, member privileges, and member responsibilities of the Graduate Faculty at the University of Kansas are established in university policy as maintained by the Office of Graduate Studies. (Please see the Graduate Faculty Appointments policy for details.) Article 2: Executive Council of Graduate Faculty A. Activities a. The Executive Council of Graduate Faculty (EC) acts in the name of the Graduate Faculty. b. The EC assists the Vice Provost for Graduate Studies (VPGS) in strategic leadership through bi-directional information exchange. Representatives act as a conduit for communication between their schools and the VPGS, facilitating discussions about potential strategic needs and initiatives. c. The EC serves as the university-level faculty governance body for graduate education, overseeing the following: i. Development of graduate education policy; ii. Development, adoption, and retirement of procedures, best practices, and systems supporting graduate education; iii. Review of nominations for membership in the Graduate Faculty; iv. Review of petitions for exception to graduate education policy; and v. Distribution of Graduate Studies funding awards. B. Membership a. Each representative member’s primary responsibility is to represent the interests of their school or college constituency. Members are expected to share developments, proposals, and information with their constituencies and to collect any feedback for the EC’s further consideration. i. Consistent attendance at meetings and participation in asynchronous EC business activities is necessary to ensure the full and equitable representation of all schools and the college. b. Representative members of the EC must be current members of the Graduate Faculty and must be full-time KU instructors, but not necessarily on the tenure track. i. Individuals who have had Graduate Faculty privileges revoked for cause may not serve as EC representatives. ii. Faculty who are in phased retirement or who have a terminal contract with less than three years of service remaining are not eligible to be representatives. c. The schools and college send representative members to the EC as follows: i. College of Liberal Arts and Sciences: 3 ii. School of Education and Human Sciences: 2 iii. All remaining schools (Architecture and Design, Business, Engineering, Journalism, Music, Pharmacy, Professional Studies, and Social Welfare): 1 each d. Each school or college has the authority to appoint or elect their representatives as they deem appropriate. However, any school or college with multiple representatives cannot select more than one representative from a single department or program. e. Representative members serve three-year terms. Each school and college may establish limits on the number of terms or the number of consecutive terms an individual member may serve, as appropriate to that school or college. f. Any member of the EC who cannot fulfill their term or who will be unable to attend for an extended time (sabbatical, leave of absence, resignation, etc.), will be replaced according to the normal appointment or election process in their home school or college. Replacement representatives will fulfill the remainder of the original term. g. The following leaders in the Office of Graduate Studies serve as non-voting, ex officio members. Ex officio members may request agenda items and enjoy the same speaking privileges as other members. i. Vice Provost for Graduate Studies (VPGS) ii. Assistant Vice Provost and Director of Graduate Enrollment Management iii. Assistant Vice Provost and Liaison to the College iv. Director of Graduate Affairs and Liaison to the Professional Schools C. Removal of Members a. Representative members may be removed for failure to fulfill their obligations to the EC. i. Behaviors and activities which may warrant removal include, but are not limited to the following: 1. Repeated absences, including but not limited to two consecutive absences without notice; 2. Removal or expiration of Graduate Faculty privileges; and 3. A formal finding of professional or academic misconduct. b. When warranted, the removal procedure shall be: i. In the case of repeated absence, the VPGS first contacts the representative to determine their willingness and appropriateness to continue on the EC. ii. If the VPGS determines that removal of the representative is most appropriate, the VPGS will notify the representative in writing not less than five (5) business days prior to the circulation of the agenda for the meeting at which removal will be discussed. 1. Upon receipt of such written notice, the representative has five (5) business days to accept or challenge the decision in writing. iii. The agenda for the next scheduled meeting will include both the VPGS’s motion to remove the representative, supported by evidence, as well as the representative’s written indication of acceptance or challenge. 1. If the representative challenges the VPGS’s motion, the EC’s final order of business at that meeting will be to vote to approve or deny the VPGS’s motion. a. The representative may present evidence and information during the discussion phase of the agenda item. b. The representative will recuse themselves during the vote. 2. The VPGS will personally inform the representative of the decision after the meeting, followed by a written notification to the representative and the dean of the affected school or college. c. Removed representatives will be replaced according to the normal appointment or election process in their home school or college. Replacement representatives will fulfill the remainder of the original term. D. Meetings a. The EC will meet regularly during the academic year and may be called upon to conduct occasional business during semester breaks. b. Meetings typically occur every three weeks, though the EC may meet more or less frequently as the business of the Graduate Faculty requires. c. During or prior to the final meeting for an academic year, the EC will set the dates of its meetings for the following year. E. Administrative Support a. The VPGS will designate appropriate staff support for the EC. b. Staff providing support are expected to attend all meetings in full. c. A staff member will take minutes and post them on the Graduate Studies website, according to established business practices and timelines. d. The VPGS will ensure that a meeting agenda is distributed to the representatives at least five (5) business days prior to the EC meeting date. EC members may raise new business during meetings. Article 3: Conduct of Business A. Voting Procedure a. Only representative members have voting rights. b. In the event of a tie, the VPGS will cast the deciding vote. c. Representative members must be in synchronous attendance to vote, though attendance may be in-person or remote as appropriate. Remote attendance should be by videoconference whenever possible. d. If a representative is unable to attend a meeting, they may send a proxy or visitor to participate in discussions and to represent the perspective of the school or college, but this person does not have voting rights. The absent representative may also send opinions to be read to the group and included in the minutes but may not vote ahead of time or via proxy. e. In line with Robert’s Rules of Order, eight (8) of the twelve (12) voting members shall constitute a quorum required to conduct official business on behalf of the Graduate Faculty. If this requirement is not met, the meeting will not be able to go forward and all business will be moved to the agenda of the next regularly scheduled meeting. i. In the event a matter must be decided between regularly-scheduled meetings, a minimum of five (5) concurring votes is required to approve a motion. B. Appointment of Committees a. The EC may delegate to a committee issues of importance to graduate education at KU. b. Establishment of Committees: i. The committee may be convened as a standing committee or an ad hoc committee, as the EC deems most appropriate. ii. Such a committee may be appointed either on the EC’s own initiative or upon the recommendation of the VPGS. iii. The EC may recommend the appointment of such a committee by the VPGS. c. Powers of Committees: i. Each committee may host discussions of matters relevant to the issue(s) delegated to their management or evaluation. ii. Each committee may request specific functions to be carried out by the Office of Graduate Studies’ staff support. d. Any established committees will provide a report or briefing to the full EC at least once every semester during which the committee conducts business. e. Committee Recommendations: i. Committees are expected to develop recommendations for resolving the issue(s) delegated to the committee. ii. The committee chair provides a written recommendation for Graduate Studies staff to include in an upcoming meeting agenda. iii. The committee’s recommendation moves forward to the full EC as a motion, subject to the voting procedure outlined above. f. The membership of the EC’s committees shall be announced on the Graduate Studies website. C. Graduate Education Policy Development Procedure a. Graduate Studies staff partners with key stakeholders and campus experts to develop initial proposals. b. The EC conducts a First Reading of the policy proposal, providing feedback for additional revision. c. Following the First Reading, the EC determines whether the policy is ready for a campus-wide review and comment period. d. Graduate Studies staff make recommended revisions and circulate the proposal for a standard two-week stakeholder review and comment period. Stakeholders are identified in all interested academic and non-academic units across campus, such as the Policy Office or the Office of the General Counsel, as appropriate. e. The EC conducts a Second Reading of the policy proposal, which incorporates any feedback, questions, or concerns that arose during stakeholder review. f. Following the Second Reading, the EC may vote to pursue further revisions or to endorse the policy for approval by the Provost. g. Graduate Studies staff submit the final draft proposal for the Provost’s review and final approval before publishing it in the Policy Library, in collaboration with the Policy Office. Article 4: Changes to the Bylaws A. A formal and comprehensive review of the Graduate Faculty Bylaws must be undertaken at least every five (5) years as part of the regular duties of the EC. B. Any member of the Graduate Faculty (thereby including members of the EC) can request a formal and comprehensive review of the bylaws. a. Request timing: i. The Graduate Faculty member must submit such a request to the VPGS no later than 1 September of the academic year during which the review will take place. ii. The VPGS will ensure that the request is included in the posted agenda of the second meeting of the academic year. b. Request procedure: i. A request to review the EC bylaws must include a rationale for the proposed review. 1. The rationale will be made available with the posted agenda. ii. Any such request will come forward to the EC as a motion and shall not require a second. iii. The EC will vote on the motion to review the bylaws after appropriate discussion at the second EC meeting of the academic year. iv. A review will be triggered by a two-thirds majority vote. v. Changes to the bylaws follow the same process as changes to policy elaborated above. Contact: Office of Graduate Studies 213 Strong Hall 1450 Jayhawk Blvd. 785-864-8040 graduate@ku.edu Approved by: The Provost and Executive Vice Chancellor Approved on: Tuesday, February 16, 2021 Effective on: Tuesday, February 16, 2021 Review Cycle: Annual (As Needed) Related statutes, regulations, and/or policies: Graduate Faculty Appointments Keywords: Graduate Faculty Change History: 02/25/2021: New Policy added to the Policy Library. Add new comment Request Previous Policy Version Can't Find What You're Looking For? Let Us Help » Request Previous Policy Version Policy Library Search Search this site Search for -Any-Policy DocumentPolicy Document - PDF/DOC New Policies in the last 30 days Faculty Evaluation Plan, Department of Spanish and Portuguese Policies Revised in the last 30 days School of Social Welfare Merit Guidelines and Policy Mobile Communication & Information Devices Master's Enrollment Requirements M.A. & M.S. Degrees Bylaws Governing the Executive Council of Graduate Faculty more revised policies KU Today Why KU Apply » One of 34 U.S. public institutions in the prestigious Association of American Universities Nearly $290 million in financial aid annually 44 nationally ranked graduate programs. —U.S. News & World Report Top 50 nationwide for size of library collection. —ALA 23rd nationwide for service to veterans —"Best for Vets," Military Times Give to KU » Contact Policy Library policy@ku.edu 785.864.9600 Strong Hall, Room 115 1450 Jayhawk Boulevard University of Kansas Lawrence, KS 66045 Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS | Maps CMS Login The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. The following persons have been designated to handle inquiries regarding the nondiscrimination policies and are the Title IX coordinators for their respective campuses: Director of the Office of Institutional Opportunity & Access, IOA@ku.edu, Room 1082, Dole Human Development Center, 1000 Sunnyside Avenue, Lawrence, KS 66045, 785-864-6414, 711 TTY (for the Lawrence, Edwards, Parsons, Yoder, and Topeka campuses); Director, Equal Opportunity Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-8011, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses).