Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Administration and Finance University Police Main Navigation Services & Safety Info Programs Forms Crime, Complaints, & Reports Policies & Training Join Our Team News/Contact Chief's Advisory Board (CAB) CSUF Police Department CLOSURE! Our Records Bureau will be closed on May 30th in honor of Memorial Day. Verhulst Statement Emergency Blue Phones Live Scan Report a Crime or Behavior Concern Coffee With A Cop Community Service Officer Safety Presentations Bicycle Registration Citizen Complaint Lost Property Annual Report Annual Security Report (ASR) Complaints/Recognition Policies Special Orders Training Meet Our Chief Join Our Team Organizational Chart Messages from the Chief In the News Newsletters Through many hours of reflection, conversation, and introspection, we’ve developed a Listening & Sharing Tour to address concerns members of our community may have with law enforcement on or around campus. We’ve utilized the Presidential Task Force on 21st Century Policing recommendations as one of our guiding frameworks. The presentation includes three essential tenets of enhanced community engagement: Training and Values, Empowerment, and Outreach. Each tenet addresses what we, as an organization, have done to bridge the divide between our agency and those we serve, and what we intend to do moving forward to foster equity, engage in active listening, open conversation, and to facilitate change. We strongly encourage all CSUF community members/groups to take part in the presentation at your leisure. If you would like to request the presentation and engage in open conversation with members of our department, please complete our Presentation Request Form . The presentation and respectful dialogue will last approximately one hour. A minimum of two participants are required and all completed presentations are subject to a post-presentation survey. Dedicated to ensuring the university community's right to a crime-free environment through exemplary and professional service. CSUF Police Department Authority California State University police officers have complete police authority to apprehend and arrest anyone involved in illegal acts on campus and areas adjacent to campus. CSUF police officers are sworn law enforcement officers under California Penal Code Section 830.2, and in compliance with state statutes, meet the peace officer standards and training requirements mandatory for all California law enforcement officers. In addition, California State University police officers undergo training specially designed to meet the needs of a contemporary university community. All officers receive training in tolerance and diversity to better serve their community. CSUF Police Department has a written agreement with the Fullerton Police Department, which defines and details operational authority pursuant to the Kristin Smart Campus Safety Act of 1998, Education Code SB 1729. This agreement designates which law enforcement agency has operational responsibility for the investigation of violent crimes (Part 1 crimes) and defines the specific geographical boundaries of each agency's operational responsibility. The bill further requires that these agreements be made available to the public and that copies of these agreements be transmitted to the Legislative Analyst. Crime Information • Timely Warning - Person of Interest (01/13/21) • Catalytic Converter Theft (10/06/21) • Exposure (11/2/21) Crime Information Daily Crime & Fire Log Clery Daily Crime & Fire Log Crime Information Crime Mapping Crime Prevention Report a Crime Investigations Locations Fullerton Address: 800 N. State College Blvd. Fullerton, CA 92831 Campus Map (657) 278-2515 Additional Resources A&F DEI Efforts CSA Reporting Form DACA FAQ DACA - CSU Chancellor Letter Dean of Students - BIT Referral Student Wellness CALEA Accreditation Local Resource Guide This site is maintained by University Police. Last Published 5/27/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact magarza@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.7 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.