Search Search Tool Search Search Tool Search For Emergencies Call 911 - Do not email, tweet, or text MSU POLICE MENUMENU Home Police Services Patrol Community Engagement Specialty Teams Multijurisdictional Teams Investigations Emergency Management Special Events Broad Museum & FRIB Security Parking Services Parking Violations Visitor Parking Permits Parking for Special Events Moped Information Special Parking Requests Spin Electric Scooters Community Support Community Support Bureau Community Care Unit Special Victims Unit Resources Security & Fire Safety Report Clery Crime & Fire Log SafeMSU app RVSM Commitment Safety Tips Access Control Police Records & FOIA Fingerprinting Citizen FAQ About News Releases Leadership Bureaus & Divisions History Connect with Us Annual Report Policy and Procedure Ethical Guarantee Contact Ask a Question Report a Crime Requests File a Complaint or Compliment Job Opportunities Citizen’s Police Academy Community Support Bureau puts spotlight on mental health EAST LANSING, Mich. — May is Mental Health Awareness Month, a time to educate, provide support, and work to reduce the stigma that many people with a mental illness face. MSU Police and Public Safety’s Community Support Bureau works every day, year-round, toward this mission. “I think there’s a stigma today about mental health and it’s negative in tone,” said Detective David Isabell of the Community Support Bureau. “I want the community to know that it’s okay to feel stressed or anxious while you experience these feelings. It’s okay to ask for help.” The Community Support Bureau works closely with different mental health-focused units on campus, including MSU Counseling & Psychiatric Services (CAPS), the MSU Center for Survivors, MSU Safe […] Read More about Community Support Bureau puts spotlight on mental health Parking Information The Parking Office is closed to in-person traffic. All services, with the exception of bike impound and tow releases, are available online or over the phone from 8:00am-4pm, Monday – Friday, excluding university holidays. Employee permits and Student permits are sold online only. On-call permits, temporary employee permits, motorcycle, and special parking permits are sold over the phone. Refer to the signs posted at the ENTRANCES of campus lots for general parking requirements and restrictions. All parking areas are either restricted or require payment per existing posted regulations and times. Special Victims Unit (SVU) The Special Victims Unit (SVU) is managed by the Investigative Division and comprises members of the Investigative and Uniform Divisions. These team members receive specialized training to assist victims of crime by using a trauma-informed and victim centered approach. Read More about SVU Clery Crime & Fire Log The Clery Act requires all colleges and universities that participate in federal financial aid programs to keep and disclose information about crime on and near their respective campuses. MSU Police maintains a public log of all crimes reported to it, or of which it is made aware. Clery Crime & Fire Log Security & Fire Safety Report MSU, in compliance with the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy & Campus Crime Statistics Act and the Higher Education Opportunity Act, has published this document to provide its students and employees with an overview of the University’s security and safety resources, policies, and procedures. Security & Fire Safety Report Active Violence Incidents An active violence incident is an ongoing assault with a weapon causing death or serious injury of multiple victims in a populated area. These incidents can strike anytime, anywhere, or anyone. Take the time to be prepared. Active Violence Incident Safety Planning Tools "Together We're Better" Video Facebook Twitter Instagram 1120 Red Cedar Rd East Lansing, MI 48824 (517) 355-2221 info@police.msu.edu Contact for Questions Parking Violations Permits Call us: (517) 355-2221 Contact Information Site Map Privacy Statement Site Accessibility Call MSU: (517) 355-1855 Visit: www.msu.edu MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer. Notice of Nondiscrimination Spartans Will. © Michigan State University