Skip to main contentSkip to secondary content University of Southern California Policies and Policy Governance Primary Menu USC Policies Policies A-Z Policies by Topic Policies by Audience Recently Updated Policies Submit or Revise a Policy Policy Governance Policy Resources About MenuAn icon that consists of three parallel horizontal lines suggestive of a list. SearchAn icon of a magnifying glass. Search for: CloseAn icon of a letter X.Close Search Smoke Free Policy Applies to: All University of Southern California (“USC”) schools and departments, and all members of the USC community (faculty, staff, and students). 1. Policy Issued: January 10, 2017 Last Revised: March 21, 2022 Last Reviewed: March 21, 2022 2. Policy Purpose To set forth and define the prohibition of smoking at USC with the intent of creating a healthy atmosphere for all members of the USC community, and to create an environment that promotes the prevention of tobacco use, and supports those who want to quit using tobacco and other smoked substances. 3. Scope and Application This policy applies at all times to all USC schools, departments, and members of the USC community (e.g., faculty, staff, students, and guests), in all indoor and outdoor USC owned and leased properties, and/or during USC-sanctioned or affiliated events and activities. 4. Definitions Term Definition Smoking Inhaling, exhaling, burning, carrying or possessing any lighted cigarette, cigar, pipe, electronic cigarette, hookah or other lit product and including the use of any substance, including but not limited to tobacco, cloves or marijuana Secondhand Smoke Smoke inhaled involuntarily from tobacco (or other substances) being smoked by others. USC Properties All university owned and leased properties (including housing, dining, hotel, retail, athletic and performance facilities and all teaching, research, clinical and office space). Additionally, this policy applies to any property occupied by any fraternity or sorority officially recognized by the university. 5. Policy Details Smoke Free USC USC is committed to promoting a healthy, safe, and comfortable environment for all students, faculty, staff and visitors. Both Direct and secondhand smoke exposure is a cause of various health problems and diseases. Even for healthy non-smokers, there is no risk-free level of exposure to secondhand smoke. Secondhand smoke has been shown to cause cardiovascular disease, lung cancer, sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS), and other harmful effects on children. Smoking also puts the university at risk of incurring institutional costs associated with fire damage, cleaning and maintenance, health care, and medical insurance. Therefore, smoking is strictly prohibited in all indoor and outdoor USC Properties, including within vehicles parked on the premises. Exceptions Smoking may be permitted in connection with the following: Research activities if approved by the USC Institutional Review Board or other appropriate research committee through the Office for the Protection of Research Subjects Ceremonial purposes with prior approval of the sponsoring department and the Office of Cultural Relations and University Events University-sponsored theatrical and performance purposes where simulation of smoking may be permitted under approved university event guidelines. Enforcement for the policy is the responsibility of each member of the USC community. Refusal by faculty, staff or students to comply with this policy may result in disciplinary action. Visitors who refuse to comply will be asked to leave the premises and could be subject to arrest for trespassing if they persist. 6. Procedures N/A 7. Forms N/A 8. Responsibilities Position or Office Responsibilities N/A 9. Related Information USC Environmental Health & Safety (EH&S): https://ehs.usc.edu/ USC Event Guidelines: https://trojanevents.usc.edu/guidelines/ Student Tobacco Cessation Resources, please contact USC Student Health: https://studenthealth.usc.edu/ Employee Tobacco Cessation Resources: https://employees.usc.edu/smoking-and-tobacco-cessation-resources/ Centers for Disease Control & Prevention (CDC) – Health Effects of Smoking & Secondhand Smoke: https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/basic_information/health_effects/index.htm https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/data_statistics/fact_sheets/secondhand_smoke/health_effects/index.htm 10. Contacts Please direct any questions regarding this policy to: OFFICE PHONE EMAIL Environmental Health & Safety (323) 442-2200 EHS@usc.edu Health and Safety Office of Culture, Ethics and Compliance 3500 S. Figueroa St., UGB 105 Los Angeles, CA 90089-8007 usc.policy@usc.edu Site Navigation USC Policies Policy Governance Policy Resources About Policy Categories Policies A-Z Policies by Audience Policies by Topic Recently Updated Policies Search the Site Search for: CloseAn icon of a letter X.Close Search University Links University Human Resources Office for Equity, Equal Opportunity, and Title IX Office of Professionalism and Ethics Office of Culture, Ethics, and Compliance How to Report a Concern – Help & Hotline Notice of Non-Discrimination University of Southern CaliforniaOffice of Culture, Ethics, and Compliance Built using the USC Gateway 2018 WordPress Theme | Website issues? Contact USC Provost IT