Skip to content Policies, Regulations & Rules Toggle navigation View All… Policies Regulations Rules Repealed Student PRRs Definitions Feedback Handbooks Overview Resources What’s New Search Search for: Search REG 11.55.04 – Painting, Chalking, Posters and Temporary Outdoor Signs Past Versions of REG.11.55.04 View previous versions of this regulation. Submit Feedback We encourage you to submit feedback if you have comments or questions about this regulation. View All… All Policies All Regulations All Rules All Repealed All Student PRRs Select a Category Governance & Administration Board of Trustees Board of Trustees of the Endowment Fund Board of Visitors Delegation of Authority Governance – General Honorary Degrees, Awards and Distinctions Academic Affairs Academic Progress Admissions, Graduate Admissions, Undergraduate Courses, Undergraduate Degree Requirements, Graduate Degree Requirements, Undergraduate Faculty, Graduate School Grades and Courses, Graduate School Grades, Undergraduate International Affairs Library Registration & Records Scholarships & Financial Aid University Scholars Program (USP) Advancement Campus Environment General Campus Environment PRRs Campus Police Environmental Safety Fire Protection Health, Safety and Welfare Non-Discrimination Personnel General Personnel PRRs Applying for Employment Cooperative Extension County Personnel Employees Exempt from the State Personnel Act (SPA) Employees Subject to the State Personnel Act (SPA) Faculty Post Tenure Review (PTR) Rules College of Agriculture & Life Sciences (CALS) College of Design College of Education College of Engineering College of Humanities & Social Sciences (CHASS) College of Natural Resources College of Sciences College of Textiles College of Veterinary Medicine Division of Academic & Student Affairs (DASA) Poole College of Management Professorship Awards Reappointment Promotion and Tenure (RPT) Rules College of Agriculture & Life Sciences (CALS) College of Design College of Education College of Engineering College of Humanities & Social Sciences (CHASS) College of Natural Resources College of Sciences College of Textiles College of Veterinary Medicine Division of Academic & Student Affairs (DASA) Poole College of Management Grievances & Review Leave Mediation Outside Employment & Activities Payroll Performance Management and Review Recruitment and Hiring Retirement Extension & Engagement Centennial Campus Continuing Education Cooperative Extension Copyright Use of McKimmon Conference and Training Center (MCTC) Finance Operations & Auxillary Services Accounts Payable Bookstore Budget Construction Services Facilities Financial Services General Finance Operations & Auxillary PRRs Insurance and Risk Management Property Purchasing Real Estate Student Accounts Transportation Travel Information Technology Intercollegiate Athletics Research & Sponsored Activities General Research PRRs Contract and Grants Research Administration Student Activities & Services Academic Affairs Campus Recreation Craft Center Dining Gallery of Art & Design General Student Activities & Services PRRs Housing Student Discipline Student Grievance Student Health Services Student Organizations Talley Student Center Ticket Central Salary Administration/Compensation PRR Archives Authority: Executive Vice Chancellor and Provost History: First Issued: October 1, 2002. Last Revised: June 12, 2018. Related Policies: NCSU REG01.20.02 – Delegation of Authority to Sign Contracts NCSU REG07.25.11 – Use of University Facilities NCSU REG07.25.12 – Solicitation Additional References: Facilities Use Agreement Form NCGS 14-132(a)(2) Contact Info: Student Involvement, (919-515-2797) 1. USE OF POSTERS 1.1 Posters and other written materials may be attached and displayed only on surfaces designed and designated for such purposes, for example, kiosks, display panels, and bulletin boards. 1.2 The posters or other materials must be mounted with tape, pushpins, paper staples, or other means to allow removal without surface defacement. Stickers must be affixed in the aforementioned manner and not with their adhesive backings. 1.3 Display of any poster or other material on the exterior of any buildings, landscape features (including trees and light posts) or other surfaces not specifically designated and designed as a poster display area is strictly prohibited. 1.4 All outdated posters and materials must be removed. Each outdoor display surface will be cleared the week following exams of both regular semesters and the second summer session. 1.5 All material not meeting the above requirements will be removed. 2. PAINTING 2.1 The surface of the “Free Expression” tunnel (located south of Dabney Hall) may be painted between the designated signs stating “No painting beyond this point”.. No painting will be allowed at any other tunnels or locations on NC State’s campus. 2.2 There is no restriction regarding painting over the sections of the tunnel that other individuals or groups have painted – no matter how recently they have been painted. However, animosity is often generated toward groups who paint over sections that are advertising events not yet held or sections painted very recently. Individuals and groups should use courtesy and common sense when selecting an area of the tunnel to paint. 3. SIDEWALK CHALKING 3.1 Sidewalk chalking for the purpose of advertising is permitted on horizontal surfaces that are exposed to rain where it will naturally be washed away. Chalking is not allowed under overhangs or other areas that would block the surface from being exposed to rain. 3.2 Only washable chalk may be used for sidewalk chalking. Spray chalks cannot be used. 3.3 Chalking is strictly prohibited on vertical surfaces such as buildings walls, vertical steps, columns, etc. 3.4 Any individual or group utilizing sidewalk chalking for advertising is responsible for removing any chalking of outdated materials that has not washed away within three (3) days after the event is over. 4. TEMPORARY OUTDOOR SIGNAGE 4.1 Temporary outdoor signs, including banners, sandwich boards, easels and yard signs are permitted in accordance with the following conditions: 4.1.1 University Groups, Student Groups, Students, and sponsored Non-University Groups and individuals (as these terms are used and defined in REG 11.55.02, Use of University Space), may place temporary signage around campus to promote activities, events, and programs. 4.1.2 Groups and individuals are responsible for providing their own signage. Size limits for temporary signage are as follows: a) Yard signs: no larger than 18 X 24 inches; b) Sandwich boards: maximum size of 24 X 46 inches; c) Banners: no larger than 36 X 72 inches; d) Flags: no larger than 36 X 60 inches; 4.1.3 Groups and individuals should be mindful that the signage not detract from an aesthetic appearance for the campus. Groups and individuals should prevent the appearance of clutter, and avoid placing signage in locations, or in close proximity, where other signage is already present. 4.1.4 Signage must clearly identify the sponsoring organization of the activity, event, or program. 4.1.5 Except for University-contracted vendors, signage used for commercial advertising is prohibited. The signage may acknowledge the corporate support of the activity, event, or program. 4.1.6 Except for University signage or those of University-contracted vendors, signage is prohibited at Carter-Finley Stadium, Murphy Football Center, Vaughn Towers, PNC Arena and/or the parking lots surrounding these facilities.4.1.7 Except in relation to student government elections, signage can be placed on campus no more than 72 hours prior to the activity, event, or program. The signage must be removed within 24 hours following the conclusion of the activity, event, or program for which the sign is related. Any signage remaining after this period will be discarded. 4.1.8 Candidates for election must follow student government election policies regarding the use of signage and when campaigning may begin. Signage used for student government elections may remain for the duration of the campaign period. 4.1.9 All signs must be placed where they do not impede pedestrian or vehicle traffic. 4.1.10 Signage cannot be attached to the exterior of buildings, light poles, benches, other structures, or landscape elements such as fences, trees, or shrubs. This provision shall not apply to banners used by University Groups. 4.1.11 Signage must not obstruct permanent signs, windows, or doors, create a safety hazard, or interfere with a previously scheduled event. 4.1.12 Signage having large stakes are not permitted. Stakes must be no higher than 30 inches, and no larger than ½ inch diameter. 4.1.13 Signage should not disrupt existing plant life or foliage. 4.1.14 Signage should be placed to minimize interference with University grounds maintenance. The university reserves the right to remove signage as part of its normal maintenance schedule. 4.2 Signage failing to meet the above conditions will result in removal and possible loss of future privileges. 5. ENFORCEMENT 5.1 Groups and individuals violating this regulation will be responsible for any restoration costs (i.e., paint removal, cleaning, removal of residual substances, etc.) to the property. 5.2 Groups or individuals violating this regulation which also results in the defacement of public property will be criminally charged pursuant to NC General Statute 14-132(a)(2)). Audience: Students. Category: Facilities, Finance, Operations & Auxiliary Services, and Student Organizations. Policies, Regulations & Rules Copyright © 2022 · NC State University · Accessibility · Privacy · University Policies · Log in NC State University North Carolina State University Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011