Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Florida State University Police Department Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home Organization Message From the Chief Accreditation Command Staff Crime Prevention & Outreach Adopt-A-C.O.P.P. Citizen's Police Academy Culture of Silence- What is Stalking? FSUPD Motorsports Team Speak Out & Stand Up Surviving an Active Shooter Event Wasted Youth - The Dangers of Drinking and Driving Investigations Motorcycle Unit Public Safety Officers Special Operations Training Uniform Patrol FSUPD Organizational Chart Campus Access & Security Services (CASS) Emergency Management FSUPD Dispatch Transportation & Parking Services (TAPS) Report a Crime Report Hazing Missing Persons Florida Sexual Offenders and Predators Search Campus Trespass Warning Services & Resources Lost and Found Resources Safety Connection Victims Rights Brochures 2021 FSU Game Day Plan What to Expect when Reporting a crime on FSU's Campus Clery Act Contact Us Employment FAQs Annual Security Report FSU Alert FSU Crime & Fire Logs Records Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Florida State University Police Department Toggle navigation Home Organization Message From the Chief Accreditation Command Staff Crime Prevention & Outreach Adopt-A-C.O.P.P. Citizen's Police Academy Culture of Silence- What is Stalking? FSUPD Motorsports Team Speak Out & Stand Up Surviving an Active Shooter Event Wasted Youth - The Dangers of Drinking and Driving Investigations Motorcycle Unit Public Safety Officers Special Operations Training Uniform Patrol FSUPD Organizational Chart Campus Access & Security Services (CASS) Emergency Management FSUPD Dispatch Transportation & Parking Services (TAPS) Report a Crime Report Hazing Missing Persons Florida Sexual Offenders and Predators Search Campus Trespass Warning Services & Resources Lost and Found Resources Safety Connection Victims Rights Brochures 2021 FSU Game Day Plan What to Expect when Reporting a crime on FSU's Campus Clery Act Contact Us Employment FAQs Annual Security Report FSU Alert FSU Crime & Fire Logs Records Home Organization Crime Prevention and Outreach Citizen's Police Academy Crime Prevention Resources Active Shooter Training Campus Safety & Fire Report Citizen's Police Academy Adopt-A-C.O.P.P. Rape Aggression Defense (RAD) Training kNOw MOre- Sexual Violence Prevention Speak Out & Stand Up- Preventing Sexual Assault (Video) Culture of Silence-What is Stalking? (Video) Wasted Youth-The Dangers of Drinking and Driving (Video) Register Personal Property FSUPD Motorsports Team Message From the Chief Accreditation Command Staff Crime Prevention & Outreach Adopt-A-C.O.P.P. Citizen's Police Academy Culture of Silence- What is Stalking? FSUPD Motorsports Team Speak Out & Stand Up Surviving an Active Shooter Event Wasted Youth - The Dangers of Drinking and Driving Investigations Motorcycle Unit Public Safety Officers Special Operations Training Uniform Patrol FSUPD Organizational Chart Campus Access & Security Services (CASS) Emergency Management FSUPD Dispatch Transportation & Parking Services (TAPS) Citizen's Police Academy Florida State University Police Department Citizen’s Police Academy On this page you will learn some basic facts about what our Citizen’s Police Academy is, when the next class is due to launch, and how to get signed up. Why a Citizen’s Police Academy? Law enforcement has traditionally thought of itself as a closed society, and some law enforcement officers have even taken pride in the thought of law enforcement as a “brotherhood”, where no one could possibly understand the stresses of law enforcement, except fellow officers. The FSUPD Citizen’s Police Academy strives to open the doors of the police department to the FSU community and greatly enhance the understanding between FSUPD employees and the campus. The CPA allows members of the FSU neighborhood, who may otherwise only have a limited interaction with FSU police officers, to get an exclusive, inside view of what makes FSUPD and its officers tick. In the same vein, FSUPD employees are afforded an opportunity to develop professional and lasting relationships with their university colleagues. The idea of a Citizen’s Police Academy at FSU is a win-win proposition! WHAT YOU CAN EXPECT AT THE FSUPD CPA? The Florida State University Police Department Citizen’s Police Academy is strongly focused on engaging students actively in the learning process. Students, therefore, can expect the most “hands-on” experience that can possibly provided. Students will be afforded the chance to actually use some of the equipment utilized by the officers of the FSUPD. Students will, more than once, walk in the shoes of FSUPD officers and role-play through several scenarios. We hope the experience will be not only informative, but fun and exciting as well! The Citizen’s Police Academy is not a “boot camp” where the FSUPD is turning out the next batch of police recruits. Rather, the CPA is presented in a manner focusing on cooperative learning between instructors and students. The Florida State University Police Academy was established during the Fall Semester of 2004. Classes are held two times during the school year; One during the Fall Semester, and another during the Spring Semester. Class size is limited to no more than 16 attendees, and the fact that we can only accommodate 35% of the applicants is a testament to the success and popularity of the program. For more information, please contact: Officer Dan Cutchins dcutchins@fsu.edu 850-644-3660 Please print, fill out, and return the Citizen's Police Academy Application to the Crime Prevention office located at the Police Department. Sign Up title-inside title-centered 2 FSUPD Headquarters Florida State University Police Department 830 West Jefferson Street PO Box 3064215 Tallahassee FL, 32306 Map Location P: (850) 644-1234 F: (850) 644-3205 FSUPD Panama City Florida State University Panama City 4750 Collegiate Drive Panama City FL, 32405 Map Location P: (850) 872-4250 F: (850) 770-2721 Transportation & Parking Services 104 N. Woodward Ave Tallahassee, FL 32306 Map Location Email: transportation@fsu.edu P: (850) 644-5278 F: (850) 644-0008 M-F, 8am-5pm FSUPD Intranet © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media