Skip to Main Content Brown University Political Science Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Message from the Chair Diversity and Inclusion Statement Contact Us People Faculty Associated Faculty Visiting Faculty & Postdoctoral Fellows Emeriti In Memoriam Graduate Students Staff Undergraduate Concentration Requirements Honors Program Recognition Advising Career Planning & Placement Graduate Admission Program at a Glance Dissertation Placements Graduate Fellowships Ph.D. Job Market Candidates News Faculty Publications Search Political Science Honors Program Breadcrumb Home Undergraduate Program Sub Navigation In This Section Concentration Requirements Honors Program Recognition Advising Career Planning & Placement Honors Application Download now Honors Program Admission in the honors program is restricted to students who have given evidence of superior work in Political Science. Application Deadline: April 1 At the completion of six semesters, you must have successfully completed a minimum of eight Political Science courses and must have earned an A or S with distinction in at least five of the eight courses. Since the application is due prior to the end of the sixth semester, courses taken in the spring semester will be counted towards filling the requirement. The honors sequence is in addition to the required ten courses for political science. You must have completed your methods requirement prior to the beginning of your seventh semester. This can be filled by POLS0500 or POLS1600. Outside department courses that will also fill the requirement are: APMA0650, APMA1650, ANTH1940, CLPS0900, ECON1620, EDUC1100, EDUC1110, GEOL1320, PHP1501, SOC1020, SOC1100 or SOC1120 You will need to register for POLS1910 (Senior Honors Thesis Preparation) during pre- registration for the fall semester of your senior year and POLS1920 (Senior Honors Thesis Preparation) during pre-registration for the spring semester of your senior year. The Honors Sequence courses (POLS1910 and 1920) will fulfill the capstone seminar requirement. All applications are to be submitted electronically to suzanne_brough@brown.edu. Although you will be working with a faculty member who has agreed to be your advisor, the Honors Seminar will offer additional guidance and supervision, especially in the early stages of your thesis work. It is your responsibility to arrange for a thesis advisor, who is a faculty member in the political science department, as well as a second reader who is knowledgeable about your topic. Submit the application by the April 1st deadline. Note the application requires a copy of your internal transcript, a list of the political science courses you are currently taking, and a copy of a paper written for any social science course at Brown. Professor Cheit will contact you with a decision prior to pre-registration for the fall semester. The honors thesis is a one-year sequence course. You must enroll in POLS1910 and POLS1920. You will receive an INC for POLS1910 at the end of the fall 2022 semester. When you have completed your thesis in the spring of 2023, the letter grade you receive for the thesis will be entered for POLS1920 and your INC from the fall for POLS1910 will be changed to reflect that grade as well. All passing grades on the thesis earn course credit for POLS1910 and POLS1920. However, only an A earns honors. Contacts Suzanne Brough Academic Program Manager - Graduate and Undergraduate Programs suzanne_brough@brown.edu Honors Application Download now Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Message from the Chair Diversity and Inclusion Statement Contact Us People Faculty Associated Faculty Visiting Faculty & Postdoctoral Fellows Emeriti In Memoriam Graduate Students Staff Undergraduate Concentration Requirements Honors Program Recognition Advising Career Planning & Placement Graduate Admission Program at a Glance Dissertation Placements Graduate Fellowships Ph.D. Job Market Candidates News Faculty Publications Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Honors Program Open details for Honors Program Bookmark this Page