Skip to main content University of Nebraska–Lincoln Visit Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Log In Search Search Form Search Submit Close Business & Finance University Police Menu Search Log In Information For... Students Faculty/Staff Parents / Visitors New to Nebraska About Department Policing Philosophy Compliance & Accreditation Operations Drug Free Campus Policy Our Team Chief's Message / History Careers Police Advisory Board Services UNL Alert Crime Reporting / Records Husker Safe Walk TIPS Reporting Emergency Planning & Preparedness Building Access Ban & Bar Safety Reports and Statistics Daily Crime & Fire Log Annual Campus Security and Fire Safety Report Clery Statistics Clery Campus Safety Statistics Archive of Timely Warnings Nebraska Sex Offender Registry Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Nebraska Business & Finance University Police Safety Reports and Statistics Annual Campus Security and Fire Safety Report Reports and Statistics Reports and Statistics Top We use quantitative data to gauge the performance and impact of our job in the on-campus community. The data that we collect makes it into various security reports that are available to the public on this page. Daily Crime and Fire Log Archive of Timely Warnings Uniform Crime Reporting Statistics Campus Safety and Security Data Analysis Data Cutting Tool Annual Campus Security and Fire Safety Report Daily Crime & Fire Log This log provides information on incidents handled by the UPD; it includes dates and times of incidents (occurring and reported), the incident nature, the general location, the disposition, and estimated loss amounts. The log does not include names or specific locations, such as residence hall room numbers. Use the button below to visit the log. Daily Crime & Fire Log You can also view the year to date Clery-based campus security and fire statistics using the link below. At the end of the year, the figures that appear in this summary report will be compiled into the Annual Campus Security and Fire Safety Report that can be found in the section below. Clery Campus Security & Fire Safety Statistics Archive of Timely Warnings The University of Nebraska Police Department provides timely warnings about reported crimes to the campus community, in a manner that will aid in the prevention of similar crimes if it is determined that an ongoing threat exists. Departmental supervisors review all reports taken by the department in a timely manner to determine any offenses that are subject to disclosure and represent an ongoing threat to faculty, staff, and students of the campus community. If it is determined that there is an ongoing threat, the supervisor, or their designee notifies the University’s public information officer, or their designee who will send out a media release, mass e-mail, and/or provides a web post of the incident to help prevent similar crimes from happening. Here you will find an archive of those warnings. 2021 February 14: Case 21000418 July 9: Case 21001860 December 15: Case 21003905, 21003911, 21003912 2020 March 2: Case 20000769 August 26: Case 20002325 and 20002490 2019 November 2: Case 19003646, 19003976, and 19003978 2018 December 4: Case 18005002 2016 April 11: Case 1 2015 October 1: Case 15004766 Uniform Crime Reporting Statistics In 1971, the Crime Commission was assigned the responsibility for the collection of Uniform Crime Reports (UCR) for the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). Law enforcement agencies in the state are statutorily required to submit monthly Uniform Crime Reports detailing the number of crimes reported or known to them and the number of arrests. The crime statistics are forwarded to the FBI UCR Program for inclusion in national crime statistics and for use by state and local agencies and policy makers. UCR Crime Statistics Lookup Campus Safety and Security Data Analysis Data Cutting Tool The link below provides the public, access to a crime and fire data analysis and reporting tool provided by the Office of Postsecondary Education of the U.S. Department of Education. The data are drawn from the OPE Campus Safety and Security Statistics website database to which crime statistics and fire statistics (as of the 2010 data collection) are submitted annually, via a web-based data collection, by all postsecondary institutions that receive Title IV funding (i.e., those that participate in federal student aid programs). Only data dating back 3 years will be presented for analysis. To access information related to the University of Nebraska-Lincoln: Begin by clicking on Get data for one institution/campus on the right. Then search for University of Nebraska-Lincoln Campus Safety and Security Data Analysis Data Cutting Tool Annual Campus Security and Fire Safety Report This report contains the University of Nebraska’s crime and fires statistics for the previous three (3) years for incidents that occurred on campus/University property, in University Housing, or on public property (streets) within/bordering campus, and fires that occurred in University residence facilities, as well as a list of resources available to the victims of crime. The report includes policy statements, links to sex offender registries, tips on avoiding being the victim of a crime, how to report crimes and how the reports are handled, campus resources and programs regarding safety/security, disciplinary procedures, fire safety and evacuations, and other matters of importance related to security and safety on campus. It also contains all of the information required by the Drug-Free Schools and Communities Act of 1989. 2021 Annual Campus Security and Fire Safety Report This PDF report is best viewed on a desktop or in a printed format. Follow us for our latest events Follow us on Facebook University of Nebraska Lincoln Police Department Follow us on Twitter #UNLPD Follow us on Instagram #UNLPD Address300 N 17th St Lincoln, NE 68588-0634 Phone number402-472-2222 Emailunl.police@unl.edu Related Links Emergency Planning & Preparedness UNL Infrastructure Information Request Lincoln Police Department Lancaster County Sheriff Nebraska State Patrol Lincoln/Lancaster County Crime Stoppers Campus Links Directory Employment Events Libraries Maps News Office of the Chancellor Report an Incident Policies & Reports Accessibility Statement Emergency Planning and Preparedness Institutional Equity and Compliance Notice of Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Security and Fire Safety Report Student Information Disclosures UNL web framework and quality assurance provided by the Web Developer Network · QA Test University of Nebraska–Lincoln Established 1869 · Copyright 2022 Some parts of this site work best with JavaScript enabled.