Skip to Main Content Brown University University Policies Search Menu Site Navigation Home All Policies New & Updated Policies Search University Policies All Policies Policy Contact Faculty and Staff: Event Strategy and Management Email 401-863-3100 Student Organizations: Student Activities Office, Division of Campus Life Email 401-863-2341 Invited Speakers and Guests Policy Policy No. Issue Date Effective Date 01.60.01 December 13, 2021 December 13, 2021 1.0 Policy Purpose Brown Community Members help contribute to the University’s vibrant and rigorous intellectual environment by inviting speakers and guests with a range of insights and experiences to engage with the community. This policy articulates the principles, policies and associated responsibilities when engaging external Invited Speakers or Guests to participate in Public Events or Programs sponsored by Brown Community Members. 2.0 To Whom the Policy Applies All members of the Brown University community eligible to engage Invited Speakers or Guests to participate in a Public Brown Program or Public Event in a Brown Facility or Venue are subject to this policy, whether that event is on or off campus. This includes academic and administrative units; faculty members and individuals with an academic appointment at Brown; staff members on behalf of their academic or administrative unit; student organizations recognized by Brown’s Student Activities Office; members of the Corporation of Brown University and members of a Standing Committee of the Corporation; and any recognized affiliates of Brown that have received written approval to hold a Public Brown Program or Event. Provisions of this policy also apply to Invited Speakers and Guests of these Public Brown Programs and Events. This policy does not apply to hosts or participants of the following academic, scholarly or research events: 1) course-related academic events where external Invited Speakers or Guests might be invited (classes, seminars, webinars, lectures, etc.) that are not open to the public, and therefore not considered Public Brown Events; 2) small-scale academic events such as research seminars, academic talks for scholars in related fields, journal author sessions, dissertation review, and 3) similarly-oriented events that are opened to the public for the purpose of facilitating involvement by other academics, scholars or practitioners with the specific intent of contributing to or enriching research or academic or scholarly work. However, such events remain subject to relevant statutes and laws governing all Brown activities, such as laws and policies governing intellectual property and copyright, image use, privacy and political activities (see the Related Policies section of this policy). In addition, when there are contracts and payments involved, the University's purchasing and contracting policies will apply. This policy also does not apply to those hosting or participating in private or by-invitation programs or events, although these events also remain subject to relevant statutes and laws governing all Brown activities (see the Definitions and By-Invitation Brown Events sections of this policy). 3.0 Policy Statement Recognized Brown Community Members organizing Public Events or Programs featuring external Invited Speakers or Guests are expected to observe and abide by Brown values and principles in support of free inquiry, as well as University regulations and applicable state and federal laws. For the purposes of this policy, recognized Brown Community Members are any academic or administrative unit, a staff member, a faculty member or individual with an academic appointment to Brown, a student organization recognized by Brown’s Student Activities Office, a member of the Corporation of Brown University, or a member of a Standing Committee of the Corporation. 3.1 Academic Freedom In 1966, the Corporation of Brown University approved a statement of academic freedom for faculty and recognized student groups with a provision stating that all shall have the right “to invite speakers of their choice to campus.” The provision states further that “the time, place and manner of exercising these rights on the campus shall be subject to reasonable regulation only to prevent interference with the normal functions of the University.” This policy today extends to any recognized member of the Brown community approved to engage an Invited Speaker or Guest for any Brown University event or program. Additionally, and in accordance with the University’s Event Disruption Protocol Policy, the University’s administration exercises its discretion for regulation of time, place and manner if there is the potential for infringement on Brown’s commitment to academic freedom and free inquiry and/or threats to personal safety. 3.2 Guest Speaker Agreement The individual with contract signatory authority for the Brown event or the program organizer (in accordance with Brown policies for signature authority for contracts) is responsible for signing an agreement with Invited Speakers and Guests who are not employees of Brown University describing the terms of their speaking engagement, whether or not there is compensation for the engagement. All Invited Speakers and Guests for Public Programs or Events subject to this policy are required comply with the following, depending on the level of compensation and whether the speaker has their own formal agreement or contract outlining the terms of the engagement at Brown: For uncompensated engagements: The Invited Speaker or Guest and the Brown Sponsor must sign Brown University’s Guest Speaker Agreement to affirm intent to comply with the terms of this Invited Speakers and Guests Policy. This form is intended to be used when there is no other contract and should be retained in the Sponsor’s department. For compensated engagements when the Invited Speaker or Guest will be paid $5,000 or less: The Invited Speaker or Guest and the Brown Sponsor must sign the Brown University Guest Speaker Agreement to affirm intent to comply with the terms of this Invited Speakers and Guests Policy, and the Sponsor must also submit the Honorarium Payment Form to facilitate payment to the speaker through the University’s accounts payable business process. For compensated engagements where the Invited Speaker or Guest will be paid more than $5,000: The Sponsor must use a purchase order to pay the Invited Speaker or Guest and is required to attach to the purchase requisition either Brown University’s Guest Speaker Agreement or another formal agreement or contract outlining the terms of the engagement at Brown. In situations where the Invited Speaker or Guest and/or their speaker’s bureau requires use of its own agreement, Brown’s Office of Strategic Purchasing, Contracts and Insurance must review the agreement in accordance with purchasing and contract policy (student organizations must submit agreements through the Student Activities Office). Therefore, any agreement other than the University’s Guest Speaker Agreement must be submitted through the Brown Contract Management System. For events that may be photographed and/or recorded, it is recommended that the Brown University Image Use General Consent and Release and/or General Recording Consent and Release for Guest Presentation also be used; otherwise, an agreement is required in which the Invited Guest or Speaker agrees to how still or motion images or recordings of their engagement may be used. This ensures the Sponsor is in compliance with privacy laws and statutes governing image use. The Brown Sponsor may agree not to disclose the terms, conditions and arrangements contained in any agreements or contracts with third parties outside of the University. However, some Brown operations are subject to review by governing bodies; thus, the Brown Sponsor cannot guarantee confidentiality of all the terms, conditions and arrangements contained in the engagement agreement. 3.3 Costs and Sponsorship A recognized Brown Community Member must be the primary Sponsor of events or programs represented as Brown events, and such sponsorship must be disclosed (see the Definitions section for “Recognized Brown Community Member”). Aligned with Brown’s commitment to open and free inquiry, engagements with Invited Speakers and Guests cannot be sponsored anonymously. In some cases, multiple organizations may share sponsorship, recognizing that sponsorship signifies responsibility for ensuring adherence to all requirements outlined in this policy, as well as the Brown University Code of Conduct and other University regulations. The primary Brown Sponsor (or their representative) is the point of contact for the engagement of the Invited Speaker or Guest and assumes responsibility for the event, including fiscal responsibility for all costs (this may include, but is not limited to, costs for staffing, AV and media, security, etc., as needed). Individuals or entities that are not recognized members of the Brown community for the purposes of this policy (see Definitions) cannot represent their events as Brown events. The Invited Speaker or Guest may not independently secure sponsorship in connection with the engagement unless written permission is obtained from the Brown Sponsor. In the event that written permission is granted, the Invited Speaker or Guest or their Sponsor(s) cannot promote their engagement in any way that suggests or implies that the organizer or Brown Community Member is endorsing the Invited Speaker or Guest or its agents. 3.4 Use of Brown University Space For Brown events and programs, space for Invited Speakers and Guests must be secured by the Brown Community Member serving as the event or program Sponsor through the appropriate University reservation system. Reservations are based on availability with respect to the primary use and users of the space. University-owned facilities are critical resources dedicated to advancing the University’s mission and are primarily reserved for use by faculty, students and staff to support teaching, research and campus life. Use of space for Invited Speakers and Guests cannot disrupt, obstruct or interrupt University operations, and event Sponsors and Invited Speakers or Guests cannot cause physical alterations to a space that impedes the space’s primary use. Ownership of all Brown University space/facilities/property belongs to the University, rather than individuals, units or departments and is assigned for specific functions that support the educational mission and strategic goals set by the University. Selection of event space is at the sole discretion of Brown, and may be adjusted based on factors such as security measures. 3.4.1 Accessibility For events open to the public, accommodations must be made for attendees with mobility or other disabilities. Brown has a variety of accessible venues, but some have more limited access. Being aware of locations with limitations and working with the Scheduling Office or the Student Activities Office to reserve an accessible space is required so that all members of the campus community, and the community at large, are able to participate equally. Sponsors should work to reserve a space that can accommodate a range of accessibility needs. Language with contact information for attendees with accessibility requests should be included in promotional materials, as provided in the Event Accessibility procedures detailed online by Brown’s Office of Student and Employee Accessibility Services. 3.4.2 External, Third-party Events For external, third-party events, programs or activities taking place on the Brown campus, but that are not Brown events, users must contract with University Events and Conference Services as outlined in Brown’s Use of Campus Space by External Third Parties Policy. 3.5 Political Activity As a non-profit, private institution of higher education whose activities are regulated in part by Section 501(c) (3) of the Internal Revenue Code, the University is prohibited from engaging in partisan political activity or permitting its resources to be used for support of such activities. Events or programs that include candidates for public office or their designees must adhere to Brown’s Political Activity Policy. The policy specifies criteria for non-campaign appearances, such as an educational or informational talk to the University community, and campaign appearances, such as political debates or visits from individual candidates. In all cases, fundraising is strictly prohibited, and all requests must be reviewed and approved by Brown’s Office of Government and Community Relations. 3.6 News Media Coverage and Recording Brown University maintains a philosophical and ethical commitment to the free and open exchange of information and ideas. As such, all events that are open to the general public must also be accessible for external news media to attend, listen, take notes and report. Members of the news media are recognized as members of the general public. For these events, Sponsors may negotiate with Invited Speakers and Guests regarding the nature of news media attendance, including, but not limited to, capacity to include broadcast media in addition to “pencil press,” as well as parameters for photography. Determinations about external media coverage for events open only to the Brown community (i.e., events publicized as open to Brown I.D. holders only) must be reflected in the engagement terms with the Invited Speaker or Guest. 3.6.1 Campus-based News Organizations Events open to either the Brown campus community or the general public may include members of campus-based news organizations. Students, staff and faculty reporting for such organizations are considered members of the Brown community, and Brown Community Members cannot be excluded from participation in events open to the Brown community (open to Brown I.D. holders) based on their campus-based news affiliations. 3.6.2 Recording The Invited Speaker or Guest may make a request to record their own engagement with their resources and at their expense for documentary or archival purposes only. However, because any public use or distribution must adhere to Rhode Island laws governing privacy and required permissions for marketing or publicity, any subsequent public use or distribution of such recording requires written permission from Brown’s Office of University Communications. For any live or recorded video stream of the event, the Brown event Sponsor is responsible for securing permission from the Invited Speaker or Guest, including for simulcast to a nearby location on Brown’s campus and/or livestream online restricted to the campus community, should the Sponsor desire to video stream. The Sponsor is responsible for ensuring coverage of all recording costs. 3.7 Event Publicity The Brown event Sponsor must retain 100% control over marketing efforts, publicity, advertising and promotion of the engagement. In accordance with applicable laws and University policies for image use, privacy and intellectual property, the Brown event Sponsor and the Invited Speaker or Guest, or Invited Speaker’s agent or representatives, must mutually agree on the permissions granted to Brown for still or video images or recordings of the Invited Speaker to be used for marketing or publicity purposes (this excludes news or documentary coverage, for which permission is not required for Brown Public Events). The Invited Speaker must sign an agreement (Brown’s General Recording Consent and Release for Guest Presentation specifying permitted marketing uses of content or recordings of the engagement (the Brown University Image Use General Consent and Release for still photography or the General Recording Consent and Release for Guest Presentation for still or motion image capture, or other documentation developed for this purpose). 3.7.1 Use of the Brown Name, Logo and Marks The Brown University name and its associated logos are registered trademarks. Any use of the Brown name, logo or marks associated with the Invited Speaker or Guest’s engagement must conform to the use of the Brown name, logo and marks in compliance with the Brown University Name Use Policy and Brown University Visual Identity Policy. Neither the organizer nor the Invited Speaker can advertise or promote the engagement in any way that suggests or implies that the organizer or the University is endorsing the Invited Speaker or its agents, or any entity, individual, product, service or cause in any way affiliated with the Invited Speaker, or that of the Invited Speaker’s or entity’s views or opinions. 3.8 Security Brown’s Department of Public Safety has sole discretion in determining security measures and requirements for events taking place on the Brown campus. Invited Speakers and Guests must inform the event Sponsor if special circumstances and needs for security are known and should be considered when determining security measures. Such circumstances include, but are not limited to, the expected number of attendees, whether the event is open to participants beyond the campus community, the proposed event space, and the time and day when the event will be held. If security is required for the engagement, the event Sponsor will be responsible for providing and paying for security for the safety of all persons and property in connection with the engagement. 3.9 Compensation In cases in which the Invited Speaker or Guest is not employed by Brown and will receive monetary compensation for their engagement, the Invited Speaker or Guest must be a registered payee in Brown’s procurement systems. The Invited Speaker (or agent receiving payment on the Invited Speaker’s behalf) must submit the Brown University Supplier and Individual Payee Registration Form prior to the engagement. Invited Speakers register on the University’s secure website (See also 3.2 Guest Speaker Agreement for requirements to remit payment). Invited Speakers who are foreign nationals, whether or not they have a U.S. tax identification number, are required to work with the Brown Sponsor to complete any additionally required paperwork and meet compliance requirements. 3.10 By-Invitation Brown Events Events with Invited Speakers sponsored by Brown for which the audience is determined by invitations sent to individuals (events that are not open to mass audiences or the general public) are not subject to this full policy, but must remain in compliance with relevant statutes and laws governing all Brown activities, as well as other applicable Brown policies. This includes campus events with Invited Speakers and events with Invited Speakers sponsored by Brown off campus and encompasses, but is not limited to, events with invited alumni, parents and friends of Brown. By-Invitation Brown Events remain subject to the following: University codes of conduct; Brown’s Event Disruption Protocol Policy through which the University may determine the time, place and manner of events for reasons of safety, security and limiting interference with University operations; Brown’s Political Activity Policy; Privacy laws governing the use of an individual’s image for marketing purposes; Requirements for the Brown University Supplier and Individual Payee Registration Form for individuals who will receive monetary compensation from Brown; Standards for accessibility; The policy for Use Of Campus Space By External Third Parties; Policies for use of Brown’s trademarked name, logo and marks; and Any applicable policies for use of Brown University resources. 4.0 Definitions For the purpose of this policy, the terms below have the following definitions: Brown Public Program or Event: A non-course related event open to participants — either on a first-come basis, through registration or ticketing — that is represented to participants as being sponsored by Brown by virtue of the Sponsor’s status as a Recognized Brown University Community Member. This includes events open to mass audiences rather than identified individuals (e.g., open to all students, all Brown ID holders, members of the general public, etc.). This includes such events, whether they take place on or off campus. This does not include course-related academic events (seminars, webinars, lectures, etc.) that are not open to the public; small-scale academic events (typically 20 or fewer participants) that are opened to the public for the purpose of facilitating involvement by other academics, scholars or practitioners with the specific intent of contributing to or enriching research or academic or scholarly work; or private or by-invitation programs or events. Brown Venue or Facility: Space on or off the Brown University campus identified or contracted for Brown’s use. By-Invitation Brown Event: Events or programs sponsored by Brown with a designated list of identified individuals invited to participate or attend. This does not include course-related academic events (seminars, webinars, lectures, etc.) that are not open to the public, and also does not include private or by-invitation programs or events. Invited Speaker/s or Guest/s: An individual invited to deliver remarks as a core aspect of a Brown Public Event or Program, or otherwise present as a core aspect of the Brown Public Program or Event, who is not a Recognized Brown University Community Member, as defined in this policy. This does not include individuals providing introductions or remarks that are not part of the core speaking program. For the purposes of this Policy, any reference to Invited Speaker/s is inclusive also of Invited Guest/s who are speaking or presenting as a core aspect of the Brown Public Program or Event. Recognized Brown University Community Member: An academic or administrative unit; a faculty member (or individual with an academic appointment at Brown); staff member on behalf of their academic or administrative unit; a student organization recognized by Brown’s Student Activities Office; or a member of the Corporation of Brown University or member of a Standing Committee of the Corporation. Sponsor: The Brown University Community Member, or their representative, responsible for Brown’s engagement with the Invited Speaker or Guest, including responsibility for organization, logistics, costs (staffing, AV, security and other costs, as needed) and adherence to Brown policies. 5.0 Responsibilities All individuals to whom this policy applies are responsible for becoming familiar with and following this policy. University supervisors are responsible for promoting the understanding of this policy and for taking appropriate steps to help ensure compliance with it. 6.0 Consequences for Violating this Policy For Brown Community Members, failure to comply with this and related policies is subject to disciplinary action, up to and including suspension without pay, or termination of employment or association with the University, in accordance with applicable (e.g., staff, faculty, student, student organization) disciplinary procedures. For non-employees, failure to comply may result in the suspension or revocation of the individual’s relationship with Brown University. Other consequences include, but are not limited, to denial, cancellation or postponement of an Invited Speaker or Guest. 7.0 Related Information Brown University is a community in which employees are encouraged to share workplace concerns with University leadership. Additionally, Brown’s Anonymous Reporting Hotline allows anonymous and confidential reporting on matters of concern online or by phone (877-318-9184). The following information complements and supplements this document. The information is intended to help explain this policy and is not an all-inclusive list of policies, procedures, laws and requirements. 7.1 Related Policies: Access to Campus for News Media University Code of Conduct Brown University Name Use Policy Visual Identity Policy and Strategy Event Disruption Protocol Brown Image Use Policy Political Activity Policy Supplier Registration Use Of Campus Space By External Third Parties Faculty Rules & Regulations Protest and Demonstration Policy Student Code of Conduct 7.2 Related Procedures: Checklist for Brown Event Sponsors Contract Review at Strategic Purchasing, Contracts and Insurance Event Accessibility 7.3 Related Forms: Brown University Guest Speaker Agreement Brown University Image Use General Consent and Release Brown University General Recording Consent and Release Brown University Supplier and Individual Payee Registration Form Honorarium Payment Form Supplier Registration (W-9) 7.4 Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs): N/A 7.5 Other Related Information: N/A Policy Owner and Contact(s) Policy Owner: Provost and Executive Vice President for Planning and Policy Policy Approved by: President Contact Information: Faculty and Staff: Event Strategy and Management Email 401-863-3100 Student Organizations: Student Activities Office, Division of Campus Life Email 401-863-2341 Policy History Policy Issue Date: December 13, 2021 Policy Effective Date: December 13, 2021 Policy Update/Review Summary: Policy provisions aggregated and updated in 2021 from existing University policies with provisions regarding and/or content relevant to invited speakers and guests dating from 1966 to 2020. Webpage Updated May 16, 2022 Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home All Policies New & Updated Policies This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Invited Speakers and Guests Policy Open details for Invited Speakers and Guests Policy Bookmark this Page