Skip to Main Content Brown University Political Science Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Message from the Chair Diversity and Inclusion Statement Contact Us People Faculty Associated Faculty Visiting Faculty & Postdoctoral Fellows Emeriti In Memoriam Graduate Students Staff Undergraduate Concentration Requirements Honors Program Recognition Advising Career Planning & Placement Graduate Admission Program at a Glance Dissertation Placements Graduate Fellowships Ph.D. Job Market Candidates News Faculty Publications Search Political Science Graduate Program Sub Navigation In This Section Admission Program at a Glance Dissertation Placements Graduate Fellowships Graduate Program Handbook Download the handbook Graduate Program Brown's community of graduate students, postdoctoral fellows, visiting scholars, and faculty members in political science is a close and collegial one. We are committed to excellence in research and teaching, to methodological excellence, and to interdisciplinarity. We have grown from 35 Ph.D. students in 2008 to 52 Ph.D. students today. Our students benefit from the opportunity to work closely with leading scholars; they enjoy access to first rate libraries, a variety of research centers and institutes, and strong support for their own scholarship – from fieldwork to methods workshops to conference travel. All of our graduate students receive five years of guaranteed funding with summer support, in a combination of fellowships and teaching assistantships, and where appropriate, students receive a 6th year of support. There are also additional interdisciplinary fellowship opportunities at Brown which many of our students secure. Overall, Brown provides in-depth research and pedagogical training through research and coauthorship opportunities with faculty, as well as to be Teaching Fellows. Subfields American Politics The American politics subfield at Brown focuses on the interaction of institutions, political behavior, race and ethnicity, urban affairs, and public policy, each studied under the rubric of multimethod analysis. Our faculty and graduate students enjoy especially close ties with the Taubman Center for American Politics & Policy, the Urban Studies Program, and the Annenberg Institute. Building on these ties, Political Science graduate students have become national leaders in the study of American political institutions, race & ethnicity, gender, and education policy. Comparative Politics Comparative politics at Brown has particular strengths in the political economy of development; ethnic identity and conflict; the politics of social welfare; and regime change. Our faculty are engaged in broadly comparative as well as regionally focused research, including China, Latin America, Russia, South Asia, and they employ qualitative and quantitative methods in their research. Graduate students also have access to interdisciplinary faculty through Brown's Watson Institute for International & Public Affairs, as well as interdisciplinary training opportunities through the Graduate Program in Development Studies, and the Population Studies Training Center. International Relations The International Relations faculty at Brown seek to emphasize how the study of 'the international' in a post-cold war, globalized environment necessarily stretches beyond such categories and invites linkages across other fields such as political psychology, political theory, and political economy. Our faculty structure their research and teaching thematically, offering graduate courses in areas such as money and finance, continuity and change in international orders, post-Cold War conflict, and International Relations theory. With the recent creation of the Rhodes Center for International Economics and Finance, there are expanded opportunities for students who want to focus more intently on the interaction of politics and economics in the global context. Political Theory The political theory subfield at Brown specializes in democratic theory and in classical and contemporary liberalism. It has strengths in the foundations of democratic authority and the meaning of rights; political theory and the law; race, ethnicity, and gender; democracy and political economy; political judgment and democratic deliberation; theories of freedom; American political thought; and civic engagement and the public/private divide. The faculty and students approach these topics both analytically and through the history of political thought. Graduate students work closely with department faculty as well as with associated faculty in departments as well as the Political Theory Project at Brown. Graduate Program Handbook Download the handbook Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Message from the Chair Diversity and Inclusion Statement Contact Us People Faculty Associated Faculty Visiting Faculty & Postdoctoral Fellows Emeriti In Memoriam Graduate Students Staff Undergraduate Concentration Requirements Honors Program Recognition Advising Career Planning & Placement Graduate Admission Program at a Glance Dissertation Placements Graduate Fellowships Ph.D. Job Market Candidates News Faculty Publications Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Graduate Program Open details for Graduate Program Bookmark this Page