Skip to Main Content Brown University University Policies Search Menu Site Navigation Home All Policies New & Updated Policies Search University Policies All Policies Policy Contact Office of Residential Life Email 401-863-3500 On-Campus Housing Requirement Policy Policy No. Issue Date Effective Date 12.10.01 December 8, 2021 December 8, 2021 1.0 Policy Purpose Residential college life is a critical component of the Brown educational experience. This policy reaffirms a long-standing institutional requirement that undergraduate students must have a housing assignment in an On-Campus Residence Hall for every semester of enrollment until they have reached semester level 07. 2.0 To Whom the Policy Applies This policy applies to degree-seeking undergraduate students semester levels 01-06. 3.0 Policy Statement Degree-seeking undergraduate students actively enrolled in courses at Brown University are required to have a housing assignment in an On-Campus Residence Hall for every semester of enrollment until semester level 07 unless they are on a study away or study abroad program approved by the Office of International Programs. Brown-RISD Dual Degree Students are required to have a housing assignment in an On-Campus Residence Hall at Rhode Island School of Design (RISD) during semesters 01 and 02 and at Brown during semesters 03 and 04. After semester 04, students may live in a housing assignment in an On-Campus Residence Hall at Brown or RISD or off-campus. The Office of Residential Life may grant exceptions to this policy upon request in academic year increments to: students living Locally with their spouse or legal domestic partner; students living Locally with their child(ren) or other dependent(s); Resumed Undergraduate Education (RUE) Students; students living Locally with their parent(s) or legal guardian(s) at their permanent address; and students who will be 23 years old by the first day of fall semester classes. Undergraduate students eligible for an exception under these circumstances may request an exception from the Office of Residential Life by completing the Non-Resident Intent Form. This form must be completed each academic year. Students with disabilities may request reasonable modifications to this policy by contacting Student Accessibility Services at SAS@brown.edu or 401-863-9588. 4.0 Definitions For the purpose of this policy, the terms below have the following definitions: Brown-RISD Dual Degree Students: Students admitted to the Brown-RISD dual degree program in order to receive a Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science (A.B. or Sc.B.) degree from Brown and a Bachelor of Fine Arts (B.F.A.) degree from RISD. Locally: At an address within 30 miles of the Brown campus. On-Campus Residence Hall: Residential facility to which students are assigned and billed by the Office of Residential Life. Resumed Undergraduate Education (RUE) Students: Students admitted as part of the RUE program having completed high school at least six years prior to their intended enrollment at Brown and having interrupted or delayed their pursuit of a college degree. 5.0 Responsibilities All individuals to whom this policy applies are responsible for becoming familiar with and following this policy. Office of Residential Life: Will communicate with students covered by this policy to inform them of the process by which on-campus housing assignments will be made and will determine the housing charge for a room in a residence hall. Student Financial Services/Bursar: Will apply the housing charge to the student account. 6.0 Consequences for Violating this Policy Failure to comply with this and related policies is subject to disciplinary action in accordance with applicable student disciplinary procedures. Students covered by this policy are required to pay the housing charge on the student account. 7.0 Related Information Brown University is a community in which employees are encouraged to share workplace concerns with University leadership. Additionally, Brown’s Anonymous Reporting Hotline allows anonymous and confidential reporting on matters of concern online or by phone (877-318-9184). The following information complements and supplements this document. The information is intended to help explain this policy and is not an all-inclusive list of policies, procedures, laws and requirements. 7.1 Related Policies: Residential Life Policies and Rules 7.2 Related Procedures: N/A 7.3 Related Forms: Non-Resident Intent Form 7.4 Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs): N/A 7.5 Other Related Information: N/A Policy Owner and Contact(s) Policy Owner: Vice President for Campus Life and Student Services Policy Approved by: President Contact Information: Office of Residential Life Email 401-863-3500 Policy History Policy Issue Date: December 8, 2021 Policy Effective Date: December 8, 2021 Policy Update/Review Summary: This policy was submitted to the Brown Comprehensive Policy Review process to reaffirm and codify this long-standing institutional requirement. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home All Policies New & Updated Policies This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search On-Campus Housing Requirement Policy Open details for On-Campus Housing Requirement Policy Bookmark this Page