Skip to content Policies, Regulations & Rules Toggle navigation View All… Policies Regulations Rules Repealed Student PRRs Definitions Feedback Handbooks Overview Resources What’s New Search Search for: Search REG 02.20.03 – Attendance Regulations Past Versions of REG.02.20.03 View previous versions of this regulation. Submit Feedback We encourage you to submit feedback if you have comments or questions about this regulation. View All… All Policies All Regulations All Rules All Repealed All Student PRRs Select a Category Governance & Administration Board of Trustees Board of Trustees of the Endowment Fund Board of Visitors Delegation of Authority Governance – General Honorary Degrees, Awards and Distinctions Academic Affairs Academic Progress Admissions, Graduate Admissions, Undergraduate Courses, Undergraduate Degree Requirements, Graduate Degree Requirements, Undergraduate Faculty, Graduate School Grades and Courses, Graduate School Grades, Undergraduate International Affairs Library Registration & Records Scholarships & Financial Aid University Scholars Program (USP) Advancement Campus Environment General Campus Environment PRRs Campus Police Environmental Safety Fire Protection Health, Safety and Welfare Non-Discrimination Personnel General Personnel PRRs Applying for Employment Cooperative Extension County Personnel Employees Exempt from the State Personnel Act (SPA) Employees Subject to the State Personnel Act (SPA) Faculty Post Tenure Review (PTR) Rules College of Agriculture & Life Sciences (CALS) College of Design College of Education College of Engineering College of Humanities & Social Sciences (CHASS) College of Natural Resources College of Sciences College of Textiles College of Veterinary Medicine Division of Academic & Student Affairs (DASA) Poole College of Management Professorship Awards Reappointment Promotion and Tenure (RPT) Rules College of Agriculture & Life Sciences (CALS) College of Design College of Education College of Engineering College of Humanities & Social Sciences (CHASS) College of Natural Resources College of Sciences College of Textiles College of Veterinary Medicine Division of Academic & Student Affairs (DASA) Poole College of Management Grievances & Review Leave Mediation Outside Employment & Activities Payroll Performance Management and Review Recruitment and Hiring Retirement Extension & Engagement Centennial Campus Continuing Education Cooperative Extension Copyright Use of McKimmon Conference and Training Center (MCTC) Finance Operations & Auxillary Services Accounts Payable Bookstore Budget Construction Services Facilities Financial Services General Finance Operations & Auxillary PRRs Insurance and Risk Management Property Purchasing Real Estate Student Accounts Transportation Travel Information Technology Intercollegiate Athletics Research & Sponsored Activities General Research PRRs Contract and Grants Research Administration Student Activities & Services Academic Affairs Campus Recreation Craft Center Dining Gallery of Art & Design General Student Activities & Services PRRs Housing Student Discipline Student Grievance Student Health Services Student Organizations Talley Student Center Ticket Central Salary Administration/Compensation PRR Archives Authority: Executive Vice Chancellor and Provost History: First Issued: 1966. Last Revised: November 30, 2010. Related Policies: NCSU REG02.20.02 – Adding and Dropping Courses Additional References: Diversity Calendar Contact Info: Department of Registration and Records (919-515-2572) 1. INTRODUCTION Full participation in classes, laboratory period and examinations is expected of all students. Instructors in 100- and 200-level courses must keep a record of attendance throughout the semester. The instructor’s attendance policy, including procedures for submitting excuses and for scheduling makeup work when the excuses are accepted, shall be clearly defined in the syllabus to be distributed on the first day of class. Instructors may use reasonable academic penalties commensurate with the importance of the work missed because of unexcused absences. Students may be asked to provide documentation for multiple consecutive class absences or frequent single class absences. 2. DROP FOR NON-ATTENDANCE By the third class/laboratory period or the fifth business day of the semester (whichever comes first) students who have not attended class or contacted the instructor regarding his/her absence may be dropped from the undergraduate class roll. This drop will be initiated by the Associate Dean of the College upon the request of the department. The student may petition the department for readmission to the class if s/he has been dropped in error, or in the event of students with extenuating circumstances, provided the request is received by the tenth business day of the semester. Students who intend to drop a course continue to have the responsibility to officially drop and are encouraged to do this on a timely basis, following normal university procedures. 3. EXCUSED ABSENCES NC State University has a commitment to all students, including those who represent the University in official capacities. Students shall receive excused absences for a reasonable number of anticipated absences as well as for emergencies as specified below. 3.1 Anticipated Absences. Excuses for anticipated absences must be cleared with the instructor before the absence. Examples of anticipated situations where a student would qualify for an excused absence are: 3.1.1 The student is away from campus representing an official university function, e.g., participating in a professional meeting, as part of a judging team, or athletic team. These students would typically be accompanied by a University faculty or staff member. 3.1.2 Required court attendance as certified by the Clerk of Court. 3.1.3 Students will be allowed a minimum of two excused absences per academic year for religious observances as verified by the Division of Academic and Student Affairs (DASA) (absence-verification@ncsu.eduThis link will open in a new window). For more information about a variety of religious observances, visit the Diversity Calendar. 3.1.4 Required military duty as certified by the student’s commanding officer. 3.2 Unanticipated Absences. Excuses for unanticipated absences must be reported to the instructor as soon as possible, but not more than one week after the return to class. Examples of unanticipated absences are: 3.2.1 Short-term illness or injury affecting the ability to attend or to be productive academically while in class, or that could jeopardize the health of the individual or the health of the classmates attending. Students must notify instructors prior to the class absence, if possible, that they are temporarily unable to attend class or complete assignments on time. 3.2.2 Death or serious illnesses in the family when documented appropriately. An attempt to verify deaths or serious illness will be made by the Division of Academic and Student Affairs (absence-verification@ncsu.eduThis link will open in a new window ). 3.3 There is no University-wide definition of a reasonable number of permissible excused absences. The instructor, in lieu of a University policy, is responsible for determining the acceptable number of excused absences in his/her class. The instructor may wish to use the elements of the Add Policy (e.g., the number of class meetings normally held during the Add period at the beginning of the semester; see NCSU REG02.20.02 – Adding and Dropping Courses, as a guideline in making this determination.) 3.4 Because each instructor has the responsibility to implement grading procedures that are fair and equitable, the instructor shall devise a system for making up missed assignments and examinations that does not unfairly penalize the student when an excused absence is accepted. Such make-up work shall be at a comparable level of difficulty with the original assignment or examination. Make-up examinations shall be at a time and place mutually agreeable to the instructor and student. 3.5 When excused absences are accepted, the instructor shall hold all students with excused absences to the same standard for making up missed assignments or examinations. 3.6 In a case where the student realizes in the first two weeks of class that the anticipated number of absences will exceed the number of excused absences permitted in the course, the student shall discuss the situation with the instructor, the student’s adviser, or the academic dean in the college in which the student is enrolled. It is anticipated that a suitable resolution shall occur before the end of the second week of the semester. Audience: Students. Category: Courses, Undergraduate. Policies, Regulations & Rules Copyright © 2022 · NC State University · Accessibility · Privacy · University Policies · Log in NC State University North Carolina State University Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011