Skip to Main Content Brown University University Policies Search Menu Site Navigation Home All Policies New & Updated Policies Search University Policies All Policies Policy Contact Jeanne Hebert Senior Director, Strategic Purchasing, Contracts & Insurance Email 401-863-3366 Supplier Diversity Policy Introduction The University is committed to developing mutually beneficial relationships with small, minority-owned, women-owned, disadvantaged, veteran owned and local business enterprises. The Supplier Diversity Policy reflects Brown's desire to create opportunity for suppliers to market their products to the University and to encourage University departments/schools to offer opportunities to such suppliers. Policy Statement When all business considerations are determined to be equal among competitive suppliers, the University will award contracts to local small businesses, minority owned business enterprises (MBE), women owned business enterprises (WBE), disadvantaged, and veteran owned businesses. The Campus Community is encouraged to explore opportunities to obtain services and goods from certified diversity suppliers that can provide competitive quality and pricing. Responsibilities Strategic Purchasing, Contracts & Insurance: Encourage departments to explore opportunities to include and utilize small, minority-owned diversity suppliers (MBE/WBE) to compete for business and from whom to obtain goods and services whenever possible. Department Managers: All department managers should explore opportunities to obtain goods and services from diversity suppliers. Procedures The Strategic Purchasing, Contracts & Insurance Department will participate with local initiatives in order to maintain awareness of resources and will encourage diversity suppliers to meet with staff to review product/service specifications, and review supplier qualifications including licenses, certification, and insurance requirements as appropriate. The Strategic Purchasing, Contracts & Insurance Department will assist as a departmental resource in the development of MBE sub-contract spending goals for Federally funded research projects as required by PL 95-507, 1978 to contracts in excess of $500,000 and $1,000,000 for construction. Departments should search the local state government websites to identify diversity suppliers whenever possible. Related Links Search for Diversity Suppliers through the Rhode Island Minority and Disadvanta… Search for Diversity Suppliers through the Massachusetts Directory of Certified… Search for Diversity Suppliers through the Connecticut Supplier Diversity Progr… Search for Registered Veteran Businesses in VA database Search for HUB Zone businesses in SBA Database Policy Owner Approved By Executive Vice President for Finance and Chief Financial Officer Contact Info Jeanne Hebert Senior Director, Strategic Purchasing, Contracts & Insurance Email 401-863-3366 Policy Last Reviewed March 25, 2019 Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home All Policies New & Updated Policies This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Supplier Diversity Policy Open details for Supplier Diversity Policy Bookmark this Page