Skip to Main Content Brown University Political Science Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Message from the Chair Diversity and Inclusion Statement Contact Us People Faculty Associated Faculty Visiting Faculty & Postdoctoral Fellows Emeriti In Memoriam Graduate Students Staff Undergraduate Concentration Requirements Honors Program Recognition Advising Career Planning & Placement Graduate Admission Program at a Glance Dissertation Placements Graduate Fellowships Ph.D. Job Market Candidates News Faculty Publications Search Political Science News News Archive 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 @brownupolisci on Twitter Follow us News Brown's distinguished political science faculty includes experts on today's most important global and domestic issues, from democratic erosion and income inequality to nuclear security and climate change. They write essays in leading newspapers and magazines and are regularly quoted in the media. More News from Brown Political Science The Washington Post Men can help persuade other men on women’s rights, our research finds May 25, 2022 People do change their minds, even on issues like abortion, where attitudes have hardened. Read Article Open details for Men can help persuade other men on women’s rights, our research finds The Christian Science Monitor Why Fed says fighting inflation is Job 1, despite recession risk May 25, 2022 But the reality is that the Fed is the world’s de facto central bank, says Mark Blyth, a professor of international economics at Brown University. He reckons that if the Fed overshoots in raising rates it could trigger “the mother of all capital flights” from riskier financial assets into U.S. bonds and other securities. And that destabilizing scenario could stay the hands of Fed policymakers who might otherwise want to tighten more aggressively. Read Article Open details for Why Fed says fighting inflation is Job 1, despite recession risk The Indian Express Gyanvapi: Court must follow law not faith May 23, 2022 Attempt to reclaim mosque for Hindu religious purposes flatly contradicts the Constitution. Read Article Open details for Gyanvapi: Court must follow law not faith The National Scottish independence: Andrew Wilson rejects claims by 'doomsayers' May 22, 2022 Mark says, “Given the fact that we can’t probably estimate with any degree of precision what would actually happen, why not bet on the good side? It is equiprobable." Read Article Open details for Scottish independence: Andrew Wilson rejects claims by &#039;doomsayers&#039; The Hill Abortion battle moves to homes of Supreme Court justices May 9, 2022 Abortion rights activists in recent days have gathered outside the homes of three conservative Supreme Court justices to protest Roe v. Wade’s potential demise, taking their advocacy in an intensely personal and politically divisive direction. Read Article Open details for Abortion battle moves to homes of Supreme Court justices Baaghi India may enter into the stage of Muslim genocide May 8, 2022 While explaining why there is a sudden upsurge in anti-Muslim violence seen in India, Varshney said, “I have studied communal riots since the 1990s, but the current violence against Muslims in India is very different and India may be entering the stage of the anti-Muslim pogrom.” Read Article Open details for India may enter into the stage of Muslim genocide The Wire Podcast: India Might Be Entering the Stage of Pogroms Now May 3, 2022 Incidents of anti-Muslim violence are being reported from different parts of the country. What explains this sudden upsurge? Read Article Open details for Podcast: India Might Be Entering the Stage of Pogroms Now Trending Globally Earth Day Special: What the War in Ukraine Means for a Green Energy Transition April 22, 2022 Jeff Colgan talks on how Russia’s invasion of Ukraine altered the global fossil fuel market. Read Article Open details for Earth Day Special: What the War in Ukraine Means for a Green Energy Transition The Guardian Will Trump’s ‘reckless’ endorsements be a referendum on his political power? April 16, 2022 Some say his bets on extreme candidates are risky, as losses could threaten his role as king and kingmaker in the Republican party. Read Article Open details for Will Trump’s ‘reckless’ endorsements be a referendum on his political power? @brownupolisci on Twitter Follow us Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Message from the Chair Diversity and Inclusion Statement Contact Us People Faculty Associated Faculty Visiting Faculty & Postdoctoral Fellows Emeriti In Memoriam Graduate Students Staff Undergraduate Concentration Requirements Honors Program Recognition Advising Career Planning & Placement Graduate Admission Program at a Glance Dissertation Placements Graduate Fellowships Ph.D. Job Market Candidates News Faculty Publications Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search News Open details for News Bookmark this Page