Skip to Main Content Brown University Political Science Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Message from the Chair Diversity and Inclusion Statement Contact Us People Faculty Associated Faculty Visiting Faculty & Postdoctoral Fellows Emeriti In Memoriam Graduate Students Staff Undergraduate Concentration Requirements Honors Program Recognition Advising Career Planning & Placement Graduate Admission Program at a Glance Dissertation Placements Graduate Fellowships Ph.D. Job Market Candidates News Faculty Publications Search Political Science Career Planning and Placement Breadcrumb Home Undergraduate Program Sub Navigation In This Section Concentration Requirements Honors Program Recognition Advising Career Planning & Placement Career Planning and Placement Roughly two-thirds of the students who concentrate in political science at Brown go on to pursue careers in teaching, government service, or law. For the rest, the political science concentration points in many different directions. Our graduates report such varied activities as graduate study in MBA programs, military service, communications, and hospital administration. By far the category that attracts the largest percentage of our graduates is business and industry. At 26 percent of all political science concentrators at Brown, employment in the private sector ranks as the second most popular career option, after law school (30%). The significance of these statistics is clear: political science has a wide range of applications and provides a useful preparation for a variety of career options. While it is an appropriate base for advanced professional study and for government service, it also frequently serves as a springboard into business, industry, and such related careers as journalism, communications, research, publishing, advocacy work, and government affairs. How to Prepare A good way to explore the various alternatives is to use the extensive resources in the Career Planning Office. The staff is helpful and informed about career opportunities, and we strongly encourage an early visit to that office. As you think about possible career paths for yourself, here are some things to consider: Start exploring options early. Research your areas of interest and talk to people currently in the field. Consider the benefits of acquiring some special skill or talent that other applicants in your area may not have. Your options may be enhanced by acquiring foreign language proficiency, computer programming skills, quantitative techniques, research methods, accounting, and perhaps a set of courses in a related area. Consider an internship experience, foreign study, or a summer workshop. In some fields, graduate training or advanced study is a must. Find out which examinations may be necessary for the career path you are considering, such as the GRE, LSAT, or civil service exam. Talk to someone knowledgeable about the timetable that you will need to follow. Start preparing early. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Message from the Chair Diversity and Inclusion Statement Contact Us People Faculty Associated Faculty Visiting Faculty & Postdoctoral Fellows Emeriti In Memoriam Graduate Students Staff Undergraduate Concentration Requirements Honors Program Recognition Advising Career Planning & Placement Graduate Admission Program at a Glance Dissertation Placements Graduate Fellowships Ph.D. Job Market Candidates News Faculty Publications Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Career Planning and Placement Open details for Career Planning and Placement Bookmark this Page