Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Florida State University Police Department Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home Organization Message From the Chief Accreditation Command Staff Crime Prevention & Outreach Investigations Motorcycle Unit Public Safety Officers Special Operations Training Uniform Patrol FSUPD Organizational Chart Campus Access & Security Services (CASS) Emergency Management FSUPD Dispatch Transportation & Parking Services (TAPS) Report a Crime Report Hazing Missing Persons Florida Sexual Offenders and Predators Search Campus Trespass Warning Services & Resources Lost and Found Resources Safety Connection Victims Rights Brochures 2021 FSU Game Day Plan What to Expect when Reporting a crime on FSU's Campus Clery Act Contact Us Employment FAQs Annual Security Report FSU Alert FSU Crime & Fire Logs Records Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Florida State University Police Department Toggle navigation Home Organization Message From the Chief Accreditation Command Staff Crime Prevention & Outreach Investigations Motorcycle Unit Public Safety Officers Special Operations Training Uniform Patrol FSUPD Organizational Chart Campus Access & Security Services (CASS) Emergency Management FSUPD Dispatch Transportation & Parking Services (TAPS) Report a Crime Report Hazing Missing Persons Florida Sexual Offenders and Predators Search Campus Trespass Warning Services & Resources Lost and Found Resources Safety Connection Victims Rights Brochures 2021 FSU Game Day Plan What to Expect when Reporting a crime on FSU's Campus Clery Act Contact Us Employment FAQs Annual Security Report FSU Alert FSU Crime & Fire Logs Records Home Services & Resources Crime Prevention Resources Active Shooter Training Campus Safety & Fire Report Citizen's Police Academy Adopt-A-C.O.P.P. Rape Aggression Defense (RAD) Training kNOw MOre- Sexual Violence Prevention Speak Out & Stand Up- Preventing Sexual Assault (Video) Culture of Silence-What is Stalking? (Video) Wasted Youth-The Dangers of Drinking and Driving (Video) Register Personal Property FSUPD Motorsports Team Lost and Found Resources Safety Connection Victims Rights Brochures 2021 FSU Game Day Plan What to Expect when Reporting a crime on FSU's Campus Services & Resources Protect Yourself Reporting a Crime on FSU Campus Please click the link below to find out more information. What to expect when reporting a crime on the campus of FSU. Safety Connection Safety Connection provides an instant way for Students, Faculty, and Staff to call for help, leading to an improved response time and de-escalation of a situation. One of the platform’s features includes multiple mobile panic buttons, depending on the emergency. More Information Register Your Personal Property You can register your personal property with the FSU Police Department. The information is secure and is only used by law enforcement in the event your property is lost or stolen. This is a free service for FSU Students and Employees. If assistance or additional information is needed please contact the FSUPD Crime Prevention Section at 850-644-3660 or 850-644-1388. Register Personal Property S.A.F.E. Connection Welcome to S.A.F.E. Connection: A Crime Prevention Program Dedicated to Saving Student Lives S.A.F.E. Connection (Student Alert Force Escort Connection) is a free service provided to FSU Students, and promotes awareness of the dangers of driving under the influence of alcohol. S.A.F.E. Connection is sponsored by the Student Government Association and is an affiliated project with FSU Transportation and Parking Services. The service is currently limited to the FSU campus. For questions and concerns please email safeconnection@fsu.edu. For general information, call (850) 644-1234. Travel around campus is available nightly, 7 days a week, from 7:00PM - 2:30AM when classes are in session. If you need a ride, please call (850) 644-SAFE (7233). Blue Light Trail The Blue Light Trail consists of over 400 strategically placed light poles equipped with emergency speaker phones and topped with strobe lights. If you are threatened, see anything suspicious or require any type of police assistance quickly, just push the emergency button to be connected with the FSU Police dispatcher. More Information Computer & Digital Security The FSU Police Department receives many complaints about internet scams, including phishing, online auction fraud and identity theft, to the old ‘work from home and make lots of money’ offers. We would like you to be aware of these typical scams, so you can avoid being victimized. The Information Security and Privacy Office (ISPO) under FSU Information Technology Services (ITS) oversees IT security at FSU. Visit security.fsu.edu for more information. For questions or concerns contact the ITS Service Desk, (850) 644-HELP(4357), or email security@fsu.edu. Phishing: If you receive email you suspect may be a phishing attempt, forward the email with all headers attached to:phishing@antiphishing.org, and spam@uce.gov. If the email comes through a campus email account, it can be forwarded, with all headers attached, to abuse@fsu.edu. Do not respond, do not click on any links, and if you suspect something is awry with your account, contact the company via a reputable point of contact, not the information found in the email. Online Auction Fraud / Check Overpayment Scams Federal Trade Commission Consumer Information Protect Myself from Cyber Attacks (US Department of Homeland Security) Report Cyber Incidents (US Department of Homeland Security) RAD (Rape Aggressive Defense) Training RAD is a program of realistic self-defense tactics and techniques for women. The RAD system is a comprehensive, women-only course of instruction that begins with awareness, prevention, risk, and risk avoidance. Click here for more information. Sexual Violence Prevention Resources Title IX Office The kNOw MORE sexual violence prevention initiative is about action, education, and the continuum of care for our students, faculty, and staff. Click here for more information. RESOURCES Medical Response Unit The Florida State University Volunteer Medical Response Unit functions as a basic life support quick response unit at Florida State University. The unit provides a safety net on the FSU campus in case of medical emergencies IN ADDITION to the normal response already provided by the FSU Police Department and the community 911 system. Medical Response Unit Records It is the FSU Police Department’s policy to ensure that public records in the department’s custody are maintained and managed as required by the Florida Public Records Law. This law provides that all materials made or received by FSU Police Department and local government agencies in connection with their official business are public records. The FSU Police Department Records Section places a high priority on efficient, effective, and economical management of public records to ensure that information is available when and where it is needed, in an organized and efficient manner, and in an appropriate environment. Hours of Operation: Monday – Friday 8:00 am – 4:00 pm PUBLIC RECORDS REQUESTS Public records requests shall be accepted in writing, by electronic mail, by telephone, by facsimile, or in person. While a request is not required to be made in writing, a written request will help the Records Section provide a more accurate response in a shorter period of time. Email: FSUPD-RecordsDept@fsu.edu Telephone Number: 850-644-1603 or 850-645-9291 Fax Number: 850-644-0966 Address: 830 West Jefferson Street Tallahassee, FL 32306-4215 TRAFFIC CRASH REPORTS Traffic crash reports are exempt from public disclosure for 60 days after the date the report is filed, except for parties involved in the crash and other specific parties outlined in the statute. This statute also provides criminal penalties (third degree felony) for the unlawful disclosure of confidential personal information and for unlawfully obtaining or attempting to obtain confidential personal information. Involved parties can obtain a crash report in person at the FSU Police Department. All other interested parties visit www.flhsmv.gov/traffic-crash-reports FINGERPRINTING SERVICES FSU Police Department does not conduct background checks however we do offer fingerprint services at no charge to all students, faculty and staff affiliated with Florida State University. All non-affiliated individuals will be charged a flat rate of $5.00 for fingerprinting services if a fingerprint card is obtained. Forms of payment include exact cash, check, or money order (made payable to FSU Police Department). Fingerprint Hours: Tuesday – Friday 1:00 pm – 3:00 pm FSU Police and Fire Logs Forms Alarm Account Information Sheet (Print Only)- This form is used to create, or update alarm account information. Fax the completed form to 850-644-3205 Bicycle Registration - The bicycle registration form is no longer available through our website. Please contact the crime prevention unit at (850) 644-1388 or (850) 644-3660 in order to complete the bicycle registration process. Ride- Along (Fill In PDF)- If you would like to Ride with a Professionally Trained Law Enforcement Officer, bring the completed form to our Department. Community Commendation (Print Only)- If you would like to gives us a "Pat on our Back" for a job well done, please bring the completed form to our Department. Community Commendation (Fill In) Inventory Shortage (Fill In) Criminal History Checks - Criminal History Checks are no longer performed by the FSU Police Department (effective October 1, 2007). For FSU departments who wish to have a background check on a prospective employee, please contact one of the following: Drew Meehan: 644-7701 April Smatt: 644- 6035 Diane Hamilton: 644-7706 Citizens Complaint (Print Only)- If there should be a need to bring a complaint to our attention, please feel free to complete this form and bring it in to our Department and we will look into the matter. Citizens Complaint (Fill In) Discrimination Report Form Victim's Rights Victim Advocate Program: If you or someone you care about has been the victim of a crime you may need to talk with someone about your options. It is not uncommon to experience a broad range of emotions including fear, confusion, anger, quilt, frustration, and tremendous sense of loss. These are all NORMAL reactions to what has happened. Victim Right's Brochures Lost and Found If you have lost an item, we may have it. Email our Evidence department at lostandfound@fsu.edu. Florida State University Police Policies To enhance transparency, the Florida State University Police Department is making its internal policies available to public here online. FSUPD Policies title-inside title-centered 2 FSUPD Headquarters Florida State University Police Department 830 West Jefferson Street PO Box 3064215 Tallahassee FL, 32306 Map Location P: (850) 644-1234 F: (850) 644-3205 FSUPD Panama City Florida State University Panama City 4750 Collegiate Drive Panama City FL, 32405 Map Location P: (850) 872-4250 F: (850) 770-2721 Transportation & Parking Services 104 N. Woodward Ave Tallahassee, FL 32306 Map Location Email: transportation@fsu.edu P: (850) 644-5278 F: (850) 644-0008 M-F, 8am-5pm FSUPD Intranet © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media