Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search University of Notre Dame Notre Dame Police Department Campus Safety and University Operations Home Contact Search Menu Home › Parking Services › ADA Accessible Parking ADA Accessible Parking The University of Notre Dame provides ADA Accessible (handicap-designated) parking spaces for individuals with a valid state-issued ADA placard or license plate in accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act. A valid state-issued ADA placard or license plate accompanied by a valid Notre Dame parking permit must be displayed on the vehicle in the ADA Accessible space. Individuals parking on campus, regardless of whether they display an ADA permit, are subject to the same rules and regulations dictated by their Notre Dame permit type, including but not limited to timed-limited spaces and specially signed spaces (Reserved, Rector, Service Maintenance, etc.). Do NOT park in the striped access isle! IMPORTANT NOTE: Vehicles parked in an ADA space that do NOT display an ADA hangtag or are parked in the striped access aisle may be issued a citation and/or towed away at the owner's expense. Temporary or Permanent Disability Parking Placard/Plate (both Indiana and non-Indiana residents) In order to receive a disability parking placard or plate, you must complete an Application For Disability Parking Placard Or Disability Plate - State Form 42070. The application must be certified by a physician with a valid and unrestricted license. Please take the completed form to any Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles location to receive your ADA parking privileges. Download Application For Disability Parking Placard Or Disability Plate - State Form 42070 Obtaining Additional On-Campus Parking Accommodations Additional ADA Accessible parking accommodations may be requested through the Office of Institutional Equity (faculty/staff) or the Sara Bea Center (students). ADA Accessible Parking Spaces on Campus Please visit map.nd.edu and enable the Accessible Parking overlay to view locations of accessible spaces on campus. Home About NDPD Equity in Policing Our Services Crime Prevention and Safety Reporting Crime Parking Services Parking & Traffic Alerts Visitor & Guest Parking Student Parking Information Faculty/Staff Parking Information ADA Accessible Parking Violations, Towing & Penalties Sidewalk Access Permit Your Rights and Responsibilities Lost and Found Parking & Traffic Alerts Visitor & Guest Parking Student Parking Information Faculty/Staff Parking Information ADA Accessible Parking Violations, Towing & Penalties Sidewalk Access Permit Campus Safety and University Operations Notre Dame Police Department Hammes Mowbray Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA Phone (574) 631-5555 Fax (574) 631-9873 police@nd.edu Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube © 2022 University of Notre Dame Search Mobile App News Events Visit Accessibility Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn