Skip to Main Content Brown University Political Science Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Message from the Chair Diversity and Inclusion Statement Contact Us People Faculty Associated Faculty Visiting Faculty & Postdoctoral Fellows Emeriti In Memoriam Graduate Students Staff Undergraduate Concentration Requirements Honors Program Recognition Advising Career Planning & Placement Graduate Admission Program at a Glance Dissertation Placements Graduate Fellowships Ph.D. Job Market Candidates News Faculty Publications Search Political Science Graduate Program at a Glance Breadcrumb Home Graduate Program Sub Navigation In This Section Admission Program at a Glance Program Requirements Preliminary Examinations Current Courses Upcoming Courses Dissertation Placements Graduate Fellowships Graduate Program Handbook Download the handbook Graduate Program at a Glance Learn more about the program requirements and courses in the Political Science graduate program. Coursework Phase First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year First Year A first year full-time doctoral student normally registers for six courses. However, this does not preclude students from taking more than three courses per semester during their first year if they have a strong preference or rationale for doing so. In the first year, students must successfully complete the Research Methods (POLS2000) and the Quantitative Research Methods (POLS2580) requirements. If you enter the program with advanced quantitative training, you may petition the DGS to satisfy the statistics requirement with an advanced statistics class. During the first two years, students must take two of the four pro-seminars (American Politics, Comparative Politics, Political Theory, or International Relations.) These courses are designed to provide a broad knowledge of contemporary political science by subfield, and they are an integral part of preparation for the preliminary examinations. Since pro-seminars are usually offered every other year students should take the pro-seminars as soon as they are offered. All graduate students are also required to take one graduate level course in political theory. Second Year Students in their second year are required to register for six courses. Students holding TAships in their second year are required by the Graduate School to register for no more than three courses per semester. Students must complete twelve courses before taking preliminary exams. Also, students must successfully complete a minimum of two courses including the appropriate proseminar in those subfields the student is taking preliminary exams in. Third Year Students in their third year are required to register for POLS2050 (fall) and POLS2051(spring), a year long prospectus writing seminar worth one course credit. This course commences after students pass preliminary exams. Students will receive credit for this course only when they have successfully defended their prospectus, which in most cases will be at the end of their third year. Students who do not defend a prospectus by the end of the third year will receive a grade of incomplete until the prospectus has been defended. In such cases, the student will be asked to propose an alternative date for the defense with the full support of his/her dissertation committee, to be approved by the DGS. Students holding TAships in their third year are required by the Graduate School to register for no more than three courses per semester, if students choose to avail themselves of the option to take more courses. To round out your course requirements, you may choose from among a variety of research seminars at the 2000 level. In consultation with individual faculty members, you may set up an independent reading/research graduate course (POLS2980) for credit. A complete list of graduate seminars is available on courses.brown.edu. Students are required to achieve a minimum grade of B in each course in order to receive full department credit, however, grades of A are expected for the majority of coursework. Sub-par grade performance (less than a B) may be grounds for termination in the program. Fourth Year Students in their fourth year or above must register for POLS2990 every semester. This is a not for credit course and indicates active enrollment while preparing a thesis. If you were admitted to the Ph.D. program at Brown without a Master's degree in political science, you will be awarded the A.M. degree upon completion of eight courses with a grade of B or better. If you were admitted to the Ph.D. program with a Master's in political science from another university, you will not receive a second Master's degree from Brown on your way to the doctorate. Methods All students are required to take POLS2000 in the first year AND POLS2580 (the first in the graduate quantitative methods sequence) AND one graduate course in political theory. Students should follow the advice of their faculty advisors to gain any additional methods skills they may need, which may call for them to do more than the required courses. To support these requirements the department will regularly offer the following methods courses: POLS2000 - a survey of key models of research in political science, including sessions on the philosophy of social science; causality/relationships between variables; process tracing; quantitative and qualitative methods of data analysis; experimental logic; and methods of political theory. The course will normally be co-taught by two faculty members from different subfields. POLS2580 and 2590 - quantitative methods sequence Additional qualitative methods and other methods (e.g., experimental methods, methods in political theory, game theory) Students may consider augmenting their methods training with courses outside of the department. The four most popular courses are listed below but there is an extensive list linked here. Not all courses will be offered in all years. Please check cab.brown.edu. ECON 2260: Political Economy I ECON 2270: Political Economy II ECON 2320: Economics of Labor and Population (possibly called Applied Methods?) DATA 2020: Statistical Learning Keep in mind that graduate training is always a partnership. The faculty, through a mix of required and elective courses, puts together a program to help enable you to think, write, and scientifically and/or philosophically support your research projects. But the program here, as is the case elsewhere, presupposes that students will take responsibility for shaping and giving articulation to their own distinct research agendas and projects. And where necessary, we expect students will seek out additional intellectual pathways here at Brown or beyond. Incompletes At some point during your first two years in the program, you may find it necessary to take an incomplete in a graduate course. Please be aware that faculty generally regard incompletes as a warning sign that a student is having trouble balancing the various responsibilities and demands associated with graduate study. An incomplete is also a mortgage on your future, with the potential to seriously undermine your ability to perform satisfactorily in the ensuing semester. Therefore, you should make every effort to avoid taking incompletes. If it becomes necessary to take an "INC", please discuss the matter with the instructor and with the DGS so that it can be explained at the annual review. Department deadlines for incompletes are as follows: If the incomplete was taken for a course in the fall semester, coursework must be completed as indicated by a grade on the transcript by the first day of the spring semester of that academic year. If the incomplete was taken for a course in the spring semester, coursework must be completed as indicated by a grade on the transcript by June 30th at the end of the current academic year. No student with an incomplete shall be allowed to take a preliminary examination. Cross-Registration at Harvard University Harvard and Brown have agreed to allow cross-registration of graduate students in courses without paying tuition to the host institution. You will find an internet listing of graduate course offerings (2000-level) in the Harvard Government Department. If you are interested, you should obtain the appropriate forms from the Registrar's office and acquire the signatures of the DGS and dean of the Graduate School (Dean Tyler at Brown). Then take the form to Harvard and acquire the signatures of the DGS and dean of the Graduate School there. Harvard will keep the form and mail it back to the Registrar's Office at Brown who will manually register you for POLS2450. About the Exchange Scholar Program Transfer Credits Doctoral students who have completed graduate coursework elsewhere may apply to transfer up to 8 tuition credits toward the tuition unit requirements for the Ph.D. You are encouraged to do this in your second semester. Complete the appropriate transfer form and return it to the Registrar's Office. As long as a copy of your old transcript is on file at the Graduate School, a new copy will not need to be provided. Tuition units are not the same as course credits. Transferring tuition units will alleviate some of the financial burden on the Graduate School. It does not reduce the number of required 2000-level courses you must take in the Political Science Department. Graduate Program Handbook Download the handbook Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Message from the Chair Diversity and Inclusion Statement Contact Us People Faculty Associated Faculty Visiting Faculty & Postdoctoral Fellows Emeriti In Memoriam Graduate Students Staff Undergraduate Concentration Requirements Honors Program Recognition Advising Career Planning & Placement Graduate Admission Program at a Glance Dissertation Placements Graduate Fellowships Ph.D. Job Market Candidates News Faculty Publications Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Graduate Program at a Glance Open details for Graduate Program at a Glance Bookmark this Page