Skip Navigation menu Sign-ons CyMail Outlook Canvas AccessPlus Workday More Directory Maps Contact Us Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Policy Library Home About Policy Index Feedback menu Browse by Category Academics Business & Administration Facilities & Property Information & Technology Personnel, Conduct & Human Relations Research & Intellectual Property Safety & Health Student Life Handbooks & Manuals Faculty Handbook Graduate College Handbook Regents Policy Manual University Catalog Other Resources University Forms Records Retention Schedule ISU Compliance and Ethics Hotline Violence-Free University Effective: December 4, 2007 Updated/Revised: November 1, 2012 Reviewed and Updated: February 20, 2018 Contact: ISU Police Introduction The safety and security of the Iowa State University campus and community are very important. Our students, employees, and visitors should be able to pursue their education, work, and other activities in a safe, non-threatening environment. Unfortunately, violence can occur. Policy Statement Violence and Abuse Not Tolerated Violence, threats or implied threats of violence, and intimidation (verbal or physical acts intended to frighten or coerce) impede the goal of providing a safe environment and will not be tolerated. In addition, abuse of children or dependent adults, or any other vulnerable population is specifically prohibited by this policy. All students, employees, and visitors are covered by this policy as well as the policies referenced below. This policy applies to conduct on "campus," which by definition is not limited to central campus but includes all property owned or used by the university Weapons Weapons are governed by the university’s policy on Firearms and Other Weapons. Reporting As part of the university community, all students, employees, and visitors are responsible for reporting violence or abuse they experience or witness. Students, employees, and visitors should address emergencies by calling 911, whether they are on central campus or on other university property. For all other non-emergency concerns of violence and abuse, the students, employees, and visitors should notify the Iowa State University Police Division at 294-4428. The Iowa State University Police Division is the central location for tracking concerns of violence and abuse. It is important that the Police Division is made aware of concerns of violence even if they occur on property outside of central campus. Consistent with Iowa Code §262.9(36), university employees who in the course of employment receive information related to suspected physical or sexual abuse of children must immediately report such information to the Iowa State University Police. University employees who are mandatory reporters of all forms of child abuse (not just physical or sexual abuse) under state law also must fulfill their statutory obligation to report to the Department of Human Services as provided by Iowa Code §232.67-70. University employees, students and visitors who are not mandatory reporters are also strongly encouraged to report all forms of child abuse directly to the Department of Human Services as provided under Iowa Code §232.67-70. Scope All employees have the obligation to report under this policy except for professions which retain obligations of confidentiality under accepted codes of ethics. Such professions include: Employees of the Office of the Ombuds, as required by accepted Ombuds codes of ethics; Clergy, including any chaplains, as required by accepted standards of ethics; and Attorneys as required by the rules of professional responsibility, and specifically applicable to attorneys employed to provide legal assistance to students. Enforcement The university will pursue disciplinary, student judicial, civil or criminal action as appropriate under the circumstances against any person who violates this policy by engaging in such violence, threats of violence, or intimidation. Failure to report known or suspected violence or abuse is itself a breach of university ethical standards and can lead to discipline of employees and students, up to and including separation from the university. Threat Management The Critical Incident Response Team (CIRT) is an administrative group formed to promote awareness and responsiveness across the university to avoid or address situations that may involve violence, threats, intimidation, or property damage. In addition, a Threat Management Team, which is part of CIRT, may assist the Iowa State University Police Division and departments to assess situations involving the potential for violence. The Threat Management Team is staffed through the Iowa State University Police Division. Resources and Preparedness Iowa State University, as part of its annual communication on safety, will inform individuals of this policy and its related procedures and resources. Confidentiality Confidentiality of complaints and parties will be preserved to the greatest extent possible, understanding that the university may have an obligation to take some action even if the complainant is reluctant to proceed. Parties and witnesses to a complaint are also expected to maintain confidentiality of the matter, understanding that they will often not have all the facts and that they could impair the investigation by divulging information to persons outside of the investigatory process. Non-Retaliation The university’s policy on Non-Retaliation Against Persons Reporting Misconduct (see Resources below) applies to persons reporting under this policy. Resources Supporting a Violence-Free University Procedures for Supporting a Violence-Free University Reporting Responsibility policy Non-Retaliation Against Persons Reporting Misconduct policy Police Division, Iowa State University University Human Resources Dean of Students Office Employee Assistance Program Student Counseling Service Other Links Regarding Violence Faculty Conduct Policy--Criminal Acts or Violence (FHB 7.2.2.4) Student Code of Conduct --§4.2.3 Assault, Injury and Threat --§4.2.5 Sexual Misconduct --§4.2.13 Public Disorder, Group Violence and Mass Disturbance Uniform Rules of Personal Conduct, Iowa Administrative Code, Section 681-9.1 General Rules on Use of Grounds and Facilities, Iowa Administrative Code, Section 681-13.14 Conduct at Public Events, Iowa Administrative Code, Section 681-13.16 Iowa Criminal Code (beginning with Chapter 701) Other Links Regarding Abuse Child Abuse Reporting: Iowa Code Sections 232.67 through 70 Iowa Sex Offender Registry: Iowa Code Chapter 692A Dependent Adult Abuse: Iowa Code Chapter 235B Reporting Physical and Sexual Child Abuse by Regents Employees: Iowa Code §262.9(28) Other Links Regarding Weapons Firearms and Other Weapons policy Facilities and Grounds Use, Activities policy Student Disciplinary Regulations (Code of Conduct), 4.2.14 Possession or Misuse of Weapons General Rules on Use of Grounds and Facilities, Iowa Administrative Code, Section 681-13.14 Resources Links Procedures for Supporting a Violence-Free University Files Violence - Free University [Policy in PDF] Procedures for Supporting a Violence-Free University [PDF] Copyright © 1995-2022, Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved.