Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search University of Notre Dame Notre Dame Police Department Campus Safety and University Operations Home Contact Search Menu Welcome to the University of Notre Dame Police Department. We support the University in its mission by providing exceptional services that promote a safe and well ordered environment for our community. As part of the Office of Campus Safety, we work with our partners on and off campus to provide and foster a climate that allows individuals to live, study, work and visit campus in a safe environment. We offer a wide range of police and safety services including emergency response, investigations, crime prevention, event security, parking services and lost and found. Please don't hesitate to call us at (574) 631-5555 if we can assist you. This number can be used to access both emergency and other services. When you don't know who to call, call NDPD! Report a Crime To keep our campus safe, we encourage you to provide information about a crime or concerns. Prevent Crime & Violence Take time to learn about crime prevention and safety. Coronavirus (COVID-19) Response Updates and Information for the Notre Dame Community News View all news NDPD featured in local "Beyond the Badge" segment March 18, 2022 NDPD Unveils Eyes Up Irish Safety Campaign November 17, 2021 Crime Alerts Safety Information Alert: Armed Robbery Off Campus Our partners at the South Bend Police Department have alerted the Notre Dame Police... Safety Awareness - Sexual Battery Off Campus Our partners in the Saint Mary’s Campus Safety Department have alerted the Notre Dame... View all crime alerts Home About NDPD Equity in Policing Our Services Crime Prevention and Safety Reporting Crime Parking Services Your Rights and Responsibilities Lost and Found Campus Safety and University Operations Notre Dame Police Department Hammes Mowbray Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA Phone (574) 631-5555 Fax (574) 631-9873 police@nd.edu Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube © 2022 University of Notre Dame Search Mobile App News Events Visit Accessibility Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn