Skip to main content University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links UWPD About Us Contact Us Divisions History Jurisdiction Mission, Vision, and Values Careers Crime Data 60 Day Log 2020 Year-End Recap of Internal Affairs Investigations Annual Security and Fire Safety Report University of Washington – Bothell Annual Security and Fire Safety Report – University of Washington – Seattle Annual Security and Fire Safety Report University of Washington – Tacoma Clery Information Crime Alerts UWPD Annual Report Community Engagement Active Shooter Guide Bike Registration Crime Prevention Tips Domestic and Relationship Violence Electronics Registration Love Your Stuff Sexual Assault Workplace Violence News Services Commendation/Complaint Form Crime Alert Programs Fingerprinting Online Campus Police Reporting System Rape Aggression Defense (RAD) Request a Copy of a Police Report Ride-Along Program Safe Zone App Safety Escort Services Victim Advocacy FAQs Evidence and Property Fingerprinting Lost and Found Recruiting and Hiring Report a Crime Wear the Badge UW Police Menu UWPD About Us Contact Us Divisions History Jurisdiction Mission, Vision, and Values Careers Crime Data 60 Day Log 2020 Year-End Recap of Internal Affairs Investigations Annual Security and Fire Safety Report University of Washington – Bothell Annual Security and Fire Safety Report – University of Washington – Seattle Annual Security and Fire Safety Report University of Washington – Tacoma Clery Information Crime Alerts UWPD Annual Report Community Engagement Active Shooter Guide Bike Registration Crime Prevention Tips Domestic and Relationship Violence Electronics Registration Love Your Stuff Sexual Assault Workplace Violence News Services Commendation/Complaint Form Crime Alert Programs Fingerprinting Online Campus Police Reporting System Rape Aggression Defense (RAD) Request a Copy of a Police Report Ride-Along Program Safe Zone App Safety Escort Services Victim Advocacy FAQs Evidence and Property Fingerprinting Lost and Found Recruiting and Hiring Report a Crime Wear the Badge Home UW Police Services Safety Escort Services Safety Escort Services Close Menu Home Services Alarms and Permits Campus Alarms Crime Alert Programs Rape Aggression Defense (RAD) Report a Crime Ride-Along Program Safe Zone App Safety & Security Programs Campus Security Authorities (CSA) Safety Escort Services Husky NightWalk – 206.685.9255 (WALK) Husky NightWalk is safe and easy to use. Uniformed security guards operate 6:30 pm to 2 a.m. daily EXCEPT University Holidays, providing a walking escort to community members within the campus locations and the residential area north of 45th St., and to the UW Tower location. Guards can also assist, with proper identification, building and office lockouts, as well as jump start dead car batteries. Husky NightWalk Service Area Map. How to Use Husky NightWalk Dial 206.685.WALK (206.685.9255) when you are ready for a safety escort. Advise the dispatcher which building entrance the Husky NightWalk guard will find you waiting. Stand safely inside the entrance, and watch for the Husky NightWalk guard as s/he will not enter the building to find you. Have your UW student, staff or other photo identification ready. 1 1 Husky NightWalk FAQs Can I make an appointment for an escort? Requests are responded to on a first come, first served basis. Please call 206.685.WALK (9255) when you are ready to be escorted. Who staffs the Husky NightWalk program? The Husky NightWalk program is staffed by uniformed security guards of the University of Washington Police Department. How do I meet the security guard for a walking escort? When you initially call to request an escort, the dispatcher will coordinate a meeting location. Please wait at the agreed upon location and watch for the guard to arrive. The guard will meet you a few minutes prior to the estimated time given. If you are late or aren’t present, the guard will move on to the next call, and you will need to call for a new escort request. 1 1 NightRide NightRide is a U-PASS sponsored shuttle service for students, faculty, and staff. Passengers can board the NightRide from any one of eight on-campus stops and be dropped off at any requested location within the two shuttle zones. Schedules are prominently displayed at all stops, and schedules are available at information kiosks around campus. NightRide schedules are also available online. Wheelchair-accessible shuttles service both zones. Call 206.685.3146 or visit www.uwshuttles.com for more information about this and other UW shuttle services. Note that NightRide is not available during the summer. University of Washington Medical Center (UWMC) Department of Public Safety The UWMC Department of Public Safety provides escorts for hospital employees and volunteers from the UWMC main lobby entrance to university campus parking lots. Escort drivers provide this free service Monday through Friday from 4:30 p.m. to 1:00 a.m. For other days and times, Public Safety officers provide escorts unless unavailable due to a hospital emergency. To arrange for an escort, contact UWMC Public Safety at 206.598.5555, and let them know when you will be ready to depart from the above location. For more information, call the UWMC Public Safety Office at 206.598.4909. Home Services Alarms and Permits Campus Alarms Crime Alert Programs Rape Aggression Defense (RAD) Report a Crime Ride-Along Program Safe Zone App Safety & Security Programs Campus Security Authorities (CSA) Safety Escort Services Search UWPD Search for: HOT TOPICS BIASED POLICING POLICY NEW LAWS ONE MIND CAMPAIGN ONLINE REPORTING THE PEELIAN PRINCIPLES USE OF FORCE- CAMPAIGN ZERO UWPD CHIEF OF POLICE SEARCH CONTACT UWPD Emergency 911 Non-Emergency: 206.685.UWPD (8973) TTY Anonymous Tips: 206.685.TIPS (8477) BUSINESS: 206.543.0507 Hours: (M-F 0830-1200 | 1300-1630) Email: uwpolice@uw.edu Records: policerecords@uw.edu Fax: 206.685.8042 ADDRESS: 3939 15th Ave NE, Seattle, WA 98105 University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Google+ Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA