Skip to Main Content Brown University Political Science Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Message from the Chair Diversity and Inclusion Statement Contact Us People Faculty Associated Faculty Visiting Faculty & Postdoctoral Fellows Emeriti In Memoriam Graduate Students Staff Undergraduate Concentration Requirements Honors Program Recognition Advising Career Planning & Placement Graduate Admission Program at a Glance Dissertation Placements Graduate Fellowships Ph.D. Job Market Candidates News Faculty Publications Search Political Science Advising for Undergraduates Breadcrumb Home Undergraduate Program Sub Navigation In This Section Concentration Requirements Honors Program Recognition Advising Career Planning & Placement Advising for Undergraduates Political science concentrators benefit from a range of advising resources, including the Director of Undergraduate Studies (DUS), the Concentration Coordinator, and Faculty Mentors. The DUS and the Concentration Coordinator hold regular office hours for the purpose of advising you on all matters relating to the concentration, including concentration requirements, study abroad programs, planning for the senior thesis, and activities in the department. For information and advice about the field of political science and your intellectual trajectory, you are encouraged to consult with your Faculty Mentor. Faculty Mentors are assigned by the Concentration Coordinator based on subfield interests. Our faculty and staff stand ready to help you however we can – but remember that advising is a two-way street. We depend on you to ask for assistance when you need it. Taking the initiative is up to you. We recommend that you seek advising from the various sources we offer on a regular basis. It is especially important to review your plans for fulfilling the concentration requirements midway through your sophomore and junior years, and again very early in your senior year. Contacts Ross E. Cheit Professor of Political Science, Director of Undergraduate Studies Ross_Cheit@brown.edu Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Message from the Chair Diversity and Inclusion Statement Contact Us People Faculty Associated Faculty Visiting Faculty & Postdoctoral Fellows Emeriti In Memoriam Graduate Students Staff Undergraduate Concentration Requirements Honors Program Recognition Advising Career Planning & Placement Graduate Admission Program at a Glance Dissertation Placements Graduate Fellowships Ph.D. Job Market Candidates News Faculty Publications Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Advising for Undergraduates Open details for Advising for Undergraduates Bookmark this Page