Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Policies Policies Contact Us Policies@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home About About the Policy Portal Policy Principles Policy Fields Back to Top Nav Handbooks A&S Faculty A&S Students Geisel Faculty Geisel Students Guarini Students Thayer Students Tuck Faculty Tuck Students OFASDC OGFDC Back to Top Nav Policies Search form Search this site CloseGo Search About the Policy Portal Policy Principles Policy Fields Share Information about Policy Fields Information about fields available in a policy. Sample Policy Template This is an informal sample template for new policies on Dartmouth College's Policy Portal. A Word version of the sample template is also available: Policy Fields. Fields with an asterisk (*) are required in the Policy Portal. A complete list of fields can be found in the next section below. Policy Name* Effective Date* Last Revised Date Office of Primary Responsibility* Office(s) of Secondary Responsibility Summary of Policy* Reason for Policy Policy Statement* Exclusions & Exceptions Definitions Related Information Ramifications Procedure [describe, provide Website URL, or attach document with submission] Forms [attachments] Quick hints for creating policies for the Portal: Avoid underlining; it can be confusing if underlining looks like web links. Using bold or italics to emphasize text are better options. Web Accessible Links – Best Practices Use clear, short, and descriptive link names. When possible, use the title of the destination web page. Do not use vague titles such as, "Click Here", "More", "Info," or "Follow" because these link names tell a screen reader nothing about the content of the link. Web Accessible Tables – Best Practices Use a simple layout. Use a title (caption) for the table. Use descriptive and concise row and column heading labels. Use each table cell to relay only one piece of information or data. Do not merge cell contents. Policy Portal: Policy Fields Below is a list of available fields for policies in Dartmouth's Policy Portal. Field Name Field Description Required Technical Specifications Policy ID A unique numerical ID assigned within the Portal. The ID format is 0xx-0xxx. Each ID prefix is associated with a specific Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) and the suffix is a sequential number within the specific OPR. Yes Automatically generated Cannot be edited Prefixes are maintained by Web Services Policy Name The title of the policy. Yes Editable Administrative Title An additional policy title field for situations when you want a more detailed title than the official Policy Name. The field is not displayed to the public. No Editable Effective Date The date on which the policy became effective, not necessarily the posting date or publication date of the policy. Once a policy takes effect, this date never changes. It remains the same throughout the life of the policy, no matter how many revisions are made. An effective date of 12/13/1769 indicates a more recent effective date is being researched. Yes Editable Last Revised Date The date on which the policy was most recently updated. It is never earlier than the Effective Date. No Editable Inactive Date The date on which the policy became inactive. The field is not displayed to the public. Once a policy is saved with an inactive date, the policy should be unpublished from the Portal. No Editable Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) The office responsible for maintaining the policy throughout its lifecycle. The office responsible for overseeing implementation of and compliance with the policy. Yes Cannot be edited after initial setting Single value Drives the Policy ID prefix Picklist is maintained by Web Services Office of Primary Responsibility URL The website landing page for the OPR. Yes Field is maintained by Web Services Office(s) of Secondary Responsibility (OSR) The office(s) with delegated responsibility for maintaining the policy. No Editable Multi-value field Picklist is maintained by Web Services Office of Secondary Responsibility URL The website landing page for the OSR. It is not required to have an OSR but if an OSR is identified then a related URL is required. No Field is maintained by Web Services Division The HR Division for the OPR: Advancement, Campus Services, Finance and Administration, Office of the President, or Office of the Provost. Yes Automatically assigned based on OPR Cannot be edited Mapping is maintained by Web Services Summary of Policy A short description of the policy. It is recommended that every policy include a summary. No Editable No character limit Displays in search results Table of Contents An automatically generated table of contents based on all populated fields. No Editable Local Tags Gives the OPR the ability to have specific terms associated with its policies so visitors can filter using the tag. An example of a tag used within the Portal is "Employment Policies and Procedures". No Editable List of tags is maintained by Web Services Reason for Policy The overarching purpose of the policy. Key reasons may be legal or regulatory in nature. No Editable No character limit Affected Parties The members of the Dartmouth community to whom the policy applies. The Policy Portal is a portal of institutional policies therefore Affected Parties will be 'All Groups'. No Editable List of parties is maintained by Web Services Other choices include All Students, All Faculty, All Staff Policy Statement The text of the policy. Every policy should include a policy statement. No Editable No character limit Exclusions & Exceptions Specific cases or conditions when the policy does not apply. Exclusions or exceptions to institutional policies are rare. No Editable No character limit Definitions Unique terms that may be unfamiliar, technical, or have special meaning in the policy. Terms that when defined make the policy more understandable. No Editable No character limit Related Information Other resources related to the policy. For example, a federal or state statute. No Editable No character limit Ramifications Potential consequences to Dartmouth and/or an individual if the policy is violated. For example, ramifications could include disciplinary action against a student or employee. This field is not intended to be inclusive of every potential consequence. No Editable No character limit Contacts Leave blank, this field is under development. No Editable Procedure Instructions, steps, or guidelines to implement the policy. Examples of policy implementation steps include: Educating the community about the policy Changing administrative operations or systems Monitoring and enforcing the policy No Editable No character limit Forms A location for file attachments. No Editable File types: Word, Excel, PDF Shareable Institutional policies are set to 'Share' so another website on the Drupal platform can download the institutional policy to its site. Yes Default is shared to the repository. This setting should not be edited Main menu Dartmouth College Policies About About the Policy Portal Policy Principles Policy Fields Handbooks A&S Faculty A&S Students Geisel Faculty Geisel Students Guarini Students Thayer Students Tuck Faculty Tuck Students OFASDC OGFDC Policies Ribbon Footer Contact Us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback