Ohio State nav bar Skip to main content The Ohio State University Help BuckeyeLink Map Find People Webmail Search Ohio State The Ohio State University The Office of University Compliance and Integrity University Policies Policies Under Review Recent Policy Changes Policy Development Find policies by: Issuing Office Alphabetical List Policies at Ohio State This website provides convenient access to policies that apply across all of Ohio State. You can search for university policies by name, issuing office, or key search terms. Use the navigation menu to locate policies under review, find the most recent new and revised policies, and learn about the university’s policy development and review process. Please report any broken links and accessibility issues to policies@osu.edu. Note that this site includes only university-wide policies. Check with your unit for additional local policies that may apply to you. Also, you can go to the Board of Trustees website for bylaws and rules approved by the Board of Trustees. Recent Policy Changes Holidays, 6.20 Revised: 05/23/2022 Out-of-State Educational Activities Revised: 05/03/2022 Access for Individuals With Disabilities Revised: 04/15/2022 Resignation or Voluntary Termination, 9.25 Revised: 03/18/2022 All recent policy changes Issuing Office Policies are owned and implemented by the following offices across the university. Policy owners are responsible for reviewing, updating, and retiring policies as needed. 16 policies Office of Academic Affairs 6 policies Office of Administration & Planning 32 policies Office of Business and Finance 38 policies Office of Human Resources 4 policies Office of Institutional Equity 1 policies Office of Legal Affairs 2 policies Office of Marketing and Communications 9 policies Office of Research 6 policies Office of Technology and Digital Innovation 1 policies Office of University Compliance and Integrity 2 policies University Advancement 1 policies Wexner Medical Center Compliance and Integrity The Ohio State University ©2022 The Ohio State University | 21 E. 11th Ave. | Columbus, Ohio 43201 Contact: Policies staff | Page maintained by The Office of University Compliance and Integrity Request an alternate format of this page | Nondiscrimination notice The Ohio State University