Skip to main content University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links UWPD About Us Contact Us Divisions History Jurisdiction Mission, Vision, and Values Careers Crime Data 60 Day Log 2020 Year-End Recap of Internal Affairs Investigations Annual Security and Fire Safety Report University of Washington – Bothell Annual Security and Fire Safety Report – University of Washington – Seattle Annual Security and Fire Safety Report University of Washington – Tacoma Clery Information Crime Alerts UWPD Annual Report Community Engagement Active Shooter Guide Bike Registration Crime Prevention Tips Domestic and Relationship Violence Electronics Registration Love Your Stuff Sexual Assault Workplace Violence News Services Commendation/Complaint Form Crime Alert Programs Fingerprinting Online Campus Police Reporting System Rape Aggression Defense (RAD) Request a Copy of a Police Report Ride-Along Program Safe Zone App Safety Escort Services Victim Advocacy FAQs Evidence and Property Fingerprinting Lost and Found Recruiting and Hiring Report a Crime Wear the Badge UW Police Menu UWPD About Us Contact Us Divisions History Jurisdiction Mission, Vision, and Values Careers Crime Data 60 Day Log 2020 Year-End Recap of Internal Affairs Investigations Annual Security and Fire Safety Report University of Washington – Bothell Annual Security and Fire Safety Report – University of Washington – Seattle Annual Security and Fire Safety Report University of Washington – Tacoma Clery Information Crime Alerts UWPD Annual Report Community Engagement Active Shooter Guide Bike Registration Crime Prevention Tips Domestic and Relationship Violence Electronics Registration Love Your Stuff Sexual Assault Workplace Violence News Services Commendation/Complaint Form Crime Alert Programs Fingerprinting Online Campus Police Reporting System Rape Aggression Defense (RAD) Request a Copy of a Police Report Ride-Along Program Safe Zone App Safety Escort Services Victim Advocacy FAQs Evidence and Property Fingerprinting Lost and Found Recruiting and Hiring Report a Crime Wear the Badge Home UW Police About Us Divisions Operations Criminal Investigations Victim Advocacy Victim Advocacy Close Menu Home Criminal Investigations Victim Advocacy Domestic and Relationship Violence Sexual Assault If you need immediate or after-hours support, contact SafeCampus or a 24-hour hotline such as RAINN and the National Domestic Violence Hotline. In emergency situations dial 911. If you have concerns that your internet usage may be monitored, remember to clear your browser history and find other internet safety tips at: https://www.domesticshelters.org/safe-surfing Being a victim of crime can feel overwhelming or isolating. SEXUAL ASSAULT It’s not your fault… Sexual assault and sexual harassment is a serious concern on college campuses. Nearly 1 in 5 women and 1 in 71 men in the United States have been raped at some time in their lives. (CDC National Intimate Partner and Sexual Violence Survey 2010) Although unwanted sexual contact is against the law, most rapes are not reported to law enforcement. Holding sex offenders accountable for their criminal acts can give victims a sense of justice and helps protect the community by lowering the chances of sex offenders re-offending. If you are a student, UW Sexual Assault Resources are available online at www.uw.edu/sexualassault, and you can also contact the Health & Wellness Student Advocate (formerly known as SARIS) at hwadvoc@uw.edu. 1 1 UWPD SEXUAL ASSAULT RESPONSE COMMITMENT Everyone has the right to control their own sexuality. Sexual assault, including date/acquaintance rape, is a very serious concern of this police department. The University of Washington Police Department has adopted the following commitment when responding to sexual assault. If you feel you are a victim of a sexual assault on campus, the police department will guarantee the following: UWPD Commitment We will meet with you privately, at a time and local place of your choice, to take your report. We cannot and will not notify your parents without your consent. We will treat you and your particular case with courtesy, sensitivity, dignity, understanding and professionalism. Our officers will not prejudge you, and you will not be blamed for what occurred. We will assist you in arranging for any necessary hospital treatment or other medical needs. We will also assist in emergency housing if needed. If you would feel more comfortable talking with a friend or advocate of your choice present, we will do our best to accommodate your request. We will fully investigate your case and will help you to achieve the best outcome. This may involve the arrest and prosecution of the suspect responsible. You will be kept up-to-date on the progress of the investigation and/or prosecution. We will assist you in privately contacting counseling and other available resources. We will continue to be available to answer your questions, to explain the system and process involved (prosecutor, courts, etc.) and to be a listening ear if you wish. We will consider your case seriously regardless of your gender or the gender or status of the suspect. 1 1 Home Criminal Investigations Victim Advocacy Domestic and Relationship Violence Sexual Assault Search UWPD Search for: HOT TOPICS BIASED POLICING POLICY NEW LAWS ONE MIND CAMPAIGN ONLINE REPORTING THE PEELIAN PRINCIPLES USE OF FORCE- CAMPAIGN ZERO UWPD CHIEF OF POLICE SEARCH CONTACT UWPD Emergency 911 Non-Emergency: 206.685.UWPD (8973) TTY Anonymous Tips: 206.685.TIPS (8477) BUSINESS: 206.543.0507 Hours: (M-F 0830-1200 | 1300-1630) Email: uwpolice@uw.edu Records: policerecords@uw.edu Fax: 206.685.8042 ADDRESS: 3939 15th Ave NE, Seattle, WA 98105 University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Google+ Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA