Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Administration and Finance University Police Main Navigation Services & Safety Info Programs Forms Crime, Complaints, & Reports Policies & Training Join Our Team News/Contact Chief's Advisory Board (CAB) The purpose of the Chief of Police's Advisory Board (CAB) is to promote police and community engagement, increase trust, transparency, and communication between the CSU Fullerton (CSUF) community and the CSUF Police Department. Primarily, the creation of this committee will provide a forum for historically underserved groups to have a meaningful voice in providing input and guidance to the CSUF Chief of Police on how police services can better meet their needs. Gregory (Chris) Brown grew up in Los Angeles (Watts), and completed his undergraduate education at the University of California, Santa Cruz with a B.A. of Arts in Sociology. He later received his M.A. and Ph.D. in Social Ecology with an emphasis in Criminology from the University of California, Irvine. Brown is currently the Chapter President of the California Faculty Association and has served as President and Vice President of the African American Faculty and Staff Association. His research, publications, and presentations have focused on crime, criminology theory, white-collar crime, and gangs. His research included university views on policing, funding, and graduation rates. Brown published papers on Original Gangsters, the history of African American Gangs in LA, civil gang injunctions, and gangs and social media. Cecil Chik currently serves as the Director of Engagement and Learning in the Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Programs. Cecil has worked in education since the start of her professional career in 2009 as a high school math teacher. As a counselor in training, Chik learned skills to navigate communication barriers and interpersonal conflict. During her graduate studies, Chik developed her passion for social justice and advocacy through her role in the LGBTQ+ Resource Center at her Alma Mater. Chik received her B.S. degree at the University of Central Florida in Mathematics Education in 2009. Since then, she's earned her M.A. in Mental Health Counseling. Cecil is currently a doctoral candidate in the Education Leadership Ed.D program a California State University, Fullerton. Christine Gardiner is a Professor of Criminal Justice at California State University, Fullerton, and a Senior Research Fellow for the Police Foundation. She received her Ph.D. in Criminology, Law and Society from the University of California, Irvine, and her M.Phil from Cambridge University. Gardiner has conducted two major studies on the role of higher education in policing and was awarded a prestigious National Institute of Justice grant to study the implementation effects of Proposition 36 on Orange County criminal justice practitioners and drug offenders. She edited multiple books and authored numerous articles, book chapters, and an introduction to a policing textbook (Policing for the 21st Century: Realizing the Vision of Police in a Free Society). Janette Hyder is a first-generation college graduate from California State University, Fullerton. She earned her Master's of Science degree in Counseling with an emphasis in Marriage Family Therapy, a Bachelors of Science degree in Human Services with an emphasis in Mental Health, and a Bachelor of Arts in Ethnic Studies with an emphasis in Chicano Studies. Hyder works with the Male Success Initiative (MSI) - Fullerton as a Counselor and Senior Career Post Graduation Coordinator. Hyder has done extensive training on AB-540 and Undocumented Students for various universities and student and community organizations. She was instrumental in assisting first-generation, low-income under-represented undocumented students through the years at California State University, Fullerton. Hyder has also been involved with various campus committees and organizations throughout the years. Dr. Calli Lewis-Chiu is an assistant professor in the Department of Special Education. Before joining Cal State University, Fullerton in 2018, she was an assistant professor at CSU Bakersfield and Shippensburg University. She holds a B.F.A. in Art Education from the University of Texas Tech, an M.Ed. with an emphasis in multicultural issues in Special Education from the University of Texas at Austin, and a Ph.D. with an emphasis in emotional and behavioral disorders in Special Education from the University of North Texas. Before entering academia, Lewis-Chiu was a special education teacher for 10-years and worked as a direct care service provider for adolescents in foster care. Her research interests include improving outcomes for students with emotional and behavioral disorders, increasing cultural competence among educators, and special education teacher preparation. Tonantzin Oseguera, Ed.D., serves as Vice President for Student Affairs at California State University, Fullerton. Originally joining CSUF in 2013 as Dean of Students, it was here that Oseguera first led endeavors that bolstered the university's mission to provide an inclusive and transformational environment for all Titans. Her accomplishments include the development of the first Behavior Intervention Team in CSUF history, serving through the President's Commission for Equity and Inclusion, the Undocumented and Formerly Undocumented Faculty & Staff Association, and Black Excellence Care Group as co-chair. A first-generation college graduate born and raised in Mexico City, Oseguera earned a doctoral degree in Higher Education Administration from USC; a Master's in Higher Education and Student Administration from the University of Vermont; and a bachelor's degree in Human Development and Family Studies. Nancy Panza is a Clinical Psychologist specializing in Police and Forensic Psychology. She is a Professor in the Psychology Department at California State University, Fullerton. Dr. Panza completed her Ph.D. in Clinical Psychology, with a concentration in Psychology and Law, at the University of Alabama. In addition to her work on campus, Dr. Panza is a licensed psychologist and has a private practice in which she provides clinical and consulting services for police and fire departments. Dr. Panza has a passion for promoting modern policing practices and promoting mental health and wellness for first responders. Tina Thomas is an eighth-year student double majoring in Dance and Biology with an emphasis in Marine Biology. She has been involved on campus for multiple years within the College of Arts and participated in the Women in the Arts Panel, Arts Inter-Club Council as the Chair of the Council, and performed multiple fall and spring dance concerts. Through this position, Thomas has been an advocate for student needs and represents the College of the Arts. She graduates spring of 2021 and plans to further her education by earning her Veterinary degree and dance professionally. CAB Law Enforcement Survey List of links to Chief's Advisory Board Minutes Meeting Date Minutes August 21, 2020 CAB Meeting Minutes September 11, 2020 CAB Meeting Minutes December 14, 2020 CAB Meeting Minutes February 25, 2021 CAB Meeting Minutes Formation of the Chief's Advisory Board: July 10, 2020 Regular CAB Meeting - Discussion and Recommendations: August 21, 2020 • Discussion Topics: Introductions, discussion of bylaws, overview and goals Regular CAB Meeting - Discussion and Recommendations: September 11, 2020 • Discussion Topics: Additional introductions, signing of the Confidentiality form, arrest demographic will be shared and discussed transparency. The board to create a year-end document including recommendations, plans to address reform, the historical role of CSU PD, and a five to 10-year plan. Talked about the Defunding movement, CSU PD systemwide Lexipol policy, CALEA Accreditation, the difference between CSU PD and municipal law enforcement, requested CFA defunding document and hiring practices. Regular CAB Meeting - Discussion and Recommendations: December 14, 2020 • Discussion Topics: Discussed potential changes to "Groups" in the Action Plan form, concerns from SQE that they were charged a fee for a PRA request, informed this was standard practice. CSU San Diego applied for a grant to fund two social worker positions within the police department, but they're currently having issues with it. CFA concerns regarding "militarization" were brought up and the members were informed about Penal Code requirements. Discussed police survey and who will be surveyed. Survey data will be complete by March 2021. Spoke about the CSUF PD Connections Program in partnership with Student Affairs. • Recommendations: Create a document outlining the demands of CFA so the CAB can discuss how to respond. Request a student to try on a load-bearing vest and a duty belt to demonstrate the difference between the two. Due to the high cost and lack of participation for the Game Changer events, a board member recommended the creation of Game Changer with university personnel to alleviate the cost. Regular CAB Meeting - Discussion and Recommendations: February 25, 2021 • Discussion Topics: Discussed LaTosha Taylor's resignation. Chief Carmichael from the University of Oregon, Police Department discussed his experiences with a Chief's Advisory Board. Chief Aguirre asked the board to discuss how mental health professionals respond to non-life-threatening calls as a policy recommendation. CAPS stated they want police to respond to mental health calls. Emphasized the importance of completing the police survey. • Recommendations: Recommendation on an individual to fill LaTosha's spot. A board member recommended Alexandro Gradilla. President's office recommended including someone from DIEP. Chief Carmichael recommended the CAB having its own website. Chief Aguirre recommended the board members participate as part of the CSUF PD Listening & Sharing Tour. Chief recommended board members take a tour of the police station and engage in the simulator. CONTACT US CSUF Police Department Emergency: 9-1-1 Email: Email CSUF PD Records Bureau: (657) 278-4308 Hours: M-F, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. Dispatch/24-Hour Non-Emergency: (657) 278-2515 Hours: 24/7 Community Resource Center: (657) 278-5533 Mailing Address: 800 N. State College Blvd. Fullerton, CA 92831 Campus Map Back to Homepage Additional Resources A&F DEI Efforts CSA Reporting Form DACA FAQ DACA - CSU Chancellor Letter Dean of Students - BIT Referral Student Wellness CALEA Accreditation Local Resource Guide This site is maintained by University Police. Last Published 4/13/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact magarza@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.7 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.