Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site Department of Political Science Home People Academics Contacts News Calendar Resources Travel & Directions Introduction Building on its historical strength, Yale is a leader in research and teaching in contemporary Political Science. The Department is home to around 45 faculty, whose scholarship and teaching span across the subfields of Political Science and the countries of the world. The undergraduate major is among the largest on campus, and the graduate program produces Ph.D. students who have taken leadership positions in the discipline. Many Political Science faculty also play active roles in related programs at Yale, such as the Program in Ethics, Politics, and Economics; Directed Studies; the Institution for Social And Policy Studies; and the MacMillian Center. The Department also sponsors numerous seminars, lectures, and conferences that are open to all members of the Yale community. News Assistant Professor Sarah Khan: "Canvassing the Gatekeepers: A Field Experiment to Increase Women Voters’ Turnout in Pakistan" Assistant Professor Sarah Khan has a new article in American Political Science Review entitled “Canvassing the Gatekeepers: A Field Experiment to Increase Women Voters’... Senior Montana Love awarded John Addison Porter Prize Montana Love is one of two winners from Yale College of the 2022 to be awarded the John Addison Porter Prize for her senior essay “Agreeing to Disagree: Examining the Role of... Bruce Ackerman Opinion: "How to Reinvigorate NATO and Deter Putin’s Aggression" Bruce Ackerman, Sterling Professor of Law and Political Science at Yale University, has an opinion piece on Politico website entitled “How to Reinvigorate NATO and Deter... Joshua Kalla: "Can the Political Ambition of Young Women Be Increased? Evidence from U.S. High School Students" Assistant Professor Joshua Kalla has an article in the Quarterly Journal of Political Science entitled “Can the Political Ambition of Young Women Be Increased? Evidence from... Kenneth Scheve to serve as FAS Dean of Social Science Kenneth Scheve, Dean Acheson Professor of Political Science and Global Affairs, has been selected to serve as FAS Dean of Social Science effective July 2, 2022. Professor... Daniel Mattingly: The Missionary Roots of Nationalism: Evidence from China Assistant Professor Daniel Mattingly has a new article in the Journal of Politics entitled “The Missionary Roots of Nationalism: Evidence from China.” Abstract: What explains... More news... Yale University Coronavirus Information Submit or Confirm your COVID-19 Vaccination Mandatory Training for Return to Campus Visitor Policy Travel Guidelines Return to Campus What equipment is in my classroom? Classroom Technical Support Yale Course Search Course Demand Statistics Canvas@ Yale Help Instructor Guides Student Guide Remote Work: faculty and Researchers Remote Assistance (Bomgar) Zoom PhD Job Market Candidates Graduate Placement Graduate Employment Resources Research Assistant Opportunities Student Publications and Articles Reserve a Room Yale College Yale Graduate School Yale University Yale University Library Resource Guides Political Science Subject Guide Social Sciences Data Resources GIS Workshops at Yale Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Facebook Twitter YouTube