Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Florida State University Police Department Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home Organization Message From the Chief Accreditation Command Staff Crime Prevention & Outreach Investigations Motorcycle Unit Public Safety Officers Special Operations Training Uniform Patrol FSUPD Organizational Chart Campus Access & Security Services (CASS) Emergency Management FSUPD Dispatch Transportation & Parking Services (TAPS) Report a Crime Report Hazing Missing Persons Florida Sexual Offenders and Predators Search Campus Trespass Warning Services & Resources Lost and Found Resources Safety Connection Victims Rights Brochures 2021 FSU Game Day Plan What to Expect when Reporting a crime on FSU's Campus Clery Act Contact Us Employment FAQs Annual Security Report FSU Alert FSU Crime & Fire Logs Records Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Florida State University Police Department Toggle navigation Home Organization Message From the Chief Accreditation Command Staff Crime Prevention & Outreach Investigations Motorcycle Unit Public Safety Officers Special Operations Training Uniform Patrol FSUPD Organizational Chart Campus Access & Security Services (CASS) Emergency Management FSUPD Dispatch Transportation & Parking Services (TAPS) Report a Crime Report Hazing Missing Persons Florida Sexual Offenders and Predators Search Campus Trespass Warning Services & Resources Lost and Found Resources Safety Connection Victims Rights Brochures 2021 FSU Game Day Plan What to Expect when Reporting a crime on FSU's Campus Clery Act Contact Us Employment FAQs Annual Security Report FSU Alert FSU Crime & Fire Logs Records Home Communications Officer Communications Officer Current Openings: Police Dispatcher (2 Openings) Qualifications A high school diploma or equivalency and one year of experience related to the duties of this position. (Note: a combination of post high school education and experience equal to one year in same as above.) Knowledge of and ability to interpret and apply related federal, state, and local laws, ordinances, rules and regulations. Knowledge of and the ability to interpret and apply related University policies, procedures, principles, and practices. Ability to demonstrate effective customer service skills. Ability to communicate effectively verbally and in writing. Ability to deal with crises and manage sensitive information. Ability to establish and maintain effective working relationships. Ability to utilize problem solving skills. Knowledge of applicable computer applications, such as Microsoft Office Suite, and basic computer functions. Ability to differentiate emergency from non-emergency situations. Job Description Provides personal and over the phone customer service to the members of the University Community and general public that are consistent with the departmental policy and within the normal scope of services rendered by law enforcement personnel. Performs administrative procedures and paperwork required for the successful operation of the Communications Center and the coordination of the departmental field activity. Answering, receiving, transferring, and dispatching functions related to emergency calls, dispatching law enforcement officers and other public safety services to the scene of an emergency. Providing real-time information from federal, state, and local crime databases. Maintaining radio communication with all police officers, sworn administrative personnel and investigators through the use of various radio equipment and computer software applications. Implements and assists with the coordination of special and emergency procedures of units responding to emergency situations. Monitors fire and security alarms, access control systems, personal safety applications and Closed Circuit Camera systems including license plate readers. Operates the Florida Crime Information Center/National Crime Information Center teletype terminal, and the requests from those Information Centers via computer network terminals for criminal information needed by police units in the field. Salary and Benefits Salary: Florida State University is committed to attracting, developing, and retaining a qualified and diverse workforce. We are inspired by the hard work and loyalty of our staff and faculty, and our Compensation program is designed to reward that dedication. Exercising fiscal responsibility, the University endeavors to fairly compensate each employee in ways that recognize exceptional performance, promote individual contribution, and encourage continued development. Communications Officers’ salaries start at $33,000.00 annually. Overtime is paid at time and a half for all hours worked over 40 hours per week. Hiring Bonus of $1,500 payable after completion of training and probationary period. Insurance: FSU offers comprehensive insurance options to meet employee needs. Options include health insurance, prescription drug plans, flexible spending accounts, health savings accounts, dental plans, life insurance, vision plans, and an array of supplemental insurance plans. Coverage options are available through the Division of State Group Insurances (DSGI) and through local and national vendors. Retirement: FSU offers comprehensive retirement options to meet employee needs. Options include a defined benefit plan and two defined contribution plans sponsored by the State. We also offer voluntary pre-tax and roth (post-tax) 403(b) plans and the Florida Deferred Compensation Plan (a 457). Coverage options are available through the Florida Retirement System (FRS), the Division of Retirement and through local and national vendors. Leave: FSU offers generous leave benefits to our benefits eligible Faculty, Executive Service, Administrative & Professional (A&P), and University Support Personnel System (USPS) employees. Eligible employees begin to accrue Annual and Sick Leave hours upon employment. Leave accrued is credited at the end of the pay period or the last day an employee is on the payroll, due to separation prior to the end of the pay period. Accrual for part-time employees is based on the number of hours in paid status during the pay period. Vacation Leave: 4 hours earned bi-weekly Sick Leave: 4 hours earned bi-weekly Hours: 12-hour shifts – 6:30 a.m – 6:30 p.m and 6:30 p.m – 6:30 a.m. Shifts are determined by seniority. Additional Benefits and Perks: FSU provides employees the opportunity to participate in exclusive discounts for current FSU employees. Discounts and perks are available at a variety of campus, local, and national vendors. Discounts are applied at the point of purchase and may require a valid FSU ID card presented. Applications for Communications Officer positions are not accepted at the Florida State University Police Department. Applications for Communications Officers are accepted for current vacancies only. To view current vacancies for Florida State University, please see the job listings at: https://hr.fsu.edu/working-fsu/prospective-employees/careers-florida-state. For more information contact: Evelyn Wilson FSUPD Communications Manager (850) 645-4829 edwilson@fsu.edu title-inside title-centered 2 FSUPD Headquarters Florida State University Police Department 830 West Jefferson Street PO Box 3064215 Tallahassee FL, 32306 Map Location P: (850) 644-1234 F: (850) 644-3205 FSUPD Panama City Florida State University Panama City 4750 Collegiate Drive Panama City FL, 32405 Map Location P: (850) 872-4250 F: (850) 770-2721 Transportation & Parking Services 104 N. Woodward Ave Tallahassee, FL 32306 Map Location Email: transportation@fsu.edu P: (850) 644-5278 F: (850) 644-0008 M-F, 8am-5pm FSUPD Intranet © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media