Skip to content Policies, Regulations & Rules Toggle navigation View All… Policies Regulations Rules Repealed Student PRRs Definitions Feedback Handbooks Overview Resources What’s New Search Search for: Search REG 04.25.05 – Information and Communication Technology Accessibility Past Versions of REG.04.25.05 View previous versions of this regulation. Submit Feedback We encourage you to submit feedback if you have comments or questions about this regulation. View All… All Policies All Regulations All Rules All Repealed All Student PRRs Select a Category Governance & Administration Board of Trustees Board of Trustees of the Endowment Fund Board of Visitors Delegation of Authority Governance – General Honorary Degrees, Awards and Distinctions Academic Affairs Academic Progress Admissions, Graduate Admissions, Undergraduate Courses, Undergraduate Degree Requirements, Graduate Degree Requirements, Undergraduate Faculty, Graduate School Grades and Courses, Graduate School Grades, Undergraduate International Affairs Library Registration & Records Scholarships & Financial Aid University Scholars Program (USP) Advancement Campus Environment General Campus Environment PRRs Campus Police Environmental Safety Fire Protection Health, Safety and Welfare Non-Discrimination Personnel General Personnel PRRs Applying for Employment Cooperative Extension County Personnel Employees Exempt from the State Personnel Act (SPA) Employees Subject to the State Personnel Act (SPA) Faculty Post Tenure Review (PTR) Rules College of Agriculture & Life Sciences (CALS) College of Design College of Education College of Engineering College of Humanities & Social Sciences (CHASS) College of Natural Resources College of Sciences College of Textiles College of Veterinary Medicine Division of Academic & Student Affairs (DASA) Poole College of Management Professorship Awards Reappointment Promotion and Tenure (RPT) Rules College of Agriculture & Life Sciences (CALS) College of Design College of Education College of Engineering College of Humanities & Social Sciences (CHASS) College of Natural Resources College of Sciences College of Textiles College of Veterinary Medicine Division of Academic & Student Affairs (DASA) Poole College of Management Grievances & Review Leave Mediation Outside Employment & Activities Payroll Performance Management and Review Recruitment and Hiring Retirement Extension & Engagement Centennial Campus Continuing Education Cooperative Extension Copyright Use of McKimmon Conference and Training Center (MCTC) Finance Operations & Auxillary Services Accounts Payable Bookstore Budget Construction Services Facilities Financial Services General Finance Operations & Auxillary PRRs Insurance and Risk Management Property Purchasing Real Estate Student Accounts Transportation Travel Information Technology Intercollegiate Athletics Research & Sponsored Activities General Research PRRs Contract and Grants Research Administration Student Activities & Services Academic Affairs Campus Recreation Craft Center Dining Gallery of Art & Design General Student Activities & Services PRRs Housing Student Discipline Student Grievance Student Health Services Student Organizations Talley Student Center Ticket Central Salary Administration/Compensation PRR Archives Authority: Issued by the Chancellor. Changes or exceptions to administrative regulations issued by the Chancellor may only be made by the Chancellor. History: First Issued: March 7, 2006. Last Revised: May 23, 2017. Related Policies: NCSU POL04.25.05 – Equal Opportunity and Non-Discrimination Policy Statement NCSU POL08.00.01 – Computer Use Policy NCSU REG02.20.01 – Academic Accommodations for Students with Disabilities NCSU REG04.25.02 – Discrimination, Harassment and Retaliation Complaint Procedure Additional References: Frequently Asked Questions About This Regulation Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act Accessibility Standards (Federal Access Board) Office of Information Technology, IT Accessibility Services Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity Disability Services Office Americans with Disabilities Act NCSU Purchasing – Instructions to Bidders Frequently Asked Questions About the June 29, 2010, Dear Colleague Letter ADA Hotline (email address) North Carolina General Statute § 168A-7 – Discrimination in Public Service Title IX Website Contact Info: Vice Chancellor for Information Technology, (919) 515-0141 Additional Contact Info: Vice Provost slschwab@ncsu.edu (919) 515-3148 Associate Vice Provost for Equal Opportunity and Equity (Complaints/Investigations/Training) jdelrod@ncsu.edu (919) 515-3148 Deputy Title IX Coordinator (Athletics) swmlee2@ncsu.edu (919)515-5076 Deputy Title IX Coordinator (Student Development, Health & Wellness) lpzapata@ncsu.edu (919)-513-3403 1. INTRODUCTION AND POLICY STATEMENT NC State University is committed to providing equal access to its educational services, programs and activities in accordance with federal and state laws and, as part of that commitment, to creating an information and communication technology environment that is accessible to all, including individuals with disabilities. Creating an accessible information and communication technology environment is the responsibility of all University administrators, faculty, and staff. This regulation applies to the university’s information and communication technology resources and includes their procurement, development, implementation, and ongoing maintenance. 2. DEFINITIONS When used in this regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 2.1 “Information and Communication Technology (ICT) Resources” means any electronic resources used for instruction, information distribution, or communication. ICT resources include, but are not limited to, instructional systems, online instructional lessons, Web-based services, software applications, electronic documents, computers, hardware systems, telecommunication products, video and multimedia products, mobile devices, and online events. 2.2 “Accessibility” means the university’s objective that everyone within the University community, regardless of disability, will have equivalent access to ICT resources. 2.3 Accessibility Guidelines: Accessibility Guidelines are the (Federal) Access Board’s Electronic and Information Technology Accessibility Standards. 3. PROCEDURES 3.1 NC State employees responsible for designing, developing or maintaining ICT Resources should ensure the resources comply with the Accessibility Guidelines. 3.2 NC State employees purchasing ICT Resources should ensure resources comply with Accessibility Guidelines before purchase. 3.3 NC State employees selecting ICT Resources, including textbooks or other instructional tools that students will use, should ensure that resources comply with the Accessibility Guidelines. 3.4 If unable to locate or use an ICT Resource (whether created or acquired) that is fully accessible, employees must develop an Equally Effective Alternative Access Plan (EEAAP), which identifies accessibility issues, responsible parties, and reasonable procedures for communicating and providing equally effective alternative access. 4. REPORTING AND CORRECTIVE MEASURES 4.1 The Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity (OIED) and the Office of Information Technology (OIT) are responsible for notifying responsible parties of issues with the accessibility of their ICT Resources and overseeing the resolution of these issues. Any person experiencing accessibility issues with an ICT Resource should notify the ADA Coordinator within OIED. 4.2 As OIED becomes aware of accessibility issues relating to a particular ICT Resource, it will contact OIT. OIT will notify the relevant university employees who must then: (a) correct the identified accessibility issues in a timely fashion; (b) justify why modifying the particular ICT Resource(s) would create an undue hardship or result in a fundamental alteration of the service, program, or activity; or (c) work with OIED to identify a reasonable accommodation that provides equal access. 4.3 If the relevant university employees fail to provide a satisfactory response to OIT’s inquiry or do not address accessibility issues in a timely fashion, the Vice Chancellor or Dean responsible for the unit will be contacted by OIT and required to address the issue, in consultation with an accessibility compliance team if necessary. Audience: Faculty, Staff, and Students. Category: Information Technology and Non-Discrimination. Policies, Regulations & Rules Copyright © 2022 · NC State University · Accessibility · Privacy · University Policies · Log in NC State University North Carolina State University Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011