Skip to Main Content Brown University Political Science Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Message from the Chair Diversity and Inclusion Statement Contact Us People Faculty Associated Faculty Visiting Faculty & Postdoctoral Fellows Emeriti In Memoriam Graduate Students Staff Undergraduate Concentration Requirements Honors Program Recognition Advising Career Planning & Placement Graduate Admission Program at a Glance Dissertation Placements Graduate Fellowships Ph.D. Job Market Candidates News Faculty Publications Search Political Science Graduate Fellowships Breadcrumb Home Graduate Program Sub Navigation In This Section Admission Program at a Glance Dissertation Placements Graduate Fellowships Teaching Assistantships & Undergraduate Advising Methods Training Summer Programs Graduate Program Handbook Download the handbook Graduate Fellowships Learn about internal and external fellowships, assistantships and other funding opportunities for graduate students in Political Science. Internal Fellowships Internal fellowships are available to Brown University Graduate School funded dissertation-level doctoral students and are awarded competitively. A minimum of two fellowships will be awarded per year. Fellowships may be awarded for either one semester or a full year. Students who have been awarded fellowships are expected to devote themselves to research, scholarship, or the completion of their dissertations. Fellowship recipients are not allowed to hold other work appointments, either inside or outside the university. All fellowships include a stipend to cover living expenses. The University does not withhold taxes from fellowship awards. The portion of the fellowship that is used to cover tuition and fees is not taxable. However, funds used to cover room, board, travel, and research are considered a form of taxable income. Students who receive fellowships are responsible for reporting their income accordingly Application Procedure If you are interested in applying and are currently in your third or fourth year in the program, submit the following to the Graduate Program Coordinator by April 1. Documents 1-5 should be e-mailed as one attachment. The Graduate Affairs Committee will review the applications. Personal statement describing how exactly the dissertation fellowship will be used, why it is crucial to your research, and why you need one semester or two to accomplish it. One-page maximum abstract. Up-to-date vitae Unofficial transcript Copy of your (draft) prospectus. Please note that a defended prospectus is no longer required; however, awardees must have defended their prospectus by mid-August or forfeit the award. Letter of evaluation (not recommendation) from your advisor indicating the strengths and weaknesses of the proposed project and your ability to carry it out, preparedness to start the research and likelihood it will be completed within the proposed time frame. Additional Funding Opportunities Teaching Assistantships and Undergraduate Advising To qualify for the Ph.D., a graduate student must acquire teaching experience under the supervision of a faculty member in both his/her main field of expertise and in a second field. A minimum of two semesters of Teaching Assistantship are required. Methods Training Summer Programs Methods Training Awards – IQMR/ICPSR Applications Curated list of internal and external opportunities View or download the PDF. Graduate Program Handbook Download the handbook Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Message from the Chair Diversity and Inclusion Statement Contact Us People Faculty Associated Faculty Visiting Faculty & Postdoctoral Fellows Emeriti In Memoriam Graduate Students Staff Undergraduate Concentration Requirements Honors Program Recognition Advising Career Planning & Placement Graduate Admission Program at a Glance Dissertation Placements Graduate Fellowships Ph.D. Job Market Candidates News Faculty Publications Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Graduate Fellowships Open details for Graduate Fellowships Bookmark this Page