Skip Navigation menu Sign-ons CyMail Outlook Canvas AccessPlus Workday More Directory Maps Contact Us Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Policy Library Home About Policy Index Feedback menu Browse by Category Academics Business & Administration Facilities & Property Information & Technology Personnel, Conduct & Human Relations Research & Intellectual Property Safety & Health Student Life Handbooks & Manuals Faculty Handbook Graduate College Handbook Regents Policy Manual University Catalog Other Resources University Forms Records Retention Schedule ISU Compliance and Ethics Hotline Identity Theft Prevention Effective: November 5, 2009 Reviewed: December 2015 Contact: Accounts Receivable Office Introduction Iowa State University extends, renews, and continues credit for student and employee accounts involving student loans, institutional loans, and payment for services received over time. Also, in some instances, ISU receives consumer reports from credit reporting agencies. Due to its involvement in these activities, ISU must comply with the "Red Flags Rule" established by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to help prevent identity theft. These regulations are part of the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 (FACTA). Policy Statement Identity Theft Prevention Program As required by the FTC's Red Flags Rule, Iowa State University has established and will maintain an Identity Theft Prevention Program approved by the Board of Regents, State of Iowa. The Identity Theft Prevention Program shall include reasonable policies and procedures to: Identify relevant red flags for covered accounts ISU offers or maintains and incorporate those red flags into the Program; Detect red flags that have been incorporated into the program; Respond appropriately to any red flags that are detected to prevent and mitigate identity theft; and Assure the program is updated periodically to reflect changes in risks involving possible identity theft and fraud. Responsibility for Compliance Under the university's Identity Theft Prevention Program, ISU employees have a responsibility to obtain and verify the identity of persons opening or using covered accounts. In addition, ISU employees are expected to notify the program administrator (i.e., the director of Accounts Receivable) if they become aware of an incident of identity theft or of failure to comply with the program. At least annually or as otherwise requested by the program administrator, ISU staff responsible for development, implementation, and administration of the program shall report to the program administrator on compliance with this program. Resources Links Accounts Receivable Office IT Security Plan Files Identity Theft Prevention Program [PDF] Identity Theft Prevention [Policy in PDF] Copyright © 1995-2022, Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved.