Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Administration and Finance University Police Main Navigation Services & Safety Info Programs Forms Crime, Complaints, & Reports Policies & Training Join Our Team News/Contact Chief's Advisory Board (CAB) Programs List of CSUF Police Department Programs Bicycle Registration Event with Parking & Registration (Canceled Until Further Notice) Join us as we partner with CSUF Parking & Transportation for free bike registration, bike checks, goodies, and giveaways. *Weather Permitting* All bike registration events are held from 10am-2pm on Titan Walk outside of Titan Shops For regular bicycle registration, visit the CSUF Police Department substation located at the Housing Community Resource Center (CRC) in the Cypress Dorms or the main station at the corner of Gymnasium Dr. and State College Blvd. Please bring your Titan Card, bicycle, and completed registration form . CRC hours may vary based on Community Service Officer (CSO) availability. Additional Information Booster Seat Program A properly installed child safety seat can help reduce infant fatalities by 71% and toddler fatalities by 54%. With three out of four car seats installed incorrectly, we partnered with Clinic in the Park to bring you a FREE online booster seat workshop. In three easy steps, you can complete the workshop, ensure you qualify, and pick up your booster seat. 1) Complete the 15-minute online workshop 2) Ensure your child is between the ages of 5-12, weighs 40-100lbs, and that your vehicle has lap and shoulder seatbelts as well as headrests. 3) If you qualify, you can pick up your free booster seat (while supplies last) at 800 N. State College Blvd., Fullerton (Corner of Gymnasium Dr. & State College Blvd) Check back for future dates Citizen's Academy The Citizen's Academy is a four-week course which provides students, staff, and faculty at CSUF the opportunity to experience the professional life of a police officer. The course will help the public gain and expand their knowledge of the duties and responsibilities of a law enforcement officer, and address any common misconceptions regarding split second decisions made during critical situations and common processes in day-to-day police operations. Through the Citizen’s Academy, the department strives to increase public safety, build trust, and develop a partnership between the diverse CSUF community. Four-Week Course from 6 p.m.-8 p.m.: Week 1 Introduction to CSUF PD Basic Law Enforcement Principles Week 2 Emergency Communications/Dispatch Your Safety DUI/DUID Enforcement Drug Recognition Expert (DRE) Week 3 CSI vs. Reality/Records Investigations/Clery Act and Title IX Week 4 Officer Defensive Tactics/Use of Force Active Shooter Incidents Ride-Along (Canceled due to COVID-19) Attendance at all four classes is preferred. Limited spots are available. All classes will commence via Zoom. *Questions not required for Zoom Citizen Academy* (Required for in-person) 1: Have you ever been arrested? 2: Have you been convicted of a felony? Completion of the Citizen's Academy application does not guarantee your spot. A member of the department will contact you to confirm your virtual seat. Open to current CSUF students, staff and faculty only. Please check back for future dates. The Citizen Academy is part of our Police Reform and Enhanced Community Engagement Plan. Coffee With A Cop Coffee With A Cop brings police officers and the community together to break down barriers, discuss issues, and learn more about each other. Event Date: Check back for future dates Community Service Officer (CSO) - NOW HIRING! NOW HIRING PATROL AND RECORDS COMMUNITY SERVICE OFFICERS!!! The Community Service Officer (CSO) program is a support function for the CSUF Police Department. As a component of the department’s Crime Prevention Unit and the Records Bureau, student employees serve in a wide range of responsibilities. Interested in becoming a CSO? Download the Community Service Officer job application. CSOs receive priority registration. CSO Hiring Flyer - Patrol CSO Hiring Flyer - Records *NOTICE: In order to submit this form via email, please open the form in Adobe Acrobat or Reader, fill out the form, and then click the "Submit" button. -Starting Pay: $14 per hour -Student workers are part-time; Maximum 20-hours per week Want to hire a CSO for an event? To hire a CSO, complete the CSO Request form and email it to CSUF PD PIO. -Minimum 3 hours per CSO -Hourly Rate: $19 per CSO (Additional Charge on Holidays) -All late requests are billed at $23.75 per hour (Less than 14 days in advance) -Failure to provide all applicable information may invalidate request Community Service Officers are student assistants employed by the CSUF Police Department. The CSO unit is supervised by a police corporal. Questions? Call (657) 278-5533 NOTE: Requests must be made 14 days prior to the event. No guarantees for late submissions. Due to COVID-19, we are extremely understaffed. We ask for your continued patience with our Community Service Officers (CSO), officers, and CSUF PD personnel as we do our best to provide you with the best possible customer service. At this time, we may have delayed response times or not have the appropriate staffing level to assist with your event. We apologize for any inconvenience this may cause. Diaper Drive We’re partnering with HomeAid Orange County for the Essentials Diaper Drive. HomeAid Orange County plays a leading or partner role in helping to fight homelessness by donating time, resources, or money. During this month-long period, you can drop unopened and unused diapers and wipes off in the receptacle at our main station (800 N. State College Blvd., Fullerton, CA 92831) which is located at the corner of Gymnasium Dr. & State College Blvd. and the CSUF Children’s Center. If you’re unable to personally deliver the items, you can ship the donations directly to the police station at: Cal State Fullerton Police Department 800 N. State College Blvd., Fullerton, CA 92831 Attn: Gwen Dack Oftentimes, struggling families have to choose between buying diapers or buying food. Your generous donation will ensure no family has to make that choice. Diapers of all sizes are welcome. Event Date Check back for future dates Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) Although for many years we’ve had a robust community engagement and training program, it’s important to look ahead, listen to concerns with an impartial lens, and adapt. Cal State Fullerton Police Department is committed to policing from the center, which means we’re part of the community and not isolated from it. We recognize the vital importance of public trust and cooperation in order for us to take the necessary steps forward. You deserve a police department, our department, that looks at community outreach and policing through the lens of diversity, equity, and inclusion and one that vows to implement many of the recommendations outlined in The President’s Task Force on 21st Century Policing. There is much work to be done! We thank you for your patience as we reimage our role in the community, your role in our policing efforts, and what we can do and be if we work hand-in-hand. DEI and Community Policing Efforts - Game Changer - Educate to Empower: Law Enforcement and the Community - Chief's Advisory Board (CAB) - CSUF PD Connections - DEI Speaker Series (Pete Bowen, Robert Anthony, Kevin Briggs, and Chuck Yerry) - CSUF PD Citizen's Academy - Participation in ICCP Program - CSUF PD Listening & Sharing Tour Training - Use of Force - Force Options Simulator - Awareness - De-escalation - Bias and Racial Profiling For a list of completed training, please visit our Policy, Practice, and Training page Emergency Preparedness, Education and Training Preparedness is important for disasters of any size and any location. In your home, your car, classroom or when you travel, being prepared should be a basic element of it. Learn how to make all aspects of your life safe and ready for anything. Are You Ready? Encouraging a Positive and Interactive Community (EPIC) EPIC is a cohesive and active approach of engagement with the community. This entails collaborating with students, staff, faculty and organizations on crime prevention programs, professional presentations, educational tabling events and outreach such as Coffee With A Cop. To schedule an outreach event with CSUF Police Department, email CSUF PD PIO. Force Options Simulator The simulator is an interactive tool used to educate and train law enforcement officers regarding real-world scenarios, so they’re better prepared for difficult and quickly evolving calls for service. Each semester, the simulator will be made available for a limited time to students, staff, and faculty at CSUF to improve community relations and understanding. During the training, a CSUF police officer will answer questions, explain the “why” behind particular approaches to a call, and ensure the safety and well-being of the participants. Notice: The simulator may be triggering to some individuals as training weapons will be used on simulated and projected human targets. If you are unsure if this event is right for you, please contact upd.pio@fullerton.edu before registering. Registration Information: Registration is a two-step process. Please enter the applicable information in the Smartsheet form . Upon completion and submission, you’ll receive an email with the link to the scheduling calendar. Your appointment time is not confirmed until you receive the calendar confirmation email. Please do not bring anyone else with you to the training. Limited spots are available and only two participants will be scheduled per timeslot. Please do not register unless you’re able to attend. Training Dates: Registration is now closed. Please check back for training dates next semester. Participant Feedback Q: What did you learn from the CSUF Police Department's Force Options Simulator training that you didn't know before? A: "The difficult decision that Officers are sometimes faced with." Q: Please provide feedback or suggestions you believe would be helpful for CSUF Police Department's training opportunities going forward. A: "I think this should be offered more regularly. It helps a layperson understand the scenarios of day-to-day life for a Police Officer." Game Changer Game Changer utilizes sports to create conversation between the community, police officers and justice system officials. The program encourages respectful two-way dialogue which is solution oriented, fun and engaging. Together we discuss community problems and devise solutions. The moderated focus groups are a safe space which allows members of the community, members of law enforcement, elected officials and members of the judicial system to discuss the issues that exist between and among each other. For more information, visit Game Changer Event Date Check back for dates in 2022 Pedestrian Safety Week/Campaign Our Pedestrian Safety Campaign will commence in September, 2022 on a street near you. During that time, officers will be posted at high-traffic intersections around campus to educate and enforce traffic laws as it pertains to pedestrian safety. Remember, pedestrian safety is everyone’s responsibility! For more information, visit us on social media @CSUFPD. Pink Patch Project During the month of October, we participate in the Pink Patch Project, a collaborative effort with the City of Hope, Titan Shops, and various law enforcement agencies, to raise awareness for the early detection, support for breast cancer research and treatment through the sale of a special pink patch. Proceeds benefit the City of Hope and all those fighting breast cancer. Rape Aggression Defense (RAD) (Click for Additional Resources) Additional Self-Defense Resources • Rape Aggression Defense National Program • Gateway Cities Krav Maga (General Self-Defense and Women-Only Classes) · Womens Self-Defense Class - May 21, 2022 ($20) RAD is a comprehensive, women-only course that promotes and teaches awareness, prevention, risk reduction and avoidance, and hands-on self-defense training. The course is taught by nationally certified RAD instructors who are CSUF police officers. The course is open to all females. Affiliation with CSUF is not required. $25 for the entire course Questions? Email a RAD Instructor Additional Self-Defense Classes: CSUF Titan Recreation offers Jiu Jitsu classes for anyone interested. Click to view CSUF Titan Recreation class schedule. All RAD classes are canceled until further notice. Please check back for future RAD course dates. Meet The Team & Register Military Exhibition Day- 2022 COMPLETE FOR 2022 - Come back for the 2023 date and time CSUF Army ROTC is hosting Military Exhibition Day on the Intramural Field at CSUF. Military helicopters will take off and land throughout the day, a Special Forces Jump Team will parachute onto the field, and a helicopter display is available to the public. THIS IS NOT A MILITARY DRILL OR TRAINING EVENT Campus Road Closures & Public Safety Announcements - The Intramural Field will be closed. - Gymnasium Drive and the Intramural Field Bike Path will be closed. For questions, comments, or concerns, please contact Major Wobig at (657) 278-5545. Please remain off of the field, except during the public viewing time, for the safety of all involved. Ride-Along (Canceled Until Further Notice) All approved and future ride-alongs have been canceled until further notice. CSUF Police Department offers interested individuals the opportunity to accompany a police officer in the field to observe the patrol activities of the campus and immediate surrounding areas. All Ride-Along participants will be required to complete a background check on the day of their scheduled Ride-Along. All Ride-Along participants need to sign the Ride-Along Waiver . All Ride-Along participants under the age of 18 will need a parent or guardian signature. Questions? Call (657) 278-2905 Presentations, Training, & Events/appearances Offered By CSUF PD Active Shooter Alcohol Awareness Campus Safety Distracted Driving DUI Goggles Listening & Sharing Tour (CSUF ONLY) Sexual Assault Traffic Safety Procedural Justice Tactical Communications & De-escalation To request one of the presentations above or a specialized presentation, click below. Click to Request a Presentation To request the presence of department personnel at your event, take a tour, or have an officer make an appearance in a classroom or community event, other than a presentation, complete our CSUF PD Events, Tours, and Appearances Form. Click to Request an Event/Appearance 450+ To date, we've completed our Listening & Sharing Tour for over 450 CSUF community members. We can't wait to speak with more of you in the future. CONTACT US CSUF Police Department Emergency: 9-1-1 Email: Email CSUF PD Records Bureau: (657) 278-4308 Hours: M-F, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. Dispatch/24-Hour Non-Emergency: (657) 278-2515 Hours: 24/7 Community Resource Center: (657) 278-5533 Mailing Address: 800 N. State College Blvd. Fullerton, CA 92831 Campus Map Back to Homepage Additional Resources A&F DEI Efforts CSA Reporting Form DACA FAQ DACA - CSU Chancellor Letter Dean of Students - BIT Referral Student Wellness CALEA Accreditation Local Resource Guide This site is maintained by University Police. Last Published 5/20/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact magarza@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.7 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.