Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box University Policies and Standards Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Home University Policies & Standards Manual 01 Academics & Faculty Affairs 02 Student Life 03 Business & Finance 04 Governance & Administration 05 Human Resources 06 Research 07 Risk Management, Safety, & Facilities 08 Information Technology About Us Contact Us History Staff Strategic Plan 2017 Policy Process Types of Policies Policy Advisory Group Executive Policy & Standards Committee Resources Other Policies Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Home University Policies & Standards Manual 01 Academics & Faculty Affairs 02 Student Life 03 Business & Finance 04 Governance & Administration 05 Human Resources 06 Research 07 Risk Management, Safety, & Facilities 08 Information Technology About Us Contact Us History Staff Strategic Plan 2017 Policy Process Types of Policies Policy Advisory Group Executive Policy & Standards Committee Resources Other Policies COVID-19 Safety and Success University Policy: 04-042 COVID-19 Safety and Success Policy Category: Governance and Administration Responsible Office: Provost's Office Responsible Executive: Provost Download the Policy: (PDF) Effective Date: 06/30/2021 Last Revised: 09/29/2021 1. Policy Statement 1.1. This policy is in effect until lifted by the OSU President and will be evaluated weekly and updated as appropriate based on local public health conditions. 1.2. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, and consistent with guidance from the Oregon Health Authority (“OHA”) and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (“CDC”), Oregon State University issues this COVID Safety & Success Policy. This university policy applies to all Oregon State University locations and activities and serves the university’s goal to help reduce the risk and spread of COVID-19, which is the disease that is caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus. This university policy may be revised subsequently to align with federal, state, and local guidance and as OSU’s public health response evolves. The definitions included in this university policy are guided by OHA’s and CDC’s relevant definitions. 1.3. When the OSU policy differs from local, state or federal mandates, the more restrictive requirements apply. 2. Reason for Policy 2.1.This university policy is issued to contribute to the health and safety of the OSU community during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, and to align with federal and state regulations, executive orders, and guidance. 3. Scope & Audience 3.1. This university policy applies to all university employees, students, contractors, volunteers, and visitors on university-owned or -controlled property or engaging in OSU activities while interacting in-person with others outside of their household. 4. Definitions 4.1. Close Contact is someone who was within 2 meters (6 feet) of an infected person for at least 15 minutes within a 24-hour period starting from 2 days before illness onset (or, for asymptomatic cases 2 days prior to positive specimen collection) until the time the patient is isolated. 4.2. Common or shared space means an area where individuals may interact such as a restroom, breakroom, hallway, elevator, lobby, classroom, large room with cubicles, meeting rooms, conference rooms and any area open to the public. 4.3. Face coverings: A face covering is an item affixed to the face to help prevent the spread of the COVID-19 virus, including cloth garments that cover the nose and mouth, and medical-grade disposable masks. This definition and policy exclude face coverings that incorporate a valve to facilitate easy exhalation, mesh masks, lace masks, or other coverings with openings, holes, or visible gaps in the design, material or vents. 4.4. Face shields: A clear plastic shield that covers the forehead, extends below the chin, and wraps around the sides of the face. 4.5. Fully vaccinated means a person who has received their second dose of a COVID-19 vaccine in a 2-dose series and at least two weeks have elapsed since the last dose (e.g., Pfizer or Moderna vaccines), or, a person who has received a single dose vaccine for COVID-19 and at least two weeks have elapsed (e.g., Johnson & Johnson’s Janssen vaccine). 4.6. Indoor Spaces means anywhere indoors, including but not limited to public and private workplaces, businesses, indoor areas open to the public, building lobbies, common or shared spaces, classrooms, elevators, bathrooms, transportation services and other indoor space where people may gather for any purpose. Examples include classrooms, dining centers (except while seated to consume food/drink), recreation centers, indoor sports venues, conference and event centers and spaces, service centers, front desks, and offices that are not private individual workspaces (see definition below). Indoor spaces do not include private individual workspaces used for work by one individual at a time (see definition below). 4.7. Outdoor space means anywhere outdoors where people from separate households may gather for any purpose, including but not limited to public and private workplaces, shared or common spaces, outdoor sports fields, venues, parks, and rooftop terraces. An outdoor space does not include outdoor areas that are part of a private residence. 4.8. Private individual workspace means an indoor space within a public or private workplace used for work by one individual at a time that is enclosed on all sides with walls from floor to ceiling and with a closed door. 4.9. Social distancing, also called “physical distancing,” means keeping the health authority-recommended distance between yourself and other people who are not from your household. To practice social or physical distancing, stay at least 6 feet (about 2 arm lengths) from other people who are not from your household. 5. Responsibilities & Procedures 5.1. Certain public health measures may continue to be required by federal, state, or local laws in specific settings or for specific activities. All individuals engaging in OSU activities or on OSU-owned or -controlled property must continue to comply with those laws. 5.2. University Events, Gatherings, and Activities 5.2.1. Planners of university events, gatherings, and activities are required to review and follow OSU’s Verification of COVID-19 Vaccine or Negative COVID-19 Test Requirements to determine if the event, gathering, or activity is subject to requiring attendees to show proof of COVID-19 vaccination or a recent negative COVID-19 test. 5.3. Face Coverings and physical distancing: 5.3.1. Indoors. Refer to Face Covering Guidance & Public Health Policy for current indoor face covering requirements. 5.3.2. Outdoors. Refer to Face Covering Guidance & Public Health Policy for current outdoor face covering requirements. 5.3.3. Face shields (see definition above) are not an acceptable substitute for a face covering. 5.3.4. At all times, OSU continues to recommend that people who are not fully vaccinated, are vaccinated but have weakened immune systems, or are at high risk of severe COVID-19, continue to wear properly-fitted face coverings over the nose and mouth in all situations and to maintain physical distancing. Face coverings are recommended to be worn in combination with other measures, such as physical distancing and proper hand washing. 5.3.5. In alignment with Oregon Department of Education and State of Oregon updated rules and guidance for K-12 indoor school setting and indoor youth programs, youth program and child care operators are to require face coverings for youth in grades kindergarten and up, unless they meet an exception as identified in the above referenced rule. 5.4. Vaccination: All OSU faculty, staff, and students must comply with OSU’s Vaccine Program. Details about this requirement can be found online. 5.5. Symptom Screening: It is recommended that faculty, staff, students, contractors, volunteers, and visitors across all OSU locations perform daily health screenings for infectious illnesses, including COVID-19, and to stay home when sick and seek medical care. 5.6. Contact Tracing: Faculty, staff, students, contractors, volunteers, and visitors across all OSU locations are required to promptly collaborate with local health officials and appropriate OSU personnel, such as an employee’s supervisor or Points of Contact, in case investigation and contact tracing, in order to aid in disrupting the chain of transmission and prevent further spread of the virus in university settings, and in the community. See Notifications section 5.8 for additional information. 5.7. Quarantine and Isolation 5.7.1. Requirements and recommendations for students and employees are based on isolation and quarantine guidance provided by the CDC, OHA, and the Local Public Health Authority (LPHA). In specific circumstances, quarantine requirements for vaccinated and unvaccinated students or employees may be changed at the direction of the LPHA. 5.7.2. All OSU students, faculty, and staff are to adhere to these quarantine and isolation guidelines unless otherwise directed by the LPHA. 5.7.3. Notifications: Local public health authorities hold primary responsibility for contact tracing, which includes notification of those who have been exposed to an individual who has tested positive. Additionally, OSU requires employees and students who test positive for COVID-19 or receive a COVID-19 diagnosis to notify the university. OSU has established a notification process for employees and students. This notification process is designed to mitigate the spread of COVID-19. 5.7. Notifications: Local public health authorities hold primary responsibility for contact tracing, which includes notification of those who have been exposed to an individual who has tested positive. Additionally, OSU has established a notification process to respond to positive COVID-19 cases. These processes are designed to mitigate the spread of COVID-19 and supervisors are to follow this process when they are informed by an employee that they have tested positive for COVID-19. 5.8. OSU’s Coronavirus Response Coordinator, or designee, may approve limited exceptions and expansions to this university policy, where consistent with applicable executive orders. Approval of exceptions or expansion will be provided in writing. 6. Forms & Tools 6.1. OSU’s COVID-19 Notification Plan for Employees 6.2. OSU’s COVID-19 Notification Plan for Students 6.3. OSU’s Vaccine Program 6.4. OSU Face Covering Guidance 6.5. OSU Communicable Disease Management Plan 6.6. OSU’s Verification of COVID-19 Vaccine or Recent Negative COVID-19 Test Requirements for University-Designated OSU Events, Gatherings and Activities 7. Frequently Asked Questions 7.1. Safety & Success COVID-19 website FAQ’s 8. Related Information 8.1. OSU Safety & Success COVID-19 website 8.2. OSU Positive Case Notification website 8.3. Oregon Health Authority Statewide Isolation and Quarantine Guidance 9. History 9.1. Original Issue Date: June 30, 2021 9.2. Revised: July 8, 2021 9.3. Revised: July 28, 2021 9.4. Revised: August 5, 2021 9.5. Revised: August 13, 2021 9.6. Revised: August 20, 2021 9.7. Revised: August 27, 2021 9.8. Revised: September 17, 2021 9.9. Revised: September 23, 2021 9.10. Revised: September 29, 2021 9.11. Next scheduled review date: to be evaluated on an on-going basis and revised as appropriate. 10. Website 10.1. University Policy 11. Contacts Vice Provost for Student Affairs and Coronavirus Response Coordinator 541-737-0715 04 Governance & Administration Policies Architectural and Academic Unit Naming Policy COVID-19 Safety and Success Conflict of Interest Development of University Policies and Standards Discrimination Distribution of Publications or Other Materials in Campus Buildings Internal Controls Non-discrimination Policies Outdoor Publication Dispenser Placement Request Political Activities Proscribed Conduct Public Records, Access to Records Retention Student Records Time, Place, and Manner Rules for Speech Activities University Code of Ethics University Fraud, Waste, and Abuse Reporting Policy Use of the University Seal Contact Info Oregon State University University Policy and Standards Program 541-737-2878 Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer