Skip to content Policies, Regulations & Rules Toggle navigation View All… Policies Regulations Rules Repealed Student PRRs Definitions Feedback Handbooks Overview Resources What’s New Search Search for: Search REG 02.20.01 – Academic Accommodations for Students with Disabilities Past Versions of REG.02.20.01 View previous versions of this regulation. Submit Feedback We encourage you to submit feedback if you have comments or questions about this regulation. View All… All Policies All Regulations All Rules All Repealed All Student PRRs Select a Category Governance & Administration Board of Trustees Board of Trustees of the Endowment Fund Board of Visitors Delegation of Authority Governance – General Honorary Degrees, Awards and Distinctions Academic Affairs Academic Progress Admissions, Graduate Admissions, Undergraduate Courses, Undergraduate Degree Requirements, Graduate Degree Requirements, Undergraduate Faculty, Graduate School Grades and Courses, Graduate School Grades, Undergraduate International Affairs Library Registration & Records Scholarships & Financial Aid University Scholars Program (USP) Advancement Campus Environment General Campus Environment PRRs Campus Police Environmental Safety Fire Protection Health, Safety and Welfare Non-Discrimination Personnel General Personnel PRRs Applying for Employment Cooperative Extension County Personnel Employees Exempt from the State Personnel Act (SPA) Employees Subject to the State Personnel Act (SPA) Faculty Post Tenure Review (PTR) Rules College of Agriculture & Life Sciences (CALS) College of Design College of Education College of Engineering College of Humanities & Social Sciences (CHASS) College of Natural Resources College of Sciences College of Textiles College of Veterinary Medicine Division of Academic & Student Affairs (DASA) Poole College of Management Professorship Awards Reappointment Promotion and Tenure (RPT) Rules College of Agriculture & Life Sciences (CALS) College of Design College of Education College of Engineering College of Humanities & Social Sciences (CHASS) College of Natural Resources College of Sciences College of Textiles College of Veterinary Medicine Division of Academic & Student Affairs (DASA) Poole College of Management Grievances & Review Leave Mediation Outside Employment & Activities Payroll Performance Management and Review Recruitment and Hiring Retirement Extension & Engagement Centennial Campus Continuing Education Cooperative Extension Copyright Use of McKimmon Conference and Training Center (MCTC) Finance Operations & Auxillary Services Accounts Payable Bookstore Budget Construction Services Facilities Financial Services General Finance Operations & Auxillary PRRs Insurance and Risk Management Property Purchasing Real Estate Student Accounts Transportation Travel Information Technology Intercollegiate Athletics Research & Sponsored Activities General Research PRRs Contract and Grants Research Administration Student Activities & Services Academic Affairs Campus Recreation Craft Center Dining Gallery of Art & Design General Student Activities & Services PRRs Housing Student Discipline Student Grievance Student Health Services Student Organizations Talley Student Center Ticket Central Salary Administration/Compensation PRR Archives Authority: Executive Vice Chancellor and Provost History: First Issued: May 10, 2002. Last Revised: September 10, 2019. Related Policies: NCSU POL11.35.01 – Code of Student Conduct NCSU REG02.20.07 – Course Syllabus NCSU REG11.40.01 – Grievance Procedure for Undergraduate Students NCSU REG04.20.06 – Personal Care Attendants for Students With Disabilities NCSU REG02.20.11 – Recording Lectures and Discussions NCSU REG04.20.05 – Service Animals for Persons with Disabilities NCSU POL04.25.05 – Equal Opportunity and Non-Discrimination Policy Statement NCSU REG04.25.05 – Information and Communication Technology (ICT) Accessibility Additional References: DRO website information on additional documentation and forms Office for Civil Rights website FERPA Consent to Release Information Form Contact Info: Disability Resource Office Home Page (919-513-3768) 1. Introduction 1.1 In accordance with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (“Rehab Act”), the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (“ADA”), The ADA Amendments Act of 2008 (ADAAA), and state law, North Carolina State University (hereinafter NC State) is required to accommodate an otherwise qualified individual with a disability by making a reasonable modification in its services, programs, or activities. This regulation addresses the eligibility of students for academic accommodations in educational programs, services, and activities at NC State, as well as the provision of such accommodations to students with various types of disabilities. 2. Definitions 2.1 Disability: a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities. 2.2 Essential Eligibility Requirements: the fundamental academic or other technical standards required for admission to or participation in the university’s programs, services or activities that an individual must be able to meet with or without an accommodation. 2.3 Qualified Individual with a Disability: someone who, with or without an accommodation, meets the essential eligibility requirements for participating in programs, services or activities provided by the university. 2.4 Accommodation: an adjustment or modification in the academic environment that enables an individual to enjoy equal access to the university’s programs, services or activities. Examples of academic accommodations include, but are not limited to, extended time, scribes, interpreters, reduced distraction testing environment, Braille materials, ability to record lectures, and closed captioning. The provision of auxiliary aids may be an accommodation. 2.5 Auxiliary Aids: effective methods of making academic materials available to students with disabilities. Examples of auxiliary aids include, but are not limited to, audio recorders, talking calculators, Braille keyboards, text to speech, assistive listening devices, raised line drawings, voice synthesis software and screen magnifiers. 3. University Responsibilities 3.1 NC State retains authority, through the Disability Resource Office (“DRO”), to determine appropriate accommodations after giving consideration to the preferences of the student, the documentation provided, and institutional expertise in working with students with disabilities. 3.2 NC State has designated the DRO as the unit responsible for providing official notice to the faculty regarding implementation of accommodations for students with disabilities. 3.3 NC State will provide periodic in-service training for faculty and staff to develop their awareness and understanding of the needs of students with disabilities and legal compliance issues. 3.4 NC State will not solicit information regarding an applicant’s disability to determine admission. However, such inquiries may be made after an individual has been admitted for purposes of providing appropriate accommodations. 3.5 NC State will not limit the number or proportion of individuals with disabilities who will be admitted or enrolled. 3.6 NC State requires that all tests administered for purposes of admission, enrollment, or placement be non-discriminatory. Tests should be selected and administered so that the results reflect aptitude or achievement level, or whatever other factor the test purports to measure, rather than the applicant’s disability, unless the existence of a disability must be determined to allow an individual access to a program, service or activity established for individuals with disabilities. 3.7 NC State will provide the necessary auxiliary aids, services or other reasonable accommodations used by students with disabilities to provide access to university programs, services, or activities. Auxiliary aids, such as assistive listening devices, need not be on hand or present at all times, but must be made available at the time the student needs it. 3.8 NC State does not provide students with disabilities with devices or assistance for personal use, including but not limited to wheelchairs, eyeglasses, hearing aids, personal assistance for caring for oneself, or readers. 3.9 NC State shall not require a student with a disability to accept an accommodation, aid, service, opportunity or benefit under any circumstances. 3.10 NC State, in providing academic accommodations, shall not fundamentally alter the nature of the program, service or activity; require waiver of essential program or licensure requirements; violate accreditation requirements; unnecessarily intrude on academic freedom; or pose an undue fiscal or administrative burden on the institution. 3.11 NC State will not place a surcharge on a particular student with a disability or any group of students with disabilities to cover the costs of measures that are required to comply with the applicable disability law. 3.12 NC State and its agents shall not coerce, intimidate, retaliate against or discriminate against any student for exercising a right under applicable disability, or for assisting or supporting another person to exercise a right under such law. 4. Student Responsibilities 4.1 Each prospective student must meet the qualifications and maintain essential institutional standards for courses, programs, services, jobs, activities, and facilities. The DRO engages in an interactive process and reviews requests for accommodations on an individual basis. In determining eligibility for accommodations, DRO considers each individual’s condition, history, request and the essential elements of NC State University’s courses, programs and activities. 4.2 Each student is responsible for making timely and complete disclosures and specific requests regarding accommodations to meet his or her particular needs so as to provide an appropriate response. Requests for accommodations should be made as soon as possible. To ensure accommodations are in place by the date needed, it is recommended that requests be made at least 6 weeks prior. 4.3 Each student seeking accommodations based on a disability must submit current documentation prepared by a qualified professional verifying the student’s disability and functional limitations due to the disability. Documentation should contain the nexus between the request and the limitations caused by the disability. Students submitting incomplete information may be asked to provide additional verifying documentation. Students may be required to participate in additional evaluations needed to determine eligibility for an accommodation or what constitutes an appropriate accommodation. 4.4 Students with disabilities must abide by the Code of Student Conduct (POL11.35.01) in the same manner as all students. 4.5 In the event of a dispute about whether a student is eligible for an academic accommodation or about the provision of an accommodation by the university, the student should follow the Grievance Procedure for Undergraduate Students (REG11.40.01). Students may also file a charge of discrimination with the Office for Civil Rights. 5. College/Department/Faculty Responsibilities 5.1 NC State colleges, departments, and faculty will not discriminate in the recruitment, admission, educational process, or treatment of students with disabilities. 5.2 NC State requires all faculty and staff to read all communications from DRO and to comply with all requested accommodations as written. If the request for accommodations is unclear, appears to fundamentally alter the requirements of the course, or appears to be unreasonable, faculty and staff are expected to contact the DRO immediately. If a student requests accommodations and the faculty/staff member has not been notified of the student’s need for accommodation, then the faculty/staff member should refer the student to DRO. 5.3 NC State faculty and staff will not counsel or advise qualified students with disabilities toward more restrictive career and/or academic objectives than non-disabled individuals with similar interests. This prohibition does not preclude providing factual information about licensing and certification requirements that may present obstacles to students with disabilities in their pursuit of particular careers. 5.4 NC State requires faculty to include information on the course syllabus and to make an announcement, at the beginning of the semester, inviting students with disabilities to schedule an appointment to discuss academic accommodations. 5.5 NC State will provide students with disabilities with access to university notices that is comparable to that provided to other students concerning all academic requirements. 6. Reasonable Accommodations For Students With Disabilities Procedure 6.1 DRO facilitates effective reasonable classroom accommodations for all students on campus who disclose a disability, meet eligibility criteria, and request accommodations. 6.2 Disclosing a Disability 6.2.1 A student disclosing a disability to the university, for the purpose of receiving accommodations under the ADA and/or Rehab Act, must do the following to register with DRO: 6.2.1(a) Complete DRO the online “Disability Disclosure Form” on the DRO website. 6.2.1(b) Complete the FERPA Consent to Release Information Form. 6.2.1(c) Submit documentation directly to DRO by email, fax or upload directly on the online disclosure form. Information about required documentation is available on the DRO web site. 6.3 Meeting Eligibility Criteria 6.3.1 DRO uses the submitted documentation to determine whether or not a student is covered under the ADA and/or Rehab Act. This determination process includes deliberation about: 6.3.1(a) Whether the student has a “physical or mental” impairment; 6.3.1(b) Whether the life activity on which the student relies amounts to a “major” life activity; and 6.3.1(c) Whether the specific impairment “substantially limits” that major life activity. 6.4 Requesting Accommodations 6.4.1 Once determined eligible by DRO to receive accommodations, the student must do the following to receive accommodations: 6.4.2 Schedule an appointment to discuss accommodations with the DRO access consultant. This discussion is required for accommodations to begin and will include: 6.4.2(a) A discussion about functional limitations and restrictions. 6.4.2(b) A discussion about the academic accommodations for which the student is eligible. 6.4.2(c) Completion of the “Accommodation Plan” provided by the DRO access consultant. 6.4.2(d) Review of DRO procedures for receiving accommodations. 6.4.3 Once registered with DRO, each semester the student must: 6.4.3(a) Request accommodations, if needed, for each course through the DRO online portal. Requests should be made as early as possible. 6.4.3(b) Communicate with each instructor to discuss how accommodations will be implemented. 6.4.3(c) Contact the DRO as soon as possible should any problems with the accommodation process arise and/or you need to request changes to your accommodations. Audience: Students. Category: Courses, Undergraduate and Non-Discrimination. Policies, Regulations & Rules Copyright © 2022 · NC State University · Accessibility · Privacy · University Policies · Log in NC State University North Carolina State University Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011