Skip to main content UCF Police Department About About Us Career Opportunities Department Divisions Department Org. Chart Driving & Parking Directions FAQ News Specialty Units Jurisdiction Department of Security Department of Emergency Management Clery Act About the Clery Act Annual Security and Fire Safety Report Daily Crime Log Emergency Notifications & Timely Warnings Campus Security Authorities (CSAs) CSA Incident Reporting Form Fire Log Clery Crimes Clery Geography Crime Statistics Sexual Predators Info & Policies Active Shooter Alcohol & Drugs Safety Tips Crime Prevention Rideshare App Safety Blue Light Emergency Phones Prevent Auto Theft Bicycle Safety Tips Game Day Identity Theft In Memorium International Students Lost & Found Property Other Resources Pay Citation Unclaimed Property Auctions Traffic Crash Exchange Form Missing Persons Policy Fire Safety Residence Halls Services Fingerprinting Safe Escorts Bike and Property Registration Mighty Knights Self Defense Mobile App Safety Module Ride-Alongs Safe Exchange Spots Special Event Requests Notary Request a report K9 Demo Request Contact Us Campus Map Commend An Employee Communication Center Complaint Resolution Contact List Police Survey Search form Search Our Mission To reduce crime and the fear of crime by providing a safe environment for our students, faculty, staff and visitors and the safeguarding of constitutional guarantees. The University Of Central Florida Police Department provides law enforcement services to university community as well as several university affiliated housing communities near the campus. UCFPD Believes in Transparency The UCF Police Department is here to keep our community safe, and we believe in the power of transparency as we protect and serve. We want the public to understand who we are, what our policies are and why they exist, and how UCF police officers train and prepare for emergency situations. Learn More Join Our Family The UCF Police Department is looking for talented, qualified community members to come work with us. Learn more: https://police.ucf.edu/recruiting Helpful Resource Center Annual Safety Guide Hurricane Preparedness Employment Let's Be Clear Togetherall UCF Cares Our Commitment 24/7 Service UCF Police Department patrols and operates 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Contact us anytime at (407) 823-5555. In an emergency, dial 911. Victim Services Our program offers prevention awareness education throughout the UCF community. For more information please visit our webpage at www.victimservices.ucf.edu Specialty Units UCF Police Department employs K-9 units, Investigators, Community Service Officers, Motorcycle units and Bicycle units to provide the best service to the community UCF Police Department Contact Us 3610 Libra Drive Orlando, FL 32816-3550 Phone: (407) 823-5555 Emergency: 911 Email: policedept@ucf.edu Under Florida law, e-mail addresses are public records. If you do not want your e-mail address released in response to a public records request, do not send electronic mail to this entity. Instead, contact this office by phone or in writing. © 2014 University of Central Florida. All Rights Reserved. View Site Map. Orlando Web Design by Designzillas