Search Search Tool Search Search Tool Search For Emergencies Call 911 - Do not email, tweet, or text MSU POLICE MENUMENU Home Police Services Patrol Community Engagement Specialty Teams Multijurisdictional Teams Investigations Emergency Management Special Events Broad Museum & FRIB Security Parking Services Parking Violations Visitor Parking Permits Parking for Special Events Moped Information Special Parking Requests Spin Electric Scooters Community Support Community Support Bureau Community Care Unit Special Victims Unit Resources Security & Fire Safety Report Clery Crime & Fire Log SafeMSU app RVSM Commitment Safety Tips Access Control Police Records & FOIA Fingerprinting Citizen FAQ About News Releases Leadership Bureaus & Divisions History Connect with Us Annual Report Policy and Procedure Ethical Guarantee Contact Ask a Question Report a Crime Requests File a Complaint or Compliment Job Opportunities Citizen’s Police Academy Security & Fire Safety Report Safety and Security Information At Michigan State University (“MSU”), we take safety very seriously. Each member of the campus community—students, faculty, and staff—should take an active role in preventing and reporting incidents that jeopardize safety on and around campus. Please review this information carefully. MSU, in compliance with the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy & Campus Crime Statistics Act and the Higher Education Opportunity Act (“Clery Act”), has published this document to provide its students and employees with an overview of the University’s security and safety resources, policies, and procedures. A paper copy of this document may be obtained by contacting the Clery Act Compliance Coordinator. The University also reports the annual crime and fire statistics contained in this report to the U.S. Department of Education. This report contains general information about the campus, police and public safety resources, reporting crimes, coordination between law enforcement agencies, fire and medical emergencies, crime and fire prevention, victim support services, the law and University policies, campus facilities, residence hall security, crime statistics, fire statistics, the crime and fire log, the University’s Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Policy, and the MSU Drug and Alcohol Policy. It also contains information about alcohol and other drug health risks, drug and alcohol laws and penalties, and campus alcohol and other drug education and counseling resources. Campus crime statistics included in this report are gathered from a variety of sources, including campus and local law enforcement agencies and campus officials with significant responsibility for student and campus activities, referred to as Campus Security Authorities (“CSAs”). The MSU Clery Act Compliance Coordinator, Maja Myszkowski, prepares the report. Her contact information is: Maja Myszkowski Clery Act Compliance Coordinator Office of Audit, Risk and Compliance Hannah Administration Building 426 Auditorium Road, Suite 10 East Lansing, MI 48824 (517) 353-2620 clery@msu.edu The University established a Clery Compliance Committee in 2015, chaired by the Clery Act Compliance Coordinator, to enhance efficiency and coordination to provide an effective response to Clery Act obligations, including the drafting of this report. This group is made up of representatives from: Student Affairs & Services, Dean of Students Office, Office for Civil Rights and Title IX Education and Compliance, Office of Institutional Equity, Office of the General Counsel, Athletics, Sports Medicine, International Studies and Programs, Residence Education and Housing Services, MSU Police Department, Student Health Services, College of Osteopathic Medicine, Infrastructure Planning and Facilities, Risk Management, Health Care, Youth Programs, Continuing Education, Advancement, Provost’s Office, Human Resources, Land Management, New Student Orientation, and the Office of Audit, Risk and Compliance. The committee receives training and meets to ensure compliance is cohesive and coordinated. Specifically, the committee reviews policies and procedures related to Clery, the Annual Security and Fire Safety report drafts, and discusses ways to improve these various components of Clery compliance. Relevant Contacts Clery Act Compliance Coordinator 517-353-2620 Office of the General Counsel 517-353-3530 MSU Crime and Fire Safety Report The Annual Security and Fire Safety Report is produced by the Clery Act Compliance Coordinator and is distributed annually to all current students and employees. Crime and fire statistics are submitted each year to the U.S. Department of Education. This is the most current version of the report. MSU is in the process of remediating the Annual Security and Fire Safety Report to improve accessibility. If you encounter a barrier to accessibility, please contact the Clery Act Compliance Coordinator at (517) 353-2620 or clery@msu.edu to obtain the information contained in this report while we continue the remediation process. Annual Security and Fire Safety Report Relevant Links Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Policy MSUs Office of Audit Risk and Compliance Clery Information Facebook Twitter Instagram 1120 Red Cedar Rd East Lansing, MI 48824 (517) 355-2221 info@police.msu.edu Contact for Questions Parking Violations Permits Call us: (517) 355-2221 Contact Information Site Map Privacy Statement Site Accessibility Call MSU: (517) 355-1855 Visit: www.msu.edu MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer. Notice of Nondiscrimination Spartans Will. © Michigan State University