Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Administration and Finance University Police Main Navigation Services & Safety Info Programs Forms Crime, Complaints, & Reports Policies & Training Join Our Team News/Contact Chief's Advisory Board (CAB) Forms List of CSUF Police department Forms Name Description Authorization to Obtain Driving Records from the Department of Motor Vehicles Department of Motor Vehicles Behavior Concern Report CSUF Faculty/Staff to report all disruptive, threatening, or violent behavior to police Bicycle Registration Bring your CSUF Titan card, bicycle, and completed registration form to the CSUF Police Department to register your bike. Registration is free! Two locations to serve you. Housing Community Resource Center - Cypress Dorm Main Station - Corner of Gymnasium Dr. and State College Blvd. Additional Information Citizen's Academy Application The application process is now closed. Open to current CSUF students, staff, and faculty only. The Citizen's Academy is part of our Police Reform and Enhanced Community Engagement Plan. Citizen Complaint, Feedback and Personnel Recognition Complaints, feedback, suggestions, and personnel recognition are accepted via electronic submission by completing the form. Submissions may be made anonymously. These digitally accessible forms are part of our Police Reform and Enhanced Community Engagement Plan. Community Service Officer Job Application (CSO) - Student Worker NOW HIRING PATROL & RECORDS CSOs! Job Application CSOs receive priority registration CSO Hiring Flyer - Patrol CSO Hiring Flyer - Records *NOTICE: In order to submit this form via email, please open the form in Adobe Acrobat or Reader, fill out the form, and then click the "Submit" button. -Starting Pay: $14 per hour -Student workers are part-time; Maximum 20-hours per week Community Service Officer Request (CSO) Need a CSO for your event or fire watch? Cancellations: Cancellations must be communicated at least 24 hours in advance to avoid being charged. *NOTICE: In order to submit this form via email, please open the form in Adobe Acrobat or Reader, fill out the form, and then click the "Submit" button. Due to COVID-19, we are extremely understaffed. We ask for your continued patience with our Community Service Officers (CSO), officers, and CSUF PD personnel as we do our best to provide you with the best possible customer service. At this time, we may have delayed response times or not have the appropriate staffing level to assist with your event. We apologize for any inconvenience this may cause. CSA Reporting Form Clery Act - Campus Security Authorities Only Event Request Form To request the presence of department personnel at your event, take a tour, or have an officer make an appearance in a classroom or community event, other than a presentation, complete our CSUF PD Events, Tours, and Appearances Form. Lost Property Inquiry Bring valid picture ID to claim property Police Officer Request Special Events Cancellations: Cancellations must be communicated at least 24 hours in advance to avoid being charged. *NOTICE: In order to submit this form via email, please open the form in Adobe Acrobat or Reader, fill out the form, and then click the "Submit" button. Due to COVID-19, we are extremely understaffed. We ask for your continued patience with our Community Service Officers (CSO), officers, and CSUF PD personnel as we do our best to provide you with the best possible customer service. At this time, we may have delayed response times or not have the appropriate staffing level to assist with your event. We apologize for any inconvenience this may cause. Presentation Request Complete and submit the form to request a presentation for your group, club, department, or organization. All presentations are open to the public except the Listening and Sharing Tour (CSUF ONLY). The online Presentation Request form is part of our Police Reform and Enhanced Community Engagement Plan. Public Affairs Internship Application Not currently hiring Current Junior/Senior Communication Majors Only (Academic Internship) Rape Aggression Defense (RAD) Canceled Until Further Notice Course Inquiry Ride-Along Waiver All Approved and Future Ride-Alongs Are Canceled Until Further Notice Contact the on-duty watch commander at (657) 278-2905 to schedule a ride-along CONTACT US CSUF Police Department Emergency: 9-1-1 Email: Email CSUF PD Records Bureau: (657) 278-4308 Hours: M-F, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. Dispatch/24-Hour Non-Emergency: (657) 278-2515 Hours: 24/7 Community Resource Center: (657) 278-5533 Mailing Address: 800 N. State College Blvd. Fullerton, CA 92831 Campus Map Back to Homepage Additional Resources A&F DEI Efforts CSA Reporting Form DACA FAQ DACA - CSU Chancellor Letter Dean of Students - BIT Referral Student Wellness CALEA Accreditation Local Resource Guide This site is maintained by University Police. Last Published 4/11/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact magarza@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.7 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.