Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Administration and Finance University Police Main Navigation Services & Safety Info Programs Forms Crime, Complaints, & Reports Policies & Training Join Our Team News/Contact Chief's Advisory Board (CAB) Access your Portal to update your emergency information. Notifications are made via text message, email, and phone call. Follow these simple steps to update your Portal: Update CSUF Portal Questions? Contact (657) 278-2515. Active Shooter What to do? If there is a threat and you can escape: 1) Move away from the threat as quickly as possible. 2) Run if you're able. If the threat is near you and you can't escape: 1) Find a secure room and lock the door. 2) Put any big object in front of the door to prevent entry. 3) Turn off lights and silence all electronic devices. 4) Hide behind furniture and be as quiet as possible. 5) Wait for CSUF PD to release you from your position. If you can't (safely) lock the door or escape: 1) Hide and be prepared to disarm the threat. 2) Two to five person (attack team) should be just inside the door to knock down the weapon and push the shooter to the floor and disarm. 3) Do everything you can to survive until CSUF PD arrives. When police enter the room show your hands and follow instructions. California State University Active Shooter Video -English -Spanish Click to take a 45-minute online FEMA course on active shooter situations Campus Safety Escort **COVID-19 CHANGES** ESCORTS, WHERE ONLY A CLOSED VEHICLE IS AVAILABLE, WILL NOT TAKE PLACE INSIDE THE VEHICLE, A COMMUNITY SERVICE OFFICER (CSO) WILL DRIVE NEARBY. IF AN OPEN-AIR CART IS AVAILABLE, THE CAMPUS SAFETY ESCORT WILL TAKE PLACE INSIDE THE CART. A CSO MAY ALSO PROVIDE AN ESCORT BY WALKING NEARBY. Our free campus safety escort service is NOT a shuttle service. It is for those individuals who fear walking to or from their class, car, or dorm. Please do not use the service for anything other than safety concerns. Safety escort services are available to students, faculty, staff, and visitors who fear of walking from campus to their vehicle, class, or dorm. *Limited to campus boundaries To request an escort, call (657) 278-2515 or in the event of an emergency use the campus blue phones. Blue Phone Map Have the following information ready: (1) name, (2) location, (3) description of clothing Information on Campus Safety Escorts - Printable Available Monday-Thursday, 7am-1am, based on staffing availability. Emergency Blue Phones Push the button to connect to Cal State Fullerton PD dispatch *Blue phones are for emergencies only - Blue Phone Map Report a Crime or Behavior Concern Crimes that occur on campus or CSUF property can be reported 24/7 In an EMERGENCY: Dial 9-1-1 Non-Emergency: Dial (657) 278-2515 In Person: CSUF Police Department (identified as UP on the campus map) On-Campus: Emergency Blue Phone - Blue Phone Map Report Suspicious Activity To report suspicious activity, call (657) 278-2515 Bicycle Registration Registering your bicycle with CSUF Police Department increases the chance the thief will be apprehended if your bike is stolen. To register your bicycle, visit CSUF Police Department with your Titan Card, bicycle, and completed registration form . Two locations to serve you. Housing Community Resource Center - Cypress Dorm Main Station - Corner Gymnasium Dr. and State College Blvd. Additional Information Our monthly bicycle registration event is canceled until further notice. CSUF Police Department and Parking and Transportation team up each month to provide you with a one-stop-shop for everything bicycle. Join us on the following dates to get your bicycle checked by Two Wheeler Dealer bike shop in Fullerton and register your bike for free. Event Dates: Canceled until futher notice Chaplain Services CSUF Police Department employes one on-call chaplain. The chaplain is available to students, staff, and faculty 24 hours a day, seven days a week. To request to speak or meet with a chaplain, please call (657) 278-2515. The chaplain will meet the student, staff, or faculty member at the police station. 800 N. State College Blvd. Fullerton, CA 92831 Child Car Seat Inspection The CSUF Police Department offers free child car seat inspections by officers who are certified Child Passenger Safety Technicians. Properly installed safety seats reduce the risk of fatal injury to infants (under one) by 71%. By Appointment Only - May take up to one hour Complete the Child Car Seat Inspection form to schedule an appointment or request additional information. To make an appointment or ask questions, email CSUF PD PIO or call (657) 278-9636. Impound & Storage Tow Information Line: (657) 278-2111 Tow Release Fees $150 for all STORED (non-impounded) vehicles $300 for DUI related (impounded) vehicles $200 for other impounded vehicles $25 for property retrieval Additional Information Obtain a written release from the police department Cashier's check, money order or credit cards ONLY Vehicle can only be released to the listed registered vehicle owner Unlicensed or Suspended Driver Vehicle owner is liable for towing, storage, and release fees Vehicle subject to a 30 day hold unless proof is provided that the cited driver's license was reinstated Vehicle Impound Hearing You must submit your request within 10 business days of the date appearing on the impound notice In person (CSUF Police Department - 800 N. State College Blvd., Fullerton, CA 92831 - Corner of State College Blvd. and Gym Dr.) In writing (CSUF Police Department - 800 N. State College Blvd., Fullerton, CA 92831 - Corner of State College Blvd. and Gym Dr.) Keys CSUF Key Request forms are available to department offices from the CSUF Police Department Key Control Center. Two working days are required to complete in-person key requests Staff: CSUF ID required Students: CSUF ID and 2nd form of valid picture identification is required Lost Keys? The first lost key is free. Subsequent lost keys are $25 each. Master keys may vary. *If CSUF Police Department determines a new lock or re-keying is required, additional fees will be incurred Key Return M-F, 8am-5pm Questions? Call (657) 278-4308 Email csufkeys@fullerton.edu for key holds on your account, to return keys, and all other Records related functions. Live Scan To schedule a Live Scan appointment, click below. Schedule a Live Scan Appointment Please bring your government-issued ID and complete the Live Scan form prior to arrival. Live Scan Hours by Appointment Only: M-F, 8:30am-4pm Lost and Found Lost and found property is stored for three months Click to view all lost and found items turned into CSUF PD Bring a valid picture ID to claim property Property eligible for sale to the public after 90 days can be found on Property Room Main Campus Hours M-F, 8am-5pm Questions? Call (657) 278-4308 CONTACT US CSUF Police Department Emergency: 9-1-1 Email: Email CSUF PD Records Bureau: (657) 278-4308 Hours: M-F, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. Dispatch/24-Hour Non-Emergency: (657) 278-2515 Hours: 24/7 Community Resource Center: (657) 278-5533 Mailing Address: 800 N. State College Blvd. Fullerton, CA 92831 Campus Map Back to Homepage Additional Resources A&F DEI Efforts CSA Reporting Form DACA FAQ DACA - CSU Chancellor Letter Dean of Students - BIT Referral Student Wellness CALEA Accreditation Local Resource Guide This site is maintained by University Police. Last Published 5/27/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact magarza@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.7 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.