Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Florida State University Police Department Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home Organization Message From the Chief Accreditation Command Staff Crime Prevention & Outreach Investigations Motorcycle Unit Public Safety Officers Special Operations Training Uniform Patrol FSUPD Organizational Chart Campus Access & Security Services (CASS) Emergency Management FSUPD Dispatch Transportation & Parking Services (TAPS) Report a Crime Report Hazing Missing Persons Florida Sexual Offenders and Predators Search Campus Trespass Warning Services & Resources Lost and Found Resources Safety Connection Victims Rights Brochures 2021 FSU Game Day Plan What to Expect when Reporting a crime on FSU's Campus Clery Act Contact Us Employment FAQs Annual Security Report FSU Alert FSU Crime & Fire Logs Records Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Florida State University Police Department Toggle navigation Home Organization Message From the Chief Accreditation Command Staff Crime Prevention & Outreach Investigations Motorcycle Unit Public Safety Officers Special Operations Training Uniform Patrol FSUPD Organizational Chart Campus Access & Security Services (CASS) Emergency Management FSUPD Dispatch Transportation & Parking Services (TAPS) Report a Crime Report Hazing Missing Persons Florida Sexual Offenders and Predators Search Campus Trespass Warning Services & Resources Lost and Found Resources Safety Connection Victims Rights Brochures 2021 FSU Game Day Plan What to Expect when Reporting a crime on FSU's Campus Clery Act Contact Us Employment FAQs Annual Security Report FSU Alert FSU Crime & Fire Logs Records Home FAQs FAQs General How can I report a crime? To report a crime anonymously, you may submit information via the Silent Witness online form. You may report hazing by visiting hazing.fsu.edu. Where can I find a list of Campus Trespass Warnings? You can find the lists alphabetically here: http://police.fsu.edu/campus-trespass-warning How can I have a Campus Trespass Warning reviewed, removed or modified? Contact Lt. Gregory McSwain via email at gmcswain@fsu.edu. All trespass warnings are reviewed and addressed in writing ONLY. Safety Connection Is Safety Connection the same as the FSU Alert system? No, Safety Connection is separate from the FSU Alert Emergency Notification System. FSU Alert is Florida State University's emergency notification system. If there is a condition which threatens the health and safety of persons on campus, university officials will warn the campus community using many means of communication, including text messages to cell phones. All faculty, staff and students are encouraged to provide the FSU Alert System with a primary cell phone number where they can be reached during an emergency. Safety Connection is a free and optional personal safety service that is available to anyone with a valid FSU ID. Students must be currently enrolled to be able to register for the service. How much will this service cost me? Registration for and use of Safety Connection is FREE to all active faculty, staff and students. Is the information secure? Yes. This system uses the latest in security technologies and processes to ensure all information is kept secure and private. They undergo regular security audits to ensure the security of data. Is Safety Connection easy to use? VERY, all you need to do is register and download the Everbridge App in your phone's app store. Does Safety Connection require users to have a certain kind of phone? No. All the features of the Everbridge app and Safety Connection work on any smart device globally. If I am inactive from FSU for personal reasons or leave school for a semester, or any length of time, will I still be able to use the Safety Connection features? No. In the event that you leave FSU for any reason, your account information will be removed from the system. If I am a faculty or staff member can I use the Safety Connection features? Yes. Please keep in mind that the majority of the available Safety Connection features are campus based. Once you travel beyond FSUPD’s jurisdiction, the SOS Guardian feature will not activate. Is the Everbridge app always tracking me? No. Your privacy is of utmost importance. You can only be located if a SOS Guardian, Check-in, or Safe Corridor is initiated or when calling FSU Police on your registered cellular telephone. The SOS Guardian collects your contact information, geo-coded location, and a 2-minute live stream video from your front camera. Remember, Location, Audio, and Video are tracked only when permission is expressively given on the Everbridge App, ensuring the end-user has control and full privacy to easily opt-in and opt-out of these added services. What if I don't want to enable Microphone, Camera, or Location services? Enabling these services is totally voluntary. You are not required to enable these; however, whatever you do enable is the information that FSU Police ultimately receives when you request assistance. Can FSUPD track me whenever they want? No. FSUPD will only be able to obtain information you provide if a SOS Guardian, Check-In, or Safe Corridor is activated or when calling 911 or FSUPD's non-emergency number on your registered smart device. Will the Safe Corridor feature let other people like my family or friends track me? No, never. Only FSUPD will ever have access to your information and your GPS location, but only if your location enabled and only when you activate one of the Safety Connection features. Are their certain factors that can affect the reported location accuracy (GPS)? Yes. Factors include, but are not limited to: whether or not you are inside a building or a "dead spot"; the strength of your cell signal (such as proximity of cell towers), whether or not your phone is GPS enabled and, the type and quality of your smart device, carrier and signal. Still have Questions about Evebridge App or the Safety Connection feature? Please feel free to call FSU Emergency Management Technical Support at 850-644-7055 or email at contact@emergency.fsu.edu title-inside title-centered 2 FSUPD Headquarters Florida State University Police Department 830 West Jefferson Street PO Box 3064215 Tallahassee FL, 32306 Map Location P: (850) 644-1234 F: (850) 644-3205 FSUPD Panama City Florida State University Panama City 4750 Collegiate Drive Panama City FL, 32405 Map Location P: (850) 872-4250 F: (850) 770-2721 Transportation & Parking Services 104 N. Woodward Ave Tallahassee, FL 32306 Map Location Email: transportation@fsu.edu P: (850) 644-5278 F: (850) 644-0008 M-F, 8am-5pm FSUPD Intranet © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media