Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campus Map | Directions | Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Degree Search Browse by school Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today Policy Library Search form Search this site Search for -Any-Policy DocumentPolicy Document - PDF/DOC Responsible Office -Any- Academic Achievement & Access Center Academic Success ADA Resource Center for Equity and Accessibility Admissions Alumni Association Biodiversity Institute Bursar Business & Financial Planning Campus Operations Center for Faculty Development Center for Undergraduate Research College of Liberal Arts & Sciences Comptroller Continuing Education Counseling & Psychological Services Diversity & Equity Edwards Campus Enrollment Management Environment, Health & Safety Event Management & Protocol Facilities Planning and Development Faculty Code for the Lawrence Campus Finance Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Services Global Operations and Security Governance Graduate Studies Hilltop Child Development Center Human Resource Management Information Technology Internal Audit International Affairs International Programs Kansas Board of Regents KU Card Center KU Memorial Unions KU Recreation Services KUMC Equal Opportunity Office KUMC Facilities Management KUMC Faculty Affairs KUMC Human Research Protection Program KUMC Human Resources KUMC Information Resources KUMC Information Security KUMC Institutional Finance KUMC Office of Academic Affairs KUMC Office of Academic Affairs and Graduate Studies KUMC Office of Compliance KUMC Office of the Executive Vice Chancellor KUMC Office of the Registrar/Admissions KUMC Office of the Vice Chancellor for Administration KUMC Office of the Vice Chancellor for Research KUMC Postdoctoral Affairs and Graduate Studies KUMC Public Safety and Emergency Management KUMC Research Institute KUMC School of Health Professions KUMC Student Financial Aid KUMC Student Health Services KUMC Student Services Legal Services for Students Libraries Lifelong & Professional Education Moderation History Not Specified Office of Civil Rights and Title IX Office of First-Year Experience Office of Global Operations Office of Multicultural Affairs Office of Provost and Executive Vice Chancellor Office of Research Office of the Chancellor Office of the General Counsel Payroll Policy Office Policy Office-retired Procurement Public Affairs Public Safety Registrar School of Architecture and Design School of Business School of Education and Human Sciences School of Engineering School of Journalism School of Law School of Music School of Pharmacy School of Social Welfare Spencer Museum of Art State of Kansas Student Affairs Student Housing Student Information Systems Student Involvement & Leadership Center Student Senate Test Office Transportation Services Unclassified Senate Undergraduate Advising Center University Archive University Career Center University Faculty Evaluation Policies - Lawrence Campus Watkins Health Services Policy Category -Any- Academic Categories- Promotion & Tenure- Service Learning- Misconduct- Learning Communities- Intellectual Property- International- Study Abroad- Technology- Textbooks- Instruction- Holidays & Religious Holidays- Assistance with Disabilities- Assistance with Schoolwork- Advising- Admission to KU- Academic Programs- Academic Work & Evaluations- Conflict of Interest- Continuing Education- Graduation & Degrees- Grievance & Appeals- Governance- Examinations- Distance Education- Enrollment Financial Categories- Donations- Equipment & Inventory- Cash Management & Investments- Budgeting- Accounting- Financial Oversight- Disbursements- Payroll- Tuition & Fees- Student Financial Aid- Travel- Purchasing Information Access & Technology Categories- Information Access- Privacy & Security- Information Technology Operational Categories- Facilities- Legislative Affairs- Outreach & Solicitation- Environment- Emergencies- Communications- Health & Safety- Donations Personnel- Administrators Categories-- Leaves & Holidays-- Performance-- Hiring-- Grievance & Appeals-- Departure-- Promotion & Tenure-- Recognition-- Workplace Rules & Guidelines-- Recruitment-- Conflicts of Interest-- Compensation-- Childcare-- Benefits- Affiliates/Volunteers Categories-- Childcare-- Benefits-- Compensation-- Conflicts of Interest-- Leaves & Holidays-- Hiring-- Grievance & Appeals-- Departure-- Performance-- Promotion & Tenure-- Workplace Rules & Guidelines-- Recruitment-- Recognition- Faculty/Academic Staff Categories-- Hiring-- Leaves & Holidays-- Grievance & Appeals-- Departure-- Conflicts of Interest-- Performance-- Promotion & Tenure-- Workplace Rules & Guidelines-- Recruitment-- Recognition-- Compensation-- Childcare-- Benefits- Staff Categories-- Benefits-- Childcare-- Compensation-- Conflicts of Interest-- Departure-- Grievance & Appeals-- Hiring-- Leaves & Holidays-- Performance-- Promotion & Tenure-- Recognition-- Recruitment-- Workplace Rules & Guidelines- Student Employees Categories-- Workplace Rules & Guidelines-- Promotion & Tenure-- Recognition-- Recruitment-- Performance-- Leaves & Holidays-- Benefits-- Departure-- Grievance & Appeals-- Hiring-- Conflicts of Interest-- Compensation-- Childcare Research Category- Research Student Life Categories- Assistance with Disabilities- Childcare- Events, Protests & Organizations- Facilities Use & Scheduling- Financial Assistance- Finding a Job- Health & Wellness- Housing- Learning about the University- Legal Assistance- Misconduct- Multicultural & Minority Resources- Recreation School/College Policy Categories- Promotion & Tenure- Additional Policies- Code of Conduct/By-Laws- Grievance & Appeals Home Alphabetically By Category Academic Financial Information Access & Technology Operational Personnel Administrators Affiliates/Volunteers Faculty/Academic Staff Staff Student Employees Research and Sponsored Projects School/College Student Life By Location All University KU Medical Center By School/College By Office Resources Contributor Resources & Templates Getting Started Training Guide Style Guide Frequently Asked Questions Add New Policy Document Upload Policy-Related PDF or Word Document Edit Existing Policy Document Policy Library Template Adding Anchors & Linking Within Policy Documents Policy Library Categories & Subcategories Assigning URLs to New Policy Library Documents Add/Update Policies Policy Development Process Policy Office Menu Home Alphabetically By Category Academic Financial Information Access & Technology Operational Personnel Administrators Affiliates/Volunteers Faculty/Academic Staff Staff Student Employees Research and Sponsored Projects School/College Student Life By Location All University KU Medical Center By School/College By Office Resources Contributor Resources & Templates Getting Started Training Guide Style Guide Frequently Asked Questions Add New Policy Document Upload Policy-Related PDF or Word Document Edit Existing Policy Document Policy Library Template Adding Anchors & Linking Within Policy Documents Policy Library Categories & Subcategories Assigning URLs to New Policy Library Documents Add/Update Policies Policy Development Process Policy Office Search Search form Search this site Search for -Any-Policy DocumentPolicy Document - PDF/DOC Responsible Office -Any- Academic Achievement & Access Center Academic Success ADA Resource Center for Equity and Accessibility Admissions Alumni Association Biodiversity Institute Bursar Business & Financial Planning Campus Operations Center for Faculty Development Center for Undergraduate Research College of Liberal Arts & Sciences Comptroller Continuing Education Counseling & Psychological Services Diversity & Equity Edwards Campus Enrollment Management Environment, Health & Safety Event Management & Protocol Facilities Planning and Development Faculty Code for the Lawrence Campus Finance Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Services Global Operations and Security Governance Graduate Studies Hilltop Child Development Center Human Resource Management Information Technology Internal Audit International Affairs International Programs Kansas Board of Regents KU Card Center KU Memorial Unions KU Recreation Services KUMC Equal Opportunity Office KUMC Facilities Management KUMC Faculty Affairs KUMC Human Research Protection Program KUMC Human Resources KUMC Information Resources KUMC Information Security KUMC Institutional Finance KUMC Office of Academic Affairs KUMC Office of Academic Affairs and Graduate Studies KUMC Office of Compliance KUMC Office of the Executive Vice Chancellor KUMC Office of the Registrar/Admissions KUMC Office of the Vice Chancellor for Administration KUMC Office of the Vice Chancellor for Research KUMC Postdoctoral Affairs and Graduate Studies KUMC Public Safety and Emergency Management KUMC Research Institute KUMC School of Health Professions KUMC Student Financial Aid KUMC Student Health Services KUMC Student Services Legal Services for Students Libraries Lifelong & Professional Education Moderation History Not Specified Office of Civil Rights and Title IX Office of First-Year Experience Office of Global Operations Office of Multicultural Affairs Office of Provost and Executive Vice Chancellor Office of Research Office of the Chancellor Office of the General Counsel Payroll Policy Office Policy Office-retired Procurement Public Affairs Public Safety Registrar School of Architecture and Design School of Business School of Education and Human Sciences School of Engineering School of Journalism School of Law School of Music School of Pharmacy School of Social Welfare Spencer Museum of Art State of Kansas Student Affairs Student Housing Student Information Systems Student Involvement & Leadership Center Student Senate Test Office Transportation Services Unclassified Senate Undergraduate Advising Center University Archive University Career Center University Faculty Evaluation Policies - Lawrence Campus Watkins Health Services Policy Category -Any- Academic Categories- Promotion & Tenure- Service Learning- Misconduct- Learning Communities- Intellectual Property- International- Study Abroad- Technology- Textbooks- Instruction- Holidays & Religious Holidays- Assistance with Disabilities- Assistance with Schoolwork- Advising- Admission to KU- Academic Programs- Academic Work & Evaluations- Conflict of Interest- Continuing Education- Graduation & Degrees- Grievance & Appeals- Governance- Examinations- Distance Education- Enrollment Financial Categories- Donations- Equipment & Inventory- Cash Management & Investments- Budgeting- Accounting- Financial Oversight- Disbursements- Payroll- Tuition & Fees- Student Financial Aid- Travel- Purchasing Information Access & Technology Categories- Information Access- Privacy & Security- Information Technology Operational Categories- Facilities- Legislative Affairs- Outreach & Solicitation- Environment- Emergencies- Communications- Health & Safety- Donations Personnel- Administrators Categories-- Leaves & Holidays-- Performance-- Hiring-- Grievance & Appeals-- Departure-- Promotion & Tenure-- Recognition-- Workplace Rules & Guidelines-- Recruitment-- Conflicts of Interest-- Compensation-- Childcare-- Benefits- Affiliates/Volunteers Categories-- Childcare-- Benefits-- Compensation-- Conflicts of Interest-- Leaves & Holidays-- Hiring-- Grievance & Appeals-- Departure-- Performance-- Promotion & Tenure-- Workplace Rules & Guidelines-- Recruitment-- Recognition- Faculty/Academic Staff Categories-- Hiring-- Leaves & Holidays-- Grievance & Appeals-- Departure-- Conflicts of Interest-- Performance-- Promotion & Tenure-- Workplace Rules & Guidelines-- Recruitment-- Recognition-- Compensation-- Childcare-- Benefits- Staff Categories-- Benefits-- Childcare-- Compensation-- Conflicts of Interest-- Departure-- Grievance & Appeals-- Hiring-- Leaves & Holidays-- Performance-- Promotion & Tenure-- Recognition-- Recruitment-- Workplace Rules & Guidelines- Student Employees Categories-- Workplace Rules & Guidelines-- Promotion & Tenure-- Recognition-- Recruitment-- Performance-- Leaves & Holidays-- Benefits-- Departure-- Grievance & Appeals-- Hiring-- Conflicts of Interest-- Compensation-- Childcare Research Category- Research Student Life Categories- Assistance with Disabilities- Childcare- Events, Protests & Organizations- Facilities Use & Scheduling- Financial Assistance- Finding a Job- Health & Wellness- Housing- Learning about the University- Legal Assistance- Misconduct- Multicultural & Minority Resources- Recreation School/College Policy Categories- Promotion & Tenure- Additional Policies- Code of Conduct/By-Laws- Grievance & Appeals Home School of Social Welfare Merit Guidelines and Policy School of Social Welfare Policy School of Social Welfare Merit Guidelines and Policy Policy Guideline Purpose: The policy addresses the assessment of merit for tenure-track faculty and research faculty with distinctions relevant to their roles within the School. Applies to: School of Social Welfare tenure-track faculty and research faculty. Campus: Edwards Lawrence Policy Statement: Merit is awarded by the dean for teaching, scholarship, service, funded research and other, as defined below per calendar year. The basis for merit assessment should be each faculty member’s workload which is negotiated with the dean. Under normal circumstances, faculty receive merit pay based on up to 30 points per year. Faculty who earn more than 30 points are eligible for exceptional merit in those years when it becomes available. The policy includes two sections which address the assessment of merit for tenure-track faculty and research faculty with distinctions relevant to their roles within the School. Tenure-Track Faculty Merit Policy Teaching: Merit points are tied to student C&I scores as follows: Three merit points will be awarded for each course taught if the faculty member’s average of questions 3 & 4 on the C&I scores is 4 or above. If the average of questions 3 & 4 on the C&I scores is 4.75 or above, the faculty member will earn one additional merit point for that course. If the average of questions 3 & 4 on the C&I scores for a course is between 3.0 and 4.0, the faculty member will receive 1.75 points for that course. If the average of questions 3 & 4 on the C & I scores for a course is below 3.0, the faculty will receive 1.0 point. Preparation of each course taught for first time = 1 point per course. Faculty receive 3 points for each course buy out or release. Doctoral activities (All points awarded in year of completion only). Chair, dissertation committee = 2 points; Methodologist on dissertation committee = 2 points; Chair of Qualifying Committee = 2 points Members of qualifying committee = 1 point; Member of dissertation committee (whether inside or outside the School) = 1 point. Mentoring of Pre-Tenured Faculty, Adjuncts, and GTAs: Faculty will receive 1 merit point for every 3 mentoring assignments completed per year. Mentoring of GRAs, undergraduate research scholars, and MSW research scholars will receive 1 merit point for every 3 students mentored per year. Scholarship: Article in refereed journal, counted only once in year of acceptance = 2 points. Book chapter, counted in year publisher accepts final manuscript = 2 points. Book (published by scholarly publishing company), counted in year of publisher acceptance of final manuscript = 4 points. Note: Faculty who write book chapters in books they also edit receive 4 points for the book, 0 points for the chapters; i.e., cannot receive credit for both the book and the chapters. Pre-approved projects (see workload document) not linked to course buyout or release = 2 points. Buy-out or release of second unit = 2 points. Monograph (not published nor distributed by KU School of Social Welfare; maximum 2/year) = 1 point. Service: Maximum is 6 points – Unassigned service 5 points; assigned service 1 point Subcategories of unassigned service are: School/University (each of the following earns 1 point. These points may be distributed across the following subcategories in any proportion). School/University service activities include: Membership on a School elected committee; Membership on a program-level curriculum committee (BSW, MSW, PhD); Membership on University committee and other bodies. Local/State/National/International (each of the following earns 1 point). These points may be distributed across the following subcategories in any proportion) Local/State/National/International service activities include: Local/state service; National (national invited or refereed presentations, book reviews for professional journals, editorial boards for journals, etc.); International (international invited or refereed presentations, etc.) Significant, exceptionally time consuming service. Subcategories of Assigned service are: Professional advising. Special assignments made by the Dean. Paid practice of any kind, be it direct service, consultation, teaching, speaking (except for a token honorarium) cannot be counted as service since, although it makes a professional contribution, it is already being rewarded through payment whereas the concept of service here includes personal donation or contribution. Funded research: (adopted December 2008) Merit points for grants and contracts will be assigned in the following way: 1 point for the funding up to 25K 1 point for funding over 25k and up to 50K 1 point for funding over 50k and up to 100K Above 100k, 1 point for each additional 100K of funding. Other: Dean’s discretion: 0-4 points per faculty member. Dean’s Incentive Point Pool The Dean has access to a separate pool of discretionary points created for the purposes of creating incentives and providing rewards to faculty that most effectively support the reputation and importance of the School to the University and the profession. The number of points in this “incentive” pool of discretionary points is calculated at 1 point per tenure seeking or tenured faculty (e.g., if there are 25 faculty the available pool is 25 x 1 = 25 total merit points). The points from this “incentive” pool are awarded at the Dean’s discretion. The pool of “incentive” discretionary points is separate from the existing discretionary points that the Dean may award in accord with the merit policy. The creation of this new pool of “incentive” discretionary points will not change the maximum number of points that can be allocated for merit-based salary increases (i.e., 30) Sabbatical and Other Academic Leave: Changes approved by Faculty Vote December 9, 2005 In cases where a faculty member is on academic leave (sabbatical, Fulbright, Intra- University professorship, etc.), merit for teaching/advising during the period of leave will equal merit points awarded for teaching/advising during the equivalent period of the prior year. Points awarded for teaching/advising include points given in the prior year for buyout of teaching/advising. Merit for scholarship and service will be determined by actual work accomplished during the leave period. For faculty on phased retirement, merit is awarded for the classes taught and the actual work accomplished in service and scholarship. When a faculty member is on non-academic leave, merit is given only for work actually produced in the areas of scholarship and service. Research Faculty (e.g., Unclassified Academic Staff) Merit Policy This portion of the policy and its scale are specific to the workload of research faculty (e.g. unclassified academic staff), and as such, review and evaluation of merit points should not occur across faculty categories. Academic Activities: Doctoral activities (All points awarded in year of completion only). Chair, dissertation committee = 2 points; Methodologist on dissertation committee = 2 points; Chair of Qualifying Committee = 2 points Members of qualifying committee = 1 point; Member of dissertation committee (whether inside or outside the School) = 1 point. Mentoring of research faculty (e.g. unclassified academic staff), GRAs, undergraduate research scholars, and MSW research scholars will receive 1 merit point for every 3 individuals mentored per year. Scholarship: Article in refereed journal, counted only once in year of acceptance = 2 points. Book chapter, counted in year publisher accepts final manuscript = 2 points. Book (published by scholarly publishing company), counted in year of publisher acceptance of final manuscript = 4 points. Note: Faculty who write book chapters in books they also edit receive 4 points for the book, 0 points for the chapters; i.e., cannot receive credit for both the book and the chapters. Non-referred research products which have significant demonstratable reach and impact within the field (e.g. policy brief, white paper, technical report/manual, unpublished monograph)= 2 point Local/State/National/International Presentations (each of the following earns 1 point). These points may be distributed across the following subcategories in any proportion) Local/State/National/International presentation activities include: Local invited or refereed presentations; National invited or refereed presentations; International invited or refereed presentations Funded research: For each grant and contract, merit points will be assigned in the following way: 1 point for funding up to 25K 1 additional point for funding over 25k and up to 50K 1 additional point for funding over 50k and up to 100K Above 100k, 1 additional point for each additional 100K of funding. So for example, a $75,000 grant would be assigned 3 merit points, and a $250,000 grant would be assigned 4 merit points. For multi-year grants, the funding will be divided and counted in each individual budget year. Service: Maximum is 6 points Subcategories of unassigned service are: School/University (each of the following earns 1 point. These points may be distributed across the following subcategories in any proportion). School/University service activities include: Membership on a School elected committee; Membership on a program-level curriculum committee (BSW, MSW, PhD); Membership on University committee and other bodies. Local/State/National/International Service (each of the following earns 1 point). These points may be distributed across the following subcategories in any proportion) Local/State/National/International service activities include: Local/state service; National service International service Significant, exceptionally time-consuming service. Paid practice of any kind, be it direct service, consultation, teaching, speaking (except for a token honorarium) cannot be counted as service since, although it makes a professional contribution, it is already being rewarded through payment whereas the concept of service here includes personal donation or contribution. Other: Dean’s discretion: 0-4 points per faculty member. Dean’s Incentive Point Pool The Dean has access to a separate pool of discretionary points created for the purposes of creating incentives and providing rewards to faculty that most effectively support the reputation and importance of the School to the University and the profession. The number of points in this “incentive” pool of discretionary points is calculated at 1 point per tenure seeking or tenured faculty (e.g., if there are 25 faculty the available pool is 25 x 1 = 25 total merit points). The points from this “incentive” pool are awarded at the Dean’s discretion. The pool of “incentive” discretionary points is separate from the existing discretionary points that the Dean may award in accord with the merit policy. The creation of this new pool of “incentive” discretionary points will not change the maximum number of points that can be allocated for merit-based salary increases (i.e., 30) Leave: For research faculty (e.g., unclassified academic staff) on phased retirement, merit is awarded for the actual work accomplished in academic activities, service and scholarship. When a research faculty (e.g., unclassified academic staff) is on leave, merit is given only for work actually produced in the areas of scholarship and service. Contact: School of Social Welfare Assistant Dean Kristin A Trendel 785-864-4720 katrendel@ku.edu Approved by: Social Welfare Faculty Approved on: Friday, February 4, 2022 Effective on: Friday, February 4, 2022 Review Cycle: Annual (As Needed) Keywords: social welfare, faculty, research, merit Change History: 05/26/2022: Policy updated to match the 02/04/2022 amendment. 04/19/2022: Policy added to the Policy Library. 02/04/2022: Policy was created, amended and voted on by Social Welfare tenure-track faculty and research faculty. 10/03/2014: Amended by faculty vote. 12/12/2008: Amended by faculty vote. 02/22/2008: Amended by faculty vote. 12/08/2006: Amended by faculty vote. 05/13/2005: Approved by faculty. Academic Categories: Academic Work & Evaluations Promotion & Tenure Personnel: Faculty/Academic Staff Categories: Compensation Performance School/College Policy Categories: Promotion & Tenure Additional Policies Add new comment Request Previous Policy Version Can't Find What You're Looking For? Let Us Help » Request Previous Policy Version Policy Library Search Search this site Search for -Any-Policy DocumentPolicy Document - PDF/DOC New Policies in the last 30 days Faculty Evaluation Plan, Department of Spanish and Portuguese Policies Revised in the last 30 days School of Social Welfare Merit Guidelines and Policy Mobile Communication & Information Devices Master's Enrollment Requirements M.A. & M.S. Degrees Bylaws Governing the Executive Council of Graduate Faculty more revised policies KU Today Why KU Apply » One of 34 U.S. public institutions in the prestigious Association of American Universities Nearly $290 million in financial aid annually 44 nationally ranked graduate programs. —U.S. News & World Report Top 50 nationwide for size of library collection. —ALA 23rd nationwide for service to veterans —"Best for Vets," Military Times Give to KU » Contact Policy Library policy@ku.edu 785.864.9600 Strong Hall, Room 115 1450 Jayhawk Boulevard University of Kansas Lawrence, KS 66045 Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS | Maps CMS Login The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. The following persons have been designated to handle inquiries regarding the nondiscrimination policies and are the Title IX coordinators for their respective campuses: Director of the Office of Institutional Opportunity & Access, IOA@ku.edu, Room 1082, Dole Human Development Center, 1000 Sunnyside Avenue, Lawrence, KS 66045, 785-864-6414, 711 TTY (for the Lawrence, Edwards, Parsons, Yoder, and Topeka campuses); Director, Equal Opportunity Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-8011, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses).