Skip to content NC State University Police Department Environmental Health & Public Safety Toggle navigation Home About Us Mission Staff Divisions Current Events & News Fees Services Forms Online Forms Documents and Brochures Education & Resources Training University and Community Resources Safety Tips Web Resources Lost and Found Property Clery Act Compliance General Information Campus Security Authority Resources Clery Geography Clery Act Crimes Emergency Information Wolfalert Emergency Management and Mission Continuity AED Program Crime Mapping Blue Light Map Search Search for: Search facebook twitter Greetings Wolfpack Family, Campus safety is vital to NC State. We believe a well informed community can better protect itself and aid in the prevention of crime. By working in partnership with the campus community, the University Police Department strives to provide the most professional, effective campus safety services possible Through collaboration, we Protect the Pack and are most effective when members of the campus community are being proactively engaged. Please read on for an important message: Over the course of the recent return to campus by students, faculty and staff, the police department has experienced a significant increase in reports of scams and fraudulent emails. Scams most often occur over the phone, through email, and over the internet. Here are some tips to protect yourself from scams. Don’t share numbers or passwords for accounts, credit cards, or Social Security information with anyone. Never pay upfront for a promised prize or potential job offers. Verify that the email address or phone number communicating with you is legitimately connected to the agency or company mentioned. Too good to be true? Ask yourself why someone is trying so hard to give you a “great deal”. If it sounds too good to be true, it probably is. Watch out for deals that are only “good today” and that pressure you to act quickly. Walk away from high-pressure sales tactics that don’t allow you time to read a contract or get legal advice before signing. Also, don’t fall for the sales pitch that says you need to pay immediately, for example by wiring the money or sending it by courier. A law enforcement agency, the IRS, or other government agencies will never ask you to pay money over the phone or “immediately” in order to avoid criminal charges. Put your number on the National Do Not Call Registry. Go to donotcall.gov or call (888) 382-1222. If you ever feel you are being scammed or have questions about an online encounter, please contact University Police at 919-515-3000. Daniel Lee House Jr., Chief of Police, NC State University Police Department . We are proud to be accredited by both the Commission on Accreditation of Law Enforcement Agencies (CALEA) and by the International Association of Campus Law Enforcement Administrators. Less than 40 university police departments nationally are accredited; we are the first university police department in North Carolina to be accredited by both organizations. No Active Alerts IN AN EMERGENCY Get to a safe place Call University Police at 919-515-3000 or 911 Safely notify others who may be in danger Ask University Police Crime Alerts & Archives Annual Security and Fire Safety Report Crime Mapping Current Events & News University and Community Resources University Police Statistics & Data Facebook Feed https://www.facebook.com/NCSUPolice/ Contact Information 9-1-1 Emergencies 919-515-3000 (Non-emergencies) 9-1-1 Emergencies 919-515-3000 Non-emergencies You may also report items of concern on the University's Ethics Point website by clicking HERE. Environmental Health & Public Safety Website Feedback 2610 Wolf Village Way Raleigh, NC 27695 Directions to University Police Website Feedback facebook twitter NC State University Police Department Copyright © 2022 · NC State University · Accessibility · Privacy · University Policies · Log in