Skip To Content Search search PolyCentric University News Center Main Menu About Our University Admissions Academics Campus Life Athletics Giving Expand/Collapse Menu Browse: Home / 2022 / May / 2022 Richard Neutra Award for Professional Excellence Menu Skip to content About Submissions Contact Department of Strategic Communications PolyCentric News Browse by Topic View All Stories In Memoriam Archives Achievements Announcements Multimedia Videos Photos Social Media Directory Events For the Media 2022 Richard Neutra Award for Professional Excellence Posted on May 17, 2022 Image credit: Professor George Proctor (Department of Architecture). Mexico City-based architect Tatiana Bilbao is the 2022 medalist of the Richard Neutra Award for Professional Excellence. Born into a family of architects, she sees the discipline as an agent of change against exploitation and inequality. Bilbao is internationally recognized for her investigations, research, and projects on housing and sustainable development. Conferred annually by the Department of Architecture at Cal Poly Pomona, the Neutra Award recognizes individuals whose careers advance architecture research and practice. It is named after Richard Neutra, one of the most influential architects of the modernist era who taught at the College of Environmental Design in 1969. Past medalists include architect Frank Gehry and former U.S. Vice President Al Gore. Posted in News | Tags department of architecture, Richard J. Neutra Medal for Professional Excellence, Richard Neutra, Tatiana Bilbao POPULAR Structural Flaws and Fault Line Hazard Force Demolition of CLA Tower 10127 views / Posted March 10, 2022 Graduation Photo Opportunities with CLA Tower 5815 views / Posted April 29, 2022 Commencement 2022 Update: Schedule, Tickets, RSVPs 5421 views / Posted March 1, 2022 Cal Poly Universities Float ‘Stargrazers’ Garners Animation Award 1706 views / Posted January 1, 2022 Professor Winny Dong Receives Nation’s Highest Honor for Mentoring in STEM 1608 views / Posted February 9, 2022 Cal Poly Pomona in the News » Look At This: CLA Building Helicopter aerial footage highlights the CLA and surrounding campus in this story on the upcoming demolition for the popular “Look At This” news segment.  This article was originally published by CBS… More CSU students graduate during pandemic, but drop may loom Iconic yet troubled building at Cal Poly Pomona to be demolished Rare Photos from the Los Angeles County Fair’s 100 Years Will California teachers be ready to teach ethnic studies? Some say training is needed Tags department of architecture, Richard J. Neutra Medal for Professional Excellence, Richard Neutra, Tatiana Bilbao About Cal Poly Pomona Feedback Privacy Accessibility Document Readers 3801 West Temple Avenue,Pomona, CA 91768 ©2021 California State Polytechnic University, Pomona All Rights Reserved