Skip To Content Search search PolyCentric University News Center Main Menu About Our University Admissions Academics Campus Life Athletics Giving Expand/Collapse Menu Browse: Home / 2022 / May / Rose Float Dignitaries Gather for Ribbon Cutting at New Lab Menu Skip to content About Submissions Contact Department of Strategic Communications PolyCentric News Browse by Topic View All Stories In Memoriam Archives Achievements Announcements Multimedia Videos Photos Social Media Directory Events For the Media Rose Float Dignitaries Gather for Ribbon Cutting at New Lab Posted on May 18, 2022 Decade by decade, they were asked to stand and be acknowledged. Alumni and students spanning many of the 73 years of existence of the Cal Poly Universities’ Rose Float program gathered on May 7 for a ribbon-cutting ceremony to formally introduce The Don Miller and Ron Simons Rose Float Lab on the Cal Poly Pomona campus. The vast range of attendees, including alumni dating to the 1960s, was indicative of the significance of the event as the Rose Float team moved on from a partially outdoor lab that provided limited protection from the elements to approximately 14,000 square feet of indoor and outdoor workspace, including a fully enclosed float construction bay, storage facilities and electronic and hydraulic shops. “Stargrazers,” the 2022 Cal Poly Universities’ Rose Float – the 73rd float in the rich history of the program – was constructed in the new 5,700 square-foot construction bay, but the new $5.5 million Rose Float facility hadn’t been given a proper grand opening because of the COVID-19 global pandemic. “I worked at the old lab and the new lab,” said 2023 Rose Float President Ryan Ward, a mechanical engineering student at Cal Poly Pomona. “This is obviously a very big step up, and a culmination of all the effort and the years working at the old lab. It’s definitely a beautiful site to see. We’re being rewarded for all those years of work.” Ward, along with alumni from various eras of the program, spoke to the attendees nestled in the lab’s outdoor courtyard off Kellogg Drive in the northeast corner of campus. Many shared stories of the previous lab, which was home for more than 30 years to the only student-built float in the Rose Parade, and touched on the dedication that steadily elevated the program through the production of myriad award-winning floats. Bob Pettis (’63, agronomy), one of the program’s pioneers, accepted a lifetime achievement award on behalf of the late Ron Simons (’64, agronomy; ’69, food marketing and agribusiness management). Simons, for whom the new lab is named along with Don Miller (’52, horticulture), sparked much of the early success of the program Miller helped establish in 1949. “This is such a historic moment,” Cal Poly Pomona President Soraya M. Coley said as she addressed the crowd. “As you heard from alumni and current students, the resiliency of those in this program is amazing. They’ve always said, ‘Nothing is going to stop us from having a float come down Colorado Boulevard.’” Thanks to the new lab, that journey to Pasadena for the annual Rose Parade on Jan. 1 will be a little smoother. Posted in News | Tags 2023 Rose Float President Ryan Ward, Bob Pettis, Cal Poly Universities Rose Float, College of Engineering, Don B. Huntley College of Agriculture, Don Miller, Don Miller and Ron Simons Rose Float Lab, Lifetime Achievement Award, President Coley, Ron Simons, Rose Float, Rose Float lab, Stargrazers POPULAR Structural Flaws and Fault Line Hazard Force Demolition of CLA Tower 10127 views / Posted March 10, 2022 Graduation Photo Opportunities with CLA Tower 5815 views / Posted April 29, 2022 Commencement 2022 Update: Schedule, Tickets, RSVPs 5421 views / Posted March 1, 2022 Cal Poly Universities Float ‘Stargrazers’ Garners Animation Award 1706 views / Posted January 1, 2022 Professor Winny Dong Receives Nation’s Highest Honor for Mentoring in STEM 1608 views / Posted February 9, 2022 Cal Poly Pomona in the News » Look At This: CLA Building Helicopter aerial footage highlights the CLA and surrounding campus in this story on the upcoming demolition for the popular “Look At This” news segment.  This article was originally published by CBS… More CSU students graduate during pandemic, but drop may loom Iconic yet troubled building at Cal Poly Pomona to be demolished Rare Photos from the Los Angeles County Fair’s 100 Years Will California teachers be ready to teach ethnic studies? Some say training is needed Tags 2023 Rose Float President Ryan Ward, Bob Pettis, Cal Poly Universities Rose Float, College of Engineering, Don B. Huntley College of Agriculture, Don Miller, Don Miller and Ron Simons Rose Float Lab, Lifetime Achievement Award, President Coley, Ron Simons, Rose Float, Rose Float lab, Stargrazers About Cal Poly Pomona Feedback Privacy Accessibility Document Readers 3801 West Temple Avenue,Pomona, CA 91768 ©2021 California State Polytechnic University, Pomona All Rights Reserved