Skip To Content Search search PolyCentric University News Center Main Menu About Our University Admissions Academics Campus Life Athletics Giving Expand/Collapse Menu Browse: Home / 2022 / May / Celebrating 60 Years of Alumni: Awards Gala Recognizes Prominent Broncos Menu Skip to content About Submissions Contact Department of Strategic Communications PolyCentric News Browse by Topic View All Stories In Memoriam Archives Achievements Announcements Multimedia Videos Photos Social Media Directory Events For the Media Celebrating 60 Years of Alumni: Awards Gala Recognizes Prominent Broncos Posted on May 12, 2022 Cal Poly Pomona hosted its 60th anniversary of the Alumni Awards Gala at the historic W.K. Kellogg Horse Stables, honoring 10 alumni representing the eight colleges and the athletics department. Michele Gendreau (’83, hospitality management) received the Lifetime Achievement Award, which recognizes her more than 40 years of experience in the hospitality industry and her support of Cal Poly Pomona programs. As director of food and beverage for the experience and integration team at Disneyland Resort, Gendreau applies her leadership, teamwork and creative skills every day at the happiest place on Earth. “Being a Cal Poly Pomona alumni is owning the pride you feel for being a Bronco,” Gendreau said in an Alumni Awards Gala video. “If you’re going to do one thing in your college career, [you should] experience things [and] take risks. That is an important piece of the learning and the journey.” Gendreau credits the Rose Float Program for building her leadership skills, and remembers learning how to weld, apply screening and grow flowers. “You get to learn at your pace, you get to learn the way you want to learn. Whether you are hands-on and learn by doing, the polytechnic approach applies,” Gendreau said of her time as a student volunteer in the Rose Float program. “That has really made the success of a lot of people.” The Cal Poly Pomona Alumni Association presents the Distinguished Alumni Award to honor outstanding achievement in a profession or a vocation; service to a local, national, or global community; or service to Cal Poly Pomona. The 2022 awards were presented on April 30. The 2022 honorees are: Michele Gendreau (’83, hospitality management), Lifetime Achievement Award John Wiegmann (’72, kinesiology), Athletics Janet Erickson (’80, food and nutrition), Don B. Huntley College of Agriculture Geoffrey Okamoto (’08, computer information systems), College of Business Administration Kathrine Morillo-Shone (’15, Ed.D. Educational Leadership), College of Education and Integrative Studies Ahmed Al-Khatib (’83, electrical engineering), College of Engineering Wendy Rogers (’88, architecture), College of Environmental Design Francois de la Roche (’73, history), College of Letters, Arts, and Social Sciences Mario Sorci (’71, chemistry), College of Science Russ Bendel (’05, hospitality management), The Collins College of Hospitality Management Learn more about the honorees through our Alumni and External Relations website. See highlights of the event and the most recent updates and news by following @CPPAlumni on Instagram or signing up for PolyAlumni, an enewsletter that is sent out nine times year for alumni and friends. Posted in News | Tags Ahmed Al-Khatib, alumni, Alumni Affairs, Alumni Association, Distinguished Alumni, Francois de la Roch, Geoffrey Okamoto, Janet Erickson, John Wiegmann, Kathrine Morillo-Shone, Mario Sorci, Michele Gendreau, old stables, Russ Bendel, Wendy Rogers POPULAR Structural Flaws and Fault Line Hazard Force Demolition of CLA Tower 10127 views / Posted March 10, 2022 Graduation Photo Opportunities with CLA Tower 5815 views / Posted April 29, 2022 Commencement 2022 Update: Schedule, Tickets, RSVPs 5421 views / Posted March 1, 2022 Cal Poly Universities Float ‘Stargrazers’ Garners Animation Award 1706 views / Posted January 1, 2022 Professor Winny Dong Receives Nation’s Highest Honor for Mentoring in STEM 1608 views / Posted February 9, 2022 Cal Poly Pomona in the News » Look At This: CLA Building Helicopter aerial footage highlights the CLA and surrounding campus in this story on the upcoming demolition for the popular “Look At This” news segment.  This article was originally published by CBS… More CSU students graduate during pandemic, but drop may loom Iconic yet troubled building at Cal Poly Pomona to be demolished Rare Photos from the Los Angeles County Fair’s 100 Years Will California teachers be ready to teach ethnic studies? Some say training is needed Tags Ahmed Al-Khatib, alumni, Alumni Affairs, Alumni Association, Distinguished Alumni, Francois de la Roch, Geoffrey Okamoto, Janet Erickson, John Wiegmann, Kathrine Morillo-Shone, Mario Sorci, Michele Gendreau, old stables, Russ Bendel, Wendy Rogers About Cal Poly Pomona Feedback Privacy Accessibility Document Readers 3801 West Temple Avenue,Pomona, CA 91768 ©2021 California State Polytechnic University, Pomona All Rights Reserved