Skip to main content Internal Website Poole College of Management Menu Close About History Mission and Values Facts and Rankings Faculty and Staff Directory Advisory Board Student Advisory Board Events Contact Us Diversity Diversity Vision Academics Undergraduate Graduate Programs Global Programs Graduate Certificates Executive Education Student Profiles Commencement Student Resources Research & Faculty Meet Our New Faculty Departments Sponsored Research Thought Leadership Poole Podcast Industry Poole Initiatives Poole Startup Stories Recruit Our Students Executive Education Wells Fargo Executive Leadership Series Alumni & Giving Day of Giving Campaign for NC State Ways to Give Extraordinary Impact Connect With the Pack Alumni Profiles Distinguished Alumni and Friends Alumni & Friends Connections Newsletter News Digital Magazine Give Now About About History Mission and Values Facts and Rankings Faculty and Staff Directory Advisory Board Student Advisory Board Events Contact Us Diversity Diversity Diversity Vision Academics Academics Undergraduate Graduate Programs Global Programs Graduate Certificates Executive Education Student Profiles Commencement Student Resources Research & Faculty Research & Faculty Meet Our New Faculty Departments Sponsored Research Thought Leadership Thought Leadership Poole Podcast Industry Industry Poole Initiatives Poole Startup Stories Recruit Our Students Executive Education Wells Fargo Executive Leadership Series Alumni & Giving Alumni & Giving Day of Giving Campaign for NC State Ways to Give Extraordinary Impact Connect With the Pack Alumni Profiles Distinguished Alumni and Friends Alumni & Friends Connections Newsletter News News Digital Magazine Give Now Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Diversity is critical to the mission of Poole College and NC State. It is embedded in everything we do. Explore the college's vision and initiatives to create and advance a culture of diversity and inclusion. Our Commitment NC State defines diversity as an inclusive community of people with varied human characteristics, ideas and worldviews whose interactions both benefit and challenge each other to grow while making the community better. Our commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion is more than just words. It is a commitment to the work that has been done and the work that we still need to do to make sure that every person is welcomed and included at Poole College. The Think and Do mindset of our university leads us to be better, to think broadly and critically, and to take action that improves upon where we are today. We believe that diversity, equity and inclusion drive innovation and excellence and create a stronger society. Diversity Statement Jenkins MBA is No. 1 in Diversity Our full-time Jenkins MBA program has been ranked No. 1 in the inaugural B-School Diversity Index by Bloomberg Businessweek in 2022. Faculty Diversity: 38% are Female, 12% — Underrepresented Minorities Among tenure, tenure-track and professional faculty in the 2020-21 academic year. Freshman Class: 49% are Female, 51% — Male For the first time in the history of Undergraduate Programs, we have almost equal gender representation in the fall 2021 freshman class. Recent Initiatives and Successes During the summer of 2020, Dean Frank Buckless initiated a robust effort to help faculty and staff members cultivate a more equitable, inclusive environment at the Poole College of Management. He identified four key focus areas as a framework for developing DEI within classrooms and workspaces on campus: Creating an inclusive environment Increasing representation of faculty Increasing diversity content within curricular Increasing diversity of the student body Learn more about the college’s diversity vision and our progress towards it. featured updates A Holistic Approach to Learning and Development in Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Grounded in a desire to grow toward the college’s established DEI commitments, Poole College added new DEI training options to the Poole Pack Professional Development Series. Read more Poole College Champions Diversity Whether it’s sponsoring heritage events, supporting original research or helping students through donor generosity, Poole College strives to champion diversity, equity and inclusion. Read more Poole Faculty and Staff Open a Dialogue With Anti-Racism Reading Group In fall 2020, faculty and staff joined together to learn, listen and grow with the formation of the college’s largest-ever supported reading group. Read more Poole College Releases Diversity Statement We came together as a college to create our statement on diversity, equity and inclusion to foster an inclusive environment. Read more Announcement of Newly Formed DEI Committee The committee works with members of the college’s leadership to create valuable programming and guidance to help the college as a whole be a welcoming place for all. Read more Tayah Butler Appointed Director of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Butler’s new position stems from the college’s commitment to expand diversity and inclusion efforts for all programs and people. Read more Signature Events Poole College heritage celebrations have become a fun way for our college to contribute to the campuswide calendar of heritage events. We organize several community celebrations, including Latinx Heritage Month, Women’s History Month, Black History Month and Diwali, and the college held its inaugural Poole Pride Conference in March 2020. Play Video Faculty Scholarship The college’s focus on diversity isn’t limited to campus events. Poole College faculty are busy creating and disseminating original scholarship on the value of diversity and the pervasiveness of bias. featured thought leadership Poole Podcast: Diversity, Equity and Inclusion 101 Tayah Butler and Danya Perry discuss what colleges and universities can do to help grow the conversation around DEI. The Responsibility to Rebrand: Aunt Jemima’s Case Study The case study delves into the questions around a brand’s responsibility to leverage its influence to effect change. Design Approach May Help Fix Bias in Artificial Intelligence Researchers propose that software developers incorporate the concept of “feminist design thinking” into their development process as a way of improving equity. Diversity is Good for Business By demonstrating that a past change in diversity causes a future change in innovation, but not the other way around, the researchers showed causality that diversity is good for business. How Investors Can Better Support Women and People of Color-owned Businesses The report helps investors better understand why it is important to support women and people of color-owned businesses and how they can best do so. Study Highlights Challenges Facing Black Computing Faculty A study highlights the impact that microaggressions have on Black faculty, finding that it contributes to a sense of alienation from the larger higher education community. Explore Further Diversity Statement ➜ Diversity Events ➜ Diversity Resources ➜ Diversity at NC State ➜ Poole College of Management Home 2801 Founders Drive Raleigh, NC 27695 919.513.7100 Campus Map About Faculty and Staff Directory Contact Us & Directions Nelson Hall Map Internal Website News Poole Thought Leadership Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Global Programs Industry Engagement Business Analytics Initiative Business Sustainability Collaborative Entrepreneurship Collaborative Enterprise Risk Management Initiative (ERM) Supply Chain Resource Cooperative (SCRC) Accessibility Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.