Skip to main content About Contact Calendar Search form Main Menu Sub Menu Faculty About Faculty Development and Support Programs and Funding Opportunities Consultations, Observations, and Services Strategic Resources & Digital Publications Canvas @ Yale Support Learning Environments @ Yale Postdocs Teaching Workshops Teaching Consultations and Classroom Observations Teaching Programs Spring Teaching Forum Written and Oral Communication Workshops and Panels Writing Resources & Tutorials Graduate Students About the Graduate Writing Laboratory Writing and Public Speaking Consultations Writing Workshops, Seminars, and Panels Writing Resources & Tutorials Writing Peer-Review Groups and Retreats About Teaching Development for Graduate and Professional School Students Teaching Workshops Teaching Consultations and Classroom Observations Teaching Programs and Grants Teaching Forums Resources for Graduate Student Teachers Undergraduates About Undergraduate Writing and Tutoring Academic Strategies Program The Writing Center STEM Tutoring & Programs Humanities & Social Sciences Center for Language Study Initiatives Online Course Catalog Antiracist Pedagogy Teaching in Context: Troubling Times Pedagogical Partners STEM Education and Evaluation Online Education Legal Statements Academic Continuity Resources We encourage deep and independent learning We build a community of writers and learners What we do We support faculty teaching. We engage with faculty through programs, events and consultations to foster teaching innovation and promote deep student learning. We help students learn. We invite students to take advantage of Poorvu Center writing, tutoring, and mentoring resources specifically designed to support academic and personal success at Yale. We explain educational technology. We support instructors as they integrate educational technology across course modalities. We advise teaching fellows. We partner with graduate students and postdoctoral associates as they develop their teaching skills. News The Poorvu Center Helps Prepare the Next Generation of Teaching Faculty December 17, 2021 By Staff Writer The Poorvu Center for Teaching and Learning offers a robust set of programs to prepare graduate students, professional school students, and postdocs to be teachers and mentors at Yale... READ MOREThe Poorvu Center Helps Prepare the Next Generation of Teaching Faculty Conversations Around the Fire: Claudia Valeggia December 14, 2021 Building a Collaborative Assessment Model December 9, 2021 Using Small Groups in Class: Professor Mayur Desai December 7, 2021 MORE NEWS Upcoming Events Mon June 6 GWL Written and Oral Communication Workshops and Panels Info Session for Fulbright 2023-24 US Student Competition & Q&A with Associate Dean Robert Harper-Mangels Online via Zoom 06/06/2022 - 1:00pm Monday, June 6, 2022 - 1:00pm Add to Calendar iCalendar Outlook Google Yahoo Event Calendar Tweets by @PoorvuCenter YOU MAY BE INTERESTED IN Drop-In Writing Partners Writing Partners are Yale College or graduate school students selected for both their writing skills and their ability to talk about writing. They have a student’s-eye view of the challenges you’ll face in writing papers. Accessible Teaching Accessible and inclusive teaching assumes that student diversity is the rule, rather than an exception. Directions The Poorvu Center for Teaching and Learning is located within Sterling Memorial Library on the first floor and the mezzanine along York Street. The main entrance is located at 301 York Street, near Mory's and Toad's. Helpful Links Submit Questions about Website Content Join Our Team Reserve a Room Discover Upcoming Events Find a Staff Member Follow us Instagram Facebook Twitter Accessibility at Yale · Privacy Policy Copyright © 2021 Yale University