Skip to main content About Contact Calendar Search form Main Menu Sub Menu Faculty About Faculty Development and Support Programs and Funding Opportunities Consultations, Observations, and Services Strategic Resources & Digital Publications Canvas @ Yale Support Learning Environments @ Yale Postdocs Teaching Workshops Teaching Consultations and Classroom Observations Teaching Programs Spring Teaching Forum Written and Oral Communication Workshops and Panels Writing Resources & Tutorials Graduate Students About the Graduate Writing Laboratory Writing and Public Speaking Consultations Writing Workshops, Seminars, and Panels Writing Resources & Tutorials Writing Peer-Review Groups and Retreats About Teaching Development for Graduate and Professional School Students Teaching Workshops Teaching Consultations and Classroom Observations Teaching Programs and Grants Teaching Forums Resources for Graduate Student Teachers Undergraduates About Undergraduate Writing and Tutoring Academic Strategies Program The Writing Center STEM Tutoring & Programs Humanities & Social Sciences Center for Language Study Initiatives Online Course Catalog Antiracist Pedagogy Teaching in Context: Troubling Times Pedagogical Partners STEM Education and Evaluation Online Education Legal Statements You are here HomeInitiativesSTEM Education and Evaluation STEM Education and Evaluation The STEM education and evaluation team at Yale’s Poorvu Center for Teaching and Learning promotes excellence in STEM education both within the Yale community and at colleges and universities throughout the US. We promote and employ evidence-based teaching practices and systems-based evaluation to STEM education through a variety of grant-funded initiatives. The STEM education and evaluation team is comprised of scientists and educators with backgrounds in psychology, astronomy, math, physics, biology and computer science. Because of this diverse background, our team takes a holistic, interdisciplinary, and collaborative approach to STEM education and evaluation. The STEM education and evaluation team is a field leader in systems-based evaluation of STEM education initiatives. We aim to contribute to the national dialogue on evidence-based education by contributing to large-scale grant-funded evaluation initiatives. These programs include: Yale Scientific Teaching Course The goal of the Yale Scientific Teaching Course is to improve undergraduate STEM education by training Yale graduate students and postdocs to apply the spirit and rigor of research to their teaching. Summer Institutes on Scientific Teaching The Summer Institutes on Scientific Teaching provide intensive training in undergraduate instruction for STEM faculty and future faculty at colleges and universities throughout the United States. NECQL 2019: NorthEast Consortium for Quantitative Literacy XXII Meeting STEMinar Series The STEMinar Series fosters discussion of evidence-based teaching practices among current and future teachers, science educators and researchers at Yale and in our neighboring educational community. Helmsley Postdoctoral Teaching Scholars Helmsley Postdoctoral Scholars innovate undergraduate STEM courses at Yale and at our partner institutions, the University of Bridgeport and Housatonic Community College. Instructional Materials A selection of resources for STEM instructors, including recommended publications, books and links. Evaluation & Research The STEM Evaluation Program is a field leader in systems-based evaluation of STEM education initiatives. We aim to contribute to the national dialogue on evidence-based education by contributing to large-scale grant-funded evaluation initiatives. Our team embraces interdisciplinary, collaborative, and systems-based approaches to evaluation. STEM Education Job Opportunities Are you interested in a career in STEM Education? Take a look at the most recent STEM Education job opportunities submitted to the CTL. Top Online Course Catalog Antiracist Pedagogy Teaching in Context: Troubling Times Pedagogical Partners STEM Education and Evaluation Yale Scientific Teaching Course Summer Institutes on Scientific Teaching NECQL 2019: NorthEast Consortium for Quantitative Literacy XXII Meeting STEMinar Series Helmsley Postdoctoral Teaching Scholars Instructional Materials Evaluation & Research STEM Education Job Opportunities Online Education Legal Statements YOU MAY BE INTERESTED IN Consultations, Observations, and Services The Poorvu Center for Teaching and Learning routinely supports members of the Yale community with individual instructional consultations and classroom observations. Reserve a Room The Poorvu Center for Teaching and Learning partners with departments and groups on-campus throughout the year to share its space. Please review the reservation form and submit a request. Yale Scientific Teaching Course The goal of the Yale Scientific Teaching Course is to improve undergraduate STEM education by training Yale graduate students and postdocs to apply the spirit and rigor of research to their teaching. Helpful Links Submit Questions about Website Content Join Our Team Reserve a Room Discover Upcoming Events Find a Staff Member Follow us Instagram Facebook Twitter Accessibility at Yale · Privacy Policy Copyright © 2021 Yale University