Skip to main content About Contact Calendar Search form Main Menu Sub Menu Faculty About Faculty Development and Support Programs and Funding Opportunities Consultations, Observations, and Services Strategic Resources & Digital Publications Canvas @ Yale Support Learning Environments @ Yale Postdocs Teaching Workshops Teaching Consultations and Classroom Observations Teaching Programs Spring Teaching Forum Written and Oral Communication Workshops and Panels Writing Resources & Tutorials Graduate Students About the Graduate Writing Laboratory Writing and Public Speaking Consultations Writing Workshops, Seminars, and Panels Writing Resources & Tutorials Writing Peer-Review Groups and Retreats About Teaching Development for Graduate and Professional School Students Teaching Workshops Teaching Consultations and Classroom Observations Teaching Programs and Grants Teaching Forums Resources for Graduate Student Teachers Undergraduates About Undergraduate Writing and Tutoring Academic Strategies Program The Writing Center STEM Tutoring & Programs Humanities & Social Sciences Center for Language Study Initiatives Online Course Catalog Antiracist Pedagogy Teaching in Context: Troubling Times Pedagogical Partners STEM Education and Evaluation Online Education Legal Statements You are here HomeFacultyConsultations, Observations, and ServicesAccessibility Services Accessibility Services The Poorvu Center for Teaching and Learning is an advocate of inclusive teaching practices and strongly supports the University’s accessibility policy, which includes digital course materials. We partner with instructors to assess and improve the accessibility of course activities and digital resources. How does accessibility factor into teaching? An accessible course presents as few obstacles as possible to the diversity of Yale learners, including students with disabilities and those who rely on particular technologies. The greater the accessibility of a course, the more likely that all students will have equitable opportunities for learning and growth. In this sense, accessibility is a central component of inclusive teaching. The goal is to provide flexible and robust learning environments in which all students can thrive without the need for special accommodations. What types of support are available? The staff of the Poorvu Center, in partnership with Information Technology Services, the University Library, and local support providers in Yale’s professional schools, offer a range of services to help Yale instructors consider and improve the accessibility of their courses. The Poorvu Center provides consultations, trainings, workshops and demonstrations for instructors who want to learn about best practices in accessible teaching. We are also piloting a service to assist instructors in remediating digital files that pose significant accessibility obstacles. In addition to training and consultation, the Accessibility team in Information Technology Services (accessibility@yale.edu) will assist instructors in auditing the accessibility of new technologies used to support Yale classes. Staff members in the University Library will assist faculty in locating or creating accessible versions of course readings. Localized support providers in Yale’s professional schools serve as primary liaisons to faculty in their school, and coordinate with others across campus as needed. Getting started Schedule a consultation | Attend a workshop or event | Learn about accessibility Course Accessibility Support Contacts Top About Faculty Development and Support Programs and Funding Opportunities Consultations, Observations, and Services Lecture Capture ZOOM in the Classroom Consultations ITS Zoom Retention Policy Q&A Classroom Polling Consultations Assessment Services Accessibility Services Course Accessibility Support Contacts Other Media Services Strategic Resources & Digital Publications Canvas @ Yale Support Learning Environments @ Yale YOU MAY BE INTERESTED IN Programs and Funding Opportunities The Poorvu Center offers multiple opportunities to join colleagues to discuss teaching and learning and to implement evidence-based strategies. Reserve a Room The Poorvu Center for Teaching and Learning partners with departments and groups on-campus throughout the year to share its space. Please review the reservation form and submit a request. The Recording Studio The Recording Studio is fitted with equipment for audio and video recording. It is available for faculty and students who would like to use it for a Yale class or class-related activities. Helpful Links Submit Questions about Website Content Join Our Team Reserve a Room Discover Upcoming Events Find a Staff Member Follow us Instagram Facebook Twitter Accessibility at Yale · Privacy Policy Copyright © 2021 Yale University