The Center for Demography and Population Health, established in 1967, is an interdisciplinary research and academic unit within the College of Social Sciences and Public Policy at The Florida State University, a Carnegie Research I University. DOCTORAL TRAINING IN DEMOGRAPHY AND POPULATION HEALTH Working with a CDPH faculty member provides doctoral candidates interested in Population Studies, Social Epidemiology, and Environmental Health access to Center resources and a diverse network of researchers and policymakers in the U.S. and beyond. GRADUATE TRAINING IN APPLIED DEMOGRAPHY Our rigorous one-year program leading to the Master of Science degree in Demography provides students with the specialized analytic, statistical, and data management skills necessary for research-oriented careers in the public and private sectors. Students Prospective Students Master's Program Doctoral Studies Current Students Undergraduate Minor Charles B. Nam Scholarship The William J. Serow Fund About Us For More Information Give to CDPH Data Access People Faculty Staff Affiliate Faculty Emeriti Contact Us Research CDPH Faculty Research Associates hold doctoral degrees in a range of social science disciplines, but our individual research programs reflect our common interest in Demography and Population Health. CDPH Associates are all active scholars, contributing to demographic and population health knowledge through research publications in top-tier journals in Economics, Gerontology, Public Health, Urban and Regional Planning, and Sociology. read more Academics Our graduates are employed as Applied Demographers, Statistical Analysts, and Market Researchers in private companies and state and local governments throughout the United States. You'll find recent graduates using their demographic know-how in jobs from Tampa, Florida to Juneau, Alaska, and from Washington, DC, to Dallas, Texas. Learn more about our program leading to the Master of Science degree in Demography. read more New Scholarship for Promising Demography Students CDPH Founder Dr. Charles B. Nam Dr. Nam has founded and generously contributed funds to a $5000 annual scholarship to a promising student in the MS Demography program. It is his hope that the Charles B. Nam Scholarship Fund will continue to grow and thereby encourage deserving students of Demography by helping defer the costs of graduate school. Center for Demography and Population Health | 601 Bellamy Building, 113 Collegiate Loop, Florida State University, Tallahassee, FL 32306-2240 | 850.644.1762 Comments & broken link reports to julie.phillips@fsu.edu