Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box OSU in Portland Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search OSU Portland Center Beavers In Portland Ecampus OSU Foundation OSU Alumni Association Beaver Sports Properties OSU Extension Service Food Innovation Center College of Business College of Engineering College of Education College of Public Health and Human Sciences School of Psychological Science Faculty & Staff Resources Academics Research Outreach Youth Art Show Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift OSU Portland Center Beavers In Portland Ecampus OSU Foundation OSU Alumni Association Beaver Sports Properties OSU Extension Service Food Innovation Center College of Business College of Engineering College of Education College of Public Health and Human Sciences School of Psychological Science Faculty & Staff Resources Academics Research Outreach Youth Art Show OSU Portland Center OSU's Home in Portland There is no better location in Portland. The Meier & Frank Building spans a full city block across from the northeast corner of Pioneer Courthouse Square, a downtown hub known affectionately as Portland’s “living room”. Four MAX Light Rail lines intersect right in front of the building, while multiple bus stops and Biketown stations surround it. Portland Streetcar stops are a quick three block walk away. Within a mile are hundreds of restaurants, cafes, local and big name retailers, breweries and Portland’s most popular food truck gatherings. The newly opened Pine Street Market, a bustling food hall with gourmet vendors, is just blocks away. Our Space Includes: State of the art classrooms Conference rooms Project rooms IT helpdesk and printing station Touchdown desks for faculty and staff event-request-hero.jpg Event Rooms and Classrooms at OSU Portland Center The event rooms and classrooms located at the OSU Portland Center are used by internal and external partners for various events and activities and includes versatile meeting and event spaces to accommodate classes, meetings, workshops, lectures and conferences. The space is equipped with some of the latest technology, including video conferencing, webcasting, wireless network access and overhead projectors. Each room is carefully coordinated for each event and should not be used without prior authorization. View Reservable Spaces at OSU Portland Center Fee Schedule for Room Rentals Request an Event at OSU Portland Center Beginning March 12 at the OSU Portland Center, masks will be welcomed, but not required. Masks will continue to be available at the second floor lobby reception for those who would prefer to wear one. Effective immediately, OSU will no longer require attendees at designated indoor and outdoor events to show proof of vaccination (or provide proof of a recent negative test). As is the case with all public health measures required by OSU, if conditions change, we may consider restoring this requirement in the future. Alcohol Consumption Alcohol consumption is not permitted at the OSU Portland Center except at approved and permitted events. All requests for alcohol service at the OSU Portland Center must be submitted and approved through Risk Management. Please read and review the Alcohol Service Registration policy and registration. In addition to the policies of the building, all faculty, staff and students are required to adhere to the Oregon State University Rules of Conduct and all university policies in regards to alcohol consumption will be enforced. Alcohol Service Registration Event Services and Staffing When booking your class or event with the OSU Portland Center, you will be able to add any additional support needs such as catering, technology, room set-up, etcetera. The OSU Portland Center operations team provides the following services upon room booking: Room set-up and break down as per your booking specifications Catering coordination; staffing to receive, setup and remove your catering IT and AV needs; rentals and staffing when appropriate If you believe you may need additional event support, you can reach out to OSU Conference Services at conferences.oregonstate.edu to contract their services. Directions The Meier & Frank Building is located at 555 SW Morrison Street. The Alder Street garage is the most convenient nearby parking. Evening escorts to parking garages are available upon request through building security in the lobby. The entrance to the building is on SW Morrison Street (pictured to the right). Upon entering the building you can find the elevators down the stairs and to the right. The OSU Portland Center occupies the entire second floor. As you get off the elevators you can check in at the front desk, to your left, for any assistance finding where you need to go. Nearby Parking Star Park Alder Street Garage On Alder between 6th and Broadway 610 SW Alder, Portland 97205 City Center Parking Union Bank Garage, Lot #111 Union Bank Building 707 SW Washington Street Smart Park 3rd & Alder 620 SW 3rd Ave Fox Tower Parking Garage 805 SW Broadway Portland, OR City Center Parking Central Plaza Lot #11 337 SW Alder St, Portland OR 97204 City Center Parking Metropolitan Garage Lot #47 Standard Plaza Building 515 SW Salmon St, Portland OR 97204 Smart Park 4th & Yamhill 818 SW 4th Avenue Contact Info OSU Portland Center 555 SW Morrison Street Portland, OR 97204 503-273-4301 Send us an Email Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer