Skip to content Graduate Writing Center Graduate School GWC Workshops Looking for GWC Workshops? Click Here! Important Deadlines Advanced Registration Begins for Spring and Summer 2020Click Here! Upcoming Events Events Search and Views Navigation Show Events Search Events Search Events From Search Event Views Navigation View As ListMonthDay « Previous Events Next Events » June 2022 #WellnessWednesdays: Yin and Restorative Online Yoga Sessions – Erin Burns June 8 @ 7:00 pm - 8:00 pm Online Ever wanted to try yoga but are intimidated by the vinyasa movements or are uncomfortable practicing? Yin yoga is a gentle stretching of the body-- once we get into a pose (asana), we will hold it for a few minutes, letting the body relax. Many of these will be floor poses that can be modified with blocks, blankets and pillows or bolsters. Sessions will be practiced through live online Zoom sessions, and on your own. Please let the instructor know… Find out more » Strategies for Reading Academic Articles June 9 @ 12:00 pm - 1:00 pm Reading, processing, and understanding academic literature, including articles, reports, and reviews, is an essential skill set necessary for all graduate students. These types of documents differ from other writing genres, and, often, starting by reading a paper from start to finish is not the best use of the reader's time. This Graduate Writing Center workshop outlines strategies intended to make the task of engaging with academic literature as efficient and productive as possible and will provide attendees with a series… Find out more » #WellnessWednesdays: Yin and Restorative Online Yoga Sessions – Erin Burns June 15 @ 7:00 pm - 8:00 pm Online Ever wanted to try yoga but are intimidated by the vinyasa movements or are uncomfortable practicing? Yin yoga is a gentle stretching of the body-- once we get into a pose (asana), we will hold it for a few minutes, letting the body relax. Many of these will be floor poses that can be modified with blocks, blankets and pillows or bolsters. Sessions will be practiced through live online Zoom sessions, and on your own. Please let the instructor know… Find out more » How to Conduct a Literature Review Workshop Online Only- Brian Quinn, Joshua Salmans June 17 @ 2:00 pm - 4:00 pm Online 1. Learn how to generate search terms and structure your review 2. Understand how to formulate a search statement 3. Learn about emerging standards for literature reviews and how to incorporate them Librarians will explain what a literature review is; talk about emerging discipline-oriented standards for literature reviews and how to begin your work developing research strategies; demonstrate how to do searches in two databases-including Web of Knowledge-to find articles on your topic; explore qualitative approaches to determine an article's… Find out more » #WellnessWednesdays: Yin and Restorative Online Yoga Sessions – Erin Burns June 22 @ 7:00 pm - 8:00 pm Online Ever wanted to try yoga but are intimidated by the vinyasa movements or are uncomfortable practicing? Yin yoga is a gentle stretching of the body-- once we get into a pose (asana), we will hold it for a few minutes, letting the body relax. Many of these will be floor poses that can be modified with blocks, blankets and pillows or bolsters. Sessions will be practiced through live online Zoom sessions, and on your own. Please let the instructor know… Find out more » Writing the IRB Application June 23 @ 2:00 pm - 3:00 pm This workshop will provide a brief history of the Institutional Review Board (IRB) in the United States and the process of applying and submitting an IRB application here at Texas Tech University. It will also provide IRB contact information for this university, specifically, and address ethics training and how to create a Cayuse account for the submission process, and a Citi account for the training. This will be a valuable workshop for those seeking to navigate through this complex, multi-layered… Find out more » #WellnessWednesdays: Yin and Restorative Online Yoga Sessions – Erin Burns June 29 @ 7:00 pm - 8:00 pm Online Ever wanted to try yoga but are intimidated by the vinyasa movements or are uncomfortable practicing? Yin yoga is a gentle stretching of the body-- once we get into a pose (asana), we will hold it for a few minutes, letting the body relax. Many of these will be floor poses that can be modified with blocks, blankets and pillows or bolsters. Sessions will be practiced through live online Zoom sessions, and on your own. Please let the instructor know… Find out more » July 2022 Crafting Professional Emails July 6 @ 5:30 pm - 6:30 pm Graduate students email their professors, colleagues, and students daily, yet many lack strategies for communicating effectively using this medium. Learn to craft strong, effective emails for professional and academic contexts. Participants will analyze situations where email may be used and will discuss email structure and etiquette. Hosted by Dr. Jennifer Marciniak, Director of the Graduate Writing Center Attendance fulfills part of the requirement for receiving Graduate School fellowships or travel funding. Location: Online (A Zoom link will be sent to… Find out more » #WellnessWednesdays: Yin and Restorative Online Yoga Sessions – Erin Burns July 6 @ 7:00 pm - 8:00 pm Online Ever wanted to try yoga but are intimidated by the vinyasa movements or are uncomfortable practicing? Yin yoga is a gentle stretching of the body-- once we get into a pose (asana), we will hold it for a few minutes, letting the body relax. Many of these will be floor poses that can be modified with blocks, blankets and pillows or bolsters. Sessions will be practiced through live online Zoom sessions, and on your own. Please let the instructor know… Find out more » #WellnessWednesdays: Yin and Restorative Online Yoga Sessions – Erin Burns July 13 @ 7:00 pm - 8:00 pm Online Ever wanted to try yoga but are intimidated by the vinyasa movements or are uncomfortable practicing? Yin yoga is a gentle stretching of the body-- once we get into a pose (asana), we will hold it for a few minutes, letting the body relax. Many of these will be floor poses that can be modified with blocks, blankets and pillows or bolsters. Sessions will be practiced through live online Zoom sessions, and on your own. Please let the instructor know… Find out more » « Previous Events Next Events » + Export Events © 2022 Texas Tech Graduate School Events