Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box OSU in Portland Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search OSU Portland Center Beavers In Portland Ecampus OSU Foundation OSU Alumni Association Beaver Sports Properties OSU Extension Service Food Innovation Center College of Business College of Engineering College of Education College of Public Health and Human Sciences School of Psychological Science Faculty & Staff Resources Academics Research Outreach Youth Art Show Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift OSU Portland Center Beavers In Portland Ecampus OSU Foundation OSU Alumni Association Beaver Sports Properties OSU Extension Service Food Innovation Center College of Business College of Engineering College of Education College of Public Health and Human Sciences School of Psychological Science Faculty & Staff Resources Academics Research Outreach Youth Art Show Academics Oregon State University’s expanded presence in Portland means expanded opportunities to meet the needs of people like you. The OSU Portland Center near Pioneer Square will be home to engaging, hybrid learning experiences that blend the best of online and face-to-face education. You’ll benefit from the flexibility of online coursework and interaction as well as active learning in a classroom setting, additional on-site student support services, professional development opportunities and more. Request Info Apply Now Learning in Portland Business administration (B.A./B.S.) Delivered in a hybrid (online/in-person) format in Portland. Oregon State's business administration bachelor's program will prepare you for success in a highly competitive global business environment. This in-demand, AACSB-accredited program is led by faculty with ample experience in innovation, entrepreneurship and experiential learning. Learn more MBA Earn your Oregon State MBA in a hybrid (online and in-person) or fully online format that brings the College of Business' expertise to Portland. Choose from specialized tracks in business analytics, marketing and organizational leadership. Learn more Master of Arts in Teaching Oregon State’s Master of Arts in Teaching program provides the opportunity for hands-on teacher training in Portland. You learn from renowned OSU faculty through online and in-person class sessions, while co-teaching with senior teachers in Beaverton School District or Portland Public Schools. Learn more Adult and Higher Education (EdD, PhD) The doctoral program in Adult and Higher Education prepares postsecondary education professionals for leadership roles in four-year universities, community colleges and similar institutions. You will examine research that is relevant to your area of professional practice and will inform your financial, administrative, operational and ethical decisions. Learn more Counseling (PhD) Become an advocate for humanity in our ever-changing social climate through the Counselling PhD program. Join the fast-growing number of past participants who are present all over the west coast, and gain a deeper understanding of the field through active research and participation. Learn more. Professional development courses Transform your life through OSU College of Business' Continuing and Professional Education courses. Our online and in-person programs are taught by College of Business faculty and industry experts. Learn more Contact Info OSU Portland Center 555 SW Morrison Street Portland, OR 97204 503-273-4301 Send us an Email Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer