Penn My tab Penn InTouch Libraries Log in to PennPortal How student groups can use PennPortal Student clubs, organizations, and centers can also have channels in the PennPortal. Even if your organization doesn't have a website, you can get your group's announcements into a channel on the portal. Or you can use a channel on the portal to direct people to your existing website. Anyone with access to the PennPortal can "subscribe" to the available channels, and place them on any tab: To add channels to your portal, first login, go to the tab where you want to add a channel, and then select "Edit/Content Layout" on the right. You can find available channels by clicking on a category on the left of the page. Student clubs will often be found under the category "Student groups/organizations." You can add a channel by clicking on the desired column next to the channel name. Student clubs and organizations wishing to provide channels to the PennPortal can apply to be channel editors. The student requesting the channel should Log in to the PennPortal. Once authenticated there will be a Create a Channel link located in the top right header. Clicking that link will begin a request to create a channel. Your request will be directed to the appropriate person in University Life and/or to the PennPortal administrators for processing, and you will receive an e-mail reply. You can also monitor the status of your requests from that same link. If you are already a channel editor, and you would like to request a change to the permissions of your channel, you may also do that online. Channel editors have a "Manage Channels" tool at the top of their PennPortal. Follow that link, and click on "Change request" next to your channel's name. Your request form will be directed to the appropriate person in University Life and/or to the PennPortal administrators for processing, and you will receive an e-mail reply. You can also monitor the status of your requests from that same link. Questions about channel editing can be directed to the portal administrator. Use the Contact Us located at the bottom of the portal page. Hit the "back" button on your browser, or select any tab to return. Student groups Groups Online at Penn Student organizations by category Fraternities and sororities Graduate and professional student organizations more Student government Performing Arts Council Find out more about student organizations Reserving spaces How student groups can use PennPortal less Penn home page | Contact Us Copyright © 2022, University of Pennsylvania. All rights reserved.