Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box OSU in Portland Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search OSU Portland Center Beavers In Portland Ecampus OSU Foundation OSU Alumni Association Beaver Sports Properties OSU Extension Service Food Innovation Center College of Business College of Engineering College of Education College of Public Health and Human Sciences School of Psychological Science Faculty & Staff Resources Academics Research Outreach Youth Art Show Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift OSU Portland Center Beavers In Portland Ecampus OSU Foundation OSU Alumni Association Beaver Sports Properties OSU Extension Service Food Innovation Center College of Business College of Engineering College of Education College of Public Health and Human Sciences School of Psychological Science Faculty & Staff Resources Academics Research Outreach Youth Art Show OSU Portland Center Resources A variety of services and resources are available to our OSU community at the Portland Center. Utilize the links below to learn more. Introduction and Important Contacts OSU Portland Center Operations - (503) 273-4301 – [email protected] Sara Knott Portland Operations Director (503) 273-4314 [email protected] Ryan Johnson Portland Office Administrator & Scheduling Coordinator (503) 273-4303 [email protected] Albert Le Portland Equipment Support Specialist (503) 273-4315 [email protected] OSU Foundation and Alumni Association – (503) 273-4401 – [email protected] Meier & Frank Front Desk/Security Services – (503) 983-8215 Academic Support Services From studying strategies to success coaching, Oregon State offers a number of resources to support your success as a student. Academic Success Center Learning Corner (videos and tools) The Academic Success Center website provides information and strategies to help students maximize learning and success. Exam and Proctoring Services Ecampus provides exam and proctoring services for Portland students who are required to take a proctored exam to ensure academic integrity during the exam. Not every instructor requires proctoring, but for those who do, Ecampus has partnerships with a number of Portland-area pre-approved proctors. Visit the Ecampus website for steps on setting up these services. Online Academic Support Credit Courses OSU offers all students elective credit to improve academic skills and readiness uniquely required for online learning success and career development. These online classes offered fall, winter and spring terms include ALS 108: Online Learning Success, ALS 114: Career Decision Making and ALS 116: Academic Success. Online Tutoring Ecampus provides free online tutoring through NetTutor, which is staffed by experienced, trained and monitored tutors. NetTutor provides a virtual whiteboard that allows tutors and students to work on specific problems in a real-time environment. Orientation Ecampus provides online orientation that all undergraduate degree-seeking students in Portland are required to complete before scheduling their initial academic advising appointment and class registration. A non-mandatory online graduate orientation through Ecampus is also available. OSU Library Services The OSU Libraries offer valuable research materials and services for students who take Oregon State courses online. Visit OSU Libraries Ecampus Library Services for information. Success Coaching Ecampus offers personalized success coaching to Portland students, in alignment with the services offered to Ecampus undergraduate degree-seeking students. From the point of admission Portland students are supported by both their academic advisor and Ecampus success coach to help them on their path. Writing Support OSU’s Writing Center offers alternatives to in-person writing consultations via our Online Writing Suite. You can schedule to receive feedback from our highly-trained Writing Center staff via an email consultation or Zoom video consultation. Students seeking to address grammar and sentence-level concerns may schedule a Zoom session for grammar assistance. Portland students may also access the Ecampus writing support service. The NetTutor online writing lab tutors critique and return essays within 48 hours. Building Access and Use Hours The OSU Portland Center is located on the second floor at 555 SW Morrison Street and open from 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, with varied extended hours for weekend classes and events. Outside of the posted hours, an OSU ID card with programmed access is required to enter the building or coordination of your meeting or event needs to be coordinated with the OSU Portland Center operations team. All Oregon State University faculty, staff and students are required to have a valid OSU ID card. Cards are issued through the OSU ID Center and can be issued for Portland-based faculty, staff and students by using the “upload a photo” option on their website and having them emailed to Sara Knott’s attention at [email protected]: Get OSU ID Once you receive your OSU ID card, you must complete online surveys to gain access to the Meier & Frank building. Please reach out to Albert Le via email at [email protected] or (503) 273-4315 to get your ID card programmed for the access. To access the space outside of normal business hours at the main entrance on Morrison Street, you will need to swipe your programmed ID card at the exterior set of doors on the street, as well as the interior set of doors and the elevator to get to OSU’s second floor space. There is also an access point on Alder Street accessible with your programmed ID card and available to those needing bicycle storage in the A level basement. If you misplace your ID card, please notify OSU Portland Center operations staff immediately so the card can be deactivated. The replacement fee for a lost ID is $25.00 and must be obtained through the OSU ID Center. Elevators Passenger elevators to the OSU Portland Center are located inside the Morrison Street entrance for standard use and are accessible during regular building hours. Elevators can be accessed via programmed OSU ID card. Access through the elevator is limited to the A level basement, first and second floors. Stairwells Stairwells in the building provide emergency egress to the street level from all floors. The stairwells are secured on every floor, not permitting floor-to-floor access with exception to the basement amenities. HVAC The heating, ventilating, and air conditioning (HVAC) system of this building is programmed to provide optimal energy efficiency. To achieve this efficiency, it is somewhat cooler on cold days and somewhat warmer on hot days. While the facilities team works hard to keep the temperature inside the building at an optimal level, it is advised that occupants plan ahead and wear or bring appropriate attire on days when extreme temperature is expected. Windows Due to the historic nature of the Meier & Frank building, all windows must remain closed at all times. If you experience heating or cooling issues, please contact the operations team to resolve. Housekeeping Custodial services are provided for the building each day. Any deficiencies in appearance or service should be brought to the attention of the OSU Portland Center Director of Operations. Although cleaning services are provided, faculty, staff and students are still required to clean up after themselves and dispose of trash in the proper containers. Lockers There are community lockers for faculty and staff located in community areas. Please see posted instructions for information on usage. Students have lockers available in the A level basement bicycle storage area. Wellness Rooms There are two wellness rooms located near the restrooms in the north end of the building, which provide a lactation refrigerator, sharps container and privacy. Fitness Center The Meier & Frank Fitness Center, operated by LifeStart, is located in the A level basement. The fitness center provides a plethora of equipment, group exercise classes, plus a personal locker and laundry service that costs $30/month Email any questions to meierand[email protected]. Fitness Center Enrollment Building Tenants As an office building, the Meier & Frank Building is shared with other professional firms and organizations. Respect and courtesy to other building tenants when using common areas such as the first floor, elevators and bicycle storage is expected from all faculty, staff and students. Career Development Services The Career Development Center provides resources to help you find lifelong career success and meaningful employment in a diverse world. As a Portland student, you can take advantage of the services below. Career Advising One-on-one career guidance relevant to professional goals and experiences, offered by phone or video conference for students, is available. Contact the Career Development Center for information. Career Fairs and Events Portland students are invited to attend career fairs and other events on the Corvallis campus. Check out the professional development events taking place in Corvallis. Portland students may also participate in local networking opportunities, or take part in on-site treks, industry visits that allow you to explore different career paths by touring offices and speaking with professionals in a particular field. Online Tools and Resources All students have full access to our suite of online tools and resources that include the following: Online career guides and resources VMock software for resume review Focus 2, an online platform for personalized career exploration GoinGlobal for international resources StandOut for online interviewing help Handshake for job postings and career research Policies and Procedures All policies for Oregon State University remain in effect for the OSU Portland Center. This includes, but is not limited to, the following: Discrimination and Harassment: The University has policies for the prompt, fair and impartial resolution of complainants of prohibited discrimination. This policy improves the University’s response to discrimination or harassment experienced by its students, and defines the process that must be followed when discrimination or harassment is disclosed. https://eoa.oregonstate.edu/discrimination-and-harassment-policies Title IX Employee Reporting Responsibilities: All members of the OSU community are required to promptly report an incident of gender discrimination, sexual harassment, sexual violence, dating or domestic violence, and stalking to the Title IX Coordinator or any faculty or staff member at the university. The online reporting tool can be found here: https://eoa.oregonstate.edu/ and can also be made by email at [email protected] or phone at 541-737-3556. Mandatory Reporting of Child Abuse & Neglect: Employees of Oregon higher education institutions are by law considered subject mandatory reporters of child abuse and neglect. For a current and complete list of public or private officials who are mandatory reporters please refer to Oregon Revised Statute (ORS) 419B.005. Resources surrounding this policy can be found here: https://eoa.oregonstate.edu/mandatory-reporting-child-abuse-neglect Safety and Security Prohibited Items Due to the historic and professional nature of the building, the following items are prohibited from use in the Meier & Frank Building: Household Appliances: Microwaves and coffee makers with automatic timers are the only approved appliances for use in the building. Extension Cords: Extension cords are not permitted in the building except for temporary use. All desks and workstations needing additional outlets must use power strips provided by OSU. Candles: Due to fire hazard, only flameless candles are permitted for use in the building. Tape, Nails and Screws: Use of tape, nails or screws on the walls, tables or other furniture is prohibited. If you would like to hang something on a wall, please see operations team for approved hardware. Pets: Due to Meier & Frank building policy, pets are prohibited within the university space. Security Personnel A security guard is on duty for all open building hours to ensure the safety of all faculty, staff and students in the building. They are located at the desk inside the Morrison Street entrance on the first floor or are on regular patrols throughout the facility. Should you have a security issue that needs to be addressed, call 503-983-8215. Emergency Evacuations In the case of an emergency evacuation, the assembly area for all building occupants is across Morrison and 6th Streets, in the Pioneer Courthouse Square. Assembling at that location will ensure that everyone is out of the way of emergency equipment and allow for and accounting of all building occupants. There are building-specific evacuation maps posted at entry and exit doors. There are one or more OSU employees who are responsible for ensuring that all OSU faculty, staff and students are out of the building in the case of an emergency. Instructors will be responsible for ensuring their students make a safe exit. First Aid First aid kits are located on every OSU accessible floor in the following locations (some floors have more than one): Level A Basement First Floor Second Floor First aid for minor scrapes, cuts and abrasions should be self-administered. Any injury requiring more than a band-aid should be reported to your supervisor, instructor or the Operations Director. An AED device is wall mounted in the second floor main lobby next to the elevators. Use of such equipment should only be performed by the designated OSU employee who has been properly trained in CPR and emergency situations. Alarms In the event of a fire or other hazardous event, a high-pitched horn will sound throughout the facility. When you hear this sound, evacuate through the nearest exit and make your way to the designated assembly area. In the event of an immediate or life-threatening emergency, please locate the nearest phone and call 911. Inclement Weather The OSU Portland Center operations team will be monitoring weather forecasts, weather changes as they occur, and regional closures to notify you via the OSU Portland Center email account of any closures or changes in the center’s hours of operation. Every effort will be made to communicate a closure or change in hours of operation well in advance. Employees located in the Portland region – or traveling to Portland from the Corvallis campus - are encouraged to also check the front page of the OSU Portland Center website for inclement weather notices. Student Health and Counseling Services Oregon State offers many programs to support your health and well-being at no charge. As a Portland student, you may also opt-in to the OSU Health Fee on a term-by-term basis to obtain access to Student Health Services in Corvallis, including free medical clinic appointments with most providers, psychiatry and wellness coaching, as well as counseling services offered by Counseling & Psychological Services. Counseling Services If you have an immediate need to talk to a mental health counselor, please contact CAPS at (541) 737-2131 (option #1 if you are calling after hours). If this is an emergency and you are unable to stay safe please call 911, the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at (800) 273-8255 or text 741741. Portland students who have paid the OSU Health Fee may access face-to-face services at Counseling & Psychological Services or psychiatry services via Student Health Services in Corvallis. CAPS also offers limited distant counseling services to students who live in Oregon and are unable to travel to Corvallis. Call (541) 737-2131 (Monday through Friday, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m.) to learn about this option. Medical Advice Nurse Line All Oregon State students, regardless of location, may receive free medical advice by phone 24 hours a day. A registered nurse will answer the advice line at (541) 737-2724. After hours, a medical call center will respond to calls made to (541) 737-9355. Other Health Services Visit the Student Health Services website for information on immunization requirements as a Portland student, contraceptive care and student health insurance. Survivor Advocacy & Resource Center Students may contact the Survivor Advocacy & Resource Center 24 hours a day after experiencing a traumatic event at (541) 737-2030. Advocates provide information for survivors of sexual violence, and their allies, and provide support with decision-making, such as reporting options. All services are completely confidential and free of charge. Wellness Services Student Health Services offers a number of wellness resources available at no charge, including the To Your Health podcast and online programs related to the prevention of sexual assault and alcohol abuse. Counseling & Psychological Services provides online services to enhance mental wellness. The Resilience Toolbox provides self-help resources, peer-to-peer support, an online happiness class and several wellness apps. Technology Telephones Many spaces in the OSU Portland Center are equipped with telephones. For assistance in setting them up or telephone support, please contact OSU Telecom Services here. Email Telecom Technology Support For tech support please email here On-Site IT Support: Portland Equipment Support Specialist: Albert Le (503) 273-4315 WiFi For OSU Faculty, Staff and students: Connect to OSU_Secure and use your ONID credentials to gain access. For guest and non-OSU students: Connect to Visitor and a sign on will be required. Transportation and Parking Parking There are numerous pay lots in the surrounding area, as well as metered street parking available for use by faculty, staff and students. We recommend the following garages: City Center Parking Entrance on Broadway at corner of Stark Union Bank Building 707 SW Washington Street Smart Park On Alder between 6th and Broadway 610 Southwest 3rd Avenue Smart Park On Park St, under O’Bryant Square 808 SW Stark Street City Center Parking 315 SW 5th Avenue City Center Parking 950 SW Washington Street Central Parking Systems 342 SW 4th Avenue Broadway Parking Garage 632 SW Pine Street Loading Dock The loading dock is located on Alder Street and available for loading and unloading materials. Please see the operations team in order to schedule a delivery and gain access to the freight elevator. Parking at the loading dock is restricted to the time it takes to complete the task and should not exceed 30 minutes without prior approval from the OSU Portland center operations team. Vehicles violating this requirement may be subject to tow at the vehicle owner’s expense. TriMet Accessibility to the Meier & Frank building via public transportation is convenient and highly encouraged. There are several MAX stops within a one block radius. Additional bus lines are also located in close proximity. To view a schedule of public transportation available in the area, please visit www.trimet.org Bicycles A bicycle storage area is located in the A level basement of the building and is available to all faculty, staff and students, as well as other building tenants. Please see the Operations Team for waiver forms which must be completed prior to gaining access. The entrance on Alder Street is the only entrance that may be used when bringing bicycles into the A level basement, and it is accessible via programmed OSU ID card access. Once through this entrance, riders may utilize the ramp to transport their bicycles down the stairs to the bicycle storage area. At no time should bicycles be stored overnight or for an extended period of time. Bicycles are not permitted to be brought in through any other entrances and are not permitted on any floor above the basement. Bicycle shoes are not permitted on any floor above the basement due to the damage they can potentially cause the floors. Please remove these shoes prior to exiting the basement. Other Support Services Find information below on other support resources at Oregon State, including access to lactation rooms, recreational facilities and services for disabilities. Child Care Resources OSU students and employees can access Care.com without a membership fee. Visit care.com/osu to create an account with your ONID e-mail address. The Family Resource Center can consult with you about child care services in Portland, as needed. Reach the FRC at (541) 737-4906. Ecampus Student Services As a Portland student, you have access to a broad range of Ecampus services. The Ecampus Student Services team can help you effectively navigate your student experience at Oregon State and support your academic success by providing assistance with change of major forms, overrides, student account issues, registration concerns, academic petition process, tuition refund appeals and facilitation of instructor-student issues, Contact us at (800) 667-1465 (option #1) or [email protected] (Monday through Friday, 7:30 a.m. to 4 p.m.). Financial Aid The Office of Financial Aid can be reached by at (541) 737-2247 (Monday through Friday, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., with the exception of Wednesday from 8 to 10 a.m.) or [email protected]. Visit the Contact Us page for additional details on visiting the office in person. The website also provides information on the application process, accepting awards and maintaining eligibility. Housing and Food Insecurity Resources The 211 portal connects visitors to a broad range of resources ranging from utilities support to crisis services that are available locally. The Partners for a Hunger-Free Oregon website includes a broad range of information on locating food assistance, including details on SNAP and local food pantries. Located in Portland, Janus Youth Programs provides services to homeless youth up to age 24, and Portland Homeless Family Solutions offers rent assistance, temporary shelter and other services to families experiencing housing insecurity. Lactation Support The OSU Portland Center offers two wellness rooms that can be used for lactation purposes. These rooms include a sink and refrigerator. Visit the front desk if you have trouble accessing the rooms, or contact OSU Portland Center operations at (503) 273-4301. Military & Veteran Resources Military & Veteran Resources provides important information and support services for veterans across the state and beyond, including the locations of Vet Centers, community-based clinics for veterans and county services. For additional information, contact (541) 737-7662 or [email protected]. Services for Students with Disabilities Disability Access Services serves all Oregon State University students with documented disabilities. Students must register with DAS each term so needs can be accommodated. DAS will make sure the courses in which students are registered are accessible and they will notify instructors of any unique needs. Visit the DAS website for information about available services and student rights, including specific information for OSU's online students. To speak to someone from the Ecampus student services team, call (800) 667-1465 (option #1). Student Care Team The Student Care team located in the Office of Student Life assists students when unexpected life events and personal crises arise. The team can help students access referrals for personal matters and emergencies, understand policies and procedures, and problem solve within the OSU community. For assistance, complete the inquiry form or call (541) 737-8748. Contact Info OSU Portland Center 555 SW Morrison Street Portland, OR 97204 503-273-4301 Send us an Email Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer