Penn My tab Penn InTouch Libraries Log in to PennPortal Student Health Service (215-746-3535), appointments, immunizations, insurance, fees and more... REQUIREMENTS AND FEES: Health Insurance (Waiver and Enrollment) All full-time and dissertion students are required to either enroll in the Penn sponsored insurance or request an insurance waiver annually online. (Penn Key Required). Submit Immunization Requirement As a matriculating student at Penn, you must be protected from certain diseases, such as measles, mumps, and various other preventable infections. Health Insurance Requirement Full-time and dissertion students are required to have adaquate insurance. Students are required to either enroll in the Penn sponsored insurance or request an insurance waiver annually online. Clinical Fee All full-time students are required to maintain coverage at Student Health. Coverage is established by payment of the clinical fee. Most students will see a clinical fee posted to their account. This fee allows unlimited access to Student Health on a semester basis. HEALTH CARE AND SERVICES: General Services: Student Health offers a wide variety of health services, provided by a diverse staff who all have special experience with the medical problems of college students. Women's Health Women's Health is a section of Student Health staffed by women to serve Penn women. See us for all of your contraceptive and other women's health concerns. Appointments The Student Health Service has adopted an appointment system to serve you more efficiently and to avoid the long wait times associated with a walk-in system. Students may make an appointment by calling 215.746.3535. Many appointments are also offered online. Hours Student Health Services is open during the school year seven days a week, including evenings and weekends. Hours are subject to change during summer and winter breaks, and over holidays. However, care is always available for our patients. Medical Records We understand that information about you and your health is very personal and therefore we are committed to protecting this medical information as required by law. Send us a secure message, Make an appointment online, check immunization status Visit the SHS Home Page Penn home page | Contact Us Copyright © 2022, University of Pennsylvania. All rights reserved.