Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Harvard Medical School / Harvard School of Dental Medicine Office for Postdoctoral Fellows HMS | HSDM | Harvard Postdocs | SPH Postdocs Search Events Orientation Getting Started Tools & Resources Guidelines & Policies FAQ OPF Postdoc Coffee House Wednesday, June 22 | 9:30 - 10:30am Postdoc Orientation Orientation for new quad postdocs Congratulations to the 2021 Outstanding Postdoc Fellows! Postdoc Office Hours Schedule your appointment to meet with with HMS/HSDM Postdoc Office Director | hours: T-F, 9-10am Welcome Our Mission: The HMS/HSDM Office for Postdoctoral Fellows works to enhance the development and experience of the postdoctoral community. Through a combination of administrative initiatives and educational activities, the HMS/HSDM Office for Postdoctoral Fellows actively assists postdoctoral fellows in obtaining the skills necessary to pursue both academic and non-traditional careers in science and beyond. By supplementing the training received in the laboratory with career development guidance and ancillary research skills instruction, the office seeks to maintain the institutional reputation of recruiting and training the best biomedical researchers and scientific leaders of tomorrow. Harvard Medical Postdoc Association (HMPA) Join the HMPA email list using this QR code: HMPA Mission: to improve the postdoctoral experience by fostering a sense of community amongst HMS-affiliated postdocs https://hmpa.hms.harvard.edu/ Harvard Medical School Black Postdoc Association (HBPA) https://www.hbpa.hms.harvard.edu/ To help meet the institutional challenges faced by black postdoctoral scholars at HMS, and throughout the HMS affiliated hospitals, a group of postdocs established the Harvard Medical School Black Postdoctoral Association (HBPA) on March 6, 2020. This organization is established to promote a sense of connectedness throughout the HMS black research community, while providing a space for the exchange of information and opportunities that will enhance the social wellbeing, research advancement, and professional development of its members. This platform serves to get to know each other, discuss challenges, uplift morale, network, and plan university-wide events. Contact us: HBPA@hms.harvard.edu Harvard COVID-19 Resources Harvard University and Harvard Medical School have created sites to disseminate information and resources about the COVID-19 virus (Coronavirus 2019). Please bookmark or check these sites frequently for the most up to date infomation for the Harvard Community, including travel and meeting restrictions. Harvard: https://www.harvard.edu/coronavirus HMS Returning to Campus: https://hms.harvard.edu/returning-campus *Please note if you work at one of the Harvard-affiliated hospitals, please check with your local administrators for COVID-19 protocols and guidance as they may differ from the University's or Medical School's COVID-19 HMS & Harvard Info Diversity, Inclusion, & Community Values HMS Postdoc Fellowship Programs Harvard & HMS Affiliate Postdoc Offices Current International Postdocs Non-OPF Events & Announcements Non-Quad Job Opportunities Contact Us Resources for Postdocs Postdoc Curriculum Research Info Finding Funding Career Info Work & Life Benefits & Support Community Calendars Open Quad Postdoc Positions Follow Us! Follow us on Twitter or join our LinkedIn group to view job opportunites we receive from our partners and colleagues outside of the HMS community. OPF Twitter harvardmpa1 New immigration Q&A event t.co/HwyDjo4Uzf @HMSpostdoc #immigration #postdoc @faspda @bostonpostdocs t.co/N8DbHXHqHq 1 week 1 day ago. HarvardMIT_CRS CRS has several exciting postdoctoral fellowship opportunities available! Visit our website for an updated list of open positions. t.co/xEi1s5iam3 #postdoc #regsci t.co/DHh3D7IYPp 1 month 2 weeks ago. Follow us on twitter Office Hours Appointment Upcoming Events 2022 Jun 02 When Gender Matters in Negotiation 12:00pm to 1:00pm Location: Zoom - register via Harvard Intiative for Learning and Teaching (HILT) Register here via HILT This event is... Read more about When Gender Matters in NegotiationRead more 2022 Jun 02 Crafting Your CV and Resume 1:00pm to 2:00pm Location: Online - Register to receive Zoom link REGISTER Facilitator: James Gould, PhD, Director, HMS/HSDM Office for Postdoctoral Fellows Workshop Description: This workshop takes a ‘flipped classroom’ approach so please view this linked video ... Read more about Crafting Your CV and ResumeRead more 2022 Jun 07 Career Discussion Hour: Research Career Perspectives at the Interface Between Academia and Industry 4:00pm to 5:00pm Location: TMEC 227, Enter via 240 Longwood Ave. entrance off the Quad REGISTER Talk Description: Christian Tidona, the founder and managing director of the BioMed X Institute in Heidelberg, Germany, will talk about his journey as a scientist entrepreneur. In his talk, you will learn about the three success factors for innovation and what you should be looking for as a future innovator or entrepreneur. You will get first-hand advice on bridging the gap between academic biomedical research and successfully... Read more about Career Discussion Hour: Research Career Perspectives at the Interface Between Academia and IndustryRead more 2022 Jun 10 Leveraging Linkedin for Career Building, Networking & Job Search 9:00am to 10:30am Location: Online - register using your institutional email This event is sponsored by Making an Impact Program, University of Liverpool, UK Friday, June 10th at 9:00am - 10:30am EDT Register: https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/leveraging-linkedin-for-career-building-networking-job-search-tickets-288175078417 HMS postdocs... Read more about Leveraging Linkedin for Career Building, Networking & Job SearchRead more 2022 Jun 15 NIH Data Management and Sharing: What's it all about? 12:00pm to 12:30pm Location: This is an online event. Event URL will be sent via registration email. Register via RDM at Countway Library Description: So, you want to write an NIH grant and need to know more about their new policy on Data Management & Sharing Plans? This session will highlight its key elements and changes, give an overview of the background and rationale of the new policy, and help you lay out a path for successfully meeting its expectations at Harvard. RDM Mini-Workshops are... Read more about NIH Data Management and Sharing: What's it all about?Read more More Job Search-Quick links ScienceCareers NatureJobs BioSpace Jobs Fierce Pharma Jobs MassBio Jobs Jobs for PhDs HigherEdJobs.com Inside Higher Ed The Scientist|Careers NewScientist Jobs Chronicle Careers New England HERC Top Higher-Ed Jobs Indeed HMS/HSDM Office for Postdoctoral Fellows | Gordon Hall of Medicine, Room 006 | 25 Shattuck Street, Boston, MA 02115 | postdoc.hms.harvard.edu Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement