University of Southern California Office of Postdoctoral Affairs Menu Skip to content Skip to secondary content search Welcome to the Trojan Family! Postdoctoral Affairs at USC About USC Contact Us Signature Programs Society of Fellows in the Humanities Program for Faculty Diversity Taiwan-USC USC – CONACYT Program for Clinical Residents and Fellows Research Grants | Training and Travel Awards For Scholars Getting Started at USC Before You Get to USC Getting started at USC Postdoc Exit Survey Policies & Procedures Benefits & Privileges Health Care 101 Open Enrollment HMO vs. POS In-Network & Out-of-Network What’s a ‘Copayment’ Emergency or Urgent Care Info for J-1 Postdocs Notes Regarding your Insurance Plans Career Development Mentoring Individual Development Plan (IDP) Research Grants Tuition Remission Training & Travel Awards Training USC Postdoc Life USC Postdoc Association National Postdoc Appreciation Week (NPAW) Digital USC For Administrators Return to Content Office of Postdoctoral Affairs COVID-19 Update USC has taken several significant actions to help reduce the spread of COVID-19, similar to steps the city of Los Angeles and other local municipalities have announced. The university’s leadership will continue to monitor the situation closely and will continue to provide updates as the situation evolves. Our current phase: Phase 5 Congratulations and welcome to the Trojan Family! You are joining USC at a pivotal moment in our history. As one of the world’s great research universities, we believe our highest responsibility is to serve the global public good. A primary way we do this is by advancing our research mission with the full participation of outstanding postdoctoral scholars like you! We established the Office of Postdoctoral Affairs in order to support postdoctoral scholars in the critical roles they play. As a new scholar, you are now an integral part of USC’s vibrant community of over 650 postdoctoral scholars. You will receive training by some of the finest research faculty in the world. You will engage in groundbreaking research projects with access to the latest technology and databases, and to the world’s most important archives. USC has invested heavily in its biomedical and health enterprises, the physical and life sciences, and engineering, which helped boost annual research funding to over $700 million in 2016. While most young postdoctoral scholars work in the sciences, engineering, medicine and other health-related fields, USC recognizes the increasingly important role of postdoctoral training in other fields. The Postdoctoral Scholars in the Humanities program supports scholars in the humanities and humanistic social sciences through USC’s Society of Fellows in the Humanities, which includes cultural events, seminars, presentations and support from outstanding faculty mentors across the university. In addition, while you are here, we hope you will participate in our Postdoctoral Association. The Association receives funding from the Office of the Provost to enrich the postdoctoral community through professionalization and social events. We also invite you to take advantage of all the events that happen on campus every day. We especially invite you to attend Visions and Voices events – an events list is available online. We are delighted you have chosen USC at this critical stage of your life and we look forward to helping you succeed and advance your career. Sincerely, Elizabeth Graddy, Ph.D. Executive Vice Provost Jeffrey J. Miller Chair in Government, Business and the Economy and Professor of Public Policy in the USC Sol Price School of Public Policy Related Websites Office of the Provost Center for Excellence in Research Jobs at USC USC Postdoctoral Association National Postdoctoral Association USC OFFICE OF POSTDOCTORAL AFFAIRS 3601 Watt Way, GFS 211 Los Angeles, CA 90089-4019 Main: 213.740.5485 Office hours: M-F 8:30 am-5:00 pm Email us to make an appointment Subscribe Sign up for the USC Postdoc Newsletter Follow us Twitter Instagram Feedback Website Problems? Contact Provost IT Privacy Notice Notice of Non-Discrimination