Penn Professional Staff Assembly An organization serving full-time, monthly paid staff at the University of Pennsylvania Skip to content Home Who are we? Mission Statement Bylaws News and Events Your Events Your Announcements Officers History Our Initiatives PPSA Book Club PPSA Connection Committees Links Contact Us Home Volunteer Opportunities for Penn Staff (via the Netter Center for Community Partnerships) Updated November 17, 2021 Campus Resources for Staff This non-exhaustive selection of campus resources available to Penn staff was sent to the PPSA listserv on September 15, 2021. Caregiving Resources Links to resources available on backup care, child care, and senior care are available via the embedded links. Employee Assistance Program (EAP) Penn’s Employee Assistance Program (EAP) provides eligible faculty and staff and their families access to free, confidential, 24/7 counseling and referral services for personal and professional life issues from any location. EAP services are not limited to emotional health issues; EAP legal and financial resources are also available. COBALT COBALT is a digital platform that offers immediate access to mental health support for health care workers during this critical time. Launched in May 2020 by Penn Medicine in collaboration with United Healthcare, COBALT connects Penn employees to curated mental health and wellness content, live groups, and individual virtual support. Ombuds Office The Ombuds Office welcomes any member of the Penn community who is experiencing difficulty, conflict, or confusion at work, within their studies, or throughout their life at the University more broadly. They offer an accessible and safe place to resolve differences, explore matters of concern, improve communication, and generate and evaluate options. Their mission is to ameliorate those conditions that may impede community members finding satisfaction with their lives at Penn. They encourage people to contact them at the earliest stages of a problem so that they can assist before it escalates. Other Offerings from the Division of Human Resources The Wellness & Work-Life pages of the HR website contain a wealth of information, including periodic workshops (a mix of virtual and in-person). Overflow Parking Available at Discounted Daily and Monthly Rates for all Penn and UPHS Employees Transportation and Parking announces the availability of discounted daily (12-hour) and monthly permit parking rates at the Amtrak CIRA Parking Deck, 2929 Arch Street, next to the 30th Street Train Center. This location, operated by SP+ Corporation (also known as Parking.com) is conveniently connected to the Lucy Gold and Green Routes, which operate Monday – Friday from 6:10 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. and provide free transportation to campus and the hospital complex for riders who display their PennCards or UPHS IDs. Advanced registration is required. Click here for further information. COVID Testing and PennOpen Pass All staff are required to complete a “gateway” COVID test on their return to campus. Tests can be scheduled here. Staff may also request COVID tests for themselves (at no cost to them) at any time and for any reason. Staff members must also complete PennOpen Pass daily, whether or not they come to campus. University Council’s Open Forum Twice yearly, a platform is provided for members of the Penn community to publicly address concerns or issues to administrative leadership, via University Council’s Open Forum. The Open Forum dates this academic year are December 1, 2021, and February 23, 2022 at approximately 4:00pm ET. (Meeting format, in-person vs. virtual, is still TBD.) To speak at the next Open Forum, write to ucouncil@pobox.upenn.edu and indicate the subject of your remarks. The PPSA leadership would also welcome being made aware of your request (so that we might provide assistance if applicable), by cc’ing us at ppsa@lists.upenn.edu. (An historical example of Open Forum format and rules is here.) About PPSA: The Penn Professional Staff Assembly (PPSA) serves monthly paid staff members of the University of Pennsylvania. PPSA provides a forum through which staff can engage in dialogue about issues facing the University and higher education. Our mission is to connect the Penn community by providing a supportive network to assist the University in achieving its goals and objectives. We enrich the quality of experience and work life for the professional staff by serving as an informational network to promote seminars and programs. PPSA Board Members and representatives sit on the University Council, a deliberate and representative body which serves an advisory role to the President, Provost and senior administration of the University. We have voting representation on all University Council committees. Learn how PPSA Connection can help expand your professional network! News and Announcements Cast Your Ballot for Your PPSA 2022-2023 Chair-Elect and Board Members Supplier Diversity Forum & Expo Top 3 Reasons to Bike Penn! New Video from Penn Sustainability Green Purchasing Award nominations – open now through July 29 Advance your skillset by enrolling in a summer class in the Master in Law Program Search for: Upcoming Events Master of Liberal Arts Virtual Information Session 06/02/2022 12:00 pm - 1:00 pm Master of Science in Applied Geosciences Virtual Café 06/02/2022 12:00 pm - 1:00 pm Bachelor of Applied Arts and Sciences Virtual Information Session 06/07/2022 12:00 pm - 1:00 pm Master of Environmental Studies Virtual Café 06/07/2022 12:00 pm - 1:00 pm Organizational Dynamics Virtual Information Sessions 06/14/2022 6:00 pm - 7:30 pm 2022 Penn Supplier Diversity Forum & Expo 06/16/2022 11:00 am - 2:30 pm Bachelor of Applied Arts and Sciences Virtual Information Session 06/21/2022 6:00 pm - 7:00 pm For Staff Log in Entries feed Comments feed WordPress.org Penn Professional Staff Assembly Proudly powered by WordPress. Loading Comments... You must be logged in to post a comment.