Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu NC State European Center in Prague About About NC State Prague People Facilities Advisory Board Prague Alumni News Calendar Jobs Contact Us Academics Overview Course Catalog Programs Eligibility Cost & Funding Dates and Deadlines Student Life Studying in Prague Living in Prague Housing Health & Safety Learning by Doing Identity-Based Resources Returning Home Faculty Engagement Faculty-Led Programs Host an Event in Prague Login Student Portal Instructor Portal APPLY NOW → About Academics Student Life Faculty Engagement Login APPLY NOW → Full Site Navigation About About NC State Prague People Staff Instructors Facilities Advisory Board Prague Alumni News Calendar Jobs Contact Us Academics Overview Course Catalog Programs Spring: Classic Program Spring: Global Leadership Minor Summer: Classic Program Summer: E 101 Summer: Internship Fall: Classic Program Fall: Prague Connect Courses Eligibility Cost & Scholarships Eligibility Cost & Funding Dates and Deadlines Student Life Studying in Prague Living in Prague Housing Health & Safety Learning by Doing Identity-Based Resources Returning Home Dealing With Reverse Culture Shock Continuing your Czech Experience Making the Most of Your Experience Faculty Engagement Faculty-Led Programs Host an Event in Prague Login Student Portal Instructor Portal Spring in Prague! The Spring Classic is a semester-long program in which students take at least 12 NC State credits. Application deadline: Sep. 15, 2022 Find out more about this program → Prague Connect - Fall 2022 A unique program for first-year students admitted to NC State as part of Spring Connect. Prague Connect gives students the opportunity to earn NC State credits in Prague during the fall semester. Find out more about this unique program Global Leadership Minor Build strong leadership skills on this interdisciplinary and innovative 10-week spring semester program panning across three countries in Europe. Learn more Do you have a specific question? Are you thinking about applying to NC State Prague? Do you have a question about the application process, the courses and the programs offered? For a fast answer, use our "Ask Us" form. Here Zoom Drop-ins every Tuesday Zoom drop-in is up and running, every Tuesday from 10 -11 am. Our virtual office door is open for you to pop in and ask us directly any question you may have. Ask us directly! Calendar Jun7 Tuesday 10:00 AM NC State Prague Zoom Drop In Jun14 Tuesday 10:00 AM NC State Prague Zoom Drop In Jun21 Tuesday 10:00 AM NC State Prague Zoom Drop In NC State Prague Priority Safety is a top priority for NC State Prague and students are equipped with resources and contact information on a variety of health and safety tools. Learn more Students' Final Projects Check the Classic Fall'21 students' projects in architecture and drawing, and wander through all previous design projects by NC State Prague students. Take a tour NEWS Jan 20, 2022 Science Education Student Elizabeth Vanegas ’22 Gains Global Perspective Through Study Abroad Experience in Prague After repeated attempts, Elizabeth Vanegas, a senior science education major and Goodnight Scholar, was finally able to travel to Prague and fulfill her dream of studying abroad. Read More Jan 11, 2022 Connecting the Local to the Global – Art Nouveau Visionary Alphonse Mucha Chocolate and champagne, travel to sundrenched Monaco, rousing theatrical performances by the internationally acclaimed actress Sarah Bernhardt, these are but a few of the products, places, and performers depicted in posters by Czech artist Alphonse Mucha. Best known for blanketing the walls of Paris with his posters at the end of the nineteenth century, Mucha’s… Read More Jan 11, 2022 “Traveling While First in The Pack” Empowers First-Generation To Study Abroad As part of International Education Month, the Study Abroad Office held a panel discussion on traveling abroad as a first-generation college student. The panel was led by Zakiya Covington who serves as the academic success coordinator for TRIO student support services. The panel consisted of three former study abroad students who shared their excitement, expectations,… Read More MEET NC STATE PRAGUE STUDENTS & STAFF! May 2, 2022 Meet Katie Gray Katie Gray is a communications major at NC State College of Humanities and Social Sciences. In her sophomore year, Katie spent Spring 2022 semester in Prague and took five classes, a total of 16 credits. Always cheerful and with a unique organizational superpower, Katie was a precious asset to NC State Prague’s communication team […] Read More Nov 15, 2021 Meet the Staff: Eva, Student Affairs Coordinator Meet Eva, our Student Affairs and Program Coordinator! Born and raised in Ostrava, Czech Republic’s third-largest city, Eva moved to Prague to study at Charles University French Philology and Media Studies. Keep on reading […] Read More May 18, 2021 Meet Ellie Duquaine Ellie Duquaine is a student of Biomedical and Health Sciences Engineering at NC State. She came to NC State Prague for a Classic Spring semester in 2021. In her interview, she shares all things related to life in Prague during a pandemic […] Read More Follow Us Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube FOLLOW US on Instagram @NCStatePrague Powered by Juicer NC State European Center in Prague ncstateprague@ncsu.edu Office of Global Engagement Study Abroad Office Contact Us Emergency Assistance International Health Insurance NC State Privacy Statement Prague Raleigh © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.