Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook Workday More Sign Ons... Iowa State University Pre-health and Pre-Medical Professions Advising Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Home Health Professions Dentistry Human Medicine Optometry Pharmacy Physical Therapy Physician's Assistant Current Students Future Students FAQ's Schedule An Appointment Home Welcome! Iowa State University is a great place to prepare for careers in health and medicine. As a major research university with an exceptional student experience, we’re excited to help you create a competitive application for medical or professional school. Our students are well-regarded when it comes to applying for professional school. Alumni have been accepted to programs at Harvard, University of Iowa, Johns Hopkins University, Pritzker School of Medicine, Des Moines University, Washington University and many others. Personalized advising for pre-med, pre-health students As a pre-medical or pre-health student at Iowa State, you will have two advisors. You’ll meet with your academic advisor in your major to plan the coursework to meet your degree requirements for your major. You are also encouraged to meet with our pre-professional health advisor. We help with: Academic planning to combine your degree requirements and the prerequisites for medical or professional school Application assistance Health profession exploration (deciding what fields fit your strengths and interests) Guidance on alternate paths if your goals change Meet with us We support all students at Iowa State, not only those in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences. Make an appointment on Navigate Student to visit us. We look forward to assisting you! Calendar No upcoming events found. View More Events College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Pre-health and pre-medical professions Pre-health and Pre-Medical Professions Advising 102 Catt Hall 2224 Osborn Dr Ames, IA 50011 prehealth@iastate.edu 515-294-4831 phone Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Loading...