Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation Login About For You Accepted Students Instructors Alumni Brown University Pre-College Programs Brown University Pre-College Programs Site Navigation Programs Summer@Brown Summer@Brown Online Leadership Institute BELL: Alaska BELL: Florida Keys BELL: Rhode Island Location-Based: Rome Location-Based: Segovia Location-Based: Washington D.C. STEM for Rising 9th & 10th Graders Pre-Baccalaureate Apply Application Checklist Admissions Decisions Costs & Aid Program Dates & Costs Application Fee Waivers Scholarships Financial Policies & Payment Information Student Life Life on the Brown University Campus Virtual Community Healthy Summer at Pre-College Accepted Students Partners Partner Scholarships Providence Public School District Scholarships Courses Connect Search Search Menu Life on the Brown Campus From residence and dining halls to educational and social activities, students are always learning at Brown- whether you commute or live on-campus. Breadcrumb Home Student Life Sub Navigation In This Section Life on the Brown University Campus Virtual Community Healthy Summer at Pre-College Accepted Students Next Steps Apply Now Request Information Life on the Brown Campus From residence and dining halls to educational and social activities, students are always learning at Brown- whether you commute or live on-campus. This section is applicable for students attending programs taking place on the Brown University campus in Providence, RI. See the appropriate program page for those programs located off-campus and online. Taking part in Pre-College programs on the Brown University campus will give you a real taste of what American college life is like. You’ll be responsible for getting yourself to and from classes while also choosing from a wide variety of out-of-classroom activities. These activities and events include everything from college success workshops to student organizations (ultimate frisbee, anyone?) and social programs, giving you the opportunity to further explore your interests while interacting with peers from around the world. 1 of 4 2 of 4 3 of 4 4 of 4 Educational and Social Activities Throughout the summer, you will have opportunities to attend different educational, social and recreational events. You'll also be able to participate in our virtual events including interactive webinars, online trivia nights, and more. All activities are free and available to all students and provide great opportunities to continue to build bonds with the other Pre-College students. Educational Activities As a Pre-College student, you can prepare for the transition to college through a range of talks and hands-on workshops. Sharpen your skills for what’s next in your academic career through workshops on: time management, listening and note-taking, selecting majors, the college application process, personal leadership development, identity development, and more. Social and Recreational Events Get to know more of your peers outside of class by taking part in social and recreational events: You could find yourself playing soccer on the green, relaxing at a spa night, getting dirty while planting succulents or attending a campus dance. You can also enjoy program-sponsored off-campus excursions to local beaches, the mall, rock-climbing spots, and other fun activities in the New England area. The Residential Experience Residential students live in Brown residence halls, a short distance from academic buildings and campus resources. Just like college, you’ll find residence halls staffed with carefully selected and trained Student Life staff who work proactively to create a vibrant and safe living-learning environment where everyone can thrive. Throughout the summer, Student Life staff host fun activities in the residence halls that give you the chance to take a break from studying and build community with your fellow residents. You’ll also have opportunities to connect with your hallmates through facilitated conversations about critical elements of a successful college transition. What’s in a residence hall room? Each resident is supplied with a bed frame, mattress (extra-long twin), a desk and desk chair, mini-fridge, microwave, bookcase, bureau, closet or wardrobe, trash can and recycling bin. Brown Wi-Fi is available from all residence hall rooms. Residence hall rooms are not air-conditioned, so we highly recommend bringing a fan. You’ll have the opportunity to rent linens, if desired. The Commuting Experience Commuter students will be placed in a mentor group through which Student Life staff will host special activities designed to introduce commuter students to their peers, orient them to Brown’s campus and resources, and enhance their academic and personal development. Commuter students are welcomed and encouraged to participate in the myriad extracurricular activities that take place throughout their program - including recreational events, student organizations, workshops and virtual activities. Each summer, one space on-campus is designated as a commuter lounge for students to meet and socialize with other commuter students, unwind after class, and as a place for group study. Accommodations Students may request reasonable accommodations based on a learning, psychological and/or physical disability, including medical conditions, temporary injuries and significant food allergies. Please be aware that all reasonable accommodation requests will be considered, however there may be limits to what can be provided without sufficient notice. We recommend submitting requests (via the Medical Authorization and Health History Form) a minimum of two weeks in advance of the program start date. Email Us Next Steps Apply Now Request Information Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-7900 precollege@brown.edu Quick Navigation Policies Connect With Us Footer Navigation Accessibility © Brown University Brown University Pre-College Programs For You Accepted Students Instructors Alumni Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Programs Summer@Brown Summer@Brown Online Leadership Institute BELL: Alaska BELL: Florida Keys BELL: Rhode Island Location-Based: Rome Location-Based: Segovia Location-Based: Washington D.C. STEM for Rising 9th & 10th Graders Pre-Baccalaureate Apply Application Checklist Admissions Decisions Costs & Aid Program Dates & Costs Application Fee Waivers Scholarships Financial Policies & Payment Information Student Life Life on the Brown University Campus Virtual Community Healthy Summer at Pre-College Accepted Students Partners Partner Scholarships Providence Public School District Scholarships Courses Connect Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Login About For You This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Life on the Brown Campus Open details for Life on the Brown Campus Bookmark this Page