Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation Login About For You Accepted Students Instructors Alumni Brown University Pre-College Programs Brown University Pre-College Programs Site Navigation Programs Summer@Brown Summer@Brown Online Leadership Institute BELL: Alaska BELL: Florida Keys BELL: Rhode Island Location-Based: Rome Location-Based: Segovia Location-Based: Washington D.C. STEM for Rising 9th & 10th Graders Pre-Baccalaureate Apply Application Checklist Admissions Decisions Costs & Aid Program Dates & Costs Application Fee Waivers Scholarships Financial Policies & Payment Information Student Life Life on the Brown University Campus Virtual Community Healthy Summer at Pre-College Accepted Students Partners Partner Scholarships Providence Public School District Scholarships Courses Connect Search Search Menu Healthy Summer at Brown Pre-College COVID-19 operations for in-person pre-college programs. Breadcrumb Home Student Life Healthy Summer at Brown Pre-College COVID-19 operations for in-person pre-college programs. Plans for summer 2022 Brown Pre-College in-person programs focus on protecting the health of the community while providing students with a unique opportunity to experience living and learning on the Brown University campus and at other sites domestically and internationally. Brown Pre-College is committed to offering summer programs that protect the safety of students and provide them with challenging, exciting and impactful experiences that will help them prepare for the next steps in their academic journey. This page is focused on providing general information about policies and protocols for students and their families participating in in-person programs and activities to support health and safety related to COVID-19. Updates will be made as we continue to plan for summer programs. Guiding Principles We prioritize the health and safety of the Brown community, including seasonal employees and Pre-College students. We base decisions on guidance from the Rhode Island Department of Health (RIDOH), applicable state and local law, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and other public health experts, as well as Brown University health and safety protocols. We will adjust decisions based on public health conditions and guidance at the time programs are oﬀered. Health & Safety Protocols These are the health and safety protocols in place as of May 27, 2022, which are subject to change based on public health guidance. There may be additional health and safety protocols shared with students as we move through the season . If students are unwilling to participate in testing or abide by any of the protocols prior to the start of their arrival, they should withdraw from the in-person program and select online courses. If students do not abide by the protocols while they are participating in the program, they will be dismissed and be required to depart the Brown campus and program locations domestically and internationally within 48 hours of that decision. COVID-19 Vaccinations and Boosters Brown University requires COVID-19 vaccines and boosters for all students and employees who will be on campus or engage in any level of in-person instruction, whether in the U.S. or abroad. This requirement includes all Pre-College students, staff, and instructors. For Pre-College students participating in an in-person program, you are required to have up to date vaccinations and boosters for which you are eligible in accordance with Brown’s eligibility requirements — information about boosters is shared below — and are required to be fully vaccinated at least two weeks prior to the start date of your Pre-College program and provide proof of full vaccination status prior to arrival on-campus. For programs conducted outside of Rhode Island, Brown will comply with applicable state and local law regarding the vaccination requirement and available exemptions. You are eligible for a booster five months after your initial Pfizer series, six months after your initial Moderna series, or two months after your initial J&J vaccine. Pursuant to CDC guidance, those who have been fully vaccinated outside of the U.S. with a WHO-EUL approved vaccine are eligible for a single booster shot of Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine at least six months after full vaccination. Please note that countries, including the U.S., may have distinct vaccination requirements for entering their borders. Students and families are responsible for understanding and abiding by these laws. An acceptance to Brown Pre-College or a Pre-College exemption from vaccination does not influence or impact a student’s ability to enter a country. Pre-College will provide approved masks and hand sanitizer, and have available rapid tests for students to assist with supporting health and safety. Vaccination Exemptions Medical and religious exemptions from vaccination will be granted to Pre-College students, and reasonable accommodations will be provided under applicable law. Pre-College students who are not vaccinated, and do not have an exemption approved by Brown, will not be permitted to participate in any in-person programming, and will need to either enroll in an online course or withdraw from the program. The deadline for submission of exemption forms to the University was May 1, 2022, in order for the exemption to be considered for summer 2022. Students are notified of the determination of their exemption within approximately 10 business days of submitting their request. Students who are not vaccinated and have received an exemption approved by Brown must abide by Pre-College policies to mitigate the spread of COVID-19. These policies currently include the following, and may be adjusted depending on public health guidelines at the time of the program: Wear an approved mask indoors. Approved masks include KN95, KF94, N95, and disposable/surgical masks. Cloth masks generally do not provide adequate protection and are only acceptable if used over a disposable mask to improve the fit. Live in a single room in their residence hall. Participate in frequent testing, possibly at greater frequency than vaccinated students. Testing & Arrival Information All students attending in-person programs on the Brown campus, BELL programs in Alaska and Rhode Island and Location-Based programs in Rome and Segovia will be required to do the following as they prepare for arrival and when they check-in at their program site: Have a negative rapid test result within 36 hours of arrival to campus or their program site. The negative results of this test do not need to be shared with Pre-College. If the student has a positive test, they should not travel to campus or the specific program site, and contact precollege@brown.edu or 401-863-7900 to inform us of the test result. Students who have a positive test will either need to withdraw from their in-person program, or attend a program later in the summer, once the virus is no longer transmissible. This approach supports a healthy and safe program, and provides families with knowledge of illness prior to traveling to their program site. Complete a rapid test as directed: Programs taking place on the Brown campus (Summer@Brown, Leadership Institute and STEM for Rising 9th and 10th Graders, and the Hybrid Course-Based Research Experience): Testing will be completed on the Monday following the student’s check-in day with assistance from a medical provider in a designated location on campus. Programs taking place off campus (BELL Alaska, BELL Rhode Island and Location-Based Programs in Rome and Segovia): Testing will be completed individually by each student with test kits provided by the program when they arrive. Please monitor your email and the Accepted Students page for your program for more details. Follow mask wearing mandates as defined at the time you check-in on campus or at the program site. Please continue to visit the Healthy Summer at Brown page to review current mandates for mask wearing, testing and other COVID related protocols at the time of your arrival. Family and friends joining students at check-in day must wear an approved mask (approved masks include KN95, KF94, N95 and disposable/surgical masks) at all times when indoors. After in-person students have received a negative test result post check-in, they will not participate in further surveillance testing during their program, unless they have received an exemption from the COVID-19 vaccine. Symptomatic testing will be required should a student exhibit symptoms of Covid-19. Results of a Positive Test Students who test positive for COVID-19 while participating in the program and do not need hospitalization remain in their assigned room in their residence hall for 5-10 days, or until a parent/guardian picks them up from the program. This will allow them to receive care in isolation in that location until it is safe for them to depart, or until they can be picked up by a parent/guardian or designee. Roommates of Pre-College students who test positive will be moved to a new room. In their isolation room, the student who has tested positive will be provided all necessary and appropriate health services support, meals, and additional care. Because Pre-College students have limited time in their programs, and isolating students in an unfamiliar location would make full and healthy participation in the program infeasible, students’ parents/guardians should prepare a plan for picking up their student from the location of their program within 48 hours of a positive test result being communicated to the parent/guardian. Testing Prior to Departure Students who will depart their program by plane should check with their carrier closer to departure date to learn whether proof of a negative COVID test is required to board, and whether the test is a rapid antigen test or a PCR test. Pre-college students can receive rapid test kits from the University, but PCR testing is not available. For nearby locations performing PCR tests, students should review this Rhode Island Department of Health (RIDOH) site: https://covid.ri.gov/testing Wearing a Mask Any member of the Pre-College community may decide to wear a mask regardless of the Pre-College policies in effect at the time of their program participation. Some buildings and activities will require students to wear an approved mask and students will be informed of these requirements once in attendance. Course instructors may require that all students wear masks while in their class. For these reasons, students should always carry an approved mask in case they need to use it (approved masks include KN95, KF94, N95 and disposable/surgical masks). Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-7900 precollege@brown.edu Quick Navigation Policies Connect With Us Footer Navigation Accessibility © Brown University Brown University Pre-College Programs For You Accepted Students Instructors Alumni Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Programs Summer@Brown Summer@Brown Online Leadership Institute BELL: Alaska BELL: Florida Keys BELL: Rhode Island Location-Based: Rome Location-Based: Segovia Location-Based: Washington D.C. STEM for Rising 9th & 10th Graders Pre-Baccalaureate Apply Application Checklist Admissions Decisions Costs & Aid Program Dates & Costs Application Fee Waivers Scholarships Financial Policies & Payment Information Student Life Life on the Brown University Campus Virtual Community Healthy Summer at Pre-College Accepted Students Partners Partner Scholarships Providence Public School District Scholarships Courses Connect Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Login About For You This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Healthy Summer at Brown Pre-College Open details for Healthy Summer at Brown Pre-College Bookmark this Page