Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation Login About For You Accepted Students Instructors Alumni Brown University Pre-College Programs Brown University Pre-College Programs Site Navigation Programs Summer@Brown Summer@Brown Online Leadership Institute BELL: Alaska BELL: Florida Keys BELL: Rhode Island Location-Based: Rome Location-Based: Segovia Location-Based: Washington D.C. STEM for Rising 9th & 10th Graders Pre-Baccalaureate Apply Application Checklist Admissions Decisions Costs & Aid Program Dates & Costs Application Fee Waivers Scholarships Financial Policies & Payment Information Student Life Life on the Brown University Campus Virtual Community Healthy Summer at Pre-College Accepted Students Partners Partner Scholarships Providence Public School District Scholarships Courses Connect Search Search Menu STEM for Rising 9th and 10th Graders Define, investigate and excel: Spend your time doing science, technology, engineering and mathematics. Sub Navigation In This Section Summer@Brown Summer@Brown Online Leadership Institute BELL: Alaska BELL: Florida Keys BELL: Rhode Island Location-Based: Rome Location-Based: Segovia Location-Based: Washington D.C. STEM for Rising 9th & 10th Graders Pre-Baccalaureate Next Steps Apply Now Request Information STEM for Rising 9th and 10th Graders Define, investigate and excel: Spend your time doing science, technology, engineering and mathematics. If your idea of summer fun is a deep-dive into the STEM fields, this is the program for you. Join other rising 9th and 10th graders who are as passionate about advancing their knowledge of the STEM disciplines as you are for two weeks of hands-on team research projects, experiments and design-build challenges. You’ll choose from a range of interesting and engaging courses in the STEM disciplines. Each course combines rigorous academic content, laboratory or field exercises, and a research project or design challenge that serves as a focus for academic work. You may also have the opportunity to engage with Brown graduate students and learn about graduate-level research projects. To complete the STEM experience, you’ll give a final presentation that showcases your project for your peers, instructors and family. You will experience the satisfaction of advanced academics and indulge your love of learning, without the pressure of formal grades and credit. Program Snapshot Who Students completing grades 8–9, ages 13–15 by June 19, 2022 What 2-week program When Sunday, July 17 to Friday, July 29 Where Brown University campus in Providence, Rhode Island Why Focus on your interest in STEM and prepare for success in a rigorous academic environment. Work closely with a diverse group of peers on research projects, experiments and/or design-build challenges. Concentrate on learning without the pressure of formal grades. Live and learn at Brown with other motivated students from around the world. Receive a Course Performance Report and Certificate of Completion when you successfully finish. Please note: Due to the vastly different structure of each program, students interested in enrolling in STEM for Rising 9th and 10th Graders are not eligible to participate in Summer@Brown programs prior to their STEM for Rising 9th and 10th Graders program experience. If you have questions or concerns our Advisors and Program Directors are here to help! Email us or call us at (401) 863-7900 during business hours (Monday-Friday, 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. EST). Next Steps Learn more about how to apply and program dates and costs. Apply Dates and Costs Request Information A Typical Day 7:30 – 8:30 am Breakfast 8:30 – 11:20 am Academic courses 11:30 am – 12:15 pm Lunch 12:30 – 5:30 pm Research projects, extended academics connected to classes, co-curricular STEM activities or free time 5:30 – 6:30 pm Dinner 7:00 – 10:00 pm Evening activities 10:00 pm Curfew: students must be in their own rooms for the remainder of the evening 10:30 pm Lights out Supervision STEM students gain valuable skills as they learn to navigate life in a college setting, including time management, personal maturity, independence and academic integrity. These experiences, both in and out of the classroom, will help students be more successful in their future academic pursuits. STEM students are supported by a team of carefully selected Resident Assistants (RAs), Residence Directors and a professional staff member. This team oversees the safety of all students and serves in an on-call rotation 24 hours a day, seven days a week, while the program is in session. RAs will live in the residence hall with students. Built into a framework of support and mentorship, RAs lead floor meetings nightly during the two-week program and facilitate ongoing community-building experiences. They also supervise students during evening and weekend "fundatory” (mandatory fun) activities. 1 of 5 2 of 5 3 of 5 4 of 5 5 of 5 Program Director Abbey Aevazelis Associate Director, Pre-College Programs and Director of STEM Programs Next Steps Apply Now Request Information Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-7900 precollege@brown.edu Quick Navigation Policies Connect With Us Footer Navigation Accessibility © Brown University Brown University Pre-College Programs For You Accepted Students Instructors Alumni Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Programs Summer@Brown Summer@Brown Online Leadership Institute BELL: Alaska BELL: Florida Keys BELL: Rhode Island Location-Based: Rome Location-Based: Segovia Location-Based: Washington D.C. STEM for Rising 9th & 10th Graders Pre-Baccalaureate Apply Application Checklist Admissions Decisions Costs & Aid Program Dates & Costs Application Fee Waivers Scholarships Financial Policies & Payment Information Student Life Life on the Brown University Campus Virtual Community Healthy Summer at Pre-College Accepted Students Partners Partner Scholarships Providence Public School District Scholarships Courses Connect Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Login About For You This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search STEM for Rising 9th and 10th Graders Open details for STEM for Rising 9th and 10th Graders Bookmark this Page