Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation Login About For You Accepted Students Instructors Alumni Brown University Pre-College Programs Brown University Pre-College Programs Site Navigation Programs Summer@Brown Summer@Brown Online Leadership Institute BELL: Alaska BELL: Florida Keys BELL: Rhode Island Location-Based: Rome Location-Based: Segovia Location-Based: Washington D.C. STEM for Rising 9th & 10th Graders Pre-Baccalaureate Apply Application Checklist Admissions Decisions Costs & Aid Program Dates & Costs Application Fee Waivers Scholarships Financial Policies & Payment Information Student Life Life on the Brown University Campus Virtual Community Healthy Summer at Pre-College Accepted Students Partners Partner Scholarships Providence Public School District Scholarships Courses Connect Search Search Menu Location-Based Location-Based: Rome Experience Italian history, art, architecture, language, and culture as you explore the Eternal City. Breadcrumb Home Programs Sub Navigation In This Section Summer@Brown Summer@Brown Online Leadership Institute BELL: Alaska BELL: Florida Keys BELL: Rhode Island Location-Based: Rome Location-Based: Segovia Location-Based: Washington D.C. STEM for Rising 9th & 10th Graders Pre-Baccalaureate Next Steps Apply Now Request Information Location-Based: Rome Experience Italian history, art, architecture, language, and culture as you explore the Eternal City. Rome has reached capacity. Please consider these selected courses. Practice conversational Italian as you delve into Roman history and culture in this two-week program. You’ll enroll in two courses: Immersive Italian and Making of an Eternal City, offered in affiliation with the Intercollegiate Center for Classical Studies (the Centro). From your home base in the quaint Monteverde Vecchio neighborhood in Italy’s capital, you will learn Italian organically as you order cappuccino and gelato, and complete a scavenger hunt. Each day, you’ll visit a variety of historic sites—from the Colosseum to Palatine’s Hill to Saint Peter Basilica—allowing you to analyze their connections to institutions and people, and evaluate their importance in the formation of Rome’s distinctive identity. Program Snapshot Who Students completing grades 10–12, ages 16–18 by June 19, 2022 What Two-week program When Sunday, June 26 to Saturday, July 9 Where Rome, Italy Why Immerse yourself in Italian language and culture as you visit historic sites and explore this stunning capital city. Join a community of young scholars discovering the interconnectedness of the global community while experiencing another country. Develop the knowledge, skills, and attitudes necessary for the complexities of the 21st century as you discover new places and consider varied perspectives. Concentrate on learning without the pressure of formal grades. Receive a Course Performance Report and Certificate of Completion when you finish. Experience Residential and Student Life Located in the quaint Monteverde Vecchio neighborhood, the Intercollegiate Center for Classical Studies (the Centro) is the academic and residential center of the program. The Centro is situated on one of the main streets of the Janiculum, near shops and cafés, and only minutes from the Piazza Venezia, Vatican City, and downtown Rome. The Centro includes classrooms, a library, a kitchen and dining room, and residential rooms. You’ll sleep in shared double rooms, assigned by gender identity, with communal bathrooms. Amenities include air-conditioned classrooms, linens (sheets, pillow, blanket, towels), laundry room, and Wi-Fi throughout the building. The On-Site Director and Residential Assistants reside in the residence hall with students, providing an atmosphere that supports student success by emphasizing community building and individual responsibility. Meals During the week, you’ll have breakfast, lunch, and dinner in the dining hall at the students’ residence. On the weekend trip, meals will take place at local eateries. Site Visits Site visits are an opportunity for you to immerse yourself in the Italian language and culture. Colosseum: Do you know the expression “bread and circuses”? The Colosseum is the circus! We shall visit this breathtaking amphitheater and explore its rich history. Forum of Augustus light show: Walk where the Romans walked every day to run errands from shopping to keeping up on current events: the heart of ancient Rome as designed by its first emperor. Enjoy a vivid light show that gives viewers a sense of what the buildings looked like in antiquity. San Clemente: Explore the “layers” of Rome in the Basilica of S. Clemente, an 11th-century church—among the most beautiful in Rome. Domus Romane: Through a mixture of archaeological remains and virtual reality, the ancient Domus Romane (“Roman Houses”), under Rome’s Palazzo Valentini, provide visitors with a riveting experience of what everyday life was like in Imperial Rome. EUR Neighborhood: Chosen by Mussolini as the new vibrant center of Rome, this residential neighborhood features the unique aesthetic of the fascist era. Saint Peter Basilica: One of the finest churches of Rome, this Renaissance complex dominates the city’s skyline with its large dome and double colonnade that encompasses the large piazza. Palatine’s Hill: Visit the ruins of the palace of Augustus, the first emperor, and admire the beautiful wall paintings, learning about the different styles and painting techniques. Tivoli: Day trip to one of the most beautiful towns outside Rome, which features the Renaissance Palazzo d’Este, beautiful gardens, and the Roman ruins of Hadrian’s Villa. Beach Day at Ostia: On Sunday do what the Romans do: take the train down to Ostia and enjoy the day at the beach. Rome’s Fountains: Walkthrough Rome and visit some of its most iconic fountains, exploring and understanding the (still working!) Roman aqueduct system. Isola Sacra: One of the most well preserved Roman sites, the funerary grounds of Isola Sacra, near Ostia, are an exceptional testimony of how the Romans experienced life and death. Temples at Largo Argentina: Visit the manubial temples at Largo Argentina, in the heart of Rome, and discover their fascinating history. Livia’s Columbarium: Explore the underground burial site for the working staff of Livia Drusilla, the first empress, in a unique visit to one of Rome’s best-kept secrets. 1 of 3 2 of 3 3 of 3 Program Director Rosario Navarro Director, Location-Based Programs Next Steps Apply Now Request Information Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-7900 precollege@brown.edu Quick Navigation Policies Connect With Us Footer Navigation Accessibility © Brown University Brown University Pre-College Programs For You Accepted Students Instructors Alumni Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Programs Summer@Brown Summer@Brown Online Leadership Institute BELL: Alaska BELL: Florida Keys BELL: Rhode Island Location-Based: Rome Location-Based: Segovia Location-Based: Washington D.C. STEM for Rising 9th & 10th Graders Pre-Baccalaureate Apply Application Checklist Admissions Decisions Costs & Aid Program Dates & Costs Application Fee Waivers Scholarships Financial Policies & Payment Information Student Life Life on the Brown University Campus Virtual Community Healthy Summer at Pre-College Accepted Students Partners Partner Scholarships Providence Public School District Scholarships Courses Connect Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Login About For You This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Location-Based: Rome Open details for Location-Based: Rome Bookmark this Page