Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation Login About For You Accepted Students Instructors Alumni Brown University Pre-College Programs Brown University Pre-College Programs Site Navigation Programs Summer@Brown Summer@Brown Online Leadership Institute BELL: Alaska BELL: Florida Keys BELL: Rhode Island Location-Based: Rome Location-Based: Segovia Location-Based: Washington D.C. STEM for Rising 9th & 10th Graders Pre-Baccalaureate Apply Application Checklist Admissions Decisions Costs & Aid Program Dates & Costs Application Fee Waivers Scholarships Financial Policies & Payment Information Student Life Life on the Brown University Campus Virtual Community Healthy Summer at Pre-College Accepted Students Partners Partner Scholarships Providence Public School District Scholarships Courses Connect Search Search Menu Leadership Institute Transform your passion for social justice into action. Breadcrumb Home Programs Sub Navigation In This Section Summer@Brown Summer@Brown Online Leadership Institute BELL: Alaska BELL: Florida Keys BELL: Rhode Island Location-Based: Rome Location-Based: Segovia Location-Based: Washington D.C. STEM for Rising 9th & 10th Graders Pre-Baccalaureate Next Steps Apply Now Request Information Leadership Institute Transform your passion for social justice into action. All over the world, youth are advocating for change both locally and globally. Through the Brown Leadership Institute—no matter your current level of engagement—you’ll increase your ability and effectiveness in advancing social justice. There are two ways to participate in the Leadership Institute: a two-week on-campus session (currently waitlisted) a four-week online session Through both methods of learning, you’ll meet students from all over the world who are passionate about a wide variety of issues, including topics such as racial justice, educational access, and gender equity. You will spend your days delving into compelling topics in a course of your choosing, actively engaging with your peers and instructor. As you grapple with complex problems and brainstorm possible solutions together, you will practice a collaborative model of leadership honing your skills in active listening, public speaking, problem-solving, conflict resolution, and teamwork. Building on all of this new knowledge, you’ll develop an Action Plan you can take home and apply in your school or community. (Wondering what this looks like? Check out past examples.) What to Study? Select one course of study from an array of options, each focusing on current social issues and topics. Past courses have included: Women and Leadership Leadership and Conflict Resolution Social Entrepreneurship Law and Social Change The Future of Science and Technology Immigration and Refugee Policy in the United States Leadership and Global Health View courses Program Snapshot Who Students completing grades 9–12, ages 14–18 by June 19, 2022 What Enroll in one course for the 2-week residential program or the 4-week online program When Choose one of two sessions: Sunday, June 26 – Friday, July 8 on-campus Monday July 11 – Friday, August 5 online Where Brown University campus in Providence, Rhode Island (currently waitlisted) Online through Canvas, Brown’s Learning Management System Why Join a community of young leaders who are committed to social change. Practice socially responsible leadership and develop a meaningful Action Plan. Gain guidance, insight and empowerment to address critical issues in meaningful and sustainable ways. Concentrate on learning without the pressure of formal grades. Receive a Course Performance Report and Certificate of Completion when you successfully finish. Next Steps Learn more about how to apply and program dates and costs. Apply Dates and Costs Request Information Experience Online On Campus Online Participating in the Leadership Institute online offers all the benefits of online study at Brown, supplemented by twice-weekly required synchronous workshops with classmates and 1-1 meetings with your instructor, and optional webinars with guest speakers. In these “live” and online course components, you have the opportunity to further enhance your leadership skills, explore socially responsible leadership and work to develop a meaningful Action Plan. Studying online gives you the freedom to decide when and where you learn on a daily basis. And with more time to reflect, read and write, you can enhance important critical thinking skills and strengthen your capacity for self-discipline and personal responsibility; skills that are necessary for success in both in-person and online learning environments. A typical day Plan to spend a couple of hours each day (and about 15-20 hours per week) on a variety of activities related directly to the course you are taking. Most days you will be doing some independent reading, engaging in written discussions sessions with classmates, listening to a guest lecturer or a video from your instructor, and working on your Action Plan. Twice a week your classmates will come together for synchronous workshops. You will also meet virtually with faculty for one-on-one support, and throughout the course engage with students in a community of learners all committed to effecting positive change in their communities and in the world. And outside of “class,” you’ll have the opportunity to engage with pre-college students taking other courses in a range of activities that help you grow as a student and as a person. See Your Virtual Community for more information. On Campus Leadership Institute On Campus has reached capacity. Please consider these selected courses. To build a strong learning community, you will be housed with other Leadership Institute students on campus in the same Brown University residence halls. Students living on campus eat their meals in Brown’s dining halls and have access to the University’s libraries, study centers and Writing Center. Although your time will be limited, you’ll also have the opportunity to engage with other pre-college students in a range of activities that help you grow as a person. See Life on the Brown Campus for more information. A typical day 7:30 – 9:00 am Breakfast in a dining hall 9:00 – 11:30 am Class and Leadership Workshops* 11:30 am – 12:30 pm Lunch in a dining hall 12:30 – 3:00 pm Class and Leadership Workshops* 3:00 – 6:00 pm Free time for homework or co-curricular activities 6:00 – 7:30 pm Dinner in a dining hall 7:30 – 10:00 pm Free time for homework or co-curricular activities Students will have 1-3 hours of homework each day 10:00 pm Curfew *Past summer’s topics include: Introduction to Leadership Styles; Exploring Identity and Privilege 1 of 5 2 of 5 3 of 5 4 of 5 5 of 5 Program Director Kisa Takesue Director, Pre-College and Leadership Programs Next Steps Apply Now Request Information Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-7900 precollege@brown.edu Quick Navigation Policies Connect With Us Footer Navigation Accessibility © Brown University Brown University Pre-College Programs For You Accepted Students Instructors Alumni Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Programs Summer@Brown Summer@Brown Online Leadership Institute BELL: Alaska BELL: Florida Keys BELL: Rhode Island Location-Based: Rome Location-Based: Segovia Location-Based: Washington D.C. STEM for Rising 9th & 10th Graders Pre-Baccalaureate Apply Application Checklist Admissions Decisions Costs & Aid Program Dates & Costs Application Fee Waivers Scholarships Financial Policies & Payment Information Student Life Life on the Brown University Campus Virtual Community Healthy Summer at Pre-College Accepted Students Partners Partner Scholarships Providence Public School District Scholarships Courses Connect Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Login About For You This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Leadership Institute Open details for Leadership Institute Bookmark this Page