Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation Login About For You Accepted Students Instructors Alumni Brown University Pre-College Programs Brown University Pre-College Programs Site Navigation Programs Summer@Brown Summer@Brown Online Leadership Institute BELL: Alaska BELL: Florida Keys BELL: Rhode Island Location-Based: Rome Location-Based: Segovia Location-Based: Washington D.C. STEM for Rising 9th & 10th Graders Pre-Baccalaureate Apply Application Checklist Admissions Decisions Costs & Aid Program Dates & Costs Application Fee Waivers Scholarships Financial Policies & Payment Information Student Life Life on the Brown University Campus Virtual Community Healthy Summer at Pre-College Accepted Students Partners Partner Scholarships Providence Public School District Scholarships Courses Connect Search Search Menu Pre-College Programs Step off the summer-as-usual path and set a course for adventure at Brown University. Explore Courses Pause/Play this video Request Information Sign up to learn more about our programs and courses. Connect Now Apply Learn more about the application process and how to apply. Learn More Accepted Students View important information and resources for accepted students. View Now Healthy Summer 2022 Brown University has developed a comprehensive set of protocols and associated policies to protect the health and safety of Pre-College students and the broader community from the spread of novel coronavirus on campus. We base decisions on guidance from the Rhode Island Department of Health (RIDOH), Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), and other public health experts, as well as Brown University health and safety protocols. We plan to offer the full suite of Pre-College programs in-person and online for summer 2022. Updates to COVID-19 related decisions will be posted on this website and communicated to the Pre-College community through email and student portals, as they are available. LEARN MORE Explore Brown Pre-College Experience college life. Start now—through Brown University’s Pre-College Programs. Brown Pre-College Programs are designed for high school students to explore the challenges and opportunities of the college experience. You’ll enjoy the excitement and responsibility that comes from balancing challenging academics and enriching social activities—without the pressure of formal grades. In one of our 1- to 6-week courses, you’ll get to know the best of Brown: We’re an Ivy known for our embrace of independent thinkers—one that values and respects student voices. You’ll experience the rigors of college-level classes as you study alongside peers from around the world who are as motivated and curious as you are. Join the Brown community to get a feel for what college life is like—the choices, the challenges, and the new friendships. Leave enriched by an unforgettable experience, prepared for your next steps. “ I now have a better understanding of what college will be like. I’m more excited and comfortable. ” Courtney 11th Grade, Summer@Brown Next Steps Learn more about how to apply and program dates and costs. Apply Dates and Costs Request Information Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-7900 precollege@brown.edu Quick Navigation Policies Connect With Us Footer Navigation Accessibility © Brown University Brown University Pre-College Programs For You Accepted Students Instructors Alumni Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Programs Summer@Brown Summer@Brown Online Leadership Institute BELL: Alaska BELL: Florida Keys BELL: Rhode Island Location-Based: Rome Location-Based: Segovia Location-Based: Washington D.C. STEM for Rising 9th & 10th Graders Pre-Baccalaureate Apply Application Checklist Admissions Decisions Costs & Aid Program Dates & Costs Application Fee Waivers Scholarships Financial Policies & Payment Information Student Life Life on the Brown University Campus Virtual Community Healthy Summer at Pre-College Accepted Students Partners Partner Scholarships Providence Public School District Scholarships Courses Connect Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Login About For You This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Brown Pre-College Programs Open details for Brown Pre-College Programs Bookmark this Page