Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation Login About For You Accepted Students Instructors Alumni Brown University Pre-College Programs Brown University Pre-College Programs Site Navigation Programs Summer@Brown Summer@Brown Online Leadership Institute BELL: Alaska BELL: Florida Keys BELL: Rhode Island Location-Based: Rome Location-Based: Segovia Location-Based: Washington D.C. STEM for Rising 9th & 10th Graders Pre-Baccalaureate Apply Application Checklist Admissions Decisions Costs & Aid Program Dates & Costs Application Fee Waivers Scholarships Financial Policies & Payment Information Student Life Life on the Brown University Campus Virtual Community Healthy Summer at Pre-College Accepted Students Partners Partner Scholarships Providence Public School District Scholarships Courses Connect Search Search Menu Location-Based Location-Based: Segovia Immerse yourself in Spanish language and culture as you explore a UNESCO World Heritage city. Breadcrumb Home Programs Sub Navigation In This Section Summer@Brown Summer@Brown Online Leadership Institute BELL: Alaska BELL: Florida Keys BELL: Rhode Island Location-Based: Rome Location-Based: Segovia Location-Based: Washington D.C. STEM for Rising 9th & 10th Graders Pre-Baccalaureate Next Steps Apply Now Request Information Location-Based: Segovia Immerse yourself in Spanish language and culture as you explore a UNESCO World Heritage city. Segovia has reached capacity. Please consider these selected courses. Segovia’s rich history and dramatic architecture make it an ideal place for you to study and learn about Spain. Once ruled by Romans, Moors, and Christians, Segovia’s architecture and layout illustrate how different cultural communities coexisted throughout history. You won’t be just sitting in a classroom, however: you’ll cook typical Spanish meals, read Antonio Machado’s poetry and visit his home, and learn to write text messages in Spanish. As part of the program, you’ll enroll in three courses: Making Sense of the World, Spanish Language, and Spanish Life and Culture, offered in partnership with IE University. These will help you develop intermediate to advanced level communication skills in Spanish as you also explore Spain’s rich culture and history from the Middle Ages to the present. Side trips will give you the opportunity to visit Madrid, the capital of Spain, and Salamanca, a World Heritage City that is part of the Castile and León region. Program Snapshot Who Students completing grades 10–12, ages 16–18 by June 19, 2022 who have had at least two years of Spanish language instruction What Two-week program When Sunday, June 26 to Saturday, July 9 Where Segovia, Spain Why Immerse yourself in Spanish language and culture as you visit historic sites and World Heritage cities. Join a community of young scholars discovering the interconnectedness of the global community while experiencing another country. Develop the knowledge, skills, and attitudes necessary for the complexities of the 21st century as you discover new places and consider varied perspectives. Concentrate on learning without the pressure of formal grades. Receive a Course Performance Report and Certificate of Completion when you finish. Experience Residential and Student Life Homebase will be IE University Segovia campus, which includes houses classrooms, a library, a dining hall, and residential rooms. You’ll reside at the Reyes Católicos Hall of Residence, assigned by gender identity to double rooms with bathrooms. Amenities include: linens (sheets, pillow, blanket, towels), laundry room, and Wi-Fi throughout the campus. The On-Site Director and Residential Assistants reside in the residence hall with students, providing an atmosphere that supports student success by emphasizing community building and individual responsibility. Meals During the week, you’ll have breakfast, lunch, and dinner in the dining hall at the students’ residence. On the weekend trip to Salamanca, you’ll reside in a hotel with the On-Site Director and Residential Assistants. Breakfast will be provided at the hotel. Lunches and dinners will take place at local eateries. Site Visits Site visits are an opportunity for you to immerse yourself in the Spanish language and culture. Segovia: World Heritage City Designated a UNESCO World Heritage site, Segovia’s rich history and dramatic architecture make it an ideal place to study. Once ruled by Romans, Moors, and Christians, Segovia’s architecture and urban layout illustrate the coexistence of different cultural communities throughout history. Segovia boasts a well-preserved Roman Aqueduct (circa 1st-2nd century CEAD) that stands as the symbol of the city, an 11th century castle (el Alcázar), and a 16th century Gothic cathedral. Madrid The capital of Spain, Madrid’s cultural and artistic heritage blends seamlessly with its cosmopolitan modernity. The city’s historical legacy is evident in its medieval center dating back to the Hapsburg Empire. You’ll take in famous landmarks, such as the expansive Plaza Mayor and the Royal Palace. El Prado museum has an extensive and impressive collection of artwork from many artists, including El Greco, Diego Velázquez, and Francisco de Goya. The Reina Sofia museum includes artwork from Pablo Picasso, Salvador Dalí, and Joan Miró, to name a few. Salamanca: World Heritage City Located in northwestern Spain and part of the Castile and León region, Salamanca is an ancient city. It’s known for its unique sandstone architecture and for the Universidad de Salamanca, one of the oldest universities in Europe. The historic center of Salamanca is a UNESCO World Heritage Site for its important Romanesque, Gothic, Moorish, Renaissance, and Baroque monuments. The Plaza Mayor is the main attraction in Salamanca. Constructed between 1729 and 1755, it is easily one of the most beautiful plazas in Spain. Royal Site of San Lorenzo de El Escorial: World Heritage Site Originally built to commemorate the victory of Spain over France in the Battle of San Quentin, El Escorial’s royal palace and monastery united the royal and religious powers of Spain in the 16th century. The sprawling complex is an imposing example of Spanish Renaissance style and houses an extensive art collection, including many masterpieces by Bosch, El Greco, Rubens, Titian, and Bernini. 1 of 5 2 of 5 3 of 5 4 of 5 5 of 5 Program Director Rosario Navarro Director, Location-Based Programs Next Steps Apply Now Request Information Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-7900 precollege@brown.edu Quick Navigation Policies Connect With Us Footer Navigation Accessibility © Brown University Brown University Pre-College Programs For You Accepted Students Instructors Alumni Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Programs Summer@Brown Summer@Brown Online Leadership Institute BELL: Alaska BELL: Florida Keys BELL: Rhode Island Location-Based: Rome Location-Based: Segovia Location-Based: Washington D.C. STEM for Rising 9th & 10th Graders Pre-Baccalaureate Apply Application Checklist Admissions Decisions Costs & Aid Program Dates & Costs Application Fee Waivers Scholarships Financial Policies & Payment Information Student Life Life on the Brown University Campus Virtual Community Healthy Summer at Pre-College Accepted Students Partners Partner Scholarships Providence Public School District Scholarships Courses Connect Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Login About For You This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Location-Based: Segovia Open details for Location-Based: Segovia Bookmark this Page