Skip to Content Office of Pre-College Programs Open Close primary navigation Search Search AboutExpand Collapse section Give FAQs Contact Us ProgramsExpand Collapse section Browse Full Course Catalog Summer College – On CampusExpand Collapse section Summer College – On Campus Course Listing The On Campus Experience Summer College – OnlineExpand Collapse section Summer College – Online Course Listing Virtual Campus Experience Summer College – Hybrid Summer College – On Location Accelerated Semester OnlineExpand Collapse section Accelerated Semester Online Course Listing Cost and Aid Info For…Expand Collapse section Prospective Students Admitted StudentsExpand Collapse section Admitted to Summer College – On Campus Admitted to Summer College – Online Admitted to Summer College – Hybrid Admitted to Accelerated Semester Online Parents and Teachers Partner Organizations International Students Instructors Alumni Attend an Info Session Sign Up For Updates Apply Now!Expand Collapse section Apply to Summer College – On Campus Apply to Summer College – Online Apply to Accelerated Semester Online Search Search Pre-College Starts Here. Build your confidence, gain enthusiasm and feel more prepared for college. Experience college-level coursework taught by Syracuse University faculty and staff in one of our four pre-college programs for high school students. Sign Up for Updates Close dialog Click to sign up for updates! Questions? Email or call us! precollege@syr.edu | 315.443.5000 Business Hours: M-F, 8:30am-5:00pm ET Experience pre-college this summer with Summer College! Link Application Deadline extended for Summer College – Online! Summer College – On Campus Link Summer Semester Residential & Commuter Credit & Noncredit Experience what college is really like: take a college-level course, live in a residence hall, have meals with friends in a dining center, and participate in activities and events on campus. Length: 2 & 6 weeks Eligibility: Rising high school sophomores, juniors, seniors or recent graduates ages 15 years or older LEARN MORE Summer College – Online Link Summer Semester Online Credit & Noncredit Explore potential college majors and academic interests in an online course this summer. Make friends in virtual events and activities that can be accessed from anywhere in the world. Length: 3 & 6 weeks Eligibility: Rising high school sophomores, juniors, seniors or recent graduates APPLY NOW Summer College – Hybrid Link Summer Semester Res./Commuter – Online Credit Expand your knowledge in a hybrid course. Live on campus for two weeks, then complete the final four weeks of your course online from the comfort of your own home – or wherever life takes you! Length: 2 weeks on campus & 4 weeks online Eligibility: Rising high school sophomores, juniors, seniors or recent graduates ages 15 years or older LEARN MORE Summer College – On Location Link Summer Semester Commuter Credit & Noncredit Explore course options in one of Syracuse University’s homes on the west or east coasts! Commute to an academic center in New York City, New York, Governors Island, New York or Los Angeles, California! Length: Up to 6 weeks Eligibility: Rising high school sophomores, juniors, seniors or recent graduates. Must be able to commute to the academic center LEARN MORE Enroll in a course during the academic year! Link Accelerated Semester Online Link Fall and Spring Semesters | Online | Credit Enroll in an online college-level course while still in high school. Eight-week courses are open to high school students who want to get ahead during the fall or spring semesters. Eligibility: Current high school juniors and seniors or recent high school graduates Applications for Fall 2022 are now open! Pre-college students at Syracuse University who successfully complete their course will walk away with a Certificate of Completion and a Syracuse University transcript. Hear from Our Alumni Link “I went not knowing anyone, but left with new friends from all over the country. Most importantly, the program encouraged me to follow my passion. Those few weeks at Syracuse gave me a great taste of what college life will be like, and I can’t wait!”— Petey P., Summer College – On Campus 2019 student “I loved my experience because it gave me the opportunity to meet new students that are interested in the same classes as me. This program positively impacted my life because it helped me get in touch with my creativity and imagination.”— Adriana H., Summer College – Online 2020 student Facts and Figures Link 45 U.S. States and territories represented by students from 2016 – 2020 50+ international countries and regions represented by students from 2016 – 2020 98% of our alumni report that the experience prepared them for college and beyond From Pre-College to a Bright Future. Companies where some of our pre-college alumni work Google Spotify EY Walt Disney World pwc Goldman Sachs Ready to Start Your Pre-College Journey? Link EXPLORE OUR PRE-COLLEGE PROGRAMS SIGN UP FOR UPDATES APPLY TODAY News & Headlines Syracuse University’s Pre-College Program Announces 50% Discount for Native American, Indigenous and Military Dependent High School Students January 11, 2022 Syracuse University continues its commitment to welcoming and celebrating a diverse student body by providing financial incentives to students from a variety of communities who attend Summer College, the university’s nationally recognized pre-college program for high school students. “Educational opportunities such as Syracuse University’s Summer College are essential and necessary for young people to realize… Russian High School Student Stands Out From Afar in Syracuse University Online Class June 2, 2021 Kseniia Borovkova is a junior in high school in Saratov, Russia. Saratov is a large town surrounded by forests and the Volga River, the longest river in Europe. At 5 a.m. this past school year, while her parents and brother were still asleep, Borovkova signed on to her computer to participate in the live synchronous… Syracuse University Partners With Syracuse City School District to Provide Pathways to Higher Learning April 9, 2021 Syracuse University embraces its commitment to promoting positive change that simultaneously advances knowledge and opportunity for all citizens. A large part of that commitment is providing access to a Syracuse University education to local high school students. In partnership with the Syracuse City School District, the University will offer scholarships to up to 36 rising… Read More News Events Pre-College Programs for High School Students: Admitted Student Information Session June 1, 2022 at 8:00 pm – 9:00 pm Join the Office of Pre-College Programs in this virtual information session to prepare for your upcoming Summer College experience! High school students, parents, teachers and school counselors are invited to attend. Full Event Calendar Info For... Prospective Students Learn what it's like to be a pre-college student at Syracuse! Admitted Students Congrats! Don't forget to complete your checklist! International Students Students join us from across the globe. Alumni Stay in touch, check grades, and request a transcript. Contact Us Call, email or chat- we're here to help! Previous slide Next slide 700 University Ave, Suite 215, Syracuse, NY 13244 | 315.443.5000 Like Us on Facebook Subscribe to Us on YouTube Follow Us on Instagram © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy