Skip to main content Left arrow Barnard.edu Open Search Close About Pre-College Summer Programs Back Pre-Baccalaureate Program (Summer 2022) Young Women's Leadership Summer Institute (Summer 2022) Athena Summer Innovation Institute (2022) Kode with Klossy (Summer 2022) Pre-College Admissions Back Tuition and Financial Aid Residential Life at Barnard Stay Connected Back The Pre-College Team FAQs Back Admitted Students FAQ Employment Opportunities Back Summer 2022 Summer Student Staff Left arrow Barnard.edu Search for: Search All of Barnard.edu Precollege Pre-College Programs Experience Summer in New York City at Barnard. With distinct programs to choose from, ranging from entrepreneurship to STEM, you have the unique opportunity to explore an area of interest on a deeper level through both in-class discussions and city exploration. As part of the learning experience at Barnard, you will get a taste of both college life and the city that never sleeps! Applications are now OPEN! Apply Today! Learn About The Barnard Difference Join the Mailing List Pre-Baccalaureate Program: Our 7-Week Credited Summer Experience Thursday, June 30 - Saturday, August 13, 2022 Join Barnard faculty and students in the classroom and earn college credit through our Pre-Baccalaureate program. For high school juniors and seniors, and gap year students. Residential and commuter only. Learn More! Summer 2022 Programs Session 1: Thursday, June 30 - Thursday, July 21 Image Young Women's Leadership Summer Institute - Residential and Commuter Explore the seven tracks within this institute, designed to engage our students in exploratory classes, while preparing them for college learning. Session 2: Sunday, July 24 - Saturday, August 13, 2022 Image Athena Summer Innovation Institute - Residential and Commuter Develop practical skills and knowledge you need to develop ideas that will make a difference in the world in this 3-week program Image Kode with Klossy, Powered by Barnard - Residential Experience an expanded version of Kode with Klossy's distinguished coding curriculum paired with Barnard's Pre-college program workshops and activities during this 3-week program. What Else You Need to Know Tuition and Financial Aid Review program costs and financial aid eligibility. How to Apply Application Requirements and Deadlines FAQs Get your questions answered Still Have More Questions? Contact us Pre-College Community “My thought and perception of the world has changed drastically. I am so grateful for this program and all the people behind the scenes who made it so great.” “My thoughts of leadership changed so much I learned so much about myself and others I am forever grateful.” Most of all, I have come to realize the power that I have to take a stand and advocate against inequality.” Site Footer 3009 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 | pcp@barnard.edu | 212-854-8866 Copyright © 2022 Barnard College | Columbia University