Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation Login About For You Accepted Students Instructors Alumni Brown University Pre-College Programs Brown University Pre-College Programs Site Navigation Programs Summer@Brown Summer@Brown Online Leadership Institute BELL: Alaska BELL: Florida Keys BELL: Rhode Island Location-Based: Rome Location-Based: Segovia Location-Based: Washington D.C. STEM for Rising 9th & 10th Graders Pre-Baccalaureate Apply Application Checklist Admissions Decisions Costs & Aid Program Dates & Costs Application Fee Waivers Scholarships Financial Policies & Payment Information Student Life Life on the Brown University Campus Virtual Community Healthy Summer at Pre-College Accepted Students Partners Partner Scholarships Providence Public School District Scholarships Courses Connect Search Search Menu Summer@Brown Online Experience Summer@Brown wherever you are, on your schedule. Breadcrumb Home Programs Sub Navigation In This Section Summer@Brown Summer@Brown Online Leadership Institute BELL: Alaska BELL: Florida Keys BELL: Rhode Island Location-Based: Rome Location-Based: Segovia Location-Based: Washington D.C. STEM for Rising 9th & 10th Graders Pre-Baccalaureate Next Steps Apply Now Request Information Summer@Brown Online Experience Summer@Brown wherever you are, on your schedule. Enroll in Summer@Brown Online and choose from more than 80 courses that are rigorous, active learning experiences, led by innovative and engaged Brown instructors. Each course involves asynchronous, mostly asynchronous, or blended online learning experiences and many interactions between and among students and instructors. Through coursework that inspires curiosity and discovery, you’ll connect with peers from around the world—students who are as enthusiastic, creative, and accomplished as you are. Summer@Brown Online offers academic challenges and personalized feedback that you can access from wherever you are. In addition to your coursework, you’ll have the opportunity to engage with other program students in a range of community-building activities and workshops. You will be able to embrace the challenge of college-level academics without the pressure of formal grades and credit, in classes taught by instructors just as interested in your learning as you are, alongside students just as engaged as you. What to Study? Biological and the Natural Sciences Visit Page Open details for Biological and the Natural Sciences Business, Economics and Legal Studies Visit Page Open details for Business, Economics and Legal Studies Engineering and Technology Visit Page Open details for Engineering and Technology Literature, Writing and Communications Visit Page Open details for Literature, Writing and Communications Medical and Health Studies Visit Page Open details for Medical and Health Studies Physical Sciences and Math Visit Page Open details for Physical Sciences and Math Political Science, Philosophy and History Visit Page Open details for Political Science, Philosophy and History Psychology and Social Sciences Visit Page Open details for Psychology and Social Sciences Visual, Creative and Performing Arts Visit Page Open details for Visual, Creative and Performing Arts Program Snapshot Who Students completing grades 9–12, ages 14–18 by June 19, 2022 What Multiple 2-, 3-, 4-, 5-, and 6-week asynchronous, mostly asynchronous, or blended sessions (definitions of these three types of online learning can be found below) When Monday, June 20 – Friday, August 5 Where Online, through Canvas, Brown’s learning management system Please note: all online courses include a required orientation that familiarizes students with Canvas and the course’s expectations. The orientation will be available to registered students one week prior to the course starting and will take approximately three hours to complete. Students should determine when during that week they will complete the orientation so they are well prepared to start their course. Why Join a community of young scholars all engaged in the serious fun of learning. Explore the breadth and depth of Brown’s undergraduate curriculum and emphasis on student-centered learning. Experience the satisfying challenges of college-level academics. Immerse yourself in subjects you choose. Concentrate on learning without the pressure of formal grades. All students who successfully complete their course will receive a Certificate of Completion. Students who successfully complete a 2-week or longer course will receive a Course Performance Report. Experience When you take a Summer@Brown Online course you have the freedom to decide when and where you learn. With more time to reflect, read and write, you can enhance important critical thinking skills. You also have the opportunity to strengthen your capacity for self-discipline and personal responsibility; skills necessary to excel in all learning environments. By taking an online class you also become more comfortable with online learning – a format that is becoming increasingly important both in and out of school. Summer@Brown provides the opportunity for you to choose the type of online learning experience that is best for you. All online courses will include virtual office hours with your instructor and daily asynchronous engagement. ‘Mostly asynchronous’ and ‘Blended’ learning options provide additional ways for you to interact with your instructor or classmates, as outlined below: Asynchronous: The course will be offered entirely asynchronously; therefore, you can learn on your own daily schedule, allowing for the most flexibility and self-directed learning. Mostly asynchronous: The course will include a majority of asynchronous content and a few optional live session with your instructor and classmates each week to supplement course material. Blended: The course will include asynchronous content and 1-3 prescheduled, required live sessions each week. These required live sessions are integral to the course experience. The times for these synchronous sessions will be listed in the course meeting time no later than March 25, 2022. Please reach out to a Program Advisor, if you need assistance with choosing the right online learning experience for you. Next Steps Learn more about how to apply and program dates and costs. Apply Dates and Costs Request Information A Typical Day All online courses are designed for active learning and you decide each day when you work on the course. Plan to spend a couple of hours each day (about 15 hours per week) on a variety of course activities. One day you might watch videos recorded by your instructor and engage in written discussions or peer review sessions with classmates. On another day, you might do some independent reading, attend a scheduled session with the entire class, listen to a guest lecturer, view a video demonstration, or meet in small groups. Online courses provide many opportunities to have close contact with your instructor and fellow students. And outside of your course, you have the opportunity to meet students taking other online and in-person courses through various activities that help you grow as a person. See Your Virtual Community for more information. Program Directors Yolanda Davis Assistant Dean, Pre-College Programs Abbey Aevazelis Associate Director, Pre-College Programs and Director of STEM Programs Karen Haberstroh Associate Director, Engineering Programs Kisa Takesue Director, Pre-College and Leadership Programs Jane Diener Associate Director, Pre-College Programs & Environmental Studies Rosario Navarro Director, Location-Based Programs Next Steps Apply Now Request Information Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-7900 precollege@brown.edu Quick Navigation Policies Connect With Us Footer Navigation Accessibility © Brown University Brown University Pre-College Programs For You Accepted Students Instructors Alumni Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Programs Summer@Brown Summer@Brown Online Leadership Institute BELL: Alaska BELL: Florida Keys BELL: Rhode Island Location-Based: Rome Location-Based: Segovia Location-Based: Washington D.C. STEM for Rising 9th & 10th Graders Pre-Baccalaureate Apply Application Checklist Admissions Decisions Costs & Aid Program Dates & Costs Application Fee Waivers Scholarships Financial Policies & Payment Information Student Life Life on the Brown University Campus Virtual Community Healthy Summer at Pre-College Accepted Students Partners Partner Scholarships Providence Public School District Scholarships Courses Connect Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Login About For You This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Summer@Brown Online Open details for Summer@Brown Online Bookmark this Page