Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation Login About For You Accepted Students Instructors Alumni Brown University Pre-College Programs Brown University Pre-College Programs Site Navigation Programs Summer@Brown Summer@Brown Online Leadership Institute BELL: Alaska BELL: Florida Keys BELL: Rhode Island Location-Based: Rome Location-Based: Segovia Location-Based: Washington D.C. STEM for Rising 9th & 10th Graders Pre-Baccalaureate Apply Application Checklist Admissions Decisions Costs & Aid Program Dates & Costs Application Fee Waivers Scholarships Financial Policies & Payment Information Student Life Life on the Brown University Campus Virtual Community Healthy Summer at Pre-College Accepted Students Partners Partner Scholarships Providence Public School District Scholarships Courses Connect Search Search Menu Pre-Baccalaureate Brown University for-credit program for high school students. Breadcrumb Home Programs Sub Navigation In This Section Summer@Brown Summer@Brown Online Leadership Institute BELL: Alaska BELL: Florida Keys BELL: Rhode Island Location-Based: Rome Location-Based: Segovia Location-Based: Washington D.C. STEM for Rising 9th & 10th Graders Pre-Baccalaureate Next Steps Apply Now Request Information Pre-Baccalaureate Brown University for-credit program for high school students. The Pre-Baccaluareate Program has reached capacity. Please consider these selected courses. The Brown University Pre-Baccalaureate Program is a highly selective program for rising or recently graduated high school seniors ready to undertake the rigors of credit-bearing, undergraduate study. Pre-Baccalaureate students – known as Pre-Baccs – enroll in classes alongside Brown and visiting undergraduates in the university’s Summer Session. Courses available to Pre-Baccs are those open to first and second-year undergraduates, and span the natural sciences and mathematics, the social sciences, the humanities, and the fine and performing arts. The program attracts serious-minded students from across the country and around the globe. Their interests are as varied as the Brown curriculum, and they share a commitment to learning and serious study. Summer Session courses are equivalent to semester-long offerings, compressed into a fast-paced seven-week summer schedule. Courses are offered both on-campus and online. Pre-Bacc students studying on-campus are required to enroll in two on-campus Summer Session courses. Pre-Bacc students studying online only or who are enrolled in one on-campus and one online course must be commuters. Commuter students are allowed to enroll in one Pre-Bacc course. All courses are taken for Brown University credit and may provide students with advanced standing once they enroll as an undergraduate in a college or university. In most courses, students are evaluated by an A, B, C, or NC (no credit) grade. In some courses (noted in the individual course descriptions), students may choose to be evaluated on a satisfactory/no-credit basis instead, rather than a letter grade. Students may also request that their instructors write a Course Performance Report on their behalf, which in many cases becomes useful when students apply to college. Program Snapshot Who Rising or recently graduated High School Seniors, age 17 by June 19, 2022 What 7-week intensive credit-bearing program offering Brown Undergraduate Summer Session courses both online and on-campus When Sunday, June 19 - Friday, August 5 Where Brown University campus in Providence, Rhode Island Online through Canvas, Brown’s Learning Management System Why Join a community of young scholars all engaged in the serious fun of learning. Get a head start on your undergraduate degree by earning credit alongside Brown and visiting undergraduate students. Explore the breadth and depth of Brown’s undergraduate curriculum and emphasis on student-centered learning. Experience the satisfying challenges of college academics. Immerse yourself in subjects you choose. Next Steps Learn more about how to apply and program dates and costs. Apply Dates and Costs Request Information Experience On Campus Online On Campus Pre-Bacc’s form a close community of young scholars, sharing a residence hall and making Brown University’s campus their home for an intense seven weeks. Summer Session courses at Brown meet for 80 minutes per session twice a week. Depending on the course (at the discretion of the instructor) there may be an additional laboratory or discussion session. Students should expect to spend approximately three hours per course each day outside of the classroom for the duration of the seven-week session. For example, if a student is enrolled in two courses for the seven-week session, they should expect to spend approximately six hours per day on outside classroom work. Summer Session class size is small, which allows for a high level of interaction and engagement with the instructor and peers throughout the duration of the course. Outside of the classroom, Pre-Baccs have access to a range of Student Life extracurricular activities, events and workshops. See Life on the Brown Campus and Your Virtual Community for more information. Online Many of Brown’s online courses are asynchronous, which means students are not required to log in at a set time of day. Some of these courses will have synchronous meeting times that your instructor will determine with enrolled students. Classes are typically small, facilitating close collaboration between and among students and instructors. Combining all activities related to the class, which includes engagement in online activities, studying, reading, students can expect to spend an average of 25 hours every week for each course throughout the seven-week semester. Outside of the classroom, Pre-Baccs have access to a range of virtual Student Life extracurricular activities, events and workshops. See Your Virtual Community for more information. Program Director Carrie Nordlund Assistant Dean, Undergraduate Programs Next Steps Apply Now Request Information Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-7900 precollege@brown.edu Quick Navigation Policies Connect With Us Footer Navigation Accessibility © Brown University Brown University Pre-College Programs For You Accepted Students Instructors Alumni Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Programs Summer@Brown Summer@Brown Online Leadership Institute BELL: Alaska BELL: Florida Keys BELL: Rhode Island Location-Based: Rome Location-Based: Segovia Location-Based: Washington D.C. STEM for Rising 9th & 10th Graders Pre-Baccalaureate Apply Application Checklist Admissions Decisions Costs & Aid Program Dates & Costs Application Fee Waivers Scholarships Financial Policies & Payment Information Student Life Life on the Brown University Campus Virtual Community Healthy Summer at Pre-College Accepted Students Partners Partner Scholarships Providence Public School District Scholarships Courses Connect Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Login About For You This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Pre-Baccalaureate Open details for Pre-Baccalaureate Bookmark this Page