Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation Login About For You Accepted Students Instructors Alumni Brown University Pre-College Programs Brown University Pre-College Programs Site Navigation Programs Summer@Brown Summer@Brown Online Leadership Institute BELL: Alaska BELL: Florida Keys BELL: Rhode Island Location-Based: Rome Location-Based: Segovia Location-Based: Washington D.C. STEM for Rising 9th & 10th Graders Pre-Baccalaureate Apply Application Checklist Admissions Decisions Costs & Aid Program Dates & Costs Application Fee Waivers Scholarships Financial Policies & Payment Information Student Life Life on the Brown University Campus Virtual Community Healthy Summer at Pre-College Accepted Students Partners Partner Scholarships Providence Public School District Scholarships Courses Connect Search Search Menu Financial Policies and Payment Information Breadcrumb Home Costs and Aid Sub Navigation In This Section Program Dates & Costs Application Fee Waivers Scholarships Financial Policies & Payment Information Next Steps Apply Now Request Information Financial Policies and Payment Information Information (deadlines, policies, payment methods, etc.) provided on this website are specific to Brown Pre-College students only. While we have included some information for Pre-Baccalaureate students on this page, students enrolled in credit-bearing courses, including Pre-Baccalaureate students, should refer to the Bursar's Office website for official fees, payment methods and refund policies and processes. Payment Deadlines *On-Campus and Online Programs (excluding Pre-Baccalaureate) Enrolled Date Payment Deadline Students enrolled by May 25, 2022 May 25, 2022 Students enrolled after May 25, 2022 Due within 48 hours of enrollment *BELL and Location-Based Programs Enrolled Date Payment Deadline Students enrolled by April 13, 2022 April 13, 2022 Students enrolled after April 13, 2022 Due within 48 hours of enrollment *Please Note: Students who are not paid-in-full by their payment deadline may be dropped from their course and will not be eligible for a deposit refund. **Pre-Baccalaureate Program Enrolled Date Payment Deadline All Before course start date **Pre-Baccalaureate students will be notified of their summer billing statement by email on June 1, 2022. Payment is due upon receipt. Students who enroll after June 1, should access E-Bill as soon as their accounts are activated to view and pay their account balance (usually within 24 hours). Receiving a Billing Notification Students will receive their billing information through notifications, called Student Account Activity Notifications (SAANs), via their Brown University (brown.edu) email address beginning in late March (June 1 for Pre-Baccalaureate students). SAANs are sent every other week to students who have had changes to their charges since the last notification. This notification will direct students to Brown University’s electronic billing system (E-Bill). Students are responsible for viewing and, in most cases, paying their balances on the E-Bill website. SAANs are not sent to parents and billing statements are not mailed. International students who plan to pay via Flywire will do so directly on the Flywire website but should confirm their balance due in E-Bill first. Students are strongly encouraged to add their parent/guardian as an authorized user to their E-Bill account. Authorized users are able to view, pay and monitor the student account balance as needed. Please refer to these step-by-step instructions on how to use the E-Bill system. (Pre-Baccalaureate students should refer to the general university E-Bill Guide.) Pre-College E-Bill allows users to: view, print, and download student account balances and transaction history pay an account balance via credit card (Pre-College non-credit students only) or U.S. checking or savings account set up authorized users to view and make payments add an alternative email address for billing notifications set up a refund account for the fastest possible refund in the event of an overpayment made using a U.S. checking or savings account PLEASE NOTE: In order to receive SAANs and access the electronic billing system, students must first activate their Brown account and their Brown email account. Complete instructions on activating your accounts will be supplied as part of the onboarding checklist in your student portal. If you have any questions regarding your activation email notice, please email precollege@brown.edu. Ways to Pay Your Bill Brown University accepts payments for Pre-College Programs by: credit card, through E-Bill (not available for students in the Pre-Baccalaureate program) electronic transfer (ACH) for balance payments only, through E-Bill wire transfer, through Flywire personal check or money order (drawn on a U.S. bank) Credit Card – NEW this year! Available to domestic and international Pre-College students. This payment option is not available to students enrolled in the Pre-Baccalaureate or other credit-bearing programs. Credit card payments are now accepted for Pre-College student account balances, application fees and deposit payments. Credit card payments are made by the student or authorized user via E-Bill, at payment.brown.edu. An authorized user should be a family member and not an outside agency, as privileged student account information can be viewed within E-Bill. Credit card payments will post immediately to the student’s account. Online Electronic Payments (ACH) – Available to students paying their account balance from a personal U.S. checking or savings account. ACH is accepted for student account balances only. ACH payments are made by the student or authorized user via E-Bill, at payment.brown.edu. An authorized user should be a family member and not an outside agency, as privileged student account information can be viewed within E-Bill. ACH payments can be scheduled for processing on the day of access or at a future date. Only U.S. personal checking or savings accounts are accepted. Debit cards and corporate accounts are not acceptable for the purposes of ACH transactions. Electronic payments will post immediately to the student’s account and may take up to 48 business hours to post in the student/family's bank account. International Wire Transfers via Flywire – Available to students paying their account balance from a foreign bank account. Brown University has partnered with Flywire to offer a streamlined and cost-saving way for students and families to make international tuition payments. With this partnership, students and families are offered: favorable foreign exchange rates the ability to pay in their home currency (in most cases) savings compared to traditional banks In addition, students and families will be able to track their payment(s) via Flywire's dashboard and will be notified via email (and/or text) when payment is received by Brown. Flywire offers around-the-clock multilingual support, via chat, phone, and email. For more information, or to initiate a payment, please visit the website: flywire.com/pay/brown. Check Payments - accepted, though discouraged due to mail and processing delays Students and families who need need to pay a deposit by personal check or money order, should contact us at precollegebilling@brown.edu for instructions. Do not send a deposit payment directly to the Cashier’s Office. Personal checks and money orders can be sent directly to the Cashier’s Office for student account balance payments, following the instructions below. If paying by check or money order, you should send your payment well in advance of the payment deadline as students could lose their place in the program if payment is not received by the deadline. We are not able to make accommodations for delays in the mail or processing. Checks should be made payable to Brown University, include the student’s full name and Banner ID number and be sent to: Brown University Cashier's Office 69 Brown Street, 2nd Floor Box 1911 Providence, RI 02912 Additional Fees Students may be subject to fees in addition to those listed in their Course Cart Estimate. Returned ACH or Check Payment: A $20 returned check or ACH fee is assessed for payments returned by Brown’s bank due to insufficient funds, a missing or incorrect bank account number or because the payer stopped the payment. Lockout (on-campus programs only): A $25-$40 fee is charged each time you lock yourself out of your room, depending on frequency. Lock Change (on-campus programs only): A $120-$460 fee is charged if your lock needs to be changed because you lost your key, didn’t return a borrowed key in the time allotted or failed to return your key as instructed at the end of your program. Limited Accident and Sickness, Short-term, Insurance Plan (on-campus programs only): Residential students who are not enrolled in a US-based health insurance plan, or who do not provide adequate proof that they are enrolled in a health insurance plan that provides coverage in the US, will be charged a fee of $75 for this limited insurance plan for the duration of their program. Students enrolled in Location-Based Programs outside of the US are automatically covered by the University’s contract with International SOS. This program provides all Brown University study abroad participants with 24-hour worldwide medical and travel assistance, accident and sickness insurance, including emergency evacuation, at no additional cost. For more information visit International Travel Information. International Fee: International students are charged a $50 fee for document processing. COVID-19 Testing Fees (on-campus and location-based programs only): A $75-300 fee will be charged if COVID-19 testing is deemed necessary for on-campus programs. The amount of the fee depends on the length of the program and the requirements of the testing protocol. This fee is included in the posted 2022 Program Costs. Refund Policies Application fees are non-refundable. Program deposits are non-refundable, with one exception. If you are registered for a course that later gets canceled by Brown Pre-College, and you choose not to register for a different course, you should request to be withdrawn from the program and your deposit will be refunded to you. If you change your course registration (drop one course and add another), any payments you made towards your dropped course will automatically be applied to your new course. If you withdraw from the program, you will be refunded for payments made, according to the schedule below. The application fee, deposit (except in the case of course cancellation by Brown Pre-College) and any program-related costs not billed by Brown (e.g., books, travel, etc.) are non-refundable by Brown. IMPORTANT: Self-registration closes 5 weeks before the course start date for on-campus courses and 2 weeks before the course start date for online courses. To drop a course after the self-registration period, send your request in writing to precollege@brown.edu. The date of your correspondence will determine your course drop date and eligibility for a refund. (There is no need to email us if you are able to drop your course on your own within the self-registration period.) If you determine you will not attend the program, you should request to be withdrawn. Requests to be withdrawn must be made in writing to precollege@brown.edu. The date of your correspondence will determine your withdrawal date and eligibility for a refund. Students who are withdrawn from the program for inactivity or dismissed from the program for disciplinary reasons are not eligible for a refund. No refunds will be granted if a student fails to drop a course or fails to withdraw, in writing, as outlined above. On-Campus Courses/Programs (Summer@Brown, Leadership Institute, STEM for Rising 9th & 10th Graders) Program Length Withdrawal/Drop Date Refund 1- or 2-week On or before the program start date 100% (less $300 deposit) On or before the third day of the program 75% (less $300 deposit) After the third day of the program 0% 3- or 4- week On or before the program start date 100% (less $300 deposit) On or before the third day of the program 75% (less $300 deposit) By Sunday following the program start date 50% (less $300 deposit) After Sunday following the program start date 0% *See Program Dates & Costs for official program start dates. Online and Hybrid Courses/Programs (Summer@Brown, Leadership Institute) Please Note: Online students who are reported as inactive by their instructor at the end of the first week will be dropped from their course and are not eligible for a refund. Program Length Withdrawal/Drop Date Refund 2-week One week before the program start date 100% (less $300 deposit) On the first or second day of the program 75% (less $300 deposit) After the second day of the program 0% 3-, 4-, or 6-week One week before the program start date 100% (less $300 deposit) On the first or second day of the program 75% (less $300 deposit) By Sunday following the program start date 50% (less $300 deposit) After Sunday following the program start date 0% 5-week Hybrid One week before the program start date 100% (less $300 deposit) On the first or second day of the program 75% (less $300 deposit) By Sunday following the program start date 50% (less $300 deposit) After Sunday following the program start date 0% BELL and Location-Based Programs (BELL: Rhode Island, BELL: Florida, BELL: Alaska, Rome, Segovia, Washington D.C.) Course Start Date Withdrawal/Drop Date Refund All On or before April 13, 2022 100% (less $300 deposit) April 14–May 25, 2022 75% (less $300 deposit) After May 25, 2022 0% Pre-Baccalaureate Program Fee Withdrawal/Drop Date Refund Course Fee/Tuition On or before June 19, 2022 100% (less $300 deposit) June 20–June 23, 2022 80% (less $300 deposit) June 24–June 28, 2022 50% (less $300 deposit) After June 28, 2022 $0 Meals On or before June 19, 2022 100% June 20–June 25, 2022 $658 After June 25, 2022 $0 Housing On or before June 19, 2022 100% June 20–June 25, 2022 $1,200 After June 25, 2022 $0 Next Steps Apply Now Request Information Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-7900 precollege@brown.edu Quick Navigation Policies Connect With Us Footer Navigation Accessibility © Brown University Brown University Pre-College Programs For You Accepted Students Instructors Alumni Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Programs Summer@Brown Summer@Brown Online Leadership Institute BELL: Alaska BELL: Florida Keys BELL: Rhode Island Location-Based: Rome Location-Based: Segovia Location-Based: Washington D.C. STEM for Rising 9th & 10th Graders Pre-Baccalaureate Apply Application Checklist Admissions Decisions Costs & Aid Program Dates & Costs Application Fee Waivers Scholarships Financial Policies & Payment Information Student Life Life on the Brown University Campus Virtual Community Healthy Summer at Pre-College Accepted Students Partners Partner Scholarships Providence Public School District Scholarships Courses Connect Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Login About For You This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Financial Policies and Payment Information Open details for Financial Policies and Payment Information Bookmark this Page