Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation Login About For You Accepted Students Instructors Alumni Brown University Pre-College Programs Brown University Pre-College Programs Site Navigation Programs Summer@Brown Summer@Brown Online Leadership Institute BELL: Alaska BELL: Florida Keys BELL: Rhode Island Location-Based: Rome Location-Based: Segovia Location-Based: Washington D.C. STEM for Rising 9th & 10th Graders Pre-Baccalaureate Apply Application Checklist Admissions Decisions Costs & Aid Program Dates & Costs Application Fee Waivers Scholarships Financial Policies & Payment Information Student Life Life on the Brown University Campus Virtual Community Healthy Summer at Pre-College Accepted Students Partners Partner Scholarships Providence Public School District Scholarships Courses Connect Search Search Menu Your Virtual Community Whether online or in-person, you can take advantage of these Brown Pre-College virtual social and educational programs. Breadcrumb Home Student Life Sub Navigation In This Section Life on the Brown University Campus Virtual Community Healthy Summer at Pre-College Accepted Students Next Steps Apply Now Request Information Your Virtual Community Whether online or in-person, you can take advantage of these Brown Pre-College virtual social and educational programs. Experiences outside of the classroom are a vital part of Brown Pre-College programs. Through these activities—both educational and social—you’ll strengthen your connection to a robust community of peers from around the world while developing personal and social skills critical to success in the college setting. With a variety of virtual events offered throughout the summer, you’ll find at least one topic and format that fits you best. Interactive Webinars Are you looking to learn more about the process of selecting and applying to colleges and universities? Attend one or more of these weekly webinars that focuses on topics essential to college preparation. Past webinar topics have included: college fit writing a college essay ACT/SAT prep financial aid You’ll learn from expert presenters and have the opportunities to engage in live Q&A. Mentor Groups Mentor groups meet 2-3 times a week through Zoom and are facilitated by an undergraduate student. In these groups, you’ll interact with a set group of peers and participate in interactive activities designed to help you reflect on your transition to college. Through these activities, you’ll develop meaningful relationships with a diverse group of peers and prepare for a successful start to your college experience. Social Events Get to know more of your peers in a relaxed setting through fun and interactive activities like games and trivia nights. Social events are offered multiple times each week throughout the summer. Undergraduate Student Panels Attend live Q&A sessions with undergraduate students representing various backgrounds and experiences. What is it like to be a student athlete? Why do students participate in Fraternity/Sorority Life? What is it like to declare a major? Tune into our panels to learn the answers to all these questions and more. Virtual Writing Support Looking for support in writing a paper for a course or editing your college application essays? Free Writing Center consultations are available to all Pre-College students. You’ll be paired with a Writing Associate to work on writing at any stage. Writing Associates are friendly Brown graduate students who are trained to make suggestions that will help you in formulating, clarifying and elaborating on your ideas. Accommodations Students may request reasonable accommodations based on a learning, psychological and/or physical disability, including medical conditions and temporary injuries. Please be aware that all reasonable accommodation requests will be considered, however there may be limits to what can be provided without sufficient notice. We recommend submitting requests (via the Medical Authorization and Health History Form) a minimum of two weeks in advance of the program start date. Email Us Next Steps Apply Now Request Information Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-7900 precollege@brown.edu Quick Navigation Policies Connect With Us Footer Navigation Accessibility © Brown University Brown University Pre-College Programs For You Accepted Students Instructors Alumni Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Programs Summer@Brown Summer@Brown Online Leadership Institute BELL: Alaska BELL: Florida Keys BELL: Rhode Island Location-Based: Rome Location-Based: Segovia Location-Based: Washington D.C. STEM for Rising 9th & 10th Graders Pre-Baccalaureate Apply Application Checklist Admissions Decisions Costs & Aid Program Dates & Costs Application Fee Waivers Scholarships Financial Policies & Payment Information Student Life Life on the Brown University Campus Virtual Community Healthy Summer at Pre-College Accepted Students Partners Partner Scholarships Providence Public School District Scholarships Courses Connect Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Login About For You This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Your Virtual Community Open details for Your Virtual Community Bookmark this Page