Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation Login About For You Accepted Students Instructors Alumni Brown University Pre-College Programs Brown University Pre-College Programs Site Navigation Programs Summer@Brown Summer@Brown Online Leadership Institute BELL: Alaska BELL: Florida Keys BELL: Rhode Island Location-Based: Rome Location-Based: Segovia Location-Based: Washington D.C. STEM for Rising 9th & 10th Graders Pre-Baccalaureate Apply Application Checklist Admissions Decisions Costs & Aid Program Dates & Costs Application Fee Waivers Scholarships Financial Policies & Payment Information Student Life Life on the Brown University Campus Virtual Community Healthy Summer at Pre-College Accepted Students Partners Partner Scholarships Providence Public School District Scholarships Courses Connect Search Search Menu Application Checklist Breadcrumb Home Apply Sub Navigation In This Section Application Checklist Admissions Decisions Next Steps Apply Now Application Checklist Applications will not be reviewed until they are complete. Use this handy checklist to make sure you’ve submitted everything required for the Admissions Team to review your file. A Complete Application Includes: 1. Writing requirement You will be required to submit a 250–500 word essay responding to the following prompt: Educational experiences, inside or outside of school, can shape our perception of the world. Describe an educational experience that has motivated you to continue your learning with Brown Pre-College. How will you meet challenges you may encounter as you continue your learning with Brown Pre-College? 2. Supplementary essay (optional) You may submit a supplementary essay if you want to address something not covered in other parts of the application. (For example, an explanation for inconsistent grades or specific circumstances you’d like the Admissions Team to consider.) 3. A non-refundable application fee This fee must be paid by credit card within the secure application form. Application fee when submitted by 2/27/2022: $50 Application fee when submitted between 2/28/2022 and 4/24/2022: $75 Application fee when submitted on or after 4/25/2022: $100 If you would like to apply for an application fee waiver, please visit the application fee waiver page to learn more. 4. Transcript and most recent grade report Your academic records must be submitted with your application. Please note: official transcripts are not required, and they do not need to be submitted by a school guidance counselor. You must submit grades from the current academic year in addition to grades from the past academic year. Grade submissions must be in English and contain your full name and the academic term represented. Acceptable submissions may include, but are not limited to: Unofficial transcript Report card Progress report Marksheets Screenshot of grades from a school portal (it must contain your full name) Narrative assessment Please include an explanation of the grading scale used by the school(s) if different from the U.S. grading system. 5. Recommendation (optional) Within the application, you may provide the name and email address of a teacher, counselor, community leader or employer who can attest to your social maturity and academic performance. We strongly suggest you submit a recommendation if you are: Interested in the Summer@Brown program or Leadership Institute and will be under the age of 15 as of June 19, 2022 Interested in the STEM for Rising 9th and 10th Graders program and will be under the age of 14 as of June 19, 2022 Interested in any of the Brown Environmental Leadership Lab programs Interested in any of the Location-Based programs And/or have inconsistent grades — any grades of C or below Please note that a recommendation is required to accompany Pre-Baccalaureate Program applications Upon entering this information, an email containing a recommendation form will be sent to the recommender. Please note: If you indicate you will be submitting a recommendation, we will only accept our recommendation form and your application will not be considered complete until we receive the recommendation. 6. English language proficiency For applicants for whom English is not their primary language, you should seriously consider your level of English language proficiency. Brown’s programs provide both academic challenges typical of college-level study and opportunities to experience the academic and social aspects of college life in the United States, so a high degree of proficiency in English — equivalent to what would be expected of a first-year undergraduate — is crucial to having a successful experience. Students who participate in Brown’s programs must have a strong command of the English language in order to succeed in academic study, involving the ability to: Speak clearly and coherently on a variety of topics Write clearly on a range of topics Listen and understand complex topics Read and understand detailed and lengthy texts on academic subjects Independently navigate a college campus in an urban environment Communicate effectively with peers in social settings International students who don’t speak English as their primary language will be asked to submit one of the following: Duolingo Test: Duolingo is an English proficiency test that can be taken online, on demand, in under an hour using a computer with a front-facing camera. The test includes a proficiency score, video interview and writing sample, which can be shared with the Division of Pre-College and Undergraduate Programs at Brown University. Certified results are available within 48 hours. InitialView: InitialView is an unscripted, conversational format that helps us get to know you better. InitialView interviewers conduct a live interview and proctor an open-ended writing sample that gives you the opportunity to demonstrate your interests and communication skills. InitialView records the conversation and shares the entire video and writing sample with the Division of Pre-College and Undergraduate Programs. InitialView does not score or rate applicants. Applicants complete the interview/writing sample using either a smartphone or a computer with a front-facing camera. InitialView materials are available in as little as 48 hours. Important: Be sure to share your results with Brown University’s Division of Pre-College and Undergraduate Programs, not Brown University Undergraduate Admission. It may take up to three business days after you have shared your results with us for it to be reflected in your application checklist. TOEFL and IELTS scores will not satisfy the evidence of language proficiency requirement. Please note: In some cases, supplemental application materials — transcripts, essays or recommendations — may be requested. You will be notified by email if any additional information is required. Applicants are expected to abide by the Pre-College Code of Conduct, which includes an expectation of academic integrity: All application materials submitted must be the original work of the applicant. Plagiarism in essays or applications (completed by anyone other than the student) are both grounds for denial. Admission does not guarantee enrollment in a specific course or program. Courses may be cancelled at any time due to unforeseen circumstances. Based on visa guidelines, accepted Pre-Baccalaureate students who require an F-1 visa to attend on-campus courses, must submit all supporting documentation by April 18, 2022. Students who do not submit supporting documents, or who enroll after this date without appropriate authorization, will be unable to attend in-person courses. Get started Start your application today! Apply now Next Steps Apply Now Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-7900 precollege@brown.edu Quick Navigation Policies Connect With Us Footer Navigation Accessibility © Brown University Brown University Pre-College Programs For You Accepted Students Instructors Alumni Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Programs Summer@Brown Summer@Brown Online Leadership Institute BELL: Alaska BELL: Florida Keys BELL: Rhode Island Location-Based: Rome Location-Based: Segovia Location-Based: Washington D.C. STEM for Rising 9th & 10th Graders Pre-Baccalaureate Apply Application Checklist Admissions Decisions Costs & Aid Program Dates & Costs Application Fee Waivers Scholarships Financial Policies & Payment Information Student Life Life on the Brown University Campus Virtual Community Healthy Summer at Pre-College Accepted Students Partners Partner Scholarships Providence Public School District Scholarships Courses Connect Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Login About For You This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Application Checklist Open details for Application Checklist Bookmark this Page