Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation Login About For You Accepted Students Instructors Alumni Brown University Pre-College Programs Brown University Pre-College Programs Site Navigation Programs Summer@Brown Summer@Brown Online Leadership Institute BELL: Alaska BELL: Florida Keys BELL: Rhode Island Location-Based: Rome Location-Based: Segovia Location-Based: Washington D.C. STEM for Rising 9th & 10th Graders Pre-Baccalaureate Apply Application Checklist Admissions Decisions Costs & Aid Program Dates & Costs Application Fee Waivers Scholarships Financial Policies & Payment Information Student Life Life on the Brown University Campus Virtual Community Healthy Summer at Pre-College Accepted Students Partners Partner Scholarships Providence Public School District Scholarships Courses Connect Search Search Menu Summer@Brown Explore new paths and connect with different ways of thinking, seeing, and doing. Breadcrumb Home Programs Sub Navigation In This Section Summer@Brown Summer@Brown Online Leadership Institute BELL: Alaska BELL: Florida Keys BELL: Rhode Island Location-Based: Rome Location-Based: Segovia Location-Based: Washington D.C. STEM for Rising 9th & 10th Graders Pre-Baccalaureate Next Steps Apply Now Request Information Summer@Brown Explore new paths and connect with different ways of thinking, seeing, and doing. If you could take a class in any subject, what would it be? No matter your answer to that question, chances are you’ll find it at Summer@Brown. Choose from more than 200 non-credit courses reflecting the wide range of Brown University’s Open Curriculum that challenge you with new perspectives on how you work, how you learn, and how you live. At a Glance 5,000 Students 50 States 70 Countries With so many students from different locations, backgrounds, and interests, you'll join a community of peers who brings broad and deep perspectives to living and learning together. Outside of class, you’ll participate in workshops, activities, and events — scheduled from morning to night — that inform, engage and entertain. Along the way, you’ll make new friends from around the world and learn to live independently and responsibly: skills that will prepare you well for life in college and long after. You are also able to embrace the challenge of college-level academics without the pressure of formal grades and credit, in classes taught by instructors just as interested in your learning as you are, alongside students just as engaged as you. What to Study? Biological and the Natural Sciences Visit Page Open details for Biological and the Natural Sciences Business, Economics and Legal Studies Visit Page Open details for Business, Economics and Legal Studies Engineering and Technology Visit Page Open details for Engineering and Technology Literature, Writing and Communications Visit Page Open details for Literature, Writing and Communications Medical and Health Studies Visit Page Open details for Medical and Health Studies Physical Sciences and Math Visit Page Open details for Physical Sciences and Math Political Science, Philosophy and History Visit Page Open details for Political Science, Philosophy and History Psychology and Social Sciences Visit Page Open details for Psychology and Social Sciences Visual, Creative and Performing Arts Visit Page Open details for Visual, Creative and Performing Arts VIEW ALL COURSES Program Snapshot Who Students completing grades 9–12, ages 14–18 by June 19, 2022 What Choose from over 200 courses in multiple 1-, 2-, 3- and 4-week sessions When Sunday, June 19 – Friday, August 5 Where Brown University campus in Providence, Rhode Island Why Join a community of young scholars all engaged in the serious fun of learning. Explore the breadth and depth of Brown’s undergraduate curriculum and emphasis on student-centered learning. Experience the satisfying challenges of college-level academics. Immerse yourself in subjects you choose. Concentrate on learning without the pressure of formal grades. All students who successfully complete their course will receive a Certificate of Completion. Students who successfully complete a 2-week or longer course will receive a Course Performance Report. Next Steps Learn more about how to apply and program dates and costs. Apply Dates and Costs Request Information Experience Taking part in Summer@Brown on the Brown University campus will give you a real taste of what college life and learning is like on an Ivy League campus. You have the opportunity to experience first-year undergraduate study at Brown, through which you also get to experience Brown’s student-centered learning. A Typical Day You will be in class for three hours daily, five days a week – along with about three additional hours of outside study time each day, too. Expect to be challenged and to engage with your instructor and fellow students by asking questions and being asked questions, actively joining class discussions and group work as well as individual study. When and where you study is up to you, and you’ll need to figure out how you will complete your out-of-class work while still engaging in all the Student Life activities, workshops and events taking place throughout each day. No matter when your class meets – morning, early or late afternoon – you’ll have the opportunity to engage with students taking other courses too, through a variety of activities that help you grow as a student and as a person. See Life on the Brown Campus for more information. 1 of 7 2 of 7 3 of 7 4 of 7 5 of 7 6 of 7 7 of 7 Program Directors Yolanda Davis Assistant Dean, Pre-College Programs Abbey Aevazelis Associate Director, Pre-College Programs and Director of STEM Programs Karen Haberstroh Associate Director, Engineering Programs Kisa Takesue Director, Pre-College and Leadership Programs Jane Diener Associate Director, Pre-College Programs & Environmental Studies Rosario Navarro Director, Location-Based Programs Next Steps Apply Now Request Information Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-7900 precollege@brown.edu Quick Navigation Policies Connect With Us Footer Navigation Accessibility © Brown University Brown University Pre-College Programs For You Accepted Students Instructors Alumni Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Programs Summer@Brown Summer@Brown Online Leadership Institute BELL: Alaska BELL: Florida Keys BELL: Rhode Island Location-Based: Rome Location-Based: Segovia Location-Based: Washington D.C. STEM for Rising 9th & 10th Graders Pre-Baccalaureate Apply Application Checklist Admissions Decisions Costs & Aid Program Dates & Costs Application Fee Waivers Scholarships Financial Policies & Payment Information Student Life Life on the Brown University Campus Virtual Community Healthy Summer at Pre-College Accepted Students Partners Partner Scholarships Providence Public School District Scholarships Courses Connect Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Login About For You This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Summer@Brown Open details for Summer@Brown Bookmark this Page