Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation Login About For You Accepted Students Instructors Alumni Brown University Pre-College Programs Brown University Pre-College Programs Site Navigation Programs Summer@Brown Summer@Brown Online Leadership Institute BELL: Alaska BELL: Florida Keys BELL: Rhode Island Location-Based: Rome Location-Based: Segovia Location-Based: Washington D.C. STEM for Rising 9th & 10th Graders Pre-Baccalaureate Apply Application Checklist Admissions Decisions Costs & Aid Program Dates & Costs Application Fee Waivers Scholarships Financial Policies & Payment Information Student Life Life on the Brown University Campus Virtual Community Healthy Summer at Pre-College Accepted Students Partners Partner Scholarships Providence Public School District Scholarships Courses Connect Search Search Menu Location-Based Location-Based: Washington D.C. Choose your adventure: Data Science and Machine Learning or Combating Diseases in the Modern Age—with visits to special national exhibits. Breadcrumb Home Programs Sub Navigation In This Section Summer@Brown Summer@Brown Online Leadership Institute BELL: Alaska BELL: Florida Keys BELL: Rhode Island Location-Based: Rome Location-Based: Segovia Location-Based: Washington D.C. STEM for Rising 9th & 10th Graders Pre-Baccalaureate Next Steps Apply Now Request Information Location-Based: Washington D.C. Choose your adventure: Data Science and Machine Learning or Combating Diseases in the Modern Age—with visits to special national exhibits. The application for Washington D.C. is now closed. Please consider these other selected courses. The best way to learn something new is to immerse yourself both mentally and physically. That’s what happens in Brown Pre-College Location-Based programs. You’ll find these programs to be immersive and rigorous academic experiences, with program locations carefully selected to enhance course content. Learning is rich and experiential as you physically link your studies with your surroundings. The programs’ interdisciplinary approach will help prepare you for the increasingly complex challenges of the 21st century: you’ll discover the interconnectedness of the global community by exploring new places and considering varied perspectives. Please note: The program confirmation date is Monday, March 21, 2022. Please do not book flights until a program confirmation is received. Bird’s Eye View of Machine Learning, Geospatial Data Analysis, and Python The field of data science will continue to impact every industry in the 21st century: health, government, transportation, energy, technology, weather, politics, and many more. A hands-on, gentle introduction to data science is critical for today's students to impact tomorrow's workforce. This course introduces interested high school students to topics and methods involved in data science and the Python programming language in the data science context. No prior programming or math experience is required. In this one-week course, you’ll delve into topics in data science and participate in code-alongs to demonstrate and fortify the techniques you’re learning. The course will also include opportunities for group discussions on important ethical topics in data science—machine learning biases, for example—as well as a field trip to the Steven F. Udar-Hazy Center (a Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum). Students will also have the opportunity to engage with peers enrolled in Virus Evolution: Combating Disease in the Modern Age through lessons that integrate both course contents, site visits, and community-building activities. VIEW COURSE Virus Evolution: Combating Disease in the Modern Age The ability to predict the next biological threat or disease is dependent on fast-paced, cutting-edge technologies wielded by highly trained researchers. But even before technologies can be employed, a key component to predicting the next outbreak is understanding what viruses and diseases are newly emerging within our population, whether from the forests of Africa or deserts of the Middle East. In this one-week course, you’ll divide your time between hands-on experiments in laboratories, in-class lessons where experienced scientists will guide you through the inner workings of viruses and breakthrough technologies, as well as field trips to museums that explore plagues throughout American history. Students will also have the opportunity to engage with peers enrolled in Bird’s Eye View of Machine Learning, Geospatial Data Analysis, and Python through lessons that integrate both course contents, site visits and community-building activities. Prerequisite This course is intentionally designed to prepare advanced high school students for college-level curriculum and pace. As such, it’s advantageous for students to have taken an introductory biology or anatomy course. If you don’t have a strong biology background, you’re encouraged to review basic biology text books beforehand. VIEW COURSE Program Snapshot Who Students completing grades 10–12, ages 16–18 by June 19, 2022 What One-week program When Sunday, July 3 to Saturday, July 9 Where American University, Washington, D.C. Why Immerse yourself in advanced topics in medicine and data science. Join a community of like-minded young scholars from across the country, where you will work on diverse teams. Develop the knowledge, skills, and attitudes necessary for the complexities of the 21st century as you consider new topics and varied perspectives. Concentrate on learning without the pressure of formal grades. Receive a Course Performance Report and Certificate of Completion when you successfully finish. Next Steps Learn more about how to apply and program dates and costs. Apply Dates and Costs Request Information Experience Residential and Student Life You will reside, have meals and have some of your classes at American University in Washington, D.C. Students are assigned to double rooms by gender identity that include bed and bathroom linens. Both residential and classroom spaces offer secure Wi-Fi access. The On-Site Director and Residential Advisors reside in the residence halls with students, providing a safe atmosphere that supports student success by emphasizing community building and individual responsibility. Meals You’ll enjoy breakfast, lunch, and dinner in the dining hall at the residence hall. Site Visits Site visits to museums that showcase plagues throughout American history, including the National Institutes of Health and the NSA’s National Cryptologic Museum. Program Director Rosario Navarro Director, Location-Based Programs Next Steps Apply Now Request Information Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-7900 precollege@brown.edu Quick Navigation Policies Connect With Us Footer Navigation Accessibility © Brown University Brown University Pre-College Programs For You Accepted Students Instructors Alumni Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Programs Summer@Brown Summer@Brown Online Leadership Institute BELL: Alaska BELL: Florida Keys BELL: Rhode Island Location-Based: Rome Location-Based: Segovia Location-Based: Washington D.C. STEM for Rising 9th & 10th Graders Pre-Baccalaureate Apply Application Checklist Admissions Decisions Costs & Aid Program Dates & Costs Application Fee Waivers Scholarships Financial Policies & Payment Information Student Life Life on the Brown University Campus Virtual Community Healthy Summer at Pre-College Accepted Students Partners Partner Scholarships Providence Public School District Scholarships Courses Connect Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Login About For You This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Location-Based: Washington D.C. Open details for Location-Based: Washington D.C. Bookmark this Page