Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation Login About For You Accepted Students Instructors Alumni Brown University Pre-College Programs Brown University Pre-College Programs Site Navigation Programs Summer@Brown Summer@Brown Online Leadership Institute BELL: Alaska BELL: Florida Keys BELL: Rhode Island Location-Based: Rome Location-Based: Segovia Location-Based: Washington D.C. STEM for Rising 9th & 10th Graders Pre-Baccalaureate Apply Application Checklist Admissions Decisions Costs & Aid Program Dates & Costs Application Fee Waivers Scholarships Financial Policies & Payment Information Student Life Life on the Brown University Campus Virtual Community Healthy Summer at Pre-College Accepted Students Partners Partner Scholarships Providence Public School District Scholarships Courses Connect Search Search Menu Policies Policies Community Policies Principles of the Brown University Community We, as members of the Brown University community – faculty, students, and staff – are dedicated to supporting and maintaining a scholarly community in which all share together in the common enterprise of learning. As a central aim, Brown University promotes intellectual inquiry through vigorous discourse, both oral and written. The fundamental principles that must necessarily undergird this aim include: respect for the integrity of the academic process; individual integrity and self-respect; respect for the freedoms and privileges of others; and respect for University resources. In becoming a part of Brown University, we accept the rights and responsibilities of membership in the University’s academic and social community, and assume the responsibility to uphold the University’s principles. Respect for the Integrity of the Academic Process The rights and responsibilities that accompany academic freedom are at the heart of the intellectual purposes of the University. Our conduct as community members should protect and promote the University’s pursuit of its academic mission. We are all, therefore, expected to conduct ourselves with integrity in our learning, teaching and research, and in the ways in which we support those endeavors. Individual Integrity In order to ensure that the University can dedicate itself fully to its academic and educational vision, it is expected that an individual’s personal integrity will be reflected not only in honest and responsible actions but also in a willingness to offer direction to others whose actions may be harmful to themselves or the community. The University expects that members of the Brown community will be truthful and forthright. The University expects that community members will not engage in behavior that endangers their own sustained effectiveness or that has serious ramifications for their own safety, welfare, academic well-being or professional obligations, or for that of others. Respect for the Freedoms and Privileges of Others We strive for a sense of community in which the individual growth of all members is advanced through the cultivation of mutual respect, tolerance, and understanding. Brown University values and encourages individuality while also affirming the community dimensions of academic life. A socially responsible community provides a structure within which individual freedoms may flourish without threatening the privileges or freedoms of other individuals or groups. The University is committed to honest, open, and equitable engagement with racial, religious, gender, ethnic, sexual orientation and other differences. The University seeks to promote an environment that in its diversity is integral to the academic, educational and community purposes of the institution. Respect for University Resources All community members must respect the general resources and physical property of the University. Such resources are assets in which community members have a vested interest, as these resources specifically support the institutional mission. A. Code of Conduct To uphold the Principles of the University Community, participants in the Brown University Pre-College Program and Brown Sports Camps Program are required to abide by the Code Of Conduct. These rules are applicable beginning on the participant’s Program start date through to the end of their Program, including between consecutive Programs if the participant remains on the Brown campus, is participating in a Brown-sponsored trip, at an affiliate site, or elsewhere in an online course. A.1. Act as good citizens by showing respect and courtesy to all members of the University community, including fellow participants, students, staff, instructors, campus neighbors, and affiliates. A.2. Contribute to a healthy and safe community environment. Use methods of expression that are appropriate for a healthy living-learning environment. Obscene, derogatory, and abusive language is prohibited. A.3. Respect University and other community members’ property, including equipment, furnishings, and facilities (including but not limited to, residence halls, classrooms, athletic facilities, dining halls, indoor and outdoor common areas), affiliate property and facilities, and private property. A.4. Be truthful in personal engagements and uphold high standards of academic integrity; including producing work that is one’s own creation, and meeting intellectual challenges through honest effort and hard work. A.5. Respect academic freedom and others’ freedom of expression and inquiry. A.6. Abide by the University's Statement of Nondiscrimination and Anti-Harassment Policy that prohibits any form of discrimination or harassment that is based upon a person’s race, color, religion, sex, age, national or ethnic origin, disability, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, or any other characteristic protected under applicable law as well as retaliation against individuals who report discrimination or harassment. A.7. Abide by the University’s Sexual and Gender-based Harassment, Sexual Assault, Intimate Partner Violence, and Stalking Policy as well as the University’s Gender-based Misconduct Policy which outline prohibited conduct related to sexual and gender-based harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking. A.8. Behave in ways that do not expose oneself or others to injury or endangerment, regardless of intent. A.9. Not commit, or threaten to commit, acts of violence on people or property. A.10. Not engage in any form of harassment, bribery, or bullying. Harassment is defined in the Nondiscrimination and Anti-Harassment Policy. A.11. Abide by all applicable federal, state, and local laws. A.12. Abide by the Code of Conduct and all applicable University policies, procedures, and rules, including, without limitation, the policies listed in this Code of Conduct and on the Pre-College website and any rules and guidelines presented by staff and instructors during the Program. A.13. Not assist or attempt to assist another individual in violating the Code of Conduct or any other University policy, procedure, or rule. A.14. Promptly report any suspected violations of the Code of Conduct, University policy, procedure, or rule to a Program staff member or University official. Failure to abide by this Code, policies, and practices on the forms each participant attending must review and sign, program websites, and applicable University policies, procedures, and rules may result in disciplinary action, which could include but is not limited to: a warning, restitution, consultation with parent/guardian, or in cases of serious or repeated incidences, immediate dismissal from the program. More information about dismissals can be found below. If participants or parents/guardians have questions about the Code of Conduct, they should contact the Pre-College Program Office as soon as possible, ideally prior to beginning a program. B. General Living and Learning Policies These policies apply to on-campus, off-campus, and online offerings. B.1. Participants are expected to respect others. Violence, threats of violence, intimidation, bullying, stalking behavior, dangerous conduct, belligerent behavior, and menacing behavior are prohibited. Any actual or attempted unauthorized use of electronic or other devices to make an audio or video recording of any person without prior knowledge or consent is prohibited. B.2. Participants are expected to respect themselves by avoiding conduct that is potentially dangerous and/or detrimental to their physical, psychological, or emotional well-being. B.2.1. Should a participant exhibit behavior which causes the program staff to have a concern for the participant’s health, that participant may be required to see a healthcare professional for a consultation at Brown University's Health Services, Counseling and Psychological Services on campus, or an appropriate non-Brown affiliated clinic off-campus prior to continued engagement with the program. B.2.2 If relevant staff determine that a participant is unable to function independently and/or is having a significant impact on the community, the participant may be asked to leave the program. Should this situation occur with a residential participant, parents/guardians will be expected to pick-up their participant within 48 hours. B.3. Participants are expected to respect the community, including virtual communities and remote classrooms. Disruption and disorderly conduct are prohibited, as is unauthorized entry into buildings, spaces, or rooms, virtual or otherwise. B.4. Participants are expected to respect the property of the University and the property of others. Vandalism, defacement of property, destruction of property, and moving or removal of property without permission of the owner or owners are prohibited. B.4.1 Participants must comply with fire safety regulations posted in buildings when on campus. Participants must evacuate buildings immediately when a fire alarm sounds. Tampering with fire equipment, including fire extinguishers, smoke alarms, smoke detectors, fire extinguishers, and alarm boxes is strictly prohibited. Participants may not prop open or otherwise tamper with a locked exterior door or fire doors. B.4.2. Animals are not permitted in any University building, even on a temporary basis, except for pre-approved service and support animals. B.5. Participants are expected to respect University officials and program administrators. Failure to identify one’s self, evasion of University officials, failure to comply with a reasonable request of a University official, failure to respond to questions from a University official, harassment and/or belittling of staff performing their duties, and disrupting program or University operations or authorized non-University activities occurring on campus are prohibited. B.6. When on Brown’s campus, participants may not use, possess, or be in the presence of the following: weapons, facsimile weapons, firearms, ammunition, projectile launchers, or BB guns/pistols; illegal knives, fireworks, or explosives; candles (including tealights), incense, grills, flammable liquids, gas-operated stoves, hot plates, toasters, toaster ovens, appliances with an exposed heating element, space heaters, air conditioners (unless medically authorized and registered with the University), torchiere halogen lamps, refrigerators in excess of 4 cubic feet, refrigerators in excess of 1.5 amps, and 100 watts; hoverboards; alcohol, tobacco products, illegal drugs (including marijuana), or related paraphernalia. B.6.1. Participants who find themselves in the presence of any prohibited item(s) listed in B.6. must promptly and immediately report the existence of these items to residential staff. B.7. Participants may use personal over-the-counter and prescription medication, but may not share with others or use others’ medications. B.8. Online students may not use alcohol or illegal drugs (including marijuana) while participating in any online live remote instruction or program-sponsored online meetings. B.8.1. Online students may not have alcohol, illegal drugs, or related paraphernalia visible while participating in online live remote instruction or program-sponsored online meetings. B.9. The operation of motor vehicles by residential participants is prohibited. Commuter participants may only use motor vehicles for transportation to and from the Brown campus. Participants who must commute to campus by car are required to purchase a parking permit from the Transportation Office. Participants are not permitted to transport other participants in their motor vehicles. B.10. While on campus, participants may visit other participants’ residential spaces. They are required to comply with courtesy hours and quiet hours when in residential spaces. Participants may not visit the residence halls of undergraduate students. C. Academic Policies Offenses Against the Academic Code may include Excerpted from Brown University's Academic Code C.1. Use of Sources In preparing assignments, students often need or require outside sources of information or opinion. All such sources should be listed in the bibliography. Citations and footnote references are required for all specific facts that are not common knowledge and about which there is not general agreement. New discoveries or debatable opinions must be credited to the source, with specific references to edition and page even when students restate the matter in their own words. Word-for-word inclusion of any part of someone else’s written or oral sentence, even if only a phrase or sentence, requires citation in quotation marks and use of the appropriate conventions for attribution. Citations should normally include author, title, edition, and page. (Quotations longer than one sentence are generally indented from the text of the essay, without quotation marks, and identified by author, title, edition, and page.) Paraphrasing or summarizing the contents of another’s work is not dishonest if the source or sources are clearly identified (author, title, edition, and page), but such paraphrasing does not constitute independent work and may be rejected by the instructor. Students who have questions about accurate and proper citation methods are expected to consult reference guides and speak with course instructors. C.2. Copyright Infringement Improper use of copyrighted materials can also constitute infringement of the Academic Code when it compromises the integrity of the academic process. C.3. Creative Work A piece of work presented as the individual creation of the student is assumed to involve no assistance other than incidental criticism from any other person. Students may not, with honesty, knowingly employ story material, wording, or dialogue taken from published work, including websites; film, video, and DVDs; radio and television programs; and lectures or other sources, without full acknowledgment. C.4. Examinations, Quizzes, and Tests In writing examinations and quizzes, students are required to respond entirely on the basis of their own memory and capacity, without any assistance whatsoever except such as is specifically authorized by the instructor. Cheating on examinations and quizzes can take the forms listed below. The list is not exhaustive. Engaging in other actions that undermine equity and reduce the objectivity of evaluation of student work Having another person take an examination in one’s own name Using unauthorized materials from which one gains unfair assistance during an exam Appropriating an exam or exam materials without authorization Missing an exam in order to gain an advantage Copying another students' work during an examination Engaging in collaboration or unauthorized assistance on take-home examinations or assignments C.5. Laboratory Work and Assignments Notebooks, homework, reports of investigations or experiments, and computer code projects must meet the same standards as all other written work. If any of the work is done jointly or if any part of the experiment or analysis is made by anyone other than the writer, acknowledgment of this fact must be made in the report submitted. It is dishonest for students to falsify or invent data. C.6. Acceptable Use for Computing Brown has its own standards of behavior for users of its computing facilities and services (see Brown's Acceptable Use Policy for computing). All users of Brown's computing resources are expected to abide by the guidelines outlined in the document "Using Computer Resources at Brown," which students receive at Orientation. Brown does not actively monitor Internet activity, and takes no responsibility for the content students find while on the internet. Students will have access to all on-line materials. Printers located in the computing facilities may be used for course assignments only. D. Residence Hall Policies In order to support participants in their successful participation in the programs, all residential participants must abide by the following guidelines. Failure to follow these guidelines and established expectations for social and residential conduct as indicated in the Code of Conduct may result in disciplinary action. Participants are expected to act responsibly and autonomously at all times, but will be subject to guidance and direction from program staff who are responsible for enforcing program policies and procedures. If inappropriate behavior occurs, program staff will intervene and discourage such actions. program staff will forward relevant cases to the Pre-College Student Life office for review and potential conduct proceedings (See E. Disciplinary Procedures). D.1. Residential participants are expected to be in possession of their Brown issued identification card (Brown ID) whenever they leave their assigned room and must immediately report any instance of lost or stolen ID Cards to a program staff member, a member of Brown Card Office, or the Department of Public Safety. D. 2. Residential participants are expected to be in possession of their room key whenever they leave their assigned room and must immediately report any instance of lost or stolen keys to residential staff. Participants should use only their own key, and never lend the key to another student. D.3. Residential participants are required to sleep in their assigned room and must adhere to nightly curfew restrictions (listed below). This includes a face-to-face check-in with their residential staff member every evening by the designated curfew time and remaining on their floor until 6:00 am the next morning. Participants who are delayed in returning to their floor by curfew must contact a residential staff member by phone in advance of the curfew time, and may still be subject to disciplinary consequences for their tardiness. D.4. Residential participants must maintain reasonable courtesy hours within and in the vicinity of the residence halls and sleeping facilities at all times. Participants must comply with the requests of others to lessen or eliminate noise. D.5. Residential participants must adhere to quiet hour restrictions (listed below) that are established to create an environment that is conducive to study and sleep. When Quiet Hours are in effect no noise should be heard from another room or area. Participants may study in groups or socialize quietly during quiet hours in the lounges. Program Day(s) Quiet Hours Curfew Hours All Programs Sunday – Thursday 9:00 pm – 8:00 am 10:00 pm – 6:00 am All Pre-College Programs (except STEM) Friday – Saturday 1:00 am – 9:00 am 10:00 pm – 6:00 am STEM for Rising 9th & 10th Graders Friday – Saturday 11:00 pm – 8:00 am 10:00 pm – 6:00 am D.6. Participants must respect the rights of roommates, including but not limited to, the right to privacy and free use of the shared room. D.7. Participants may only have other participants as guests in the residence halls. All other visitors are not permitted in the residence halls, with the exception of parents/guardians for move in or move out. D.8. Participants may not have overnight guests in the residence halls. D.9. Participants must maintain the condition of their room and hallways, and are responsible for disposing of their own trash in the designated areas within and around the residence halls. Participants will be held liable, individually or jointly, for damaged or missing University property as well as spaces with excessive trash left behind. Grade reports, course performance reports, or certificates of completion are withheld until any damage and/or cleaning charges are paid. D.10. Participants must adhere to all housing procedures - including proper checkout and key return. E. Disciplinary Procedures E.1. Offenses - In a case where a participant, in the judgment of the staff, fails to meet the established expectations for social and/or residential conduct, or shows disregard for a member of the residential staff's directives, the case will be forwarded to Pre-College Student Life for review. If an instructor believes that a student in their course has acted questionably with regard to academic honesty, or fails to meet the academic requirements of the course, including attending the class, the case will be forwarded to a Program Director for review. E.2. Disciplinary Meetings - The disciplinary system is not meant to mirror the legal system. Rather, the principles of the Pre-College and Sports Camps Programs and the goals of balancing participant education with accountability provide a philosophical foundation distinct from the legal system. Participants will receive a charge letter via email describing the alleged violation. Disciplinary meetings are conducted by a program staff member. In determining whether or not the Code of Conduct and/or policy has been violated, the staff member will review relevant documents, interview potential witnesses and other parties, and will collect evidence as available. The finding of responsibility will be based on the standard of the preponderance of evidence. If it is determined that a violation has occurred, the program staff member will determine the appropriate penalty. Program administration has the authority to take interim action with respect to a participant’s status pending a final disciplinary action. In an effort to encourage participants to take responsibility for their behavior and use the experience to make good decisions, parents/guardians may not be notified of a disciplinary meeting until the outcome has been determined. Notification to parents/guardians may take place prior to the outcome of a disciplinary meeting depending on the severity of the incident or the severity of the potential sanction/consequence. E.3. Sanctions - Sanctions are designed to be educational and provide opportunities for participants to reflect on the impact of their actions. Sanctions may include one or more of the following outcomes: Academic probation Loss of credit for an assignment: this penalty only applies in cases where academic dishonesty occurs Directed no credit: this penalty for academic dishonesty results in a student to receive no credit, grade, or supporting documents for a particular course Written warning Probation (Note: Participants placed on probation are notified in writing that any misconduct while on probation is likely to result in dismissal from the program.) Housing assignment relocation or removal from housing Fines (for the repair, replacement, or cleaning of property) Educational accompanying terms (e.g. reflection paper, apology letter, policy review paper) may be included Dismissal from the program (further described below) E.4. Program Dismissal - Should a single serious violation occur or should a participant endanger the well-being of themselves and/or others, a decision may be made to dismiss the participant immediately and without prior probation. This circumstance includes serious infractions that occur during the final days of the participant’s program. Such violations will result in withdrawal from the program without grades or record or certificate of program participation issued. In cases of serious violations that lead to dismissal, program administration may request the assistance of Brown University Department of Public Safety. Participants dismissed from the program are notified in writing. A parent/guardian is notified immediately after the decision of dismissal has been made. Parents/guardians of dismissed participants are required to make travel arrangements, and depart from campus or a location-based program within 48 hours of the dismissal notification. In cases of sexual or gender-based misconduct, the complainant will be notified of the finding, sanction, and any accompanying terms that impact them. Participants dismissed from the program are responsible for checking out of their room under the supervision of a residential staff member. If a participant or parent/guardian is not able to pack their belongings, a moving company will be contracted by the University to inventory, pack, and ship the participant’s belongings at the participant’s own expense. The University is not responsible for any lost or damaged items. Participants who have been dismissed from the programs for academic, social, or residential violations will receive no refunds of any deposits or fees. Grades, Course Performance Reports, or Certificates of Completion will not be issued to a student who has been dismissed. E.5. Appeals - Participants may appeal by submitting an appeal letter to the Dean for Pre-College and Undergraduate Programs. Appeals will only be considered on one or more of the following grounds which must be included in the justification for the appeal: The participant is presenting relevant new evidence that was not available at the time of the hearing. The participant is able to demonstrate a substantial procedural error by the hearing body/officer. Participants are typically notified of the outcome of the appeal within 24 hours from the time of submission. During the appeal process, the findings are in effect, (i.e. a participant who is given probation is on probation, or if dismissed, the participant will not be allowed to attend class, and may be temporarily moved out of their residence hall). The final decision of the Dean may not be appealed. F. Privacy Policy FERPA The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (FERPA) provides students certain rights of access, privacy, and protection of education records. As an academic program offered by Brown University, pre-college students are protected in this policy. For that reason, the University cannot share with anyone other than the pre-college student information about the student's final status in their pre-college course(s), specifically whether they successfully completed the course/program, the Course Performance Report written by the course's instructor, or the Certificate of Completion that is mailed to students upon successful completion. Parents/guardians who have questions about these aspects of their students' experience in the pre-college programs may either review the content of the student's portal with the student or the student will need to email the pre-college programs granting their parent/guardian to speak with pre-college staff about these matters. Data Collection Inquiry Form All information collected from our opt-in inquiry form is used solely for the purposes of contacting and providing interested prospects with information on our program offerings. We will never sell or share any of your information with third-party vendors. Cookies Google Analytics We use a tool called “Google Analytics” to collect information about use of this site. Google Analytics collects information such as how often users visit this site, what pages they visit, when they do so, and what other sites they used prior to coming to this site. We use the information we get from Google Analytics only to improve this site. Google Analytics collects only the IP address assigned to you on the date you visit this site, rather than your name or other identifying information. We do not combine the information collected through the use of Google Analytics with personally identifiable information. Although Google Analytics plants a permanent cookie on your web browser to identify you as a unique user the next time you visit this site, the cookie cannot be used by anyone but Google. Google’s ability to use and share information collected by Google Analytics about your visits to this site is restricted by the Google Analytics Terms of Use and the Google Privacy Policy. You can prevent Google Analytics from recognizing you on return visits to this site by disabling cookies on your browser. Remarketing We use tools such as Google Adwords and Google Display to remarket to individuals who visit our program pages. Third-party vendors, such as Google, show our ads on sites across the internet, and in some cases, use cookies to serve ads based on someone's past visits to our website. You can opt out of Google's use of cookies by visiting Google's Ads Settings. You can also opt out of all third-party vendor's use of cookies by visiting the Network Advertising Initiative opt-out page. Contact Us If you have any questions regarding our privacy policy, please contact us. Brown University Division of Pre-College and Undergraduate Programs 225 Dyer Street, Fifth Floor, Box 1851 Providence, RI, 02912 401-863-2700 G. Credit-Bearing Online/Blended Learning Complaint Process Process for Addressing Complaints about Online/Blended Courses or Programs at Brown Brown University wants all of its students, including those who enroll in online courses, to have productive, challenging and useful learning experiences. Should students learning online need assistance to work through specific kinds of complaints, this page provides information about a process to resolve those matters. What Issues Are and Are Not Covered Through this Process This process covers complaints alleging consumer fraud, state licensing of postsecondary institutions and/or quality of education or accreditation requirements relating to a Brown University online or blended course/program, which fall under Brown’s participation in RI-SARA (see details below). Concerns regarding student grades, examination results and/or student conduct violations are governed entirely by Brown’s internal policies and therefore are not subject to resolution through the RI-SARA procedures described here. Students or other individuals with concerns involving an allegation of criminal activity will be referred to the Brown University Department of Public Safety, the Providence Police Department or the Rhode Island State Police. Complaint Process Students wishing to resolve a complaint should first attempt to resolve the matter directly with Brown University’s Division of Pre-College and Undergraduate Programs’ process described below: Submit concern via email: onlinestudentconcerns@brown.edu Content for concern should include the following (similar information as is required for a submission to RI-SARA): Complainant’s full name, address and contact information, including email address and telephone number Complaints should specify enrollment status, i.e. whether the student is a current, former, or prospective student Complaints should be specific in describing the nature of the complaint and relevant information: the name of the parties involved, including witnesses, dates, the policy or procedure violated (if known), and contact information. Any supporting material that substantiates the complaint also should be included. The complainant will receive acknowledgment of receipt within 5 business days. The complaint will be reviewed by the Dean of the relevant School, if applicable. In other cases, the Assistant Dean of Pre-College Programs or the Assistant Dean of Undergraduate Programs, depending on the program in which the complaint has arisen, will review. A determination will be made within 90 days of receipt. Appeal of the Assistant Dean’s decision can be made to the Dean of the Division of Pre-College and Undergraduate Programs whose internal decision is final. In the event that the institutional processes do not result in a successful resolution of a RI-SARA complaint, the Rhode Island Office of the Postsecondary Commissioner (OPC) is responsible for final resolution of the complaint. With the exception of reporting fraud, waste, or abuse, the OPC does not review anonymous complaints or matters that are or have been in litigation, and does not conduct a judicial investigation or evidentiary hearing. The OPC may conduct a paper review, discuss the matter with the parties and take other steps as may be appropriate in an attempt to resolve the complaint. Complaint Submission Instructions Submit written complaints and supporting documentation alleging consumer fraud, state licensing of postsecondary institutions, and/or quality of education or accreditation requirements relating to a Brown University online or blended course/program to: Commissioner of Postsecondary Education Rhode Island Office of the Postsecondary Commissioner 560 Jefferson Boulevard Warwick, RI 02886-1304 401-736-1100 www.riopc.edu Recommended Content of the RI-SARA Complaint Initial complaints should include the complainant’s full name, address and contact information, including email address and telephone number. Complaints should specify enrollment status, i.e. whether the student is a current, former or prospective student; and they should be specific in describing the nature of the complaint and relevant information: the name of the parties involved, including witnesses, dates, the name of the institution, the policy or procedure violated (if known) and contact information. Any supporting material that substantiates the complaint also should be included. After receiving a complaint, the OPC will review the submitted materials and contact the submitter for any required additional information or clarifications. The OPC will then send a copy of the complaint to Brown and ask for a response within three weeks. After receiving Brown’s response, the OPC will determine whether Brown's student complaint process has been followed and exhausted and what additional steps or follow-up may be taken. The OPC will inform both parties involved in the complaint. If a person bringing a complaint is not satisfied with the outcome of the institutional process for handling complaints, the complaint (except for complaints about grades or student conduct violations) may be appealed to the OPC within two years of the incident about which the complaint is made. The resolution of the complaint by the OPC, through its RI-SARA complaint resolution process, will be final. If you have questions about the complaint process, or want to clarify that your individual complaint is reviewable by the OPC, please feel free to contact the OPC office by phone at 401-736-1100 or online at www.riopc.edu Complaints involving quality or accreditation requirements may also be filed directly with: New England Commission of Higher Education (NECHE) 3 Burlington Woods Drive, Suite 100 Burlington Woods, MA 01803-4514 781-425-7785 Information for the Public: Comments and Complaints Brown University’s accreditation documents may be viewed at: https://www.brown.edu/about/administration/provost/accreditation/home PLEASE NOTE: Students residing in California who wish to file a complaint and supporting documentation alleging consumer fraud, state licensing of postsecondary institutions, and/or quality of education or accreditation requirements regarding a Brown University online or blended course/program should contact the office responsible for resolving complaints from residents of that state: California residents California Bureau for Private Postsecondary Education » About Brown’s Participation in RI-SARA Brown University is a Rhode Island institutional member of the State Authorization Reciprocity Agreement (SARA), an agreement among member US states, Washington D.C. and territories that establishes comparable national standards for interstate offerings of postsecondary distance education courses and programs, including those offered online. SARA is intended to make it easier for students to take online courses offered by postsecondary institutions based in a state other than their home state. SARA is overseen by the National Council for State Authorization Reciprocity Agreements (NC-SARA) and administered by four regional education compacts; the New England Board of Higher Education (NEBHE) is the regional entity for Rhode Island. NC-SARA policies and standards, including those for consumer protection and the resolution of complaints, apply to interstate distance education offered by participating NC-SARA institutions to students in other NC-SARA states. Complaints about a RI-SARA institution’s operations are to be resolved under the RI-SARA provisions. The Rhode Island Council on Postsecondary Education (CPE) and the Office of the Postsecondary Commissioner (OPC) administer NC-SARA for Rhode Island and have the authority and responsibility to resolve student and other complaints about Rhode Island’s SARA-approved institutions. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-7900 precollege@brown.edu Quick Navigation Policies Connect With Us Footer Navigation Accessibility © Brown University Brown University Pre-College Programs For You Accepted Students Instructors Alumni Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Programs Summer@Brown Summer@Brown Online Leadership Institute BELL: Alaska BELL: Florida Keys BELL: Rhode Island Location-Based: Rome Location-Based: Segovia Location-Based: Washington D.C. STEM for Rising 9th & 10th Graders Pre-Baccalaureate Apply Application Checklist Admissions Decisions Costs & Aid Program Dates & Costs Application Fee Waivers Scholarships Financial Policies & Payment Information Student Life Life on the Brown University Campus Virtual Community Healthy Summer at Pre-College Accepted Students Partners Partner Scholarships Providence Public School District Scholarships Courses Connect Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Login About For You This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Policies Open details for Policies Bookmark this Page