Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation Login About For You Accepted Students Instructors Alumni Brown University Pre-College Programs Brown University Pre-College Programs Site Navigation Programs Summer@Brown Summer@Brown Online Leadership Institute BELL: Alaska BELL: Florida Keys BELL: Rhode Island Location-Based: Rome Location-Based: Segovia Location-Based: Washington D.C. STEM for Rising 9th & 10th Graders Pre-Baccalaureate Apply Application Checklist Admissions Decisions Costs & Aid Program Dates & Costs Application Fee Waivers Scholarships Financial Policies & Payment Information Student Life Life on the Brown University Campus Virtual Community Healthy Summer at Pre-College Accepted Students Partners Partner Scholarships Providence Public School District Scholarships Courses Connect Search Search Menu Brown Environmental Leadership Lab (BELL) Brown Environmental Leadership Lab: Florida Keys Explore tropical marine ecology, the impacts of climate change, and environmental action and conservation. Sub Navigation In This Section Summer@Brown Summer@Brown Online Leadership Institute BELL: Alaska BELL: Florida Keys BELL: Rhode Island Location-Based: Rome Location-Based: Segovia Location-Based: Washington D.C. STEM for Rising 9th & 10th Graders Pre-Baccalaureate Next Steps Apply Now Request Information Brown Environmental Leadership Lab: Florida Keys Explore tropical marine ecology, the impacts of climate change, and environmental action and conservation. The application for BELL: Florida Keys is now closed. Please consider these other selected courses. The Brown Environmental Leadership Lab (BELL) combines concepts in environmental studies, ecology, and leadership, with a mission of developing socially responsible leaders. At BELL, you’ll embark on a journey of learning and reflection while building community with the fellow student environmentalists in your program. This one-week course will take you to picturesque Key Largo, Florida, one hour south of Miami. Your home base will be MarineLab, an environmental education center located on Adams Cut between Blackwater Sound and Largo Sound—convenient to the Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary in Florida Bay. From there, you’ll take a deep dive into tropical marine ecology and conservation, looking at sustainable restoration of coral reefs and studying mangrove ecology. You’ll assess the collective impacts of global climate change, human interaction, and extreme weather events while learning about socially responsible leadership. In addition to studying the diverse ecosystems of the Florida Keys, you will learn about the complex native history of South Florida with a visit to the Ah-Tah-Thi-Ki Museum. During some parts of your course, you will also have the opportunity to participate in service projects like coral reef restoration and ocean debris cleanup. Over the course of your BELL experience, you’ll identify a pressing issue that you’re passionate about. With support from instructors and peers, you’ll formulate an Action Plan to apply your new leadership knowledge to this issue when you return home. (Wondering what this looks like? Check out past examples.) Program Snapshot Who Students completing grades 9–12, ages 15–18 by June 19, 2022 What 1-week course When Choose one session: Thursday, July 7 – Thursday, July 14 Saturday, July 16 – Saturday, July 23 Monday, July 25 – Monday, August 1 Where MarineLab, Key Largo, Florida Why Join a community of young scholars who are passionate about the environment while experiencing a new part of the country or world. Develop the knowledge, skills, and attitudes necessary to impact environmental issues facing your local community and the planet as a whole. Explore some spectacular landscapes by studying, listening and observing. Concentrate on learning without the pressure of formal grades. Receive a Course Performance Report and Certificate of Completion when you finish. Next Steps Learn more about how to apply and program costs and fees. Apply Costs and Fees Experience Residential and Student Life You will be sleeping on bunk beds in dormitory-style rooms separated by gender identity at the MarineLab, which is a gated facility. The MarineLab also has indoor classrooms and labs, a recreation center, indoor bathrooms, a cafeteria, and areas to relax or play games during free time. The classrooms, cafeteria, and dormitories are all air-conditioned. Program staff live on-site and are available 24 hours a day to provide support and supervision. Meals You can expect three simple meals each day, primarily served in the cafeteria at the MarineLab. Note: All food is ordered in advance, so program staff must be notified of any dietary restrictions or allergies by April 13. Site Visits Ah-Tah-Thi-Ki Museum: The Ah-Tah-Thi-Ki Museum is located on the Big Cypress Seminole Indian Reservation, and offers visitors indoor and outdoor exhibits and experiences about the indigenous communities of South Florida. Rodriguez Key Wildlife Management Area: Rodriguez Key is just offshore of Key Largo and features an interesting bottom community that is based on the coralline algae Neogoniolithon. Students snorkel the area and instructors collect large chunks of the Neogoniolithon. A Coral Restoration Foundation coral nursery and restoration site: Coral Restoration Foundation™ (CRF) is the world's largest non-profit marine-conservation organization dedicated to restoring coral reefs to a healthy state globally. Unplugging from Devices BELL students are expected to reduce their cell phone use, allowing them to fully engage with the community and beautiful surroundings. By breaking ties to these technologies, you will be able to be more mindful of the natural environment and build more intentional friendships. On-site staff will review more details about the expectations surrounding cell phone use for students once they are on site. While this may be an unfamiliar experience for many students, it is often an aspect of the trip students appreciate most. Staying Safe and Comfortable in the Field Summer weather in Florida can vary. Please check the weather forecast for Key Largo, FL, before departure and pack accordingly. A specific packing list will be provided for accepted students. You’ll spend at least one hour on a boat almost every day. You don’t need to be a skilled swimmer to participate, but you must be comfortable wearing a life jacket and eager to swim and snorkel. A Typical Day Each day is different but typically includes lab work, field observations, classroom discussions, leadership workshops, and time for team-building, recreation, and reflection. Sample schedule: 8:00 – 8:30 am Breakfast 9:00 – 11:45 am Morning session (Example: Marine debris lesson and beach clean-up) 12:30 – 1:00 pm Lunch 1:00 – 1:30pm Solo time 2:00 – 5:00pm Afternoon session (Example: Seagrass ecology lesson and snorkeling) 6:30 – 7:00 pm Dinner 7:00 – 9:00 pm Evening session (Example: Leadership styles workshop) 9:00 – 10:00 pm Free time 10:00 pm Well-deserved rest Program Director Jane Diener Associate Director, Pre-College Programs & Environmental Studies Next Steps Apply Now Request Information Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-7900 precollege@brown.edu Quick Navigation Policies Connect With Us Footer Navigation Accessibility © Brown University Brown University Pre-College Programs For You Accepted Students Instructors Alumni Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Programs Summer@Brown Summer@Brown Online Leadership Institute BELL: Alaska BELL: Florida Keys BELL: Rhode Island Location-Based: Rome Location-Based: Segovia Location-Based: Washington D.C. STEM for Rising 9th & 10th Graders Pre-Baccalaureate Apply Application Checklist Admissions Decisions Costs & Aid Program Dates & Costs Application Fee Waivers Scholarships Financial Policies & Payment Information Student Life Life on the Brown University Campus Virtual Community Healthy Summer at Pre-College Accepted Students Partners Partner Scholarships Providence Public School District Scholarships Courses Connect Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Login About For You This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Brown Environmental Leadership Lab: Florida Keys Open details for Brown Environmental Leadership Lab: Florida Keys Bookmark this Page