Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Undergraduate Advising Center Prelaw Advising myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Upcoming Events Preparing for Law School Select to follow link Applying to Law School Taking the LSAT LSAT Fee Award Contact Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Undergraduate Advising Center Prelaw Advising Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Welcome to Prelaw Advising at KU Getting ready for law school is a big task. We're here to help. Prelaw Advising offers resources to help you apply for law school and prepare for your legal education. Prelaw Advising Resources If you are looking for what classes to take to prepare you for law school, please contact the Undergraduate Advising Center. If you are interested in learning about how to take the LSAT, what to write for a personal statement or who to ask for letters of recommendation, you should attend a virtual info session. After you attend a virtual info session, you can schedule a personal session with Bryanna Hanschu, director of prelaw programming. You can also attend a virtual Prelaw Coffee Hour to ask questions. This site is a resource for you, but you should also consult other sources for insights and perspectives about choosing law as a career. KU has many resources for prelaw students, including organizations such as Phi Alpha Delta and activities to help you explore your options. We look forward to working with you as you pursue your goal of attending law school. ACADEMIC ADVISING For prelaw academic advising, such as which classes to take, contact the Undergraduate Advising Center. 785-864-2834 prelaw@ku.edu PRELAW EVENTS Get law school application advice during Prelaw Coffee Hour, hosted virtually on Zoom. Prelaw Virtual Info Sessions are held twice a month. Visit the Events page for details and to register. Contact: Bryanna Hanschu KU Law Director of Recruiting & Prelaw Programs 785-864-7331 bryanna.hanschu@ku.edu Prelaw Basics Sign up for Prelaw Updates Sign up to receive Prelaw Updates by visiting College Advising & Student Services in 109 Strong Hall and adding Prelaw to your major interest form. College Advising LSAT Fee Award Covering law school entrance exam fees The award aims to open doors for candidates of diverse and under-represented backgrounds. Apply for the Award Upcoming Events Drop in for prelaw advice during a virtual Prelaw Coffee Hour or sign up for an upcoming virtual info session. Upcoming Events Preparing for Law School Learn what you need to do as an undergraduate student and law school applicant to get ready for your legal education. Preparing for Law School Taking the LSAT LSAT Fee Award Applying to Law School Get started during your first year of undergrad with strong study habits, prelaw student groups and preparing to take the LSAT. Applying to Law School Undergraduate Advising Center, 315 Summerfield Hall 1300 Sunnyside Avenue Lawrence, KS 66045 prelaw@ku.edu 785-864-2834 instagram twitter Undergraduate Advising Center Major Exploration CLAS Advising KU School of Law Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.