Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Preparedness Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Alerts and Announcements Be Prepared Policies and Procedures About Preparedness Staying In The Know Active Shooter Fire Earthquake Hazardous Material Spill Biological or Chemical Agent Pandemic Flu and Communicable Diseases Facts About the Flu Facts About Mumps Facts About Measles Facts About Ebola Zika Virus Travel Advisory Weather Emergencies Keeping Warm in Winter Suspicious Object Automated External Defibrillator What Is Preparedness? Emergency Management Operations Team Infectious Diseases Preparedness Working Group Emergency Contacts Columbia | Preparedness You are here: Home Alerts and Announcements Update on Course Instruction and University Commencement Update on Course Instruction and University Commencement Virtual instruction to resume March 26. Announcement about University Commencement March 20, 2020 Dear fellow members of the Columbia community: I write today from our Morningside Heights campus, which now has an eerie and uncharacteristic stillness about it, with three purposes. The first is to express my deepest appreciation to everyone for the extraordinary actions taken over these past two weeks to transform the University in ways that will allow us, as much as possible, to continue our work while we, the nation, and the world confront the unprecedented threat of the virus known as COVID-19. I am in awe of the students—and the staff, parents, and friends who supported them—who moved out of the residence halls these last few days, not just for the orderly ways in which it was carried out but for the spirit of citizenship and shared sacrifice that defined it. You heeded the call and showed that there is still, indeed, life in the commons. To those students who have needed to remain due to exceptional circumstances, I want to reassure you that we will continue to provide essential services even with the announcement today from the governor to further reduce our workforce. The second purpose for this message is to say that, with the exception of clinical education, I am postponing all instruction for the first three days of next week in order to give everyone a little more time to prepare to resume classes for the final few weeks of the semester. Classes will continue virtually on Thursday, March 26th. And, further, with respect to courses, working with each of your schools, we have decided that all classes this semester will be graded pass/fail. This, of course, does not reflect a reduction in expectations, but rather an acknowledgment of the severe complications of this unusual moment. The third purpose is heartbreaking. Given life as it now is, we cannot go forward with Commencement ceremonies on May 20th, as planned. And, unfortunately, we are not in a position at this moment to announce an alternative plan. The situation is too uncertain, and any plans made now run a high risk of having to be abandoned as circumstances change. But this I can assure you: I will confer degrees on May 20th. We are and will continue thinking about this every day, and we will have a plan to honor and celebrate your successes. Speaking personally, there is no academic ceremony I love more, and I expect to love this one the most. The world has moved on to a different plane, one none of us could have anticipated a short while ago. I want to say, on behalf of all of Columbia, that we are, as always, ready to do our part, which, given the assembled talent and public spiritedness of this community, is never inconsiderable. While a stillness pervades Morningside Heights, that does not mean our work has abated. Meanwhile, a very different atmosphere characterizes our medical campus in Washington Heights, where our colleagues are girding to face the fraught and daunting challenges to come. Indeed, the outpouring of time, effort, commitment, and personal sacrifice of those serving on the front line of the CUIMC campus are already very palpable. This dedication also portrays the work of all employees essential to keeping the University in operation. My deepest thanks to everyone. Sincerely, Lee C. Bollinger News May 16, 2022 Severe Thunderstorm Watch – Monday, May 16 March 11, 2022 Winter Weather Advisory for Saturday (3/12) February 24, 2022 Winter Weather Advisory for tonight (2/24) through tomorrow (2/25) February 03, 2022 Hazardous Ice Conditions Expected Friday, Feb. 4 January 29, 2022 Winter Storm – Final Update Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close