Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Before Emergency During Emergency After Emergency ENN ENN FAQ ENN Communication Office of Emergency Management Contact Before Emergency During Emergency After Emergency ENN Office of Emergency Management Contact Search Before Emergency During Emergency After Emergency ENN ENN FAQ ENN Communication Office of Emergency Management Contact Home AAA COVID-19 Info Coronavirus (COVID-19) information for the University of Miami community. LEARN MORE > Emergency Guide Access the guide and learn what steps to take during various emergencies. Learn More > Hurricane Preparedness Hurricanes got you feeling knocked down? Be prepared. Learn more > ENN Alerts Find out how you can be notified in case of emergency. Learn more > Before an Emergency Learn more about what you can do to get ready for the unexpected. Learn more During an Emergency Learn about the steps to follow in the case of a variety of different emergencies. Learn more After an Emergency Learn about the process of recovery and returning to normal operations after an emergency. Learn More Hurricane Preparedness Learn more about the safety measures you can take to help in the case of a hurricane. Learn more Personal Preparedness Learn about preparing a kit, creating a personal plan, and more to get you ready. Learn More Training and Events Calendar View all upcoming Emergency Preparedness trainings and events. Learn more Emergency Plans The Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan (CEMP) and campus emergency plans provide information on responsibilities, functions, and actions in case of a hazard. Learn more EM SharePoint A restricted SharePoint site for collaboration with senior leadership and approved Emergency Management partners. Learn more U MIAMI ON: University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Office of Emergency Management 1535 Levante Avenue Suite 208 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-8005 305-284-8005 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices