Skip to main content Go to site search Go to primary navigation Go to resources navigation This site is archived and is for reference purposes only Event Galleries for 2021-2022 events Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search Meet President Gutmann More Meet President Gutmann Scholarship More Scholarship Selected Books Addresses & Articles News Highlights University Announcements Event Galleries Penn Compact 2022 More Penn Compact 2022 Inclusion: Increase Access Innovation: Integrate Knowledge Impact: Engage Locally, Nationally, Globally University Leadership More University Leadership President's Center Provost & Deans Senior Administrators History of the Presidency A Tribute to President Gutmann More A Tribute to President Gutmann Opening doors, transforming lives Seizing the present, building the future A global model The future is wide open Toggle Site Search Resources Alumni Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Visitors Webmail Penn A - Z Penn Directory Offices & Services Penn Home Search Search Close Breadcrumb Home / Penn Compact 2022 / Impact Impact Effecting potent positive impact in our neighborhoods, nation, and world are the bricks on which democracy and global citizenship are built, and are the cornerstones of a Penn education. ENGAGE LOCALLY, NATIONALLY, GLOBALLY Building on the University’s long history of civic mindedness, the Penn Compact 2022 brings Penn knowledge and practice to bear on key local, national, and global issues to help people lead healthy, prosperous lives. In doing so, Penn is committed to working side-by-side with the communities it seeks to serve. To illuminate the prominent place that civic engagement holds at Penn, Dr. Gutmann established the President’s Engagement Prizes in 2015, which provide unparalleled support for prizewinning undergraduate seniors as they design and undertake public service projects after graduation. In 2020, Dr. Gutmann named Penn’s first Vice President for Social Equity and Community, who oversees Projects for Progress, a fund intended to encourage students, faculty, and staff to design and implement pilot projects based on innovative research that will advance Penn’s aim of a more inclusive university and community. Both sets of prizes reinforce Dr. Gutmann’s unwavering belief that a university is, as Penn’s founder Ben Franklin believed, “first and foremost, a social undertaking to create a social good.” Throughout Dr. Gutmann’s tenure at Penn, she has championed public-private partnerships, exemplified by Penn’s contribution of $100 million to the School District of Philadelphia to remediate environmental hazards in the city’s public schools—the largest private gift to the School District in its history. Penn has for more than a decade maintained strong ties with nearby schools including the Henry C. Lea School and Penn Alexander, and under Dr. Gutmann’s leadership, too, influential programs including the Teachers Institute of Philadelphia, Penn Futures Project, and Penn Rising Scholar Success Academy were born. Penn's Annual Economic Impact (FY 2020) $21.5B Annual economic activity Penn generates around the region 344,000 Hours spent on civic engagement by Penn faculty, staff, and students $27M Penn Medicine funds to support West Philadelphia communities in unreimbursed health care, women’s health clinics, and community health programs 718,000 Philadelphians engaged in Penn’s civic engagement initiatives in public education, public health, and community partnerships The Penn Connects, Penn Connects 2.0, and now Penn Connects 3.0 road maps have included massive improvements of facilities and growth of green spaces on Penn’s contiguous University and medical campuses. Major initiatives and investments throughout the years have included the Perelman Center for Advanced Medicine, Roberts Proton Therapy Center, Smilow Center for Translational Research, Pennovation Works and the Pennovation Center, Penn Park, and the new Pavilion, a 17-story, 1.5 million-square foot, $1.6 billion hospital, which officially opened in early November 2021. The Division of Facilities and Real Estate Services directs Penn’s capital projects, which are on average $250 million annually. Penn encourages economic inclusion on all construction projects, with extensive opportunities for local residents, minority-owned businesses, and women-owned business to participate in its major capital projects. Global engagement has been a centerpiece of Dr. Gutmann’s presidency, highlighted by the creation of the Perry World House on campus, the Penn Wharton China Center in Beijing, and the Penn Biden Center for Diplomacy & Global Engagement in Washington, D.C. New academic centers have also been established under Dr. Gutmann’s guidance, including the Penn Center for the Study of Contemporary China, the Andrea Mitchell Center for the Study of Democracy, the Kleinman Center for Energy Policy, and the Stevens Center for Innovation in Finance. In 2019, thanks to a generous gift from the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, the Penn Paideia Program was launched, placing a particular emphasis for students involved on wellness, citizenship, service, and dialogue across divides. Dr. Gutmann has also championed Penn’s commitment to the arts, as much for students, faculty, and staff as for the community at large, supporting one-of-a-kind sites and programs on campus including the Penn Museum, Arthur Ross Gallery, Institute of Contemporary Art, and the Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts. The Sachs Program for Arts Innovation, supported by an endowed gift from Keith L. and Katherine Sachs, was recently established to provide grants and other forms of strategic support to artists, faculty, cultural centers, students, and other arts advocates at Penn, with a mission of connecting through art the University to the world at large. "Engagement with communities here at home, across our country, and throughout our world—civic engagement, for short—is at the heart of the Penn Compact 2022." Amy Gutmann, Penn President Signature Initiatives President’s Engagement Prizes The President’s Engagement Prizes are competitively awarded annually to academically excellent and civically engaged Penn seniors to design and undertake fully funded local, national, or global engagement projects during the first year after they graduate from Penn. Each project winner will receive up to $100,000 in project implementation expenses, as well as $50,000 in living expenses. Global Connections As a leading global university, Penn encourages its faculty and students to both go out into the world and welcome the world to them. The University has invested in state-of-the-art facilities to advance this engagement, including the Penn Wharton China Center, located in Beijing, the Penn Biden Center for Diplomacy & Global Engagement in Washington, D.C., and Perry World House, a global policy research center at the heart of Penn’s campus. The SNF Paideia Program The SNF Paideia Program serves as a hub for civic dialogue in undergraduate education at Penn. In collaboration with other Penn programs and organizations, the SNF Paideia Program provides curricular and co-curricular opportunities for all students to develop the knowledge, skills, and ethical frameworks necessary to be informed, engaged, and effective community members, and to lead fulfilling and integrated personal, professional, and civic lives. Penn Connects 3.0 Penn Connects 3.0 is the University’s master plan to create an innovative and beautiful urban campus with vibrant living and learning spaces that make a positive impact on the local community. Building on Dr. Gutmann’s original campus plan, which added 5 million square feet of new and renovated space and increased open space by 25 percent, Penn Connects 3.0 reinforces the University’s sustainability objectives as outlined in its Climate and Sustainability Action Plan 3.0. Impact News Taylor Jenkins got his start as a Penn student trying to help kids in West Philly. Now he’s one of the NBA’s top coaches Philadelphia Inquirer | 4/21/2022 Jenkins, one of just two NBA head coaches who didn’t play college ball. He was an economics major at Penn, coaching in a youth league at Sayre High School in West Philadelphia. Now he’s a finalist for the league’s Coach of the Year Award and his Grizzlies are championship contenders. For people with Down syndrome, a longer life, but under a cloud The Washington Post | 4/7/2022 Jason Karlawish of the Perelman School of Medicine said clinical trials for Alzheimer’s drugs should include people with Down syndrome, but that the experimental medication Aduhelm isn’t worth fighting for. “We don’t even know if the drug is effective,” he said. 90% of long-haul trucking may soon be self-driving. Are you ready to share the road with an autonomous 18-wheeler? Fortune | 4/7/2022 Steve Viscelli of the School of Arts & Sciences weighed in on the rise of automation in trucking. “A self-driving truck’s job is going to be fundamentally different,” Viscelli said. “We have a ton of pent-up demand for additional transportation services, and that starts with e-commerce.” Triceratops tussle: ‘Big John’ skull shows signs of battle, scientists say NBC News | 4/7/2022 Julie Engiles of the School of Veterinary Medicine commented on new research regarding triceratops anatomy, calling the team’s methodology “elegant and thorough.” Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-5000