Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of the President Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Announcements Speeches Opinion Interviews Administration Office of the President You are here: Home Opinion Opinion Photo credit Eileen Barroso Opinion Trump’s Assault on Twitter is an Attack on the First Amendment By Lee C. Bollinger and Donald E. Graham, The Washington Post, September 29, 2020 President Trump’s ongoing assault against Twitter may represent the most egregious violation of the First Amendment by a president since Richard M. Nixon went to war against this newspaper almost half a century ago. In Order To Prevent Another Voting Debacle, Turn To Paper Balloting By Lee C. Bollinger and Michael A. McRobbie, The Boston Globe, February 24, 2020 Nevada may have so far escaped controversy. But voting should not be a roll of the dice. Our nation has the capacity to build a better elections system for the future. Paper Ballots Are Essential to Securing Our Elections and Our Democracy By Lee C. Bollinger and Michael A. McRobbie, The Hill, September 3, 2019 Public confidence in the integrity and security of our elections is essential for democracy to be a trusted means of governing, and that very confidence is now under unprecedented attack by foreign adversaries. No I Won't Start Spying on My Foreign-Born Students By Lee C. Bollinger, The Washington Post, August 30, 2019 Law enforcement and intelligence agencies determined to thwart the illegal transfer of intellectual property to foreign rivals are encouraging U.S. academics and administrators to develop more robust protocols for monitoring foreign-born students and visiting scholars — particularly if they are ethnically Chinese. Free Speech on Campus Is Doing Just Fine, Thank You By Lee C. Bollinger, The Atlantic, June 12, 2019 Americans should not confuse a First Amendment that is codified with a First Amendment that is calcified. In landmark case after case, the First Amendment has continued to evolve as new threats to the exercise of free expression have emerged. How the U.S. Could Prosecute Jamal Khashoggi’s Killers By Lee C. Bollinger, The Washington Post, March 31, 2019 The deadly assault on Khashoggi — a legal resident of the United States, with children who are U.S. citizens — was also a brazen and an egregious assault against American values and against the First Amendment rights he exercised in this country. Opinion Archive President Bollinger on Freedom of Speech and Press President Bollinger on Diversity in Education Office of the President202 Low Library, 535 W. 116 St., MC 4309 · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-9970 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close