Skip to the content Duke University | Office of the President Toggle the mobile menu Toggle the search field About Vincent E. Price News and Engagement Values & Culture News, Speeches & Writings University Committees Strategy Team 2030 Report President’s Office Personnel Strategic Framework From the President Search About Vincent E. Price News and Engagement Values & Culture News, Speeches & Writings University Committees Strategy Team 2030 Report President’s Office Personnel Strategic Framework From the President Office of the President “This is a moment of transformation for Duke, when we can see more clearly than ever before how we might lead in the century to come. It’s also a moment of extraordinary continuity, as the seeds of our current and future excellence that were planted and cultivated throughout our university’s first hundred years come into full bloom.” — Vincent E. Price, Duke University President Annual Address to the Faculty, March 17, 2022 Toward our Second Century The story of Duke’s first hundred years has been one of tremendous success—of the transformation of a small liberal arts college into a great research university, delivering on the boldly ambitious vision of Duke’s founders and the countless students, faculty, staff, and alumni who have collectively shaped our history. Today, we have the opportunity to develop a bold vision of our own, to define what Duke’s next hundred years will bring. As we look ahead together toward our second century,our aspiration is to become nothing less than the leading university of a changing world, to solve the most pressing challenges and advance humankind. Learn more Download a One-Page Summary Anti-Racism at Duke We are committed today and throughout the future of Duke to addressing systemic racism on our campus and setting an example for our nation and the world. I believe that at Duke we have both the opportunity and responsibility to produce real and lasting change in our community and beyond. Click Here to Read More About President Price Vincent Price is the 10th President of Duke University, where he is also Walter Hines Page Professor of Public Policy and Political Science in the Sanford School of Public Policy and Trinity College of Arts and Sciences. A leading global expert on public opinion, social influence, and political communication, President Price came to Duke in 2017. Since arriving on campus, he has turned his attention to the future of the university, developing a strategic framework focused on five core principles: empowering people, transforming education, building community, forging partnerships, and engaging a global network. President Price has also overseen a series of major reform efforts at Duke, including initiatives to study the legacy of the university’s history, support the continued development of Duke arts and culture, update university facilities for the next generation of students and faculty, and reorganize the governance structure of the Board of Trustees. More about President Price The Latest News from the President Strategy Team 2030 Report April 8, 2022 President Price Remarks at MLK Commemoration January 16, 2022 An Update on Duke's Campus Survey November 18, 2021 Read More News from the President Contact Office of the President Duke University 207 Allen Building Box 90001 Durham, NC 27708-0001 president@duke.edu (link sends e-mail) phone: 919-684-2424 | fax: 919-684-3050 Administrative Office Hours: Mon. – Fri., 8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. To send a message to or request an appointment with the president, please complete the form below. To view the University Committees appointed by the president, please click here. Name* First Last Email* Subject* Message* CAPTCHA Duke Office of the President Duke University 207 Allen Building Box 90001 Durham, NC 27708-0001 (919) 684-2424 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Duke.edu Duke Leadership Board of Trustees Powered by WordPress & Theme by Anders Norén