Skip to the main content × Close Menu About Administration Administration Overview President's Cabinet Our Partners Past Presidents Committees & Task Forces Initiatives Contact Path Forward Texas A&M University Office of the President Search Search Menu About Administration President's Cabinet Our Partners Past Presidents Committees & Task Forces Initiatives Contact The Path Forward Invite the President Search Search this site Search Close Search M. Katherine Banks 26th President, Texas A&M University About the President Messages from The Office of the President 2022 President's Meritorious Service Award Recipients March 30, 2022 I am pleased to announce that the recipients of the 2022 President’s Meritorious Service Awards have been selected. The anonymous committee, comprised of representatives from across campus, had the difficult task of selecting the award winners from an extraordinary group of nominees and I extend my appreciation to each of them for their service. Remarks to the Texas A&M University Student Senate February 22, 2022 I was honored to speak to the Student Senate last night. There were many thoughtful and insightful questions posed. One senator asked if I would share my thoughts with the wider student body, and I am pleased to do so. My statement to the Student Senate is below. Journalism Working Group to Include Representatives from The Battalion February 14, 2022 I care deeply about journalism at Texas A&M. That is why I decided in December to rebuild a strong journalism degree program here. I also believe that we should return to the very successful model which existed at Texas A&M previously when The Battalion was associated with the journalism department. The reaction to this plan makes it clear that I should seek additional community feedback on the role of The Battalion and the rebuilt Department of Journalism, while also getting feedback about industry trends and future workforce needs. Read More Messages Invite the President Follow the Office of the President on Facebook Contact: president@tamu.edu © Texas A&M University Site Policies Web Accessibility