Skip to main content Go to site search Go to primary navigation Go to resources navigation 2021-2022 Event Galleries NOTE: Event Galleries from former President Gutmann are available on her archived website. Penn Home Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search Meet Interim President Pritchett More Meet Interim President Pritchett Addresses & Articles News Highlights University Announcements University Leadership More University Leadership President's Center Provost & Deans Senior Administrators History of the Presidency Event Galleries Toggle Site Search Resources Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Visitors A-Z Directory Webmail Services Penn Home Search Search Close Breadcrumb Home / University Leadership / President's Center President's Center The mission of the President's Center is to support the President, the trustees, and the officers of the University; to assist the faculty, students, and staff in their teaching, research, and service activities; and to advance excellence at Penn. In addition to the President's Office, the President's Center includes the following units: Office of the President The Office of the President provides administrative leadership and support for the President’s initiatives. The Office aids in policy development and also plans and executes activities and events that support the Penn Compact which was first articulated by President Gutmann at her inauguration in 2004. Members of the staff represent the President on a variety of University committees; advise the President on policy matters; serve as liaisons between the President and members of the University community; and assist students, parents, faculty, staff, trustees, alumni, members of the community, and others. Wendell Pritchett Interim President 1 College Hall, Rm 100/6380 215.898.7221 presweb@pobox.upenn.edu Gregory S. Rost Senior Vice President and Chief of Staff 1 College Hall, Rm 100/6380 215.573.9163 gregrost@upenn.edu Joann Mitchell Senior Vice President for Institutional Affairs and Chief Diversity Officer 1 College Hall, Rm 100/6380 215.898.6630 joannm@upenn.edu African-American Resource Center The African-American Resource Center seeks to enhance the quality of life for African-American administrators, faculty, staff and students. The staff works to create a teaching and learning community that is harmonious and diverse. The services of AARC include information and referral, workshops, consultation, support groups, counseling, problem-solving, assistance with workplace concerns, advocacy, and co-sponsorship of events to promote dialogue on race and diversity issues. Valerie Dorsey Allen Director 3643 Locust Walk/3199 215.898.0104 aarc@pobox.upenn.edu Almanac Almanac is Penn's journal of record, opinion, and news and has been published weekly during the academic year since 1971. Almanac publishes proposals; responses; policies and procedures; advance notices; agendas and summaries of meetings of governance bodies; notices that advise faculty and staff of their rights and benefits; and weekly and annual crime reports. Almanac also provides the University community with a forum for open expression, through its "Speaking Out" column. Marguerite F. Miller Editor 215.898.5274 Fax: 215.898.9137 millerm@upenn.edu Office of Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Programs The Office of Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Programs provides central leadership and support for the University's efforts to achieve an educational and work environment that is diverse in race, ethnicity, interests, abilities, and perspectives. The Office will ensure the implementation of equal opportunity, affirmative action, and non-discrimination policies through education, training and active partnership with others on campus and the broader Philadelphia community. Sam Starks Executive Director Suite 421, Franklin Building 3451 Walnut Street/6205 215.898.6993 (Voice) 215.898.7803 (TDD) oaaeop@pobox.upenn.edu Office of Associate Vice President for Equity and Title IX Officer The Associate Vice President for Equity and Title IX Officer is responsible for providing strategic leadership and oversight of the investigation of complaints against Penn students, faculty, postdoctoral and other trainees, and staff in which a violation of the University’s Sexual Misconduct Policy has been alleged. The AVP and staff of the office also assist the parties to a complaint in understanding the process and ensuring that they are aware of and have access to resources for support and assistance. The Office of the Associate Vice President for Equity and Title IX Officer also collaborates with colleagues in the Penn community to prevent and respond to complaints in a fair and equitable manner and to provide education and training regarding the University’s policies and procedures as provided in its Sexual Misconduct Policy. Michele Rovinsky-Mayer AVP & Title IX Officer 3901 Walnut Street, Suite 320/3682 Tel: 215.898.2887 titleIXofficer@upenn.edu Office of General Counsel The Office of the General Counsel represents the University as a corporate entity in legal matters. The Office handles all legal matters generated by the activities of the University, including its schools, departments, operating units and subsidiaries, and by initiating action to forestall problems and manage risks. All matters requiring legal action are to be referred to the Office of the General Counsel. Wendy White Senior Vice President and General Counsel for the University of Pennsylvania and University of Pennsylvania Health System Suite 400, 2929 Walnut St./5099 215.746.5200 wendy.white@ogc.upenn.edu Office of Government and Community Affairs The Office of Government and Community Affairs coordinates activities related to the University's interactions with its surrounding communities, the City of Philadelphia, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and the federal government. Such interactions include political, regulatory, and external funding issues affecting Penn as a leading research university and a key player in the greater Philadelphia area. The Office includes Community Relations, the Center for Community Partnerships, City and Commonwealth Relations, and Federal Relations. Jeffrey Cooper Vice President 3901 Walnut St., Suite 400/3682 215.898.1388 jeffcoop@upenn.edu Office of Institutional Research & Analysis The Office of Institutional Research & Analysis (IR&A) provides statistical analyses integral to the University's strategic planning process. IR&A serves the executive administration, as well as the broader University community, through the provision of data and information about Penn and its peer institutions. IR&A also responds to information requests from a wide variety of external constituents, coordinates the submission of reports to external agencies and accrediting bodies, and participates in several higher education consortia on behalf of the University. Stacey Lopez Vice President 3401 Walnut Street, 352B/6106 215.573.5836 215.573.5839 (Fax) IRAmail@pobox.upenn.edu Office of Ombuds The idea of an "ombudsman," defined as a person for all people, originated in Sweden in the 19th century. Penn's Office of the Ombuds was established in 1971 to assist individuals in finding solutions to problems they might not have been able to resolve through traditional channels. The Ombuds acts as a sounding board for concerns from members of the Penn community and as an impartial mediator of conflicts. The Office is accessible to all members of the University community with the exception of unionized workers and employees of the University's Health System. 113 Duhring/6273 215.898.8261 Jennifer Pinto-Martin Ombuds ombuds@pobox.upenn.edu Marcia Martinez-Helfman Associate Ombuds ombuds@pobox.upenn.edu Office of Social Equity & Community The Office of Social Equity & Community is committed to leading programs and initiatives that promote and support communication, collaboration, research, and innovative programming within the Penn community that deepen awareness and help to advance the University’s mission of fostering social equity, diversity, and inclusion. Additionally, the Office focuses especially on bringing diverse groups of students, faculty, and staff together to build out and support the University’s culture of inclusive understanding and social impact while also working to help overcome historical and structural barriers to advancing that mission. Rev. Charles (Chaz) Lattimore Howard University Chaplain and Vice President 3417 Spruce St/4298 secinfo@sec.upenn.edu Office of University Communications The mission of University Communications is to expand and enhance Penn's visibility in international, national and local news media, social media and other internet-based sites with the ultimate goal of promoting and protecting Penn’s reputation and standing. The office achieves this by highlighting the accomplishments of the University's faculty, staff, and students to myriad audiences across multiple platforms, while promoting and reinforcing Penn's reputation as a national research university of the first rank, and as a place where scholars are actively engaged in applying theory to real-world problems. The office also works to provide quick and effective responses in crisis situations involving the University and those affiliated with it. The Office oversees the central Penn website; the Penn Today website; Penn’s social media sites on Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, Tumblr, Flickr and Instagram; produces the electronic newswires Penn Today, Penn News Weekly and Penn News for Parents; and the development of other specialty publications such as Research at Penn. The office also has responsibility for WXPN, the non-commercial public radio service of the University of Pennsylvania. Stephen MacCarthy Vice President 3901 Walnut St., Suite 200/3682 215.898.8722 smaccar@upenn.edu Office of University Secretary The Office of the University Secretary supports the University's governing bodies in furtherance of the long-term strategic interests of the University. The Office ensures the continuity of strong volunteer leadership of the University, manages Trustee Affairs, Overseer Affairs, and University Council. The office oversees key ceremonial programs including Commencement, Convocation, inaugurations, and the selection process for honorary degree recipients. The Office also issues diplomas, maintains custody of the University seal, and authorizes the use of Penn's name, trademarks and insignia. Medha Narvekar Vice President and University Secretary 1 College Hall, Rm 211/6303 215.898.7005 narvekar@upenn.edu WXPN 88.5 WXPN is the non-commercial public radio service of the University of Pennsylvania, and the premier public radio showcase for new music by the foremost recording artists, singers and songwriters of the era. WXPN's signature program, World Café, is distributed on behalf of WXPN by Public Radio International to more than 150 public radio stations nationwide. It serves as a microcosm of the station's programming culture, featuring a rich eclectic blend of contemporary rock, folk, alternative country, rhythm and blues, world beat, and jazz. Roger Lamay General Manager 3025 Walnut Street/3402 215.898.6677 rlamay@xpnonline.net Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-5000