Skip to main content Office of the President About Speeches & Writings Priorities Initiatives Open Searches The Presidency Presidential Archives Inaugurations Symbols Office of the President Academic Distinction Educational Verve Civic Responsibility One Cornell “We must always aspire to distinction in both senses of the word: we must be distinguished and we must be distinctive.” Explore Presidential Priorities “Educational verve is the vitality in teaching and learning that leads our students to a lifetime of discovery, a passion for ideas, and a commitment to seeking truth.” Explore Presidential Priorities “Beyond our core work of research and education lies [another] pathway to promoting humane and rational values: an interlinked triad of civic responsibilities that universities must satisfy.” Explore Presidential Priorities “One Cornell we shall be, and we shall be stronger and more distinguished because of it.” Explore Presidential Priorities About President Pollack I am proud to lead Cornell as its fourteenth president and to uphold its founding ethos of equity and openness, its commitment to free speech and civil discourse, and its mission of knowledge for a public purpose. I am delighted to work with our faculty, students, staff, and alumni to advance Cornell’s academic distinction, educational verve, civic responsibility, and “One Cornell” ethos in Ithaca, throughout New York, and beyond. Learn more | Senior Leadership Academic excellence is our bedrock at Cornell. Everything we are, everything we do and achieve, stands on our world-class academics. Latest News Student muralist explores public art, policy link CALS junior earns national award for addressing social change Pfizer executive describes making the impossible, possible cornellpresident Office of the President 300 Day Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 (607) 255-5201 (607) 255-9924 president@cornell.edu Chief of Staff and Special Counsel to the President Kelly E. Cunningham Schedule Manager Debbie Pils © 2022 Cornell University Our Leadership Office of the Provost Provost for Medical Affairs Board of Trustees Senior Leadership More Information University Organization University Statements If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.