Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of the President Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Announcements Speeches Opinion Interviews Administration Office of the President Home Photo credit Eileen Barroso Lee C. Bollinger became Columbia University’s 19th president in 2002 and is the longest serving Ivy League president. Under his leadership, Columbia stands again at the very top rank of great research universities, distinguished by comprehensive academic excellence, an innovative and sustainable approach to global engagement, two of the largest capital campaigns in the history of higher education, and the institution’s most ambitious campus expansion in over a century. President Bollinger is Columbia’s first Seth Low Professor of the University, a member of the Columbia Law School faculty, and one of the nation's foremost First Amendment scholars. About the President News Eric Kandel, Nobel Prize Winner and University Professor, to Retire Josef Sorett Appointed Dean of Columbia College Keren Yarhi-Milo Appointed Dean of the School of International and Public Affairs 2022 Commencement Address On Free Speech President Bollinger is a distinguished First Amendment scholar. His most recent books are National Security, Leaks and Freedom of the Press: The Pentagon Papers Fifty Years On and Regardless of Frontiers. On Diversity in Education President Bollinger speaks and writes frequently about the value of racial, cultural, and socioeconomic diversity in education. On Voting President Bollinger co-chaired the National Academy of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine’s Committee on the Future of Voting. Image Carousel with 4 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: Manhattanville buildings: Lenfest Center for the Arts, The Jerome L. Greene Science Center, and the Forum. Slide 2: The Forum, a large concrete, triangle-shaped building on Broadway Slide 3: The front of the Manhattanville campus building, the Lenfest Center for the Arts Slide 4: The one train passing the Jerome L. Greene Science Center Previous Next "The period of the unfolding of this new campus in Manhattanville should be a time in which we demonstrate that courage and confidence in ourselves to re-evaluate what we take to be important and the roles we should assume in the world." President Bollinger on Manhattanville | Columbia's new Manhattanville Campus Key Initiatives Zuckerman Mind Brain Behavior Institute Zuckerman Mind Brain Behavior Institute Columbia World Projects Columbia World Projects Precision Medicine Precision Medicine Global Centers Global Centers The Arts at Columbia The Arts at Columbia Freedom of Speech & Press Freedom of Speech & Press Educational Diversity Educational Diversity General Inquiries Phone: (212) 854-9970 Fax: (212) 854-9973 [email protected] Speaking Requests Requests for speaking engagements must be submitted in writing to [email protected] Media Inquiries Office of Communications and Public Affairs Phone: (212) 854-5573 Office of the President202 Low Library, 535 W. 116 St., MC 4309 · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-9970 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close