Skip to main content Go to site search Go to primary navigation Go to resources navigation 2021-2022 Event Galleries NOTE: Event Galleries from former President Gutmann are available on her archived website. Penn Home Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search Meet Interim President Pritchett More Meet Interim President Pritchett Addresses & Articles News Highlights University Announcements University Leadership More University Leadership President's Center Provost & Deans Senior Administrators History of the Presidency Event Galleries Toggle Site Search Resources Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Visitors A-Z Directory Webmail Services Penn Home Search Search Close Breadcrumb Home / Meet Interim President Pritchett / University Announcements University Announcements 2022 Feb 08, 2022 / Penn Today A message to the Penn community regarding the departure of Amy Gutmann Having now been confirmed by the U.S. Senate, Amy Gutmann, who has served so admirably as Penn’s President for the past 17 years, will soon be sworn in as United States Ambassador to Germany. February 4, 2022 / Penn Today A message from University of Pennsylvania Board of Trustees Chair Scott L. Bok Bok today announced that former Provost Wendell Pritchett has been selected to serve as Interim President of the University, effective at such time as Amy Gutmann may be confirmed and resign to serve as Ambassador to Germany. Jan 13, 2022 / Penn Today M. Elizabeth Magill nominated to become President of the University of Pennsylvania Magill, who currently serves as Executive Vice President and Provost of the University of Virginia, will assume the Penn Presidency on July 1, 2022. Nov 11, 2021 / Penn Today Penn announces in-person Commencement ceremonies for those curtailed by COVID-19 The University of Pennsylvania today announced that it will hold an in-person University-wide Commencement ceremony for the Class of 2020 and for master’s and doctoral graduates of the Class of 2021 on May 22 at 10 a.m. on Franklin Field. Aug 25, 2021 / Penn Today A message to the campus community on the start of the Fall semester We are writing to update you on the important additional steps that we are taking since our last communication to help our students, faculty, staff, and postdocs safely navigate the semester and to provide important links to more information and resources. July 2, 2021 / Penn Today A message to the Penn community on my nomination to serve as United States Ambassador to Germany Earlier today, President Biden nominated Amy Gutmann to serve as United States Ambassador to the Federal Republic of Germany. Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-5000