Skip Nav Books Resources Ideas About Subjects Menu Partners and Rivals Wendy J. Schiller Paperback ISBN: 9780691048871 $42.00/£32.00 ebook ISBN: 9780691223919 ebooks Many of our ebooks are available for purchase from these online vendors: Amazon Kindle Google Play Rakuten Kobo Barnes & Noble Nook Apple Books Many of our ebooks are available through library electronic resources including these platforms: Books at JSTOR EBSCO Ebooks Ebrary MyiLibrary Ebook Library Shipping to: Choose Country United States Canada United Kingdom Afghanistan Aland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua And Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and Saba Bosnia And Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cabo Verde Cambodia Cameroon Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Congo, Democratic Republic Cook Islands Costa Rica Cote D'Ivoire Croatia Cuba Curaçao Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Faroe Islands Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island & Mcdonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran, Islamic Republic Of Iraq Ireland Isle Of Man Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Korea Korea People' Republic Of Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libyan Arab Jamahiriya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macao Macedonia Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Micronesia, Federated States Of Moldova Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestinian Territory, Occupied Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Reunion Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Saint Barthelemy Saint Helena Saint Kitts And Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Martin Saint Pierre And Miquelon Saint Vincent And Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome And Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Sint Maarten (Dutch part) Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia And Sandwich Isl. South Sudan Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Svalbard And Jan Mayen Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand Timor-Leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad And Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks And Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United States Outlying Islands Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela Viet Nam Virgin Islands, British Virgin Islands, U.S. Wallis And Futuna Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Add to Cart Support your local independent bookstore. United States Canada United Kingdom Europe Political Science Partners and Rivals: Representation in U.S. Senate Delegations Wendy J. Schiller Paperback Price: $42.00 / £32.00 ISBN: 9780691048871 Published: Apr 2, 2000 Copyright: 2000 Pages: 192 Size: 7.75 x 10 in. Illus: 27 tables, 11 maps, 4 line illus. More ebook Price: $42.00 / £32.00 ISBN: 9780691048871 Published: Apr 2, 2000 Copyright: 2000 Pages: 192 Size: 7.75 x 10 in. Illus: 27 tables, 11 maps, 4 line illus. More Buy This Download Cover Share Overview Author(s) Praise 3 Congressional scholars have vastly underappreciated how representation in the U. S. Senate differs from the House of Representatives. In this provocative new study, Wendy J. Schiller develops a theory of dual representation — where two legislators share the same geographical constituency — to explain Senators’ behavior. Noting that Senators from the same state join different committees, focus on different policy areas, and address different economic interests through bill and amendment sponsorship, the author examines the electoral and institutional forces that elicit this competitive behavior. In developing her theory, Schiller relies on a wide variety of methodologies, from statistical analysis to case studies, and makes telling comparisons with similar situations in Latin America and Asia. Partners and Rivals argues against the commonly held view that individual Senators do an inadequate job in representing their states. Instead, this book demonstrates how the competitive structure of Senate delegations creates the potential for broad and responsive representation in the Senate. When two senators from the same state are viewed as a pair, it becomes clear that their combined representational agendas include a wide range of the interests and opinions that exist among constituents in their state. This holds true whether the Senators are from the same party or not. Rich in details, Partners and Rivals is the most thorough and rigorous explanation of Senators’ behavior available. Wendy J. Schiller is Mary Tefft and John Hazen White Assistant Professor of Political Science and Public Policy at Brown University. "One of the more interesting and innovative contemporary works on the behavior of U. S. senators. . . . Schiller examines both systematic empirical data as well as individual case studies. Her data sources are both rich and diverse. . . . I would recommend this text for undergraduates, graduate students, and congressional scholars alike."—Greg Thorson, Congress and the Presidency "Partners and Rivals: Representation in U.S. Senate Delegations is an important and thoroughly original contribution to understanding Senators' behavior. Wendy Schiller has produced a fine piece of political science that will be of interest to every student of Congress and to every scholar interested in how electoral institutions shape congressional behavior."—Gary Jacobson, University of California, San Diego "Wendy Schiller has written a wonderful book that will be a landmark in the study of representation. There is nothing else like it in the range of methodologies employed and in the accessibility of the argument to a wide range of people. This is a book that is both scholarly and readable."—Eric M. Uslaner, University of Maryland Related Books The Loud Minority Daniel Q. Gillion Restoring the Global Judiciary Martin S. Flaherty The Divided States of America Donald F. Kettl The President Who Would Not Be King Michael W. McConnell Checks in the Balance Alexander Bolton and Sharece Thrower Stay connected for the latest books, Ideas, and special offers. Stay connected for the latest book news. Email Top United States 41 William Street Princeton, New Jersey 08540 United States Phone: +1 609 258 4900 Directions Europe 99 Banbury Road Oxford OX2 6JX United Kingdom Phone: +44 1993 814500 Directions China Princeton Asia (Beijing) Consulting Co., Ltd. Unit 2702, NUO Centre 2A Jiangtai Road, Chaoyang District Beijing 100016, P.R. China Phone: +86 10 8457 8802 Directions Browse Books Resources Ideas About Authors Contact Contact Us Careers Exam & Desk Copies Review Copies Rights & Permissions Follow Twitter Instagram Facebook LinkedIn YouTube Vimeo WeChat © 2022 Princeton University Press. All Rights Reserved Privacy Policy Site by AREA 17 Colophon Stay connected for the latest books and special offers. Subscribe and then check your email to receive 30% off your first order! Subscribe No Thanks FLASH SALE - Enjoy 70% off this week’s featured collection. Use code FLASH at checkout. Offer good on select titles only. Search for Books All Books Textbooks Audiobooks Collected Works Collections Series Catalogs Common Reading Distributed Presses Resources About Overview Offices People Authors History News Awards Events Careers Contact Us Ideas Subjects Back