wordmark logo scroll-arrow close arrow search twitter facebook linkedin exclamation youtube-play instagram wordpress snapchat-ghost Menu Search Search Office of the President Meet the President Communications Mission & Initiatives Leadership Searches Contact Home Mission & Initiatives Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct Plan In April 2021, after several years of research and analysis, MSU released an institution-wide strategic plan to address sexual assault, sexual harassment, relationship violence, and stalking issues that collectively will help foster a safer campus community. The Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct (RVSM) strategic plan builds on the work of the RVSM Expert Advisory Workgroup, which has been a major driver of RVSM efforts on campus and was tasked with creating a values-driven operational plan with recommended initiatives, timelines and metrics. Learn more on the Culture of Support website. Hear about the importance of the plan direct from from MSU President Stanley. Download the report as a PDF. In October 2019, President Samuel L. Stanley Jr., M.D. and members of his RVSM advisory committee held series of meetings with survivors of sexual assault to listen to their voices and ideas for improvements. The RVSM workgroup will use the input from the listening sessions and results from the recent MSU campus survey, to inform a strategic plan for prevention efforts, policy updates and resource development. This plan will be closely connected to the university’s strategic planning process and will build upon the actions the committee has already taken since its inception. Read more about the Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct Expert Advisory Workgroup and following the planning process and outcomes here. RVSM Plan RVSM Expert Advisory Workgroup Members Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube (517) 355-6560 Contact Information Site Map Privacy Statement Site Accessibility Call MSU: (517) 355-1855 Visit: msu.edu MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer. Notice of Nondiscrimination Spartans Will. © Michigan State University