Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site Office of the President For the Media Contact Us About From the President A Vision for Yale Committees & Programs Home > From the President > Yale Talk: Conversations with President Peter Salovey Yale Talk: Conversations with President Peter Salovey Yale Talk is a podcast hosted by Yale University President Peter Salovey. About once a month, he will share news from campus or host faculty, students, staff, or alumni for a conversation. Yale is a place of many voices—students, faculty, staff, and alumni who are bringing “light and truth” to our world in many different ways. Through this podcast, you can hear those voices, so you can learn more about the amazing work of education and scholarship taking place at Yale. You can subscribe to Yale Talk using apps such as Apple Podcasts, Google Play, Spotify, SoundCloud, and Stitcher. Transcripts of recordings will also be available online. Episodes Providing Solutions to Climate Change April 21, 2022 For Earth Day, Indy Burke, dean of the Yale School of the Environment, and President Peter Salovey discuss how universities can offer solutions to climate change and help policy makers and the public implement sustainable actions. Yale Experts on the War in Ukraine March 23, 2022 Professors Jim Levinsohn and Tim Snyder discuss with President Salovey the crisis in Ukraine, international response to Putin’s war of aggression, and teaching students about global affairs during this grave time. Reflecting on Two Years of COVID-19 March 10, 2022 Drs. Stephanie Spangler and Saad Omer join President Salovey to reflect on what the community has accomplished during the pandemic and look ahead to what may come next. Crafting Your Job into a Calling February 28, 2022 Professor Amy Wrzesniewski and President Salovey discuss the “great resignation” and how people find meaning and satisfaction in their work. Honoring Dr. King’s Legacy January 17, 2022 In honor of Martin Luther King Jr. Day, Patricia Melton, president of New Haven Promise, and President Salovey discuss helping students overcome obstacles to attending college. (Learn more about New Haven Promise, Yale Pathways to Science, and Yale Peabody Museum.) Reporting on a Pandemic December 9, 2021 Yuki Noguchi ’97 BA, a correspondent on the Science Desk of NPR, and President Salovey discuss health messaging and provide advice for students during this time of uncertainty. Honoring All Veterans November 10, 2021 Rod Lowe, a U.S. Army veteran and the senior associate director of major gifts for Yale Divinity School, discusses leadership and selflessness with President Peter Salovey. The First Amendment in the Information Age October 4, 2021 Professors Robert Post and Jack Balkin join President Salovey for a conversation about the spread of misinformation and regulation in the information age. Remembering the Past, Remembering 9/11 September 10, 2021 Sterling Professor of History David Blight, who served as an advisor to the team of curators at the 9/11 Memorial and Museum, and President Peter Salovey discuss commemorating tremendous loss, the purpose of memorialization, and teaching complex history. Addressing Indoor Air Pollution with Award-Winning Design August 3, 2021 Phoebe Mankiewicz, a Yale Ph.D. student, and President Salovey discuss innovative, interdisciplinary research that addresses indoor air pollution. Cardinals and Bulldogs June 29, 2021 President Salovey discusses leadership lessons from the pandemic, favorite baseball memories, the role of athletics at Yale, and the rise of sabermetrics with William O. DeWitt Jr. ’63, chairman and CEO of the St. Louis Cardinals, and William O. DeWitt III ’90, president of the St. Louis Cardinals. Graduating During a Pandemic May 23, 2021 Michelle Hu ’20 and Vig Namasivayam ’20 discuss what it was like to graduate during a pandemic and provide advice to the Class of 2021. Making Music at Yale May 9, 2021 Yale students Florrie Marshall and Ryan Tani join President Peter Salovey in a conversation about creating music and using it to connect people, communicate shared experiences, and mark historic moments. Nobel Laureate Louise Glück on Teaching and Poetry March 9, 2021 President Peter Salovey and Professor Louise Glück discuss her discovery of poetry, the importance of mentorship, and her love of teaching. Their conversation is followed by a recording of Professor Glück’s reading of her poem “October.” Putting “Belonging” at the Heart of Research and Education February 24, 2021 President Peter Salovey and Professor Willie Jennings discuss the shared endeavor of learning, the beauty of discovery, the dangers of isolation, and cultivating the habits and practices of a healthy intellectual life. Connecting Ideas and Action to Understand Racism and Reduce Disparities January 18, 2021 In recognition of Martin Luther King Jr. Day, President Peter Salovey and Professor Phillip Atiba Goff discuss the science of racial bias, the work of the Center for Policing Equity, and the intersection of the COVID-19 pandemic and racial disparities. Students and University Library Help to Write Yale’s History December 9, 2020 Help Us Make History—an archival project launched by the Yale University Library in May 2020—invites undergraduate, graduate, and professional students to contribute their written and visual records of life on and off campus during the COVID-19 pandemic. In this episode of Yale Talk, President Salovey learns from University Archivist Michael Lotstein about how students, faculty, staff and alumni throughout the generations have helped to write Yale’s history. Current Yale College students Solomon Adams ’24, Emma Levin ’23, and Regina Sung ’24 contribute readings from among the hundreds of submissions that the project has received to date. Veterans Day: Pursuing Excellence in the Military and at Yale November 10, 2020 Yale has a proud tradition of involvement in, and ties to, military service. Through programs including the Warrior-Scholar Project, the Yale Veterans Network, and the Yale Veterans Association, the university warmly embraces its veterans, as well as those who are actively serving in the military and those who participate in the Reserve Officers’ Training Corps. For this Veterans Day podcast, President Salovey talks with three undergraduates in the Eli Whitney Students Program—James Hatch ’23, Andrew Nguyen ’22, and Allegra Pankratz ’21—about serving their country and finding community at Yale. Founders Day: Building a Stronger and More Inclusive Yale October 15, 2020 To commemorate Founders Day, President Peter Salovey discusses Yale’s responsibility to lead the change needed in society through education, scholarship, research, preservation, and practice. He is joined by the co-chairs of the President’s Committee on Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging: Kimberly Goff-Crews, university secretary and vice president for university life, and Gary Desir, vice provost for faculty development and diversity, Paul B. Beeson Professor of Medicine, and chair of the Department of Internal Medicine. Sustaining Yale’s Research Mission During the COVID-19 Pandemic September 17, 2020 Preparations for this extraordinary academic year have been like no other. While implementing innovative teaching methods and setting up comprehensive health protective protocols, Yale also has been resuming its search for ideas and solutions. President Salovey discusses the ramping down and reactivation of research with Diondra Dilworth, a doctoral candidate in the Department of Chemistry, and Chris Londa, a doctoral candidate in the Department of Classics. Connecting the Yale Community with Food August 7, 2020 Sharing meals plays a big part in life at Yale. Although Yale Hospitality operations have been affected by the COVID-19 pandemic, its staff members have been contributing to the university and New Haven communities in numerous ways. In honor of Staff Spirit Week, President Salovey discusses with Maureen O’Donnell, residential dining general manager, and Joseph “Rusty” Hamilton, baker at the Culinary Support Center, how Yale staff is serving those in need during this public health crisis. Yale Experts on the Parallel Crises of COVID-19 and Systemic Racism July 21, 2020 Anti-black violence, racism, and injustice are all too ubiquitous in our nation today and throughout history. As people called for actions to solve this crisis, the COVID-19 pandemic revealed striking, long-standing health disparities in our nation. President Peter Salovey discussed the role Yale and other universities play in moving our society past these entrenched problems through our mission of education, research, and scholarship. He was joined by Elijah Anderson, Sterling Professor of Sociology and of African American Studies, and Dr. Marcella Nunez-Smith, associate professor of medicine and of epidemiology. Yale Economic Experts on the COVID-19 Pandemic June 3, 2020 President Peter Salovey discussed the national and global economic impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic and the lessons we can learn from past crises with three Yale faculty experts: Pinelopi Goldberg, Elihu Professor of Economics and professor of management and former chief economist at the World Bank Group; Andrew Metrick, Janet L. Yellen Professor of Finance and Management and director of the Yale Program on Financial Stability; and Robert Shiller, Sterling Professor of Economics and Nobel Laureate. (Recorded May 20, 2020) Professor Karen Seto on Urbanization and Building Sustainable Cities April 22, 2020 In recognition of the 50th anniversary of Earth Day, President Salovey and Professor Seto discuss urban population growth and how cities can be managed and built to optimize sustainability and health. Yale Health Experts on the COVID-19 Pandemic April 14, 2020 Ann Kurth, dean of the Yale School of Nursing, and Saad Omer, director of the Yale Institute for Global Health, joined President Peter Salovey in early April for a conversation about COVID-19 response and the immediate and long-term impacts of this pandemic. Yale Student-Athletes on Three-Point Shots, Resilience, and the Joy of Basketball March 8, 2020 Yale student-athletes Tori Andrew BF ’21 and Azar Swain TD ’21, who are among the best shooters in the Ivy League and NCAA, join President Peter Salovey for a conversation about the right mindset to lead and win—on the basketball court, in the classroom, and in life. The HAPPINESS Project and Increasing Access to Mental Health Services February 21, 2020 The HAPPINESS Project is one of the ways Yale faculty and students are tackling the complex, global challenges of connecting people with mental health services. The HAPPINESS Project aims to improve mental health care delivery in Nigeria, and the methods and technology developed through the project have the potential to help many other communities. Upon their return from Lagos, Nigeria, President Peter Salovey, Dr. Theddeus Iheanacho, Dr. Charles Dike, and Mr. Eddie Mandhry discuss the partnerships Yale is developing through this project and the Yale Africa Initiative. Professor Crystal Feimster on the Long Civil Rights Movement January 20, 2020 In recognition of Martin Luther King Jr. Day, President Salovey and Professor Feimster discuss the “long” civil rights movement, the contributions of civil rights activist Pauli Murray, and how Yale students are using the university’s archival and museum collections in their classes. Additional NavigationClose Speeches Statements Yale Talk: Conversations with President Peter Salovey Yale Alumni Magazine Articles Women of Yale Lectures Notes from Woodbridge Hall Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved 3 Prospect Street, New Haven, CT 06511 | P.O. Box 208229, New Haven, CT 06520-8229 Facebook Twitter YouTube Sina Weibo Instagram