Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Give to Tulane Alumni News Request Info Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About President Fitts Curriculum Vitae Key Initiatives Enhancing the Student Experience Honoring and Advancing Diversity Promoting Pioneering Research Ensuring Financial Stability Communications Convocation Speeches Weekly Message Subscribe to the Weekly Message Lessons Academic Year in Review Speaker Series Economic Impact Report President's Letters Awards Photo Challenge Heroes & Helpers President's Office University Leadership Apply Give to Tulane Alumni News Request Info Visit Information For... Home / Communications / Annual Economic Impact Report Annual Economic Impact Executive Summary Full Report Powering New Orleans and Louisiana 3.14 Billion Overall Impact 2.3 Billion Annual Operations 312 Million Visitor Spending 19535 Total Jobs 382 Million Alumni Retention/Wage Premium 143 Million Capital Investments The way to build a great city is to create a great university and wait 200 years — Daniel Patrick Moynihan Tulane University is approaching its 200-year anniversary and New Orleans recently celebrated its 300th anniversary as one of the world’s greatest cities. The numbers in this report show the many ways Tulane helps power the economic growth of our great city and state — how we make life better here.  The numbers in this report also represent lives transformed through education, jobs created that help build healthy, prosperous families, visitors attracted to our campuses who become students and then lifelong residents, and patients who find healing here.  Finally, the numbers reflect the power of Tulane’s research in infectious diseases, brain science, coastal protection and numerous other multi-discipline fields that impact not only our city and region, but the entire world.  Tulane would not be the university it is without New Orleans and New Orleans is a more vibrant city with greater promise and potential than ever before because of Tulane. This is a story that is still being written — the futures of Tulane and New Orleans are forever linked and forever bright. MICHAEL A. FITTS President, Tulane University Tweets by TUFitts Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions Questions or comments for the president? Send a note to the President's Office News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University