Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of the President Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Announcements Speeches Opinion Interviews Administration Office of the President You are here: Home Dennis A. Mitchell Dennis A. Mitchell Dennis A. Mitchell, DDS, MPH, serves as the Executive Vice President for University Life and Senior Vice Provost for Faculty Advancement at Columbia University, and Professor of Dental Medicine at Columbia University Medical Center. Upon his August 2021 appointment to the position of Executive Vice President for University Life, Dr. Mitchell continues his longstanding mission of diversifying the academy at every level. His earliest work at the College of Dental Medicine comprised a united effort including student affairs, admissions, and alumni affairs. He has been on the Columbia faculty since 1991 and has shown a deep commitment to the oral health needs of underserved populations in the communities surrounding Columbia. From 2004 to 2021, Mitchell served as the first diversity-focused dean at a U.S. dental school in his role as Senior Associate Dean for Diversity for the College of Dental Medicine. In this role, he led the effort to increase the proportion of historically- underrepresented students in each incoming class from 3% to 20%. As Senior Vice Provost, he implements the programmatic elements of the University’s ongoing financial commitment (currently totaling $185 million) to enhance the diversity of the faculty, and works with the leaders of each of Columbia’s schools to evaluate and strengthen their diversity initiatives. Learn more about Dennis Mitchell. Executive Vice President for University Life; Senior Vice Provost for Faculty Advancement; Professor of Dental Medicine Contact Info Office of University Life 1150 Amsterdam Ave., 208 Philosophy Hall · New York, NY 10027 Office of the Provost 305 Low Library, Mail Code: Mail Code 4339 · New York, NY 10027 [email protected] https://universitylife.columbia.edu Office of the President202 Low Library, 535 W. 116 St., MC 4309 · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-9970 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close