Coronavirus (COVID-19) information and resources. × Skip to main content A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People News UCR Home Skip to main content Robert Presley Center of Crime and Justice Studies Search More from us... School of Public Policy Blum Initiative on Global & Regional Poverty UC Riverside Robert Presley Center of Crime and Justice Studies Robert Presley Center of Crime and Justice Studies Search About People Resources Bulletins Events Past Events Ongoing Research Students Scholarships Research Fellowships Internships UCR Home More from us... School of Public Policy Blum Initiative on Global & Regional Poverty Spring Quarter Office Hours with External Directors Sergio Diaz & Michael Ramos Learn More Presley Center to Evaluate Statewide P2E Program Contract awarded by the California Workforce Development Board Read More Senator Robert Presley Scholarship Fund Help train the next generation of criminal justice policy leaders and change makers! Today, we invite you to invest in our students, who are eager to make their mark on the criminal justice system and hard at work preparing for their careers through specialized trainings, hands-on learning, and research opportunities. Give Now Profiling Mental Health Issues in the Criminal Justice System Center of Crime & Justice Studies Bulletin, Vol. 2, Issue 2 Read the Bulletin Previous Next Our Mission The Center of Crime & Justice Studies is an interdisciplinary academic center, housed within the UCR School of Public Policy, that is dedicated to conducting rigorous empirical research on issues related to criminal justice in the state of California and beyond. This includes applied and theoretical studies that help inform evidence-based practice by providing an objective basis for policy and program improvements. The Center aims to bridge the divide between scholarship and practice by connecting its research with state- and regional-criminal justice practitioners, community-based organizations, and policymakers through contracted work, public events, stakeholder convenings, and sustained community engagement. Our Vision + News & Updates • Awarded a contract with the California Workforce Development Board to evaluate the efficacy of the Prison to Employment (P2E) statewide initiative. • Welcomed two new student interns, Milly Analco Arellano and Audrey Tang. • Received a grant from The John Randolph Haynes and Dora Haynes Foundation to study hiring and employment opportunities for the formerly incarcerated in Riverside and San Bernardino Counties. • Awarded three scholarships to justice-impacted students at UCR Subscribe to Presley Center's Mailing List Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 Presley Center 4022 CHASS Interdisciplinary North Riverside, CA 92521 tel: (951) 827-4604 fax: (951) 827-7394 email: spp@ucr.edu Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search Cancel