Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Office of the President Contact Us President's.Office@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home About People Philip J. Hanlon '77 Office Staff Leadership Team Councils & Committees Presidential History Past Presidents Commemorative Dining Chairs Honorary Degrees Past Honorary Degree Recipients Honorary Degree Nominating Form Faculty Awards Back to Top Nav Vision & Strategy News & Communications All Announcements Community Letters Articles Speeches Statements Back to Top Nav Programs & Events Undergraduate Showcases Inside Dartmouth's Budget Presidential Faculty Lectures Kramer Prize Events Back to Top Nav Get in Touch Office Hours Meeting & Speaking Requests Meeting Request Speaking Request Walk & Talk at Occom Contact Us Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search 'A Solemn and Celebratory Occasion' With laughter, drumming, and a few tears, the Mohegan Tribe formally received the papers of their ancestor, Samson Occom, the 18th-century scholar and Presbyterian minister who traveled to Great Britain to raise money for the school that would become Dartmouth College. The historic repatriation brought a critical piece of the past full circle for both Dartmouth and the Tribe. Read President Hanlon's remarks and a recap of the day's event. NFL Star Russell Wilson to Speak at Commencement Russell Wilson, a top NFL quarterback who has been widely recognized for his community service, will deliver Dartmouth’s commencement address on June 12. Wilson will receive an honorary degree at commencement along with seven other leaders in the fields of physics, engineering, economics, media, business and finance, and international development. Dartmouth Names New Technology Center for Class of 1982 Dartmouth has capped the largest construction project in its history by naming the new West End District’s epicenter of technology and entrepreneurship in honor of the Class of 1982. The Class of 1982 Engineering and Computer Science Center was formally dedicated on Friday, May 13, in a public ceremony as part of the Dartmouth Innovation and Technology Festival. Martin Luther King III Issues Call to Action Martin Luther King III issued a call to action Monday night in his keynote address at Dartmouth’s Social Justice Awards ceremony. In welcoming King to Dartmouth, President Philip J. Hanlon ’77 acknowledged that the path toward justice that Martin Luther King Jr. spoke of in Dartmouth Hall 60 years ago is long and complicated. Join President Hanlon for a Walk Around Occom Pond President Hanlon invites any member of the Dartmouth community to join him for a walk around Occom Pond. Join him for the final walk of Spring term on Wednesday, June 1 at 9 a.m. All are welcome. PreviousNext QUOTED As the vision I set forth almost 10 years ago becomes reality, the time is right to pass the torch. —President Philip J. Hanlon '77, on his plan to step down as president in June 2023 Get in Touch Become familiar with President Hanlon's Office Hours and how to request a meeting with the President. Meet the Leadership Team Members of the Dartmouth Senior Leadership Group (DSLG) meet with President Hanlon weekly. Learn more about them and their respective areas of responsibility.learn more News Find out about what's happening in our office and at the College. view all Jun 01 6:00PM Technigala Engineering and Computer Science Center Experience the latest tech and design innovations, built by Dartmouth students Jun 01 6:30PM FILM 48.02/SART 17.20 Video Art Student Showcase VAC 001 Lower-level Auditorium Join us for the spring term Student Showcase of Video Art with Prof. Mary Flanagan. Jun 02 12:00PM Democracy Will Win Exhibit – Discussion & Reception The Foyer of Baker-Berry Library What is the role of artists and intellectuals in safeguarding democracy? Join Distinguished Harris Visiting Professor Irmela von der Lühe and the Chair of Jewish Studies Veronika Fuechtner for an introduction to the exhibition Democracy Will Win, which details the anti-fascist activism of Nobel laureate Thomas Mann and its relevance for today. We will discuss particularly the role of his daughter Erika Mann (pictured). The exhibit is currently on view near the circulation desk at Baker-Berry Library. A reception will follow in the Treasure Room of Baker-Berry. With the support of the Jewish Studies Program, the Department of German Studies, the Dartmouth Library, and the Harris Distinguished Visiting Professorship Program. Jun 02 3:00PM Italian Major Presentations Hopkins Center Faculty Lounge (Room 205) The Dartmouth College Department of French and Italian warmly invites you to the Italian Major Presentations taking place on Thursday, June 2, 2022. Jun 02 4:00PM Creative Writing Prizes Ceremony Sanborn Library The English and Creative Writing Department invites you to the 2022 Creative Writing Prizes Ceremony. Jun 02 6:00PM ADULT WORKSHOP: Expressive Writing Hood Museum of Art This in-person workshop fuses explorations of works of art in the galleries with fun and meaningful expressive writing exercises. Main menu Dartmouth College Office of the President About People Philip J. Hanlon '77 Office Staff Leadership Team Councils & Committees Presidential History Past Presidents Commemorative Dining Chairs Honorary Degrees Past Honorary Degree Recipients Honorary Degree Nominating Form Faculty Awards Vision & Strategy News & Communications All Announcements Community Letters Articles Speeches Statements Programs & Events Undergraduate Showcases Inside Dartmouth's Budget Presidential Faculty Lectures Kramer Prize Events Get in Touch Office Hours Meeting & Speaking Requests Meeting Request Speaking Request Walk & Talk at Occom Contact Us Admin Site Ribbon Footer People President Philip J. Hanlon '77 Visit the Department People page. Find Us Address 207 Parkhurst Hall Dartmouth College Hanover, NH 03755Come find us! Phone: 646-2223 Fax: (603) 646-8264 HB: HB 6001 Email: President's.Office@Dartmouth.EDU More Contact Information Close Contact Us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback