Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of the President Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Announcements Speeches Opinion Interviews Administration Office of the President You are here: Home Lee Bollinger Announcements Lee Bollinger Announcements Julie Winegard Announcements President Bollinger's university announcements and statements on major events and the news of the day. Eric Kandel, Nobel Prize Winner and University Professor, to Retire, June 1, 2022 I write to share the news that Eric Kandel, the Nobel Prize-winning scientist and beloved University citizen, will be retiring on August 31, 2022. Eric is a University Professor, Sagol Professor of Brain Science, Codirector of Columbia’s Zuckerman Institute, Founding Director of Columbia’s Kavli Institute for Brain Science, and Senior Investigator at the Howard Hughes Medical Institute. Read more. Josef Sorett Appointed Dean of Columbia College, May 24, 2022 I am delighted to announce that I have appointed Josef Sorett to serve as the next Dean of Columbia College and Vice President of Undergraduate Education, effective July 1, 2022. Read more. Keren Yarhi-Milo Appointed Dean of the School of International and Public Affairs, May 23, 2022 I am delighted to announce my appointment of Keren Yarhi-Milo as the next Dean of Columbia’s School of International and Public Affairs. Professor Yarhi-Milo is the Arnold A. Saltzman Professor of War and Peace Studies and Director of the Saltzman Institute of War and Peace Studies. Read more. President Bollinger’s Statement on the Shooting in Buffalo, May 17, 2022 Like all of you, I have been following the horrific news of the tragedy in Buffalo, NY with anger, revulsion, and heartache. Read more. Jelani Cobb Appointed Dean of Columbia Journalism School, May 13, 2022 It is with great pleasure that I write to announce my appointment of Jelani Cobb as the next Dean of Columbia Journalism School, as of August 1, 2022. Professor Cobb is the Ira A. Lipman Professor of Journalism and Director of the Ira A. Lipman Center for Journalism and Civil and Human Rights. Read more. Shih-Fu Chang Appointed Dean of The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science, May 3, 2022 I am delighted to announce that I have appointed Shih-Fu Chang as the next Dean of The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science (SEAS). I know all those familiar with Shih-Fu and the great care and commitment he brings to SEAS and to the University will celebrate this news. Read more. Announcement Regarding Safwan Masri, EVP for Global Centers and Global Development, April 27, 2022 I write to announce that Safwan Masri, after leading the Columbia Global Centers for the last decade, will step down as Executive Vice President for Global Centers and Global Development on June 30, 2022. Read more. Announcement from President Lee C. Bollinger, April 14, 2022 The time has come for me to say that the next academic year will be my last as president. I have informed the Trustees that I will step down on June 30, 2023. I cannot begin to express what it has meant to me to serve in this role for this magnificent University for over two decades. Read more. Report: Task Force on the Relationship of the Arts & Sciences and the College, April 8, 2022 President Lee C. Bollinger formed the Task Force on the Relationship of the Arts and Sciences and the College in September 2021, the membership of which is listed below. The Report of the Task Force offers recommendations designed to encourage further discussion between Arts and Sciences and the College, to bring the faculty and the alumni closer together and facilitate opportunities for them to work together, to let everyone committed to the success of the institution see the whole in a clearer manner, and to ensure unmatched excellence in terms of the student experience. Read more. President Bollinger's Statement on the Passing of Madeleine Albright, March 23, 2022 With the passing of Madeleine Albright, we mourn the loss of a woman of uncommon grit, warmth, and character who devoted her remarkable talents to a life of public service and the protection of the vulnerable. Long after her work for President Clinton as U.S. permanent representative to the United Nations and secretary of state had ended, she remained at the forefront of public discourse on the issues that matter with a moral authority that never wavered. Read more. Announcements Archive Office of the President202 Low Library, 535 W. 116 St., MC 4309 · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-9970 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close