Skip Nav Books Resources Ideas About Subjects Menu The Great Ocean Conveyor Wallace Broecker Hardcover ISBN: 9780691143545 $35.00/£28.00 ebook ISBN: 9781400834716 ebooks Many of our ebooks are available for purchase from these online vendors: Amazon Kindle Google Play Rakuten Kobo Barnes & Noble Nook Apple Books Many of our ebooks are available through library electronic resources including these platforms: Books at JSTOR EBSCO Ebooks Ebrary MyiLibrary Ebook Library Shipping to: Choose Country United States Canada United Kingdom Afghanistan Aland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua And Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and Saba Bosnia And Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cabo Verde Cambodia Cameroon Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Congo, Democratic Republic Cook Islands Costa Rica Cote D'Ivoire Croatia Cuba Curaçao Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Faroe Islands Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island & Mcdonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran, Islamic Republic Of Iraq Ireland Isle Of Man Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Korea Korea People' Republic Of Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libyan Arab Jamahiriya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macao Macedonia Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Micronesia, Federated States Of Moldova Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestinian Territory, Occupied Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Reunion Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Saint Barthelemy Saint Helena Saint Kitts And Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Martin Saint Pierre And Miquelon Saint Vincent And Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome And Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Sint Maarten (Dutch part) Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia And Sandwich Isl. South Sudan Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Svalbard And Jan Mayen Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand Timor-Leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad And Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks And Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United States Outlying Islands Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela Viet Nam Virgin Islands, British Virgin Islands, U.S. Wallis And Futuna Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Add to Cart Support your local independent bookstore. United States Canada United Kingdom Europe Earth Science The Great Ocean Conveyor: Discovering the Trigger for Abrupt Climate Change Wallace Broecker Exploring the link between the ocean's currents and rapid climate change Hardcover Price: $35.00 / £28.00 ISBN: 9780691143545 Published: Jan 31, 2010 Copyright: 2010 Pages: 176 Size: 5.5 x 8.5 in. Illus: 10 halftones. 40 line illus. 12 maps. More ebook Price: $35.00 / £28.00 ISBN: 9780691143545 Published: Jan 31, 2010 Copyright: 2010 Pages: 176 Size: 5.5 x 8.5 in. Illus: 10 halftones. 40 line illus. 12 maps. More Buy This Download Cover Share Overview Author(s) Praise 9 Wally Broecker is one of the world’s leading authorities on abrupt global climate change. More than two decades ago, he discovered the link between ocean circulation and climate change, in particular how shutdowns of the Great Ocean Conveyor—the vast network of currents that circulate water, heat, and nutrients around the globe—triggered past ice ages. Today, he is among the researchers exploring how our planet’s climate system can abruptly “flip-flop” from one state to another, and who are weighing the implications for the future. In The Great Ocean Conveyor, Broecker introduces readers to the science of abrupt climate change while providing a vivid, firsthand account of the field’s history and development. Could global warming cause the conveyor to shut down again, prompting another flip-flop in climate? What were the repercussions of past climate shifts? How do we know such shifts occurred? Broecker shows how Earth scientists study ancient ice cores and marine sediments to probe Earth’s distant past, and how they blend scientific detective work with the latest technological advances to try to predict the future. He traces how the science has evolved over the years, from the blind alleys and wrong turns to the controversies and breathtaking discoveries. Broecker describes the men and women behind the science, and reveals how his own thinking about abrupt climate change has itself flip-flopped as new evidence has emerged. Rich with personal stories and insights, The Great Ocean Conveyor opens a tantalizing window onto how Earth science is practiced. Wally Broecker is the Newberry Professor of Earth and Environmental Sciences at Columbia University. His books include Fixing Climate: What Past Climate Changes Reveal about the Current Threat--and How to Counter It and Chemical Oceanography. He is a member of the National Academy of Sciences. "Wally Broecker is one of the great pioneers of paleoclimatology, the study of past climate changes in Earth's history. He introduced the term global warming and, in the 1980s, proposed the global ocean-circulating system, which he dubbed the Great Ocean Conveyor. . . . In The Great Ocean Conveyor, Broecker offers a history of his thinking on the topic. Relating his breakthroughs and setbacks, he portrays science as a 'continual struggle to understand more fully and more accurately how the world really works.'"—Nature "As U.S. climate scientist Wally Broecker . . . discovered, the planet's climate has abruptly flip-flopped many times. The culprit is the Great Ocean Conveyor, a planet-wide system of ocean currents known to the cognoscenti as the thermohaline circulation. [I]t's an entertaining personal tale of pulling the scientific pieces together."—Leigh Dayton, Australian "In his latest book, prolific author and noted scientist Broecker investigates how the ocean's vast network of currents drives abrupt climate change. The author explores the science behind ocean current models such as the Great Ocean Conveyor Belt as a trigger to explain the mystery of the Earth's intermittent pattern of global ice ages. . . . Anyone who has walked on a beach, thrown a snowball, or flown over the ocean will be fascinated by this excellent book geared to undergraduate scientists and the general public."—Choice "I strongly recommend the book to all the students interested in climate change but also to active researchers. . . . One of the biggest advantages for young researchers may be to find in Broecker's book not only answers but also clear statements about important open questions. They may serve in my opinion as a good guide stimulating future research."—Witold Szczucinski, Geologos "This is an outstanding lesson of how things in the scientific community should be! Broecker's book is recommended as a must read for professionals and graduate students specialized in the late Cenozoic palaeoclimatology and palaeoceanography."—Dmitry A. Ruban, Zentralblatt fur Geologie und Palaontologie "With this highly entertaining tale of scientific and personal adventure, Wally Broecker has invented a new genre: the science detective thriller."—Kerry A. Emanuel, Massachusetts Institute of Technology "In The Great Ocean Conveyor, the great Wally Broecker, dean of climate scientists, skillfully mixes history and science to provide the essential description of how he solved the mystery of the abrupt climate jumps of the past."—Richard B. Alley, Pennsylvania State University "Broecker presents a lively discussion of how his thinking on the variability of ocean circulation has itself flip-flopped through time, and in the process gives readers insight into how he conducts science and into the rich behavior of ocean circulation. The book should be widely accessible to people outside the field and offers an introduction to concepts pioneered by Broecker himself, in a manner which is personal and engaging."—Peter Huybers, Harvard University "This memoir is a delight to read, full of interesting tidbits and historical anecdotes, as well as scientific insights. Scientists and students around the world will surely find the book useful and interesting."—Geoffrey K. Vallis, Princeton University Related Books Geopedia Marcia Bjornerud Gemstones Robin Hansen The Dynamics of Partially Molten Rock Richard F. Katz Rocks and Rock Formations Jürg Meyer Rocks and Minerals Chris Pellant and Helen Pellant Stay connected for the latest books, Ideas, and special offers. Stay connected for the latest book news. Email Top United States 41 William Street Princeton, New Jersey 08540 United States Phone: +1 609 258 4900 Directions Europe 99 Banbury Road Oxford OX2 6JX United Kingdom Phone: +44 1993 814500 Directions China Princeton Asia (Beijing) Consulting Co., Ltd. Unit 2702, NUO Centre 2A Jiangtai Road, Chaoyang District Beijing 100016, P.R. China Phone: +86 10 8457 8802 Directions Browse Books Resources Ideas About Authors Contact Contact Us Careers Exam & Desk Copies Review Copies Rights & Permissions Follow Twitter Instagram Facebook LinkedIn YouTube Vimeo WeChat © 2022 Princeton University Press. All Rights Reserved Privacy Policy Site by AREA 17 Colophon Stay connected for the latest books and special offers. Subscribe and then check your email to receive 30% off your first order! Subscribe No Thanks FLASH SALE - Enjoy 70% off this week’s featured collection. Use code FLASH at checkout. Offer good on select titles only. Search for Books All Books Textbooks Audiobooks Collected Works Collections Series Catalogs Common Reading Distributed Presses Resources About Overview Offices People Authors History News Awards Events Careers Contact Us Ideas Subjects Back