Skip to main content Ohio State nav bar The Ohio State University Help BuckeyeLink Map Find People Webmail Search Ohio State Office of the President Main navigation About the President Messages Health, Safety and Well-being Updates News and Notes Speeches Leadership and Committees Board of Trustees Commission on Student Mental Health and Well-Being President and Provost's Council on Sustainability President and Provost's Council on Women President's and Provost's Advisory Committee President's Cabinet Task Force on Community Safety and Well-Being Task Force on Racism and Racial Inequities Task Force on Sexual Abuse University Senate University Staff Advisory Committee Past Presidents Contact Meeting, Video and Event Request Office Hours with the President Staff Directory Search Menu Breadcrumb Office of the President Strategic Plan OHIO STATE'S STRATEGIC PLAN Time and Change Enable, Empower and Inspire What Ohio State does matters. And how we do it matters. When we are at our best, we make a real difference to people. Our size, breadth, geography, history and standard of excellence position us to drive the future of higher education. Our strategic plan is a living framework that allows for flexibility moving forward. What is not flexible is our aspiration to be the best university we can be. We owe it to our students, our faculty, our staff and to our community. We owe it to ourselves. And, because we are Ohio State, we owe it to the nation. I Teaching and Learning Ohio State will be an exemplar of the best teaching, demonstrating leadership by adopting innovative, at-scale approaches to teaching and learning to improve student outcomes. II Access, Affordability and Excellence Ohio State will further our position as a leading public university offering an excellent, affordable education and promoting economic diversity. III Research and Creative Expression Ohio State will enhance our position among the top national and international public universities in research and creative expression, both across the institution and in targeted fields — driving significant advances for critical societal challenges. IV Academic Health Care The Ohio State University Wexner Medical Center will continue our ascent as a leading academic medical center, pioneering breakthrough health care solutions and improving people's lives. V Operational Excellence and Resource Stewardship Ohio State will be an exemplar of best practices in resource stewardship, operational effectiveness, and efficiency and innovation. Download Full Plan (PDF) Updates Videos Time and Change: the strategic plan for The Ohio State University When Ohio State is at its best, we make a real difference in people's lives. The Time and Change strategic plan sets forth the next steps of what it means to be a flagship public university in the 21st century. Creating opportunities for students Land Grant Opportunity Scholar Makayla Davis has found her community at Ohio State. Watch Makayla's videonow ⟩ Academic and student experience Prof. Arnab Nandi, student Ginette Rhodes and alumna and Rhodes Scholar Layla Ujayli share the impact of their Ohio State experiences. Watch Ginette's videonow ⟩ Why faculty choose Ohio State Prof. Norah Zuniga Shaw, Dr. Rama Mallampalli and Prof. Rafael Jimenez-Flores talk about the collegial communities Ohio State has empowered them to create. Watch faculty videonow ⟩ Ohio State sees scientists as "beacons of truth" Prof. Rafael Jimenez-Flores says Ohio State gives research scientists the resources needed to study how to make food safe and plentiful worldwide. Watch scientist's videonow ⟩ Strategic plan resources Our ambitions are bold because that is the Ohio State way. Our responsibility is great because families in Ohio and beyond require us to be the very best we can be. Our future is bright because we are Buckeyes — and we have 150 years of excellence to help light the way. Download Full Plan (PDF) Download Quick Reference Guide (PDF) Download Summary Points (PDF) Unit-Level Strategic Planning Strategic pillars ITeaching and Learning IIAccess, Affordability and Excellence IIIResearch and Creative Expression IVAcademic Health Care VOperational Excellence and Resource Stewardship Connect with us: on Facebook on Twitter on Instagram on LinkedIn on YouTube on TikTok © 2022 The Ohio State University | 205 Bricker Hall | 190 North Oval Mall | Columbus, OH 43210 | 614-292-2424 Contact: Office of the President | Webmaster Request an alternate format of this page | Privacy notice | Nondiscrimination notice