Skip to main content Go to site search Go to primary navigation Go to resources navigation 2021-2022 Event Galleries NOTE: Event Galleries from former President Gutmann are available on her archived website. Penn Home Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search Meet Interim President Pritchett More Meet Interim President Pritchett Addresses & Articles News Highlights University Announcements University Leadership More University Leadership President's Center Provost & Deans Senior Administrators History of the Presidency Event Galleries Toggle Site Search Resources Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Visitors A-Z Directory Webmail Services Penn Home Search Search Close Breadcrumb Home / Meet Interim President Pritchett / News Highlights News Highlights 2021-2022 Feb 14, 2022 / Penn Today Penn announces new tuition-free program to recruit, train, and deploy nurse practitioners to underserved communities across the U.S. $125 million gift from Leonard A. Lauder to transform nursing care Jan 25, 2022 / Penn Today Landmark gift endows Penn Integrates Knowledge Professorship in honor of Amy Gutmann A $5 million commitment from James S. and Gail Petty Riepe will endow a new PIK Professorship in recognition of Dr. Gutmann’s distinguished tenure as Penn’s longest-serving President Jan 12 / Penn Today Penn receives pivotal gift to expand support for first-generation to college and modest-income undergraduates The University of Pennsylvania today announced an inspiring $18 million gift from Scott and Elena Shleifer to increase its support and critical resources for students who are in the first generation of their family to attend college and/or from households of modest or limited income. Nov 16, 2021 / Penn Today Penn launches $750M investment in science, engineering, and medicine University of Pennsylvania President Amy Gutmann today announced the launch of a $750M investment advancing Penn’s pathbreaking contributions to innovative and impactful areas of medicine, public health, science, and technology. Nov 08, 2021 / Penn Today Celebrating five years of innovation, entrepreneurship, and creativity Penn Today marks the anniversary of Pennovation Works, the University’s business incubator and laboratory space, with a look at the evolution of the site, its research and commercialization achievements, and a glimpse into the future. Nov 08, 2021 / Penn Today Simone Leigh’s Brick House officially dedicated on campus During Homecoming Weekend, President Amy Gutmann celebrated with the Penn community the ‘dazzling,’ ‘daring,’ and ‘dramatic’ sculpture—one that is transformational for the University. Nov 01, 2021 / Penn Today Historic move ushers in new era of care at Penn Over eight hours, 310 patients moved to the Pavilion, a 17-story, 1.5-million-square-foot addition to the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania campus. Oct 13, 2021 / Penn Today Hey Day 2021: ‘Senior year is ours to seize’ An in-person celebration well worth the wait, students wore their custom red T-shirts and plastic foam skimmer hats while waving their canes, as Penn President Amy Gutmann declared them officially seniors on College Green. biting hats at hey day Oct 06, 2021 / Penn Today Cooking as community-building in the New College House West Quaker Kitchen The Office of the President is supporting a food-centered program to bring students together. Oct 04, 2021 / Penn Today Meshing academics and fun for a summer program like no other An inaugural Projects for Progress award helped bring to light a Penn Graduate School of Education and Netter Center for Community Partnerships initiative that readied young learners returning to in-person school this fall, and boosted teachers’ confidence. Oct 01, 2021 / Penn Today Penn Engineering reveals new data science building will be named Amy Gutmann Hall On Friday, Oct. 1, 2021, the University of Pennsylvania’s School of Engineering and Applied Science held a groundbreaking ceremony for its new data science building and unveiled its official name, Amy Gutmann Hall, honoring Penn’s President. Amy Gutmann is the eighth and longest-serving President in Penn’s history; leading the University since 2004, her term will conclude at the end of this academic year. Oct 01, 2021 / Penn Today Penn concludes landmark fundraising and engagement campaign with extraordinary results The University of Pennsylvania today announced the results of The Power of Penn Campaign—the most successful fundraising and engagement effort in the University’s history. Sept 30, 2021 / Penn Today Penn Libraries opens newly renovated Biotech Commons The Penn Libraries has transformed its former Biomedical Library into a dynamic space with a new name, the Biotech Commons. Sept 23, 2021 / Penn Today Penn establishes the Center for Precision Engineering for Health with $100 million commitment The University of Pennsylvania announced today that it has made a $100 million commitment in its School of Engineering and Applied Science to establish the Center for Precision Engineering for Health. Sept 21, 2021 / Penn Today Penn Alexander celebrates achievement award from Dept. of Education At an outdoor gathering at Penn Alexander on Sept. 21, the school community and guests celebrated its National Blue Ribbon Award. Aug 31, 2021 / Penn Today Feeling ‘rejuvenated’ on campus, students celebrate Convocation https://penntoday.upenn.edu/news/students-celebrate-penn-convocation-2021 Aug 27, 2021 / Penn Today A ‘surreal’ experience as students move into New College House West One-hundred and forty-three members of the first residents to live in New College House West moved in on Friday, Aug. 27, marking the second phase of Move-In and the opening of a new facility on campus. Aug 24, 2021 / Penn Today A joyous Move-In at Penn Moving onto campus for the first time, students share what they are most looking forward to in the year ahead, while their family members beam with pride. Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-5000