Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Office of the President Contact Us President's.Office@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home About People Philip J. Hanlon '77 Office Staff Leadership Team Councils & Committees Presidential History Past Presidents Commemorative Dining Chairs Honorary Degrees Past Honorary Degree Recipients Honorary Degree Nominating Form Faculty Awards Back to Top Nav Vision & Strategy News & Communications All Announcements Community Letters Articles Speeches Statements Back to Top Nav Programs & Events Undergraduate Showcases Inside Dartmouth's Budget Presidential Faculty Lectures Kramer Prize Events Back to Top Nav Get in Touch Office Hours Meeting & Speaking Requests Meeting Request Speaking Request Walk & Talk at Occom Contact Us Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search People Philip J. Hanlon '77 Office Staff Leadership Team Councils & Committees Presidential History Honorary Degrees Faculty Awards Share Philip J. Hanlon '77 PreviousNext Biography Philip J. Hanlon '77 became Dartmouth's 18th president on June 10, 2013. He is the 10th Dartmouth alumnus to serve as its president. As president, Hanlon has championed academic excellence and encouraged innovation in scholarship and teaching. He has launched initiatives to build interdisciplinary strength around global challenges, expanded opportunities for experiential learning, and initiated new seed funding programs to support cutting-edge research and creative endeavors. He launched the Irving Institute for Energy and Society, established the DEN Innovation and New Venture Incubator (now known as the Magnuson Center for Entrepreneurship) and is leading the expansion of the Thayer School of Engineering. He also created the Society of Fellows, an interdisciplinary community of post-doctoral scholars dedicated to the integration of research and teaching. Committed to reining in the costs of higher education, Hanlon has maintained fiscal rigor, establishing an annual institution-wide reallocation process while holding tuition increases to the lowest levels since the 1970s. At the same time, he has overseen record levels of giving. Under Hanlon's leadership, Dartmouth has also launched a comprehensive set of initiatives designed to combat high-risk behaviors while building a more diverse, inclusive, and equitable environment for students, faculty, and staff. Among them are Moving Dartmouth Forward (2015), Inclusive Excellence (2016) and, most recently, the Campus Climate and Culture Initiative (2019), which is aimed specifically at creating a learning environment free from sexual harassment and the abuse of power. These three interlocking initiatives form a broad-based program to ensure that behaviors and relationships in all contexts on campus are consistent with Dartmouth's values. As a mathematician, Hanlon's own academic research is focused on probability and combinatorics, the study of finite structures and their significance as they relate to bioinformatics, computer science, and other fields. A dedicated teacher-scholar, President Hanlon is also a member of the faculty and teaches first-year calculus, sports analytics, and other mathematics courses at Dartmouth. Hanlon has earned numerous honors and awards for his mathematical research, including a Sloan Fellowship, a Guggenheim Fellowship, a Henry Russel Award, and the National Science Foundation's Presidential Young Investigator Award. He is a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and held an Arthur F. Thurnau Professorship, the University of Michigan's highest recognition of faculty whose commitment to undergraduate teaching has had a demonstrable impact on the intellectual development and lives of their students. Prior to coming to Dartmouth, Hanlon served as provost and executive vice president for academic affairs at the University of Michigan, where he was also the Donald J. Lewis Collegiate Professor of Mathematics. Hanlon was a member of the Michigan faculty for over 20 years and held a variety of administrative posts during his tenure. He began his career at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (1981-1983) and was a Bantrell Fellow in Mathematics at the California Institute of Technology (1983-1986). He is a member of the Board of Directors of the Consortium on Financing Higher Education (COFHE) and the Executive Committee of the National Academies' Division of Policy and Global Affairs. Hanlon earned his Bachelor of Arts degree from Dartmouth, from which he graduated Summa Cum Laude and Phi Beta Kappa in 1977, and earned his PhD from the California Institute of Technology in 1981. Phil Hanlon is married to Gail Gentes. The couple has three children and one grandchild. Main menu Dartmouth College Office of the President About People Philip J. Hanlon '77 Office Staff Leadership Team Councils & Committees Presidential History Past Presidents Commemorative Dining Chairs Honorary Degrees Past Honorary Degree Recipients Honorary Degree Nominating Form Faculty Awards Vision & Strategy News & Communications All Announcements Community Letters Articles Speeches Statements Programs & Events Undergraduate Showcases Inside Dartmouth's Budget Presidential Faculty Lectures Kramer Prize Events Get in Touch Office Hours Meeting & Speaking Requests Meeting Request Speaking Request Walk & Talk at Occom Contact Us Admin Site Ribbon Footer People President Philip J. Hanlon '77 Visit the Department People page. Find Us Address 207 Parkhurst Hall Dartmouth College Hanover, NH 03755Come find us! Phone: 646-2223 Fax: (603) 646-8264 HB: HB 6001 Email: President's.Office@Dartmouth.EDU More Contact Information Close Contact Us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback