Skip to content Florida State University FSU | Office of the President Navigation Search FSU Webmail Search FSU FSU Sites Student Directory Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Close Search Home The President President Richard McCullough First Lady Jai Vartikar Past Presidents and First Ladies Accomplishments Initiatives Know More Diversity & Inclusion Raise the Torch Critical Thinking Strategic Plan SACSCOC Accreditation Initiatives Anti-Racism, Equity & Inclusion Speeches Speeches State of the University Faculty Newsletter Messages to Campus Statements Staff Leadership Team Administrative Inauguration Schedule of Events The President’s Symposium Investiture Ceremony Board of Trustees Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Close Menu Office of the President Home The President President Richard McCullough First Lady Jai Vartikar Past Presidents and First Ladies Accomplishments Initiatives Know More Diversity & Inclusion Raise the Torch Critical Thinking Strategic Plan SACSCOC Accreditation Initiatives Anti-Racism, Equity & Inclusion Speeches Speeches State of the University Faculty Newsletter Messages to Campus Statements Staff Leadership Team Administrative Inauguration Schedule of Events The President’s Symposium Investiture Ceremony Board of Trustees Section Menu Welcome. It is my distinct honor to serve as the 16th president of Florida State University. From the moment I stepped on this beautiful campus, I knew FSU was a special place. We are recognized around the world for the quality of our faculty, academic programs, and our strong focus on student success, producing graduates who are critical thinkers, innovators, and leaders. From our top-ranked programs in the sciences, arts, and humanities to our championship athletics teams, our students, faculty, and staff strive for excellence in all we do. Through personal experience, I know that public universities are amazing engines of social change and mobility, and FSU’s commitment to student success has impressed me from the start. We are ensuring all students can achieve their dreams of a degree, no matter their background. As president, I’m excited for the opportunity to build upon this incredible foundation. We will strengthen the university’s research mission while staying true to FSU’s liberal arts tradition. We will continue to invest in student success, elevate the university’s academic reputation, grow the university’s research and development enterprise, promote entrepreneurship and innovation, and advance equity, diversity, and inclusion. It is a great time to be a part of Florida State University. We are a university on the rise, and I’m enthusiastic about our future. Sincerely, Richard McCullough Sidebar Office of the President 211 Westcott Building Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306-1470 Phone: 850.644.1085 Fax: 850.644.9936 president@fsu.edu @PresMcCullough Participation Request President McCullough Bio President’s Task Force on Anti-Racism, Equity & Inclusion More Information on the President’s Task Force on Anti-Racism, Equity & Inclusion © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Like Florida State on Facebook Follow Florida State on Instagram Follow Florida State on Twitter" Follow Florida State on Youtube Connect with Florida State on LinkedIn More FSU Social Media