Skip Nav Books Resources Ideas About Subjects Menu Fairy Tales for the Disillusioned: Enchanted Stories from the French Decadent Tradition Front Cover Table of Contents Introduction Buy This Fairy Tales for the Disillusioned Gretchen Schultz Hardcover ISBN: 9780691161655 $22.95/£17.99 Paperback ISBN: 9780691191416 $17.95/£14.99 ebook ISBN: 9781400883455 ebooks Many of our ebooks are available for purchase from these online vendors: Amazon Kindle Google Play Rakuten Kobo Barnes & Noble Nook Apple Books Many of our ebooks are available through library electronic resources including these platforms: Books at JSTOR EBSCO Ebooks Ebrary MyiLibrary Ebook Library Shipping to: Choose Country United States Canada United Kingdom Afghanistan Aland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua And Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and Saba Bosnia And Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cabo Verde Cambodia Cameroon Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Congo, Democratic Republic Cook Islands Costa Rica Cote D'Ivoire Croatia Cuba Curaçao Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Faroe Islands Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island & Mcdonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran, Islamic Republic Of Iraq Ireland Isle Of Man Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Korea Korea People' Republic Of Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libyan Arab Jamahiriya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macao Macedonia Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Micronesia, Federated States Of Moldova Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestinian Territory, Occupied Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Reunion Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Saint Barthelemy Saint Helena Saint Kitts And Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Martin Saint Pierre And Miquelon Saint Vincent And Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome And Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Sint Maarten (Dutch part) Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia And Sandwich Isl. South Sudan Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Svalbard And Jan Mayen Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand Timor-Leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad And Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks And Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United States Outlying Islands Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela Viet Nam Virgin Islands, British Virgin Islands, U.S. Wallis And Futuna Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Shipping to: Choose Country United States Canada United Kingdom Afghanistan Aland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua And Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and Saba Bosnia And Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cabo Verde Cambodia Cameroon Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Congo, Democratic Republic Cook Islands Costa Rica Cote D'Ivoire Croatia Cuba Curaçao Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Faroe Islands Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island & Mcdonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran, Islamic Republic Of Iraq Ireland Isle Of Man Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Korea Korea People' Republic Of Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libyan Arab Jamahiriya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macao Macedonia Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Micronesia, Federated States Of Moldova Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestinian Territory, Occupied Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Reunion Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Saint Barthelemy Saint Helena Saint Kitts And Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Martin Saint Pierre And Miquelon Saint Vincent And Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome And Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Sint Maarten (Dutch part) Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia And Sandwich Isl. South Sudan Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Svalbard And Jan Mayen Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand Timor-Leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad And Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks And Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United States Outlying Islands Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela Viet Nam Virgin Islands, British Virgin Islands, U.S. Wallis And Futuna Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Add to Cart Support your local independent bookstore. United States Canada United Kingdom Europe Literature Fairy Tales for the Disillusioned: Enchanted Stories from the French Decadent Tradition Edited by Gretchen Schultz and Lewis Seifert A new collection of subversive French fairy tales Series: Oddly Modern Fairy Tales Look Inside Look Inside Hardcover Price: $22.95 / £17.99 ISBN: 9780691161655 Published: Oct 25, 2016 Copyright: 2017 Pages: 296 Size: 5.5 x 8 in. Illus: 14 halftones. More Paperback Price: $22.95 / £17.99 ISBN: 9780691161655 Published: Oct 25, 2016 Copyright: 2017 Pages: 296 Size: 5.5 x 8 in. Illus: 14 halftones. More ebook Price: $22.95 / £17.99 ISBN: 9780691161655 Published: Oct 25, 2016 Copyright: 2017 Pages: 296 Size: 5.5 x 8 in. Illus: 14 halftones. More Buy This Download Cover Share Overview Author(s) Praise 13 The wolf is tricked by Red Riding Hood into strangling her grandmother and is subsequently arrested. Sleeping Beauty and Cinderella do not live happily ever after. And the fairies are saucy, angry, and capricious. Fairy Tales for the Disillusioned collects thirty-six tales, many newly translated, by writers associated with the decadent literary movement, which flourished in France in the late nineteenth century. Written by such creative luminaries as Charles Baudelaire, Anatole France, and Guillaume Apollinaire, these enchanting yet troubling stories reflect the concerns and fascinations of a time of great political, social, and cultural change. Recasting well-known favorites from classic French fairy tales, as well as Arthurian legends and English and German tales, the updated interpretations in this collection allow for more perverse settings and disillusioned perspectives—a trademark style and ethos of the decadent tradition. In these stories, characters puncture the optimism of the naive, talismans don’t work, and the most deserving don’t always get the best rewards. The fairies are commonly victims of modern cynicism and technological advancement, but just as often are dangerous creatures corrupted by contemporary society. The collection underlines such decadent themes as the decline of civilization, the degeneration of magic and the unreal, gender confusion, and the incursion of the industrial. The volume editors provide an informative introduction, biographical notes for each author, and explanatory notes throughout. Subverting the conventions of the traditional fairy tale, these old tales made new will entertain and startle even the most disenchanted readers. Gretchen Schultz is professor of French studies at Brown University. Her recent books include Sapphic Fathers: Discourses of Same-Sex Desire from Nineteenth-Century France and An Anthology of Nineteenth-Century Women's Poetry from France. Lewis Seifert is professor of French studies at Brown University. He is the author of Fairy Tales, Sexuality, and Gender in France, 1690–1715 and Manning the Margins: Masculinity and Writing in Seventeenth-Century France. "[F]un and intriguing . . . . [E]xcellent windows into a period in history, especially in France, when politics and world strife . . . made it hard to embrace the [happily ever after] of the popular fairy tales."—Heidi Anne Heiner, SurLaLune Fairy Tales "[S]ometimes sardonic, sometimes brutal, often blackly funny and possessed of a peculiarly modern sensibility."—Cameron Woodhead, Sydney Morning Herald "It's easy to see why Fairy Tales For the Disillusioned is capturing rave reviews. Our cultural climate is ripe for such a round of stories and, as the series from which it appears states, these are, indeed Oddly Modern Fairy Tales."—Once Upon a Blog "In these deliberately tarnished tales . . . wondrousness mainly shines through in their often beautiful imagery."—Michael Dirda, Washington Post "This is a valuable collection of 36 tales, originally written from 1870-1914, by 19 French authors. Most, though not all, were well-known writers associated with the decadent movement. . . . This is a wonderful resource for scholars of fairy tales and decadent literature and a timely, thought-provoking collection for nonspecialists."—Choice "Fairy Tales for the Disillusioned, as a whole, is a powerful and incisive exemplar of the world of the adult fairy tale, in all its historical relevance, and should serve as a worthy introduction to the very best in the subject."—Lois C. Henderson, Bookpleasures.com "This is a beautiful book that features a wide range of decadent fairy tales from France that fills a large gap in English readers' access to such texts. Gretchen Schultz and Lewis Seifert have done a wonderful job in bringing these together."—Richard Marshall, 3AM Magazine "Schultz and Seifert's volume is both useful and delightful."—Ephraim Nissan, Avocetta "Besides being a thoroughly engaging read, Fairy Tales for the Disillusioned is an extraordinary contribution to the fairy-tale canon. As with the last fairy and the genie in Veber’s tale, waiting patiently in the last remnant of enchanted forest, by translating many of these stories, and retrieving countless others long out of print, Schultz and Seifert have managed to recover a little bit of the magic so necessary for modern life."—Victoria Leslie, Gramarye Journal "Both useful and delightful."—Ephraim Nissan, Fabula "Fairy Tales for the Disillusioned brings together translations of 36 stories by French authors of the nineteenth-century decadent literary movement, beginning with Baudelaire. Troubling, cynical, often perverse, yet often enchanting, these twisted tales draw on old stories and myths to explore such topics as gender definitions, industrialism, the demise of magic, and the bleak future of civilization. We must marvel at the endless generativity of traditional stories."—Jo Radner, Storytelling Magazine "Fairy Tales for the Disillusioned brings together fairy tales by canonical and noncanonical nineteenth-century French authors. Many of these works have not been anthologized for an English audience—nor a French one—and these translated texts provide a complex view not only of the decadent tale but also of the possibilities of the fairy tale in general."—Anne E. Duggan, author of Queer Enchantments "French fairy tales are too often associated only with the emergence of the genre, especially Charles Perrault's influential stories, and then much later with fairy-tale films. Where did all the fairies go in the nineteenth century? Featuring a wide range of translated decadent fairy tales from France, this welcome and entertaining collection fills a large gap in English readers' access to such texts. It will definitely have a place in my library."—Cristina Bacchilega, author of Fairy Tales Transformed? Related Books The Pomegranates and Other Modern Italian Fairy Tales The Castle of Truth and Other Revolutionary Tales Hermynia Zur Mühlen A Vertical Art Simon Armitage The Owl and the Nightingale Simon Armitage Old Truths and New Clichés Isaac Bashevis Singer Stay connected for the latest books, Ideas, and special offers. Stay connected for the latest book news. Email Top United States 41 William Street Princeton, New Jersey 08540 United States Phone: +1 609 258 4900 Directions Europe 99 Banbury Road Oxford OX2 6JX United Kingdom Phone: +44 1993 814500 Directions China Princeton Asia (Beijing) Consulting Co., Ltd. Unit 2702, NUO Centre 2A Jiangtai Road, Chaoyang District Beijing 100016, P.R. China Phone: +86 10 8457 8802 Directions Browse Books Resources Ideas About Authors Contact Contact Us Careers Exam & Desk Copies Review Copies Rights & Permissions Follow Twitter Instagram Facebook LinkedIn YouTube Vimeo WeChat © 2022 Princeton University Press. All Rights Reserved Privacy Policy Site by AREA 17 Colophon Stay connected for the latest books and special offers. Subscribe and then check your email to receive 30% off your first order! Subscribe No Thanks FLASH SALE - Enjoy 70% off this week’s featured collection. Use code FLASH at checkout. Offer good on select titles only. Search for Books All Books Textbooks Audiobooks Collected Works Collections Series Catalogs Common Reading Distributed Presses Resources About Overview Offices People Authors History News Awards Events Careers Contact Us Ideas Subjects Back