Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of the President Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Announcements Speeches Opinion Interviews Administration Office of the President You are here: Home Senior Administration Senior Administration Senior Administration Susan K. Glancy Susan Glancy joined the Office of the President as Chief of Staff in 2006, and she is responsible for providing administrative and strategic support to President Bollinger and his senior staff for University initiatives as well as day-to-day operations. Previously, she was Executive Director for Special Projects for Columbia University Human Resources and Director of Human Resources for Columbia Business School. Prior to Columbia, Susan worked for The Walt Disney Company in New York City. Susan graduated from New York University, Tisch School of the Arts with a degree in Theatre and received a Master’s in Social and Organizational Psychology from Teachers College, Columbia University. Shailagh J. Murray Shailagh Murray was appointed Executive Vice President for Public Affairs in September 2018. She oversees the Office of Communications and Public Affairs and the Office of Government and Community Affairs. She spent nearly six years shaping communications strategy inside the Obama White House, most recently serving as Senior Advisor to President Obama from 2015 to 2017. Previously, she was Vice President Biden’s deputy chief of staff and communications director. Prior to that, she worked as a journalist for The Wall Street Journal and The Washington Post. She has a BA in humanities from University of Missouri-Columbia and a Masters in Journalism from Northwestern University. Safwan M. Masri Professor Safwan M. Masri is Executive Vice President for Global Centers and Global Development at Columbia University, and a Senior Research Scholar at Columbia’s School of International and Public Affairs (SIPA). In his role as EVP, Masri directs a number of Columbia’s global initiatives and is responsible for the development of an expanding network of Global Centers, located in Amman, Beijing, Istanbul, Mumbai, Nairobi, Paris, Rio de Janeiro, Santiago, and Tunis. These centers work to advance Columbia’s global mission and extend the University’s reach to address the pressing demands of our global society. Masri joined Columbia University in 1988 as a member of the faculty of Columbia Business School. He was appointed Vice Dean in 1993, a position he held for thirteen years. He previously taught engineering at Stanford University, and was a visiting professor at INSEAD (Institut Européen d’Administration des Affaires) in France. A scholar on education and contemporary geopolitics and society in the Arab world, Masri’s work focuses on understanding the historic, postcolonial dynamics among religion, education, society, and politics. He is the author of Tunisia: An Arab Anomaly (Columbia University Press, 2017), which examines why Tunisia was the only country to emerge from the Arab Spring as a democracy. The book has received positive coverage in a number of media outlets, including the Financial Times and Le Monde. Masri’s writings on education and current affairs have been featured in the Financial Times, Huffington Post, The Hill, and Times Higher Education. Masri is an honorary fellow of the Foreign Policy Association and a member of the International Advisory Council of the World Congress for Middle Eastern Studies (WOCMES). He was founding chairman of both King’s Academy and Queen Rania Teacher Academy in Jordan, and served as an advisor to Her Majesty Queen Rania Al Abdullah. He is a trustee of International College in Beirut and of the Welfare Association (Taawon) in Ramallah, and a member of the advisory board of the School of Business at the American University in Cairo. Masri serves on the governing boards of Endeavor Jordan and the Children’s Museum Jordan, and was a director of Arab Bankers Association of North America (ABANA) and Aramex. Masri earned his Bachelor of Science degree in industrial engineering from Purdue University in 1982; his Master of Science in industrial engineering, also from Purdue in 1984; and his Ph.D. in industrial engineering and engineering management from Stanford University in 1988. He was honored with the Singhvi Professor of the Year for Scholarship in the Classroom Award in 1990, the Robert W. Lear Service Award in 1998, and the Dean’s Award for Teaching Excellence in a Core Course in 2000. Masri has also been honored with the 2003 American Service Award from the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee. Peter E. Pilling Peter E. Pilling was appointed director of Intercollegiate Athletics and Physical Education in February 2015. Prior to joining Columbia Athletics, Pilling served as senior associate athletic director at several of the most respected college sports programs in the country, including Villanova and Brigham Young universities. As a vice president at IMG College, the nation’s largest collegiate sports management company, Pilling has extensive experience serving athletics departments of Division I schools including Texas Christian University, Baylor University and the U.S. Air Force Academy. Orin Herskowitz In addition to his role as vice President, Orin Herskowitz serves as Executive Director of Columbia Technology Ventures, which manages more than 350 invention disclosures emerging from Columbia’s research labs each year, leading to over 100 license deals and over 20 new start-ups annually. Mr. Herskowitz has served on boards or as the Principle Investigator for several innovation and entrepreneurship-focused initiatives, including the NYC Media Lab, PowerBridgeNY, and the Columbia Coulter Translational Partnership. Prior to joining Columbia, he spent seven years with the Boston Consulting Group's New York office. Melanie J. Bernitz Dr. Melanie Bernitz is the Senior Vice President for Columbia Health. In this role, she is responsible for the oversight and provision of health and wellbeing services to students on the Morningside campus. Dr. Bernitz joined Columbia Health in 2016. Previously, she served as the Executive Director of the Student Health Service at Columbia University Irving Medical Center. Prior to that position, Dr. Bernitz was a resident, chief resident, and faculty member in Columbia’s Center for Family and Community Medicine. Growing up in the United Kingdom, she received both her bachelor’s degree in psychology and a degree in medicine at University College London. She then received her master’s degree in public health at Columbia University. She is an Associate Clinical Professor of Medicine in the Center of Family and Community Medicine. Mary C. Boyce Mary C. Boyce is the Provost of Columbia University. From 2013 to 2021, she was dean of The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science and Morris A. and Alma Schapiro Professor. In that role, she led the education and research mission of Columbia Engineering with more than 230 faculty, 1,700 undergraduate students and 3,000 graduate students. A strong advocate for interdisciplinary research and innovation, Boyce significantly increased the faculty in cross-cutting fields, expanded funding for faculty and student research together with design and entrepreneurship programming, and strengthened outreach efforts to attract diverse talent to Engineering. During her tenure, she also oversaw a robust program of renovations, build-outs, and expansions to spaces, including research laboratories, shared facilities, undergraduate teaching laboratories, gathering spaces, and creation of the Columbia Makerspace. In 2016, she launched an inspiring new vision for the school, Columbia Engineering for Humanity. About Mary Boyce Lee C. Bollinger Lee C. Bollinger became Columbia University’s 19th president in 2002 and is the longest serving Ivy League president. Under his leadership, Columbia stands again at the very top rank of great research universities, distinguished by comprehensive academic excellence, an innovative and sustainable approach to global engagement, two of the largest capital campaigns in the history of higher education, and the institution’s most ambitious campus expansion in over a century. President Bollinger is Columbia’s first Seth Low Professor of the University, a member of the Columbia Law School faculty, and one of the nation's foremost First Amendment scholars. Each fall semester, he teaches “Freedom of Speech and Press” to Columbia undergraduate students. He has two books coming out in 2021: National Security, Leaks and Freedom of the Press: The Pentagon Papers Fifty Years On, co-edited with Geoffrey R. Stone, which will be published by Oxford University Press; and Regardless of Frontiers: Global Freedom of Expression in a Troubled World, co-edited with Agnès Callamard, which will be published by Columbia University Press. About the President Kim Lew Kim Y. Lew is the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Columbia Investment Management Company, responsible for managing the University’s endowment. She came to Columbia from Carnegie Corporation of New York, where she worked for more than a decade, most recently as Vice President and Chief Investment Officer. Lew began her career at Chemical Bank as a credit analyst, after receiving her BS in economics from The Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. She went on to graduate with an MBA from Harvard Business School in 1992, after which she joined Prudential Capital Group and then the Ford Foundation, where she spent more than a decade, first as a portfolio strategist investing in the technology sector and then as a senior manager responsible for the organization’s private equity investments. Katrina A. Armstrong Chief Executive Officer, Columbia University Irving Medical Center; Executive VP for Health and Biomedical Sciences, Columbia University; Dean of the Faculties of Health Sciences and the Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons; Harold and Margaret Hatch Professor in the Faculty of Medicine. Katrina Armstrong, MD, leads Columbia University’s medical campus as the Chief Executive Officer of CUIMC, which includes the Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons (VP&S), the School of Nursing, the College of Dental Medicine, and the Mailman School of Public Health. She also is Executive Vice President for Health and Biomedical Sciences for Columbia University and Dean of the Faculties of Health Sciences and the Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons. As VP&S dean, Dr. Armstrong leads the nation’s second oldest medical school and the first to award an MD degree. She is an internationally recognized investigator in medical decision making, quality of care, and cancer prevention and outcomes, an award-winning teacher, and a practicing primary care physician. She has served on multiple advisory panels for academic and federal organizations and has been elected to the National Academy of Medicine, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the Association of American Physicians, and the American Society for Clinical Investigation. Before joining Columbia, Dr. Armstrong was the Jackson Professor of Clinical Medicine at Harvard Medical School, Chair of the Department of Medicine and Physician-in-Chief of Massachusetts General Hospital, and Professor of Epidemiology at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. Before joining Harvard, she was Chief of the Division of General Internal Medicine, Associate Director of the Abramson Cancer Center, and Co-Director of the Robert Wood Johnson Clinical Scholars Program at the University of Pennsylvania. She is a graduate of Yale University (BA degree in architecture), Johns Hopkins (MD degree), and the University of Pennsylvania (MS degree in clinical epidemiology). She completed her residency training in internal medicine at Johns Hopkins. Joan C. Waters Joan C. Waters is the University’s ombuds officer, responsible for offering independent, impartial, and confidential services for the entire Columbia community of students, faculty, and staff on all campuses. Appointed in 2014, Ms. Waters and her staff provide a place for individuals across the University to discuss workplace complaints and other campus problems. Ms. Waters brings to Columbia her extensive professional experience as an Associate General Counsel at The City University of New York, a two-term elected justice in the New York State court system, an attorney in private practice, and a trained mediator and collaborative law practitioner. Jerome Davis Jerome Davis, secretary of the University, serves as the liason between the senior administration and the Trustees. He prepares the agenda for the Trustees' meetings and maintains the University Statutes. In addition, he oversees the process for selecting honorary degree recipients and the winners of the University Medal of Excellence. The secretary also undertakes special projects on behalf of the president and the Trustees. Jeannette M. Wing Jeannette M. Wing is the Executive Vice President for Research at Columbia University. In this role, she has overall responsibility for the University’s research enterprise at all locations, including the Morningside and Manhattanville campuses, Columbia University Irving Medical Center, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory and Nevis Laboratories, and internationally. She joined Columbia in 2017 as the Avanessians Director of the Data Science Institute and Professor of Computer Science. Prior to Columbia, Dr. Wing was Corporate Vice President of Microsoft Research, served on the faculty and as department head in computer science at Carnegie Mellon University, and served as Assistant Director for Computer and Information Science and Engineering at the National Science Foundation. She is a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, American Association for the Advancement of Science, the Association for Computing Machinery, and the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers. She received her bachelor’s, master’s, and doctoral degrees in computer science, all from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Learn more about Jeannette Wing. Jane Booth Joining the Office of the General Counsel in 2002, Jane E. Booth represents the University in regulatory matters. Her expertise extends to research integrity, health care compliance, HIPAA, False Claims Act, and environmental and safety issues. Before coming to Columbia, Ms. Booth was chief of the civil division of the United States Attorneys' Office, and served as a member of Attorney General Janet Reno's health care advisory council (1994-2002). Ms. Booth has also extensive appellate and civil and criminal litigation experience; she headed the civil appellate unit of Legal Aid (1989-1994) and the appeals unit for the United States Attorneys Office (1983-1987), and litigated complex securities and financial matters for Shearson Lehman (1987-1989). Ms. Booth began her career as a law clerk to Judge Leonard Sand in the Southern District of New York. Ms. Booth received her law degree from Columbia in 1976. Prior to attending law school, she also received a B.A. in history from Fordham (1967) and an M.A. in history from the University of Toronto (1968). She is admitted to practice law in New York State. Practice Areas: Finance, Investments, and Banking (internal audit) Health Sciences (General & Corporate) (compliance & IRB) Litigation Research Compliance Gerald M. Rosberg Gerald Rosberg is senior executive vice president of the University. He works with the president and the University’s senior leadership on long-term planning and human resource and other strategic issues, with a particular focus on coordination across departments. He served for 20 years as a senior executive of the Washington Post Company (now Graham Holdings). Before that he was a lawyer in private practice and a professor of law at the University of Michigan Law School. Dennis A. Mitchell Dennis A. Mitchell, DDS, MPH, serves as the Executive Vice President for University Life and Senior Vice Provost for Faculty Advancement at Columbia University, and Professor of Dental Medicine at Columbia University Medical Center. Upon his August 2021 appointment to the position of Executive Vice President for University Life, Dr. Mitchell continues his longstanding mission of diversifying the academy at every level. His earliest work at the College of Dental Medicine comprised a united effort including student affairs, admissions, and alumni affairs. He has been on the Columbia faculty since 1991 and has shown a deep commitment to the oral health needs of underserved populations in the communities surrounding Columbia. From 2004 to 2021, Mitchell served as the first diversity-focused dean at a U.S. dental school in his role as Senior Associate Dean for Diversity for the College of Dental Medicine. In this role, he led the effort to increase the proportion of historically- underrepresented students in each incoming class from 3% to 20%. As Senior Vice Provost, he implements the programmatic elements of the University’s ongoing financial commitment (currently totaling $185 million) to enhance the diversity of the faculty, and works with the leaders of each of Columbia’s schools to evaluate and strengthen their diversity initiatives. Learn more about Dennis Mitchell. David Greenberg David Greenberg is the executive vice president for University Facilities and Operations, responsible for new building design and construction, public safety, campus services for students, building and grounds maintenance, oversight of Manhattanville construction and the University's residential portfolio. Prior to joining Facilities and Operations, Greenberg served as the first executive director of Columbia's Zuckerman Institute, where he continues to provide strategic and operational oversight. Greenberg has worked at the University since 2006 and holds a bachelor's degree from the University of Rochester; a master's of public administration from Syracuse University; and a master's of Construction Administration from Columbia. Anne R. Sullivan Amy Hungerford Amy Hungerford is the Executive Vice President of Arts and Sciences and Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences. She is also Professor of English and Comparative Literature. Amelia J. Alverson Amelia Alverson is executive vice president for University Development and Alumni Relations, leading Columbia's fundraising efforts and outreach to alumni worldwide. Prior to 2014, she served as senior vice president for development at Columbia University Medical Center. Before joining Columbia in 2009, Alverson was vice president for development at Stanford Hospital & Clinics. She has more than 25 years of development experience in academic medicine, including leadership roles at Stanford Medical Center, the Feinberg School of Medicine at Northwestern University, and the University of Illinois. no photo photo of edit edit The Trustees of Columbia University Overall governance of the University lies in the hands of its Board of Trustees. The Trustees select the President, oversee all faculty and senior administrative appointments, monitor the budget, supervise the endowment, and protect University property. Office of the President202 Low Library, 535 W. 116 St., MC 4309 · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-9970 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close