Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Office of the President Main navigation Home About the Office About the Office History of Georgia Tech Presidents Institutional Ethics Organizational Chart President's Cabinet President's Staff Advisory Board Strategic Plan Sustainable Development Goals Vision, Values, and Beliefs About President Cabrera Biography and Headshot Publications and Speeches All Blog Conversations with Cabrera Newsletter President's Report Speeches Contact Us Contact Us Request an Appearance User account menu Strategic Plan Open Search Search Search A proud alumnus, Ángel Cabrera brings his commitments to professional ethics, internationalization, diversity and inclusion, and corporate social responsibility to Georgia Tech as the Institute's 12th president. Meet President Cabrera Georgia Tech Strategic Plan Learn About the Plan 2021 President's Report Read the Report Conversations with Cabrera Watch the Videos 2021 Institute Address Watch the Address Commitment to Ethics Ethics at Georgia Tech Commitment to Diversity Georgia Tech Office of Diversity April 2022 Americans are understandably concerned about the rising costs of attending college, which have significantly outpaced inflation over the past three decades. Despite these national trends, I am delighted that Georgia Tech not only has been able to keep tuition and fees flat over the past three years but also, thanks to major state investments, will significantly reduce fees this coming year.… read more March 2022 I see no better way for us to celebrate Women’s History Month than to recognize the contributions of women among our faculty, staff, students, and alumni over the years. From the late Dorothy Crosland, Tech’s longtime director of libraries who helped establish an information science graduate program in the 1960s that laid the foundation for the College of Computing, to Sandy Magnus (Ph.D. MSE… read more February 2022 Ramiah Martin was born in 2017 without a windpipe, an extremely rare and usually fatal condition. Her physicians placed a 3D-printed tracheal splint, lifesaving technology ushered in by Georgia Tech researcher Scott Hollister and developed in a lab at Georgia Tech. Just before Christmas, Ramiah turned four. She is in preschool, learning to communicate through sign language, and “is nothing… read more View Newsletter Archive View Newsletter Archive President's Blog EduTrends: Covid and the Future of Higher Education March 31, 2022 In the most recent episode of the “EduTrends” podcast, I spoke with José "Pepe" Escamilla, associate director of the Institute for the Future of… A Time for Thanks November 23, 2021 The semester is winding down and the Thanksgiving break is upon us. I imagine, like me, that this small break is coming right on time for you. This… See all blog posts Candid Conversations Greg Lukianoff Greg Lukianoff, president and CEO of the Foundation for Individual Rights in Education (FIRE), joins President Cabrera in a dialogue on the… See all candid conversations Contact Ángel Cabrera 404.894.5051 Email Ángel Cabrera In order to effectively manage the volume of event requests, all event organizers should submit an Event Request form at their earliest convenience (at least eight weeks prior to the event date is recommended). Event Request Carnegie Building Georgia Institute of Technology 223 Uncle Heinie Way, N.W. Atlanta, GA 30332-0325 (404) 894-5051 Carnegie Building Map Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites and Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Art Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education