Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of the President Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Announcements Speeches Opinion Interviews Administration Office of the President You are here: Home Columbia's Commitment to Diversity Columbia's Commitment to Diversity A prominent advocate for diversity in education, Lee C. Bollinger led the University of Michigan's historic litigation in Grutter v. Bollinger and Gratz v. Bollinger. These Supreme Court decisions upheld and clarified the importance of diversity as a compelling justification for affirmative action in higher education. President Bollinger's continued dedication to the value of educational diversity has resulted in a variety of initiatives at Columbia designed to recruit and support a community of students, faculty, and staff that is diverse in every way. Student Diversity Columbia's undergraduate community is among the most diverse in the country. Underrepresented students have access to numerous resources, including: The Office of Multicultural Affairs Office of Diversity and Multicultural Affairs, College of Physicians and Surgeons Academic Success Programs The Office of the University Chaplain The International Student and Scholars Office LGBTQ @ Columbia For more information and a more extensive list of resources, visit the Office of University Life and Columbia Undergraduate Admissions. Photo credit Eileen Barroso. Faculty Diversity and Inclusion To make diversity a central focus in every aspect of the University's endeavors, President Bollinger established the Office of the Vice Provost for Diversity Initiatives in 2004, which has expanded to become the Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty Advancement. Programs addressing faculty recruitment and development include: Faculty Diversity Data Diversity Offices and Initiatives Building a Diverse Pipeline Provost Advisory Committees Faculty Recruitments Junior Faculty Grants Mid-Career Faculty Grants "At Columbia, as at most of our peer institutions today, admissions officers value a kaleidoscope of talents and nontraditional backgrounds, including those possessed by military veterans, artists, and individuals who have overcome the obstacles of geography or family circumstance. We are proud that we have been able to achieve high levels of both socioeconomic and racial diversity."- Lee C. Bollinger Office of the President202 Low Library, 535 W. 116 St., MC 4309 · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-9970 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close