Skip to main content Stanford University Stanford Office of the President Search this site Submit Search Menu Home News & Updates Biography Speeches & Writings All University Speeches ‘Stanford Magazine’ columns University Governance University Governance Overview Committees Community Board on Public Safety Related Offices Past Presidents Contact Search this site Submit Search Marc Tessier-Lavigne Stanford University's eleventh president Latest updates President’s statement on discovery of noose May 9, 2022 In a message to the campus community, Stanford President Marc Tessier-Lavigne shares distress, outrage, and urgent resolve regarding Sunday's incident. Read more about President’s statement on discovery of noose The Stanford Doerr School of Sustainability May 4, 2022 I am writing with some exciting news about our new school focused on climate and sustainability, Stanford’s first new school in 70 years. Read more about The Stanford Doerr School of Sustainability Welcome to spring quarter March 28, 2022 President Tessier-Lavigne highlights some of the events, milestones, and celebrations to look forward to this spring as Stanford begins a new academic quarter. Read more about Welcome to spring quarter Welcome to spring quarter March 28, 2022 Stanford President Marc Tessier-Lavigne welcomes the campus community to spring quarter by highlighting upcoming events, progress on the new school focused on climate and sustainability and university awards that celebrate excellence in our community. Read more about Welcome to spring quarter See all news & updates A Vision for Stanford Stanford is ideally placed to interpret and enhance the transformation of the human experience in a rapidly changing world. You can learn more and follow the progress of our strategic plan at ourvision.stanford.edu. Support for Student Groups The Stanford Fund Partnership Program: On-Campus Funding for Student Activities The Stanford Fund Partnership Program is a unique arrangement between The Stanford Fund, the Office of Student Engagement, and hundreds of Stanford's undergraduate student groups. It is designed to supplement other on-campus funding in lieu of students fundraising externally. Office Hours Stanford students are invited to sign up for one-on-one office hours with President Tessier-Lavigne. More info Stanford University Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.