Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of the President Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Announcements Speeches Opinion Interviews Administration Office of the President You are here: Home The Arts at Columbia The Arts at Columbia Photo by Eileen Barroso From the outset of his administration, President Bollinger has said that the arts are essential to the Columbia experience, and that the University’s New York City location provided a unique opportunity for achieving this goal. The University’s renowned School of the Arts is home to a remarkable collection of admired faculty artists that include a long list of Pulitzer Prize, Tony Award and Oscar-winners. Its Miller Theatre has carved out a unique niche in New York’s world of new and classical music. To expand student access and engagement in the cultural opportunities provide by the city, President Bollinger created the Columbia Arts Initiative. By design, both the School of the Arts and the Wallach Art Gallery will be at the center of the University’s new Manhattanville campus in the Lenfest Center for the Arts that will welcome the public to innovative exhibitions and performances in fine art, music, film, dance, creative writing and theater. Uptown, a new triennial, displays the work of artists who live or practice north of 99th Street in the Wallach Gallery on the Manhattanville campus Lenfest Center for the Arts The home of state-of-the-art performance, screening and presentation spaces for students, faculty and the surrounding community in West Harlem. Photo by Eileen Barroso School of the Arts A thriving, diverse community of visionary artists from around the world and a faculty comprised of acclaimed and internationally renowned creative artists, filmmakers, writers, critics and scholars. Photo by James Xue Arts Initiative A pioneering venture to encourage students, faculty and staff to experience the creative life of the campus, engage the cultural riches of New York City and the world, and create arts and performance. Arts at Columbia From dance and music to the literary arts and film, some of the most exceptional creative minds come to Columbia to hone and share their works. Wallach Gallery The University's premier visual arts space, now located in the Lenfest Center for the Arts, the gallery serves as a platform for critically acclaimed exhibitions and a dynamic range of programming. Miller Theater One of the most vital forces nationwide for innovative programming, dedicated to producing unique events, with a focus on contemporary and early music, jazz, opera, and multimedia performances. Photo by Matthew Murphy Morningside Lights Each new fall semester on the Morningside Heights campus brings Morningside Lights, a community celebration of the arts organized by Processional Arts Workshop with the Miller Theater and the Columbia Arts Initiative. Community members and Columbians gather to build hand-crafted lanterns that illuminate a theme, and parade them through the surrounding neighborhood in a festival of light. Office of the President202 Low Library, 535 W. 116 St., MC 4309 · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-9970 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close