Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of the President Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Announcements Speeches Opinion Interviews Administration Office of the President You are here: Home Interviews Interviews Interviews and Conversations What Is College Worth? Stay Tuned with Preet, February 17, 2022 Preet speaks with Columbia University President Lee Bollinger about the state of free speech on college campuses, and whether society places too much value in a college degree. Will SCOTUS Kill Affirmative Action? Stay Tuned with Preet, February 10, 2022 As the Court weighs banning the consideration of race in college admissions, Bollinger discusses the fragile future of affirmative action. Do we need to rethink how we handle classified leaks? ABA Journal: Modern Law Library, July 7, 2021 First Amendment scholars Lee Bollinger and Geoffrey Stone discuss their book "National Security, Leaks and Freedom of the Press: The Pentagon Papers Fifty Years On." One Man’s Quest to Break Open the Secretive World of American Voting Machines Politico, June 25, 2021 Why doesn’t anyone know what a voting machine costs? A First Amendment Case That Made an ‘Incoherent State of the Law’ The New York Times, June 9, 2021 The Pentagon Papers decision, hailed as a flat-out free-speech victory, in reality had a more complicated effect. The Columbia Guide to the Pentagon Papers Case Columbia Magazine, Spring/Summer 2021 In 1971, the US government sued to stop the New York Times from publishing classified documents, sparking a momentous Supreme Court battle. Fifty years later, alumni and faculty tell us why this case matters more than ever. The Lawfare Podcast: 'National Security, Leaks and Freedom of the Press' April 20, 2021 President Bollinger and Professor Geoffrey Stone spoke about their new book, National Security, Leaks and Freedom of the Press on a LawFare Podcast with host Jack Goldsmith. Do US-China educational exchanges serve American interests? April 12, 2021 President Bollinger participated in an event at the John L. Thornton China Center at the Brookings Institution in which American policymakers and education administrators offered perspectives on the current state of U.S.-China educational exchanges and the future direction of such programs. When is Too Much Freedom Too Much? New Thinking for a New World podcast series, March 18, 2021 “The question now is do we believe that completely unregulated speech on the social media platforms and the internet will, the way that it’s structured, really result in a good outcome because good speech can counter bad speech?" President Bollinger talks to Alan Stoga of the Tällberg Foundation. President Bollinger in Conversation with the Prime Minister of Greece, Kyriakos Mitsotakis December 2, 2020 Bollinger and Mitsotakis discussed "The Greek Transformation: Overcoming a Financial Crisis, Populism, and COVID" in this World Leaders Forum event. Reflecting on the History and Legacies of Reconstruction October 23, 2020 President Bollinger moderated an online panel with Kimberlé Crenshaw, Eric Foner, and Henry Louis Gates, Jr. Free to State: The New Free Speech Washington Post Live, October 7, 2020 President Bollinger was interviewed by journalist Frances Stead Sellers on the past, present, and future of free speech in the United States. Columbia University President On New ICE Regulations Regarding International Students All Things Considered, July 9, 2020 President Bollinger talks to NPR's Mary Louise Kelly about his opposition to new regulations for international students released by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. Interviews Archive President Bollinger on Freedom of Speech and Press President Bollinger on Diversity in Education Office of the President202 Low Library, 535 W. 116 St., MC 4309 · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-9970 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close