University of Southern California Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Masters Programs Doctoral Programs Executive Education Graduate Certificate Programs Online Learning Dual Programs Admission Departments Governance and Management Health Policy and Management Public Policy Wilbur H. Smith III Department of Real Estate Development Urban Planning and Spatial Analysis Research Economic Development Environment Governance Health Care Nonprofits & Philanthropy Real Estate Security Social Innovation Transportation Urban Planning & Spatial Analysis Faculty Career Services About Our History About the Dean Messages from the Dean Board of Councilors School Leadership Statement of Core Values Students On a Mission Life in Los Angeles Newsletter Archive Academic Integrity Student Advocacy and Bias Reporting Fight On! News More Price Grads Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion Current Students Events Calendar Accessibility at Price Alumni Faculty Perspectives Blog Global Engagement Our Podcasts ROTC Nautical Science Give Now Menu Search in https://priceschool.usc.edu/ Academic Programs Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Masters Programs Doctoral Programs Executive Education Graduate Certificate Programs Online Learning Dual Programs Admission Departments Governance and Management Health Policy and Management Public Policy Wilbur H. Smith III Department of Real Estate Development Urban Planning and Spatial Analysis Research Research at USC Price Economic Development Environment Governance Health Care Nonprofits & Philanthropy Real Estate Security Social Innovation Transportation Urban Planning & Spatial Analysis Faculty Career Services About Our History About the Dean Messages from the Dean Board of Councilors Price School Leadership Statement of Core Values Students On a Mission Life in Los Angeles Newsletter Archive Academic Integrity Student Advocacy and Bias Reporting Fight On! News More Price Grads Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion Current Students Events Calendar Accessibility at Price Alumni Faculty Perspectives Blog Global Engagement Our Podcasts ROTC Programs Nautical Science Give Now Improving The Quality Of Life For People And Communities Worldwide Explore Programs Admissions From Nairobi to L.A.: USC Price and Dornsife grad aims for international impact Serish Thakker is ready to shake up the world of international development. After graduating, the USC double major will begin working as a senior associate at Chemonics International, a development firm. Read More Watch the USC Price Class of 2022 Commencement Livestream Find Your Field of Study Health Policy & Management Learn to meet the shifting demands of health policy and management. LEARN MORE Nonprofits & Philanthropy Gain the skills and training you need to lead complex nonprofit organizations. Learn More Public Administration Prepare to become a leader in public service with multifaceted coursework. Learn More Public Policy Activate your passion for public policy and society’s most pressing issues. Learn More Real Estate Development Master the challenges and tasks of real estate across all product types. Learn More Urban Planning Address the complex challenges facing urban areas. Learn More Health Policy & Management Learn to meet the shifting demands of health policy and management. LEARN MORE Nonprofits & Philanthropy Gain the skills and training you need to lead complex nonprofit organizations. Learn More Public Administration Prepare to become a leader in public service with multifaceted coursework. Learn More Public Policy Activate your passion for public policy and society’s most pressing issues. Learn More Real Estate Development Master the challenges and tasks of real estate across all product types. Learn More Urban Planning Address the complex challenges facing urban areas. Learn More On a Mission USC Price students are on a mission to accomplish bold visions. As deeply engaged global citizens, they ask difficult questions, challenge longstanding answers and seize each obstacle as a new opportunity. Most of all, they are leaders in their fields who are leveraging Price degrees to make a difference. Students on a Mission On a Mission USC Price students are on a mission to accomplish bold visions. As deeply engaged global citizens, they ask difficult questions, challenge longstanding answers and seize each obstacle as a new opportunity. Most of all, they are leaders in their fields who are leveraging Price degrees to make a difference. Students on a Mission Faculty: Knowledge in Action Price faculty are renowned for their expertise, depth of contributions to their fields, engagement with policy leaders at the local, state, national and international levels, and the actionable knowledge resulting from their work. We are proud to have faculty with expansive and diverse academic backgrounds – including economics, international relations, organizational behavior, philosophy, political science, psychology, sociology, social ethics and more – that enhance their scholarship within the Price School’s core academic areas. Explore Research Faculty: Knowledge in Action Price faculty are renowned for their expertise, depth of contributions to their fields, engagement with policy leaders at the local, state, national and international levels, and the actionable knowledge resulting from their work. We are proud to have faculty with expansive and diverse academic backgrounds – including economics, international relations, organizational behavior, philosophy, political science, psychology, sociology, social ethics and more – that enhance their scholarship within the Price School’s core academic areas. Explore Research In The News Julián Castro: To win in the midterms, Democrats need to address affordable housing and student loan debt PhD graduate plans to use planning to make a difference From Nairobi to L.A.: USC Price and Dornsife grad aims for international impact USC Price valedictorian says she’s ready for a rapidly changing real estate world USC Price grad advocated for people with disabilities before the U.N., Indian Supreme Court USC faculty: Latest IPCC report commands action, not words, from policymakers Read More News Sign up for news and updates from the USC Price School Email (required) * Select list(s) to subscribe toWebsite Signup Yes, I would like to receive emails from USC Sol Price School of Public Policy. (You can unsubscribe anytime) Constant Contact Use. Please leave this field blank. By submitting this form, you are consenting to receive marketing emails from: USC Sol Price School of Public Policy, 1150 South Olive Street, Los Angeles, CA, 90015, https://priceschool.usc.edu. You can revoke your consent to receive emails at any time by using the SafeUnsubscribe® link, found at the bottom of every email. Emails are serviced by Constant Contact Explore Price Academic Programs Undergraduate Master's Doctoral Executive Leadership Graduate Certificate Programs Online Learning Academic Fields Health Policy & Management Nonprofits & Philanthropy Public Administration Public Policy Real Estate Development Urban Planning Research Economic Development Environment Governance Health Care Nonprofits & Philanthropy Real Estate Security Social Innovation Transportation Urban Planning & Development USC Price School of Public Policy USC Sol Price School of Public Policy Ralph and Goldy Lewis Hall 311 Los Angeles, California 90089-0626 (213) 740-6842 | [email protected] Price School Intranet Price School Webmail Faculty Jobs Faculty Publications Research Centers and Initiatives Privacy Notice Notice of Non-Discrimination FacebookTwitterYoutubeInstagramFacebookTwitterPodcastsWeChat