Skip to Main Content Brown University Masters in Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship Search Menu Site Navigation Home Format Apply Tuition/Financial Aid FAQs Courses PRIME@Work People Events Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship Events RI Hub Venture Café Providence Events FAQs School of Engineering Student Awards Innovation Management and Design Engineering Research Roots of Entrepreneurial Education Healthy Brown Search Masters in Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship PRIME Masters in Innovation Management & Entrepreneurship, PRIME, is a STEM Masters of Science (ScM) degree based in Brown's School of Engineering PRIME Masters in Innovation Management & Entrepreneurship, PRIME, is a STEM Masters of Science (ScM) degree based in Brown's School of Engineering PRIME students experience the process of creating value from technology, learn how to develop embryonic ideas and execute how to bring these ideas to market. Core business skills in finance, strategy, marketing, decision making, globalization and management are provided to assure venture success. Students are given the opportunity to participate in a program established internship with a PRIME-partnering company during their studies. Full-time on campus students also participate in business immersion activities, including an internship course and a week-long trip to the San Francisco Bay area, where they interact with company executives, government representatives, and technologists, richly enhancing their classroom experiences. PRIME students leverage numerous Engineering School resources for prototype development. PRIME graduates have secured positions in consulting, investment banking, health/medical companies, information technology, traditional engineering companies, small technology firms and as founders of new ventures. The application for the Class of 2023 is now closed for non-Brown 5th Years. Brown 5th Years have until May 1, 2022 to submit the application. The application for the Class of 2024 will be available September 1, 2022. View application requirements here. Healthy Brown “Healthy Brown” is a goal and a core value guiding efforts to ensure the health, safety and well-being of the Brown University community. Brown has developed and implemented public health plans based on the guidance of medical and public health experts for managing infectious diseases in a pandemic, including the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. LEARN MORE Format | Resources Residential and Blended Delivery options available Visit Page Open details for Format | Resources Apply The application for the July 2022 intake, PRIME Class of 2023, is now available Visit Page Open details for Apply Curriculum We help develop entrepreneurial technology leaders with skills to maximize impact for themselves, their companies and society Visit Page Open details for Curriculum PRIME Request information for Brown's Masters in Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship. INQUIRE NOW Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin PRIME enables you with an understanding about the world and entrepreneurship, but most importantly it builds confidence to start a new venture. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Format Apply Tuition/Financial Aid FAQs Courses PRIME@Work People Events Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship Events RI Hub Venture Café Providence Events FAQs School of Engineering Student Awards Innovation Management and Design Engineering Research Roots of Entrepreneurial Education Healthy Brown This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search PRIME Open details for PRIME Bookmark this Page