Skip to main content Mobile Main Navigation About Us Resources Programs, Trainings and Events Donate Mobile Utility Navigation Contact Us Harvard Medical School MyHMS Menu Utility Navigation Contact Us Harvard Medical School MyHMS Search Main navigation About Us Our Story Our Work Our Team Leadership Faculty and Affiliates Student Leadership Resources Newsletter Primary Care Review Harvard Home for Family Medicine Research and Publications Partnerships Podcast Programs, Trainings and Events For Professionals For Students Donate Spotlight on Primary Care Advocacy Watch interviews with key primary care advocates and organizers More info OUT NOW: Primary Care in COVID report Download our comprehensive report on the impacts of COVID on primary care practices. Download here! NASEM Report: Implementing High-Quality Primary Care Watch a discussion about the new National Academies report on Primary Care Learn More Reimagining Primary Healthcare - for all, by all View the recording of a dynamic conversation with global health leaders. Learn More STATEMENT OF SOLIDARITY Primary healthcare should address racism, discrimination and structural inequities. Read More Mission Fight for primary care that improves lives around the world. Join the Movement The Harvard Home for Family Medicine A community of HMS students, residents, and attendings engaged in family medicine. Visit the HHFM Why Primary Care? Delivering the best, most efficient primary care is the greatest challenge facing medicine today. Because primary care serves as the foundation of all medical care—both care delivered and care averted. Despite facing serious challenges from outdated approaches to reimbursement, care delivery, and medical records, we believe in the potential of primary care to keep people healthy and connect them to the full spectrum of care available when needed. That is why we are committed to fostering a dynamic community at Harvard Medical School to promote and support primary care resilience, equity, and value in order to improve health and well-being. At the Center, we create programs and products to help HCP and patients navigate challenges in healthcare. The Economic and Clinical Impact of Covid-19 on Provider Practices Full Article Covid-19 has affected practices everywhere. A survey of health care providers reveals significant adverse effects on the ability to serve patients and sustain the practice. Learn more about the economic and clinical impact of reduced patient visits and prescription use on practices. Virtual Event: Pediatric Mental Health During COVID & Beyond Join us July 19, 12-1 p.m., EDT Learn more Medical Director Leadership Institute A six-month virtual program that provides health care leaders critical skills to thrive in their role. Learn more Family Medicine Video Series Hear what physicians have to say about the field of family medicine and why they're so passionate about it. Watch the videos Virtual Event: Intro to Weight Bias Join us June 1, 6:30-8:30 p.m. EDT Learn more Facebook twitter linkedin instagram youtube 635 Huntington Avenue Second Floor Boston, MA 02115 (617) 432-2222 Footer Accessibility Privacy Policy © 2022 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College