Skip to Main Content Brown University Masters in Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship Search Menu Site Navigation Home Format Apply Tuition/Financial Aid FAQs Courses PRIME@Work People Events Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship Events RI Hub Venture Café Providence Events FAQs School of Engineering Student Awards Innovation Management and Design Engineering Research Roots of Entrepreneurial Education Healthy Brown Search Masters in Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship FAQs Accepting applications for the Class of 2023, July 2022 start Visit Brown Whether virtually or in person, getting to know Brown’s campus through the eyes of a current student is a great way to learn more about life as a Brunonian. Click link below for more detail regarding both types of tours. LEARN MORE ABOUT BROWN FAQs Accepting applications for the Class of 2023, July 2022 start We are pleased that you chose to learn more about PRIME, Brown University's Masters of Science in Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship offered in the School of Engineering. The following are answers to some frequently asked questions about the program: 5th Year Masters Brown University undergraduates have the opportunity spend a fifth year at Brown to earn a Master of Science in Innovation Management & Entrepreneurship degree. The 5th Year ScM is an efficient way of learning the process of creating value from technology, learning how to develop embryonic ideas and bringing them to the market. You will learn core business skills in finance, strategy, marketing, decision making, globalization and management. Courses Required: 6 core classes and an internship are required to complete the program. 5th Years are not required to take the electives and will not be charged for the 2 courses; therefore providing a 25% reduction in tuition. Undergraduate courses are required to be entered in the online application and must be approved by the director. Click here for admission requirements. Deadline is May 1, 2022 How do I apply and what materials are required? All applications for PRIME must be completed online. Please click here for the online application. REQUIREMENTS: Unofficial transcripts from all Post-Secondary Education (official transcripts will be requested upon acceptance) 3 letters of recommendation CV or resume Personal statement: (1000-1500 words stating your reason to pursue graduate work) Opportunity to express your interest pertaining to the development of the business and technical foundations for successful careers in areas related to innovation and entrepreneurship. The statement should include examples of your past work in your chosen field, your plans for study at Brown, and your professional goals. GRE scores: Required Brown reporting code: 3094. There is no departmental / major code. TOEFL or IELTS Scores: Required for any non-native English speaker who does not have a degree from an institution where English is the sole language of instruction. GRE scores: Required Brown reporting code: 3094. There is no departmental / major code. Brown University is now accepting the at-home version of the TOEFL and GRE. GMAT scores may be submitted in place of the GRE. Application fee of $100 Is PRIME a STEM program? Yes, the degree issued is a Masters of Science in Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship (PRIME), under the School of Engineering and is a STEM program. Is funding available? Currently, scholarships are not available for the PRIME program. Students are encouraged to explore work opportunities on the Brown campus. Research and Teaching Assistant positions are available for students to apply to. Student loans are also available through our Office of Financial Aid to eligible applicants who submit the FAFSA by April 15. When is the deadline for applications? The application for the Class of 2023 is now closed for non-Brown 5th Years. The application for the Class of 2024 will be available September 1, 2022. Brown 5th Years have until May 1, 2022 to submit the application. How do I request a waiver for the TOEFL or IELTS requirement? If you earned a degree from an institution where English is the sole language of instruction the TOEFL will be waived. It is done automatically within the online application. When does the program start? All students must begin the program in July due to the sequential and accelerated nature of the program. Students begin the 2 required summer courses fully online. PRIME students earn an ScM degree in one academic year. Please note this is a non-thesis degree. What is the minimum TOEFL score for admission? The minimum score for admission consideration is 100+ on the Internet-based test. How do I request a GRE waiver? Brown University is now accepting the at-home version of the TOEFL and GRE. GMAT scores may be submitted in place of the GRE. Please contact prime@brown.edu if you are looking to request a waiver. What GRE scores and GPA are required for admission? Each application is assessed holistically. In addition to GRE scores, the other requirements to apply — the essay, recommendations, transcripts, and resume — all factor into whether a student is considered suitable for admission. The admissions committee looks for the GPA to be 3.0 and higher. Average GRE score for the quantitative is 90% and above, in most instances, given it's a STEM degree. The GMAT is accepted in lieu of the GRE. Average score is typically 700 or better. How does the STEM OPT Extension work for international students? You can find additional information about the STEM extension on the site of our International Student Services department (OISSS). Where do PRIME students find jobs upon graduation? PRIME graduates have secured positions in consulting, investment banking, health/medical companies, information technology, traditional engineering companies, small technology firms and as founders of new ventures. Do I need to have an engineering or science background in order to be admitted? PRIME is primarily designed for a student who has an engineering, computer science, applied math, or physical/biological science undergraduate degree. Students with undergraduate degrees in economics, business and industrial design who have an interest in innovation management and entrepreneurship have also successfully completed the program. What resources are available to help PRIME graduates find employment? Resources are available to PRIME students through Brown’s Career Lab, Nelson Center interactions and via contacts established within the program with alumni and senior executives. How much is tuition, and what fees are associated with it? Tuition for PRIME's 2022-2023 Academic Year is $68,072. PRIME students are required to complete 8 courses. The program structure is: 2 + 3 + 3 2 required PRIME courses in the summer, 2 required + 1 elective in the fall and 2 required + 1 elective in the spring. For additional information please visit the Graduate School website. Visiting Brown University and the PRIME Program Whether virtually or in person, getting to know Brown’s campus through the eyes of a current student is a great way to learn more about life as a Brunonian. More detail regarding both types of tour can be found on the pages below, along with registration information. LEARN MORE Additional Questions? If you have additional questions regarding the PRIME program, please contact our enrollment team at prime@brown.edu. Visit Brown Whether virtually or in person, getting to know Brown’s campus through the eyes of a current student is a great way to learn more about life as a Brunonian. Click link below for more detail regarding both types of tours. LEARN MORE ABOUT BROWN Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Format Apply Tuition/Financial Aid FAQs Courses PRIME@Work People Events Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship Events RI Hub Venture Café Providence Events FAQs School of Engineering Student Awards Innovation Management and Design Engineering Research Roots of Entrepreneurial Education Healthy Brown This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search FAQs Open details for FAQs Bookmark this Page