Skip to Main Content Brown University Masters in Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship Search Menu Site Navigation Home Format Apply Tuition/Financial Aid FAQs Courses PRIME@Work People Events Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship Events RI Hub Venture Café Providence Events FAQs School of Engineering Student Awards Innovation Management and Design Engineering Research Roots of Entrepreneurial Education Healthy Brown Search Masters in Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship Curriculum We help develop entrepreneurial technology leaders with skills to maximize impact for themselves, their companies and society Curriculum We help develop entrepreneurial technology leaders with skills to maximize impact for themselves, their companies and society The PRIME curriculum, like technology and innovation, is constantly evolving as we strive to continually improve the student experience. Students will be informed of any curriculum changes prior to enrollment. All students are required to complete 6 core courses, 2 program director approved electives, and an internship – all with a technology focus in STEM, as well as, entrepreneurship. The internship may be waived if a student is working or involved in a start-up; program director's approval required. PLEASE NOTE: The 2 required summer courses are delivered fully online and begin in July. In-person classes will begin in the Fall term. PRIME course structure is as follows: 2 + 3 + 3. (2 required PRIME courses in the summer, 2 required + 1 elective in the fall and 2 required + 1 elective in the spring). CURRICULUM FORMAT: TERM COURSE SUMMER (begins fully online in July) Business Engineering Fundamentals I | ENGN2110 Business Engineering Fundamentals II | ENGN2120 Most offered Engineering Management & Decision Making | ENGN2125 Fall or Spring Technology Entrepreneurship & Commercialization I | ENGN2150 Technology Entrepreneurship & Commercialization II | ENGN2160 Globalization Immersion Experience & Entrepreneurship Lab | 2180 2 Required Electives Elective – Director approved Fall or Spring Internship Program Required Course Descriptions Business Engineering Fundamentals I | ENGN2110 Introduces core concepts in accounting, financial management, and corporate strategy. The final third of the course leverages these core concepts in the context of entrepreneurial finance. Business Engineering Fundamentals II | ENGN2120 This course introduces students to the essentials of marketing: how firms and consumers behave and what strategies and methods people can use to successfully operate in today’s dynamic environment. Engineering Management and Decision Making | ENGN2125 Develops skills required to understand intellectual property issues and to conduct intellectual property due diligence analyses of patent-stage, non-commercially deployed technologies. Students also engage in analyses of commercially available platform technologies. In both contexts, students consider novel product or service concepts for these technologies and evaluate their market potential. Technology Entrepreneurship & Commercialization I | ENGN2150 It teaches creation of viable high-growth-potential new ventures from emerging science and technology. It is from emerging S&T that a high percentage of new jobs are created, both by existing large companies and through the formation of new companies. Students will examine S&T for new opportunities, create novel product or service concepts from these sources and determine whether these concepts truly represent new business opportunities. Pedagogy is a combination of lectures and "experiential learning", with work undertaken as a two-semester project. Technology Entrepreneurship & Commercialization II | ENGN2160 Develops core skills in marketing and design and provides students with a framework for the development of perceived market opportunities into compelling business cases for the creation of a high growth, technology-enabled, ventures. Globalization Immersion Experience & Entrepreneurship Laboratory | ENGN2180 Develops an understanding of the political, social and cultural dynamics that influence entrepreneurial enterprises in different regions. 2 Elective Courses Popular electives include courses in finance, strategy, data analytics, or graduate level courses in a student's undergraduate discipline. Electives must be approved by the student's PRIME advisor. Exemplar Electives at Brown Please note not all may be available. PRIME students are able to explore all courses at Brown; typically focusing on course numbers ranging 1000-2000+ (typical Graduate Student courses). Visit cab.brown.edu to explore options. Opportunities to cross register at Harvard and RISD Innovation and Commercialization in Medical Devices, Diagnostics, and Wearables | BIOL2528 This course provides a comprehensive overview of concepts and steps involved in developing and commercializing novel technology/scientific breakthroughs for medical devices, diagnostics and wearables. This course is particularly suitable for students interested in pursuing a career within a medical device segment, or creating innovation-based companies, as well as for those interested in developing an in-depth knowledge of evolution of medical devices from research concepts to products in the market. Design of Robotic Systems | ENGN1931 Designing kinetic systems (i.e., systems requiring movement or motion) relies on both mechanical and electrical engineering. These systems include everything from mobile robots for rescue operation to electrically powered moving sculptures. Through a series of projects, students combine knowledge of electronic circuit design, sensors, actuators, motors, microcontrollers, control theory, and programming to build interactive art and robotic systems. Projects culminate in the design of a creative kinetic system that incorporates several of the principles learned in class. Probability, Statistics and Machine Learning | DATA1010 An introduction to the mathematical methods of data science through a combination of computational exploration, visualization, and theory. Students will learn programming basics, topics in numerical linear algebra and scientiﬁc computing, mathematical probability (probability spaces, Bayes theorem, and the central limit theorem), statistics (point estimation, conﬁdence intervals, hypothesis testing, maximum likelihood estimation, density estimation, bootstrapping, and cross-validation), and machine learning (regression, classiﬁcation, and dimensionality reduction, including linear regression, decision trees, support vector machines, neural networks, principal component analysis, t-SNE, Bayes nets, MCMC, Bayesian methods and probabilistic programming). Investments I | ECON1710 This class discusses the function and operation of asset markets; the determinants of the prices of stocks, bonds, options and futures; the relations between risk, return, and investment management; the capital asset pricing model, normative portfolio management, and market efficiency. Investments II | ECON1750 Individual securities: forwards, futures, options and basic derivatives, pricing conditions. Financial markets: main empirical features, equity premium and risk-free rate puzzles, consumption based asset pricing models, stock market participation, international diversification, and topics in behavioral finance. Corporate Finance | ECON1720 In this course, we will focus on financing, valuation and the strategic financial management of a firm, i.e., understanding the value implications of investment and financing decisions that firms make. By the end of this course, you should be able to: evaluate corporate projects and make decisions based on the analysis of financial data, analyze a firm's financial statements and undertake a comprehensive valuation, understand how investment and financing decisions impact the value of a firm, and develop complex spreadsheet models in Excel. The Theory & Practice of Sustainable Investing | ENVS1545 21st century businesses and investors face a broadening and deepening array of Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) risks and opportunities. Climate change, water scarcity, community conflicts, resource depletion, supply chain breakdowns, worker well-being and economic inequality pose present material challenges that make sustainability an imperative for successful corporations and investors. We will examine current ESG strategy, trends, future scenarios, players, and frameworks and integrate that theory with practical investment performance analysis, metrics, and study of screens, asset classes, and diversification. Entrepreneurial Management in Adversity | ENGN1931Q Companies get into trouble all the time -- making wrong products for the market, failing to meet sales quotas. This course examines actions a company must take in adverse conditions. There is never enough time to hire consultants, do research, hire new employees. Top Management must make decisions, often with insufficient data and alternative 'sub-optimal' options. Primary objectives are to understand analysis and rapid action when faced with adversity; identify the cause of adversity, building solutions to prevent recurrence or give management the skills to solve problems; and develop recommendations and action plans to 'sell' to the Board of Directors. Innovation & Technology Management | ENGN2130 Examines core concepts through four modules: (1) Industry Dynamics of Technological Innovation, (2) Formulating Technological Innovation Strategy, (3) Implementing Technological Innovation Strategy, and (4) Early Commercialization and Deployment. Industry Dynamics of Innovation will explore some drivers of technology innovation. Implementing Technological Innovation Strategy explores execution issues concerning the flow of technology and innovation from concept to physical product or service. Early Commercialization and Deployment will focus on more salient strategic and operational issues related to commercial readiness and roll-out of a technology-based product or service. Emphasis will be on technology oriented entrepreneurial enterprises, but exploration also includes larger more established organizations. PRIME enables students with a reliable business foundation, supportive network, and most importantly, the confidence to succeed in the entrepreneurial world. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Format Apply Tuition/Financial Aid FAQs Courses PRIME@Work People Events Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship Events RI Hub Venture Café Providence Events FAQs School of Engineering Student Awards Innovation Management and Design Engineering Research Roots of Entrepreneurial Education Healthy Brown This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Curriculum Open details for Curriculum Bookmark this Page