Skip to Main Content Brown University Masters in Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship Search Menu Site Navigation Home Format Apply Tuition/Financial Aid FAQs Courses PRIME@Work People Events Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship Events RI Hub Venture Café Providence Events FAQs School of Engineering Student Awards Innovation Management and Design Engineering Research Roots of Entrepreneurial Education Healthy Brown Search Masters in Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship Apply The application for the July 2022 intake, PRIME Class of 2023, is now available Sub Navigation In This Section Tuition/Financial Aid FAQs Apply The application for the July 2022 intake, PRIME Class of 2023, is now available PRIME is a STEM-master’s program in the School of Engineering, that prepares students with core business skills in finance, strategy, marketing, decision making and globalization to assure venture success. Our students experience the process of creating value from technology and learn how to develop and execute embryonic ideas in the market. The program is primarily designed for a student who has an engineering, computer science, applied math, or physical/biological science undergraduate degree, although students with undergraduate degrees in economics, business and industrial design who have an interest in innovation management (STEM focused) and entrepreneurship have also successfully completed the program. The application for the Class of 2023 is now closed for non-Brown 5th Years. Brown 5th Years have until May 1, 2022 to submit the application. The application for the Class of 2024 will be available September 1, 2022. Online Application for Brown 5th Year Only We look forward to considering your application. APPLY NOW US Applicants International Applicants Brown Seniors US Applicants Unofficial transcripts from all Post-Secondary Education (official transcripts will be requested upon acceptance) 3 letters of recommendation CV or resume Personal statement: (1000-1500 words stating your reason to pursue graduate work) Opportunity to express your interest pertaining to the development of the business and technical foundations for successful careers in areas related to innovation and entrepreneurship. The statement should include examples of your past work in your chosen field, your plans for study at Brown, and your professional goals. GRE scores: Official scores required. GMAT scores may be submitted in place of the GRE. Brown reporting code: 3094. There is no departmental / major code. TOEFL or IELTS Scores: Not required Brown University is now accepting the at-home version of the GRE. GMAT scores may be submitted in place of the GRE. International Applicants Unofficial transcripts from all Post-Secondary Education (official transcripts will be requested upon acceptance) 3 letters of recommendation CV or resume Personal statement: (1000-1500 words stating your reason to pursue graduate work) Opportunity to express your interest pertaining to the development of the business and technical foundations for successful careers in areas related to innovation and entrepreneurship. The statement should include examples of your past work in your chosen field, your plans for study at Brown, and your professional goals. GRE: Official scores required Brown reporting code: 3094. There is no departmental / major code. TOEFL or IELTS: Official scores required for any non-native English speaker who does not have a degree from an institution where English is the sole language of instruction. The TOEFL ITP Plus exam is accepted from students in mainland China. Brown University is now accepting the at-home version of the TOEFL and GRE. GMAT scores may be submitted in place of the GRE. Brown Seniors Unofficial transcripts from all Post-Secondary Education (official transcripts will be requested upon acceptance) 2 letters of recommendation CV or resume Personal statement: (1000-1500 words stating your reason to pursue graduate work) Opportunity to express your interest pertaining to the development of the business and technical foundations for successful careers in areas related to innovation and entrepreneurship. The statement should include examples of your past work in your chosen field, your plans for study at Brown, and your professional goals. GRE scores: Not required If submitting: Brown reporting code: 3094 TOEFL or IELTS scores: Not required May be eligible PRIME Scholarship* *Inquire to prime@brown.edu Joining the PRIME community will enable you with a reliable business foundation, supportive network, and most importantly, the confidence to succeed in the entrepreneurial world.” Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Format Apply Tuition/Financial Aid FAQs Courses PRIME@Work People Events Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship Events RI Hub Venture Café Providence Events FAQs School of Engineering Student Awards Innovation Management and Design Engineering Research Roots of Entrepreneurial Education Healthy Brown This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Apply Open details for Apply Bookmark this Page