Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Print Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Print Services Mail Services Graphic Design Scanning Copier Program Frequently Asked Questions About Us Banners and Posters Binding and Finishing Black and White Copies Booklets Bookmarks Brochures Business Cards Clings Color Copies Envelopes Flyers Invitations Newsletters Postcards Stationery Wall Graphics Locations and Hours Our Team Sustainability Feedback and Questions Testimonials Columbia Print You are here: Home Print Services Print Services Print Services A wide variety of options to meet all your printing needs. Available Print Services The following print services are available through Columbia Print. Banners and Posters Banners and Posters A professionally printed poster can create a long-lasting impression with your audience that will help you grow the awareness of your event, program, or message. Binding and Finishing Binding and Finishing The binding and finishing services offered by Columbia Print can help you produce attractive, professional quality documents that you’ll be proud to distribute. Black and White Copies Black and White Copies As standard practice, we use 100% recycled paper on black and white copies, without an additional cost to you. Booklets Booklets We offer professional quality booklets on a variety of paper stocks with a wide range of binding options such as saddle stitching, perfect binding, plastic comb and spiral binding. Brochures Brochures A high-quality brochure is a sure-fire way to showcase your department or program. Business Cards Business Cards Columbia Print can provide you with professional quality business cards and stationery for your office or personal use. Clings Clings Clings can be used for different applications, such as advertising announcements, signage, and banners that are intended for temporary use without the need for additional adhesive. Color Copies Color Copies Our color copies are perfect for presentations or when you just need a few quality color prints of a document. Envelopes Envelopes We can produce any type of envelope you may need at quantities as low as 250. Flyers Flyers Flyers are a great way to promote your next event or program. Invitations Invitations We can produce high-quality invitations for your event in a variety of formats and styles. Newsletters Newsletters Newsletters are a great way to inform people about your programs and departments. Postcards Postcards Postcards are a simple yet effective and affordable way to promote your special event, new program launch, or special announcement. Stationery Stationery Columbia Print can provide you with professional quality business cards and stationery for your office. Samples of our work: Image Carousel with 13 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: Booklets Slide 2: Invitations Slide 3: Banners Slide 4: Color Copies Slide 5: Stationery Slide 6: Binding and Finishing Slide 7: Black and White Copies Slide 8: Brochures Slide 9: Business Cards Slide 10: Posters Slide 11: Envelopes Slide 12: Newsletters Slide 13: Postcards Booklets Invitations Banners Color Copies Stationery Binding and Finishing Black and White Copies Brochures Business Cards Posters Envelopes Newsletters Postcards Previous Next Columbia Print - Morningside CampusPulitzer Hall, 2950 Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Columbia Print - CUIMC Campus[email protected] ∙ , 701 W 168th St · New York, NY 10032 Phone Morningside: (212) 854-3233 CUIMC: (212) 305-8362 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close