Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Print Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Print Services Mail Services Graphic Design Scanning Copier Program Frequently Asked Questions About Us Banners and Posters Binding and Finishing Black and White Copies Booklets Bookmarks Brochures Business Cards Clings Color Copies Envelopes Flyers Invitations Newsletters Postcards Stationery Wall Graphics Locations and Hours Our Team Sustainability Feedback and Questions Testimonials Columbia Print You are here: Home Documents Give Us Your Feedback Give Us Your Feedback January 14, 2020 Whether your experience was good (or not so good), we appreciate your feedback and will do everything we can to keep improving Columbia Print and our service to you. Please take a few moments to complete our feedback form below to let us know how we're doing. If you would like someone to follow up with you, please include your UNI. Webform How satisfied are you with the completed print job you received? Very satisfied Satisfied Neutral Unsatisfied Very unsatisfied What specific things can Columbia Print do to increase your satisfaction with our service? Why would you recommend Columbia Print? Or why not? How satisfied are you with the service you received from our team members? Very satisfied Satisfied Neutral Unsatisfied Very unsatisfied Is there a Columbia Print team member you would like to provide feedback on? How knowledgeable was our team member who assisted you? Very knowledgeable Knowledgable Somewhat knowledgeable Unknowledgeable Very unknowledgeable How courteous was our team member who assisted you? Very courteous Courteous Somewhat courteous Uncourteous Very uncourteous How effective was the communication of our team member who assisted you? Very effective Effective Somewhat effective Ineffective Very ineffective How enthusiastic was our team member about assisting you? Very enthusiastic Enthusiastic Somewhat enthusiastic Unenthusiastic Very unenthusiastic Approximately how often do you use Columbia Print? This is my first time About once per month Several times per month Several times per year How likely are you to recommend Columbia Print to a colleague? Very likely Likely Somewhat likely Not likely Very unlikely Have you submitted an order with Print Shop Pro, our online ordering system? Yes No We're always working to improve your online experience - what can we do to improve Print Shop Pro? If you would like us to follow up with you, please include your UNI: Submit Columbia Print - Morningside CampusPulitzer Hall, 2950 Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Columbia Print - CUIMC Campus[email protected] ∙ , 701 W 168th St · New York, NY 10032 Phone Morningside: (212) 854-3233 CUIMC: (212) 305-8362 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close