Jump to main content User menu Log in Search form Search × Princeton Army ROTC In the Nation’s Service and the Service of Humanity Main menu Our History Cadre Links Princeton Air Force ROTC Princeton Center for International Security Studies Princeton Navy ROTC Princeton Student Veterans Association, undergraduate chapter Princeton Student Veterans Organization, graduate chapter Eligibility Scholarships Financial Aid Training Combat Water Survival Training Field Training Exercises (FTX) Leadership Labs Military Science Courses Physical Training (PT) Ranger Challenge Summer Training Opportunities News Events Princeton ROTC Commissioning 2022 Rowan ROTC Commissioning 2022 Contact Us Princeton Army ROTC Highlights Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Mark Milley (center) administers the oath of office to Princeton’s ROTC Class of 2022. Photo by Sameer A. Khan/Fotobuddy President Christopher L. Eisgruber '83 delivers remarks to over 200 ROTC and veteran alumni, students, faculty and invited guests at the celebration of 100 years of ROTC at Princeton. Lieutenant General Christopher Cavoli ’87, Commander, U.S. Army Europe (USAREUR) delivers remarks for the 100th Anniversary celebration of ROTC at Princeton on Veterans Day, November 11, 2019. CDT Eliza Ewing '20 leading the presentation of colors during the 100th celebration of ROTC at Princeton. 2019 Tiger Battalion Awards Banquet took place on April 25th at the Trenton Country Club GEN Milley and President Eisgruber join Princeton ROTC Cadre from the Army, Navy and Air Force and its newly commissioned 2nd Lieutenants and Ensigns after Princeton's first tri-service commissioning ceremony in decades General Mark A. Milley '80 explains the significance of the Oath of Office Tiger Battalion Princeton Army ROTC embodies Princeton's motto, “In the Nation's Service, and the Service of Humanity”. Since the birth of the United States Army, Princetonians have answered the nation's call. In 1919, Princeton ROTC began training officers to lead the nation's sons and daughters, and preparing Princetonians for distinguished careers in many diverse fields. The program now also includes cadets from The College of New Jersey, Rider University and Rowan University. TCNJ and Rider cadets belong to the Lion Company, and Rowan cadets belong to the Owl Company of Tiger Battalion. The objective of the Officer Education Program at Princeton is simple: "We Train to Lead." Princeton Army ROTC develops leadership skills that will last a lifetime. Princeton Army ROTC cadets are your peers; extraordinary students who embody the ROTC model of Scholar, Athlete, and Leader. ROTC Alumni span the globe and include leaders in every profession; all bonded by the unique experience of Army ROTC at Princeton, TCNJ, Rider and Rowan Universities. Regardless of your career plans, discover military service and the Army through Princeton Army ROTC. This opportunity is commitment-free. If you are interested in learning more about the program, email armyrotc@princeton.edu or call (609) 258-6177. Princeton ROTC In the Nation's Service Video of Princeton ROTC, in the Nation&amp;#039;s Service What's New in the Tiger Battalion - Photos & Articles View All News After Princeton graduation, ROTC students are commissioned as U.S. Army and Marine Corps officers Sixteen... Read more > Princeton Army ROTC Commissioning Ceremony Princeton’s Army ROTC Program will host its annual commissioning ceremony on the afternoon of May 16th at 3:00 pm Eastern Standard Time. The... Read more > Army ROTC students will be able to live on campus in the fall, U. confirms Students participating in the Army Reserve Officer... Read more > Princeton Army ROTC, 294 Alexander Street, Princeton, NJ 08540 Phone: 609-258-4225 Facebook Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University