Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Print Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Print Services Mail Services Graphic Design Scanning Copier Program Frequently Asked Questions About Us Banners and Posters Binding and Finishing Black and White Copies Booklets Bookmarks Brochures Business Cards Clings Color Copies Envelopes Flyers Invitations Newsletters Postcards Stationery Wall Graphics Locations and Hours Our Team Sustainability Feedback and Questions Testimonials Columbia Print You are here: Home About Us Testimonials Testimonials Why choose Columbia Print for your design, print, and production needs? Check out these testimonials from our happy customers, via our feedback form. Why would you recommend Columbia Print? "Columbia Print is always professional, understanding of my needs and always gets the job done quickly and efficiently!" "Helpful, understanding, efficient, personable, timely staff." "Excellent, professional and speedy service!" "You have a huge assortment of options to choose from and your knowledge of the University helps you guide your customers to the best solution." "Their customer service and the quality of work is always to perfection." "Customer service is great on the phone and via email. I am always able to reach someone when I have questions." "The team is always very helpful, accommodating, and ready to help with last-minute projects." "Online ordering is easy and efficient. Service was very fast!" "Professional, knowledgeable and prompt." "Excellent customer service!" "The team has been super helpful anytime I have contacted them. They always know what questions to ask to ensure everything looks perfect." "Primarily for the convenience as well how knowledgeable and helpful all are." "Such keen workmanship." What specific things can Columbia Print do to increase your satisfaction with our service? "Nothing. Your work is always of the highest quality and your team is great to work with." "There is absolutely nothing extra that they can do as they always go above and beyond to get the job done!" "None. The service I received was excellent. They responded to my request promptly with a proof for a custom order and I receive the cards next day. I don't think it can get better than that. Great job!" "That was much faster than I thought. Also, I cannot thank you enough for catching a few errors in the file before printing. Your team is kind, fast and thorough. Thank you, again!" Customers also said: "If there was a way to hug all of you through this comment box I would." "As always, but especially this Commencement, your printing services made such a difference. You helped us get creative and fun for the students. Thank you so much for the suggestions and being so prompt and reliable!" "I don't think my voicemail accurately captures how excited we all are about the printed format. The color is beautiful, the foil looks great, the images all sparkle and look open and bright. Thank you so much for your attention to detail and the TLC you brought to this project. It shines through!" Free Estimates Available Click Order Now above to begin a new order or to submit a request for an estimate. Have Questions? Refer to our Frequently Asked Questions. Locations & Hours Morningside Campus 106 Pulitzer Hall p: (212) 854-3233 f: (212) 854-4421 Hours: Monday – Friday 9:00 a.m.– 5:00 p.m. Closed Saturday and Sunday CUIMC Campus Hammer Health Sciences Building 2nd Floor (At the far end of the floor–past the e-lounge computers.) p: (212) 305-6989 Hours Monday – Friday 9:00 a.m. – 1:00p.m. and 2:00p.m. – 5:00 p.m. Closed Saturday and Sunday (212) 854-3233 [email protected] Columbia Print - Morningside CampusPulitzer Hall, 2950 Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Columbia Print - CUIMC Campus[email protected] ∙ , 701 W 168th St · New York, NY 10032 Phone Morningside: (212) 854-3233 CUIMC: (212) 305-8362 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close