Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Print Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Print Services Mail Services Graphic Design Scanning Copier Program Frequently Asked Questions About Us Banners and Posters Binding and Finishing Black and White Copies Booklets Bookmarks Brochures Business Cards Clings Color Copies Envelopes Flyers Invitations Newsletters Postcards Stationery Wall Graphics Locations and Hours Our Team Sustainability Feedback and Questions Testimonials Columbia Print You are here: Home News Columbia Print Transforms Campus Spaces with Custom Wall Graphics Columbia Print Transforms Campus Spaces with Custom Wall Graphics While many Columbia students, faculty, and staff have been working and studying remotely during the COVID-19 pandemic, Columbia Print has been hard at work beautifying spaces on and off campus with their custom, larger-than-life wall graphics. April 06, 2021 The Print team has created everything from interior wall designs – transforming the Columbia Institute for Social and Economic Research and Policy (ISERP) office and Event Management’s conference room – to exterior window graphics commemorating the anniversary of the first known COVID-19 case at NewYork-Presbyterian/Columbia University Irving Medical Center (CUIMC). ISERP ISERP is Columbia University's research institute dedicated to the social sciences, supporting researchers, faculty, and students through research development, education and training programs, centers, workshops, and administrative support. Their space accommodates students and researchers working on ISERP-funded projects, and the conference room is available to social science affiliates. It was recently upgraded with new audio-visual equipment including a podium and TV, cameras for videoconferencing, and ceiling microphones. ISERP came to Columbia Print in the fall of 2019 with a blank canvas. They’d just renovated the space and asked the Print team to turn it from dark and empty into something vibrant and alive. Columbia Print took measurements, consulted on the most eco-friendly materials available – including recycled sustainable wallpaper – and got to work. Because of the COVID-19 pandemic, the job took about a year to complete. Before/After Images of the ISERP Space: Image Carousel with 4 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: "Before" photo of the ISERP space. A group of people stand off to the side and look at a large, blank, white wall in their newly-renovated but empty office. Slide 2: "After" photo of the ISERP space. A colorful, zig-zag pattern of custom designs covers the formerly white wall, with the ISERP logo and mission statement on the centerpiece of the design. Slide 3: "Before" photo of the ISERP space. A slanted ceiling with surrounded white walls in an office space with some empty cubicles down below. The space was recently renovated and appears overly blank and white. Slide 4: "After" photo of the ISERP space. The formerly-white ceiling and walls are now covered in the colorful, zig-zag pattern of the custom wall graphic, making the space look more vibrant, finished, and welcoming. Previous Next Event Management Sanjay Mahajan, Executive Director for Columbia’s University Event Management (EM) department, approached Columbia Print this past winter with a request for a better Zoom background. With the uptick in virtual meetings, Mahajan wanted to improve the appearance of the EM conference room with a step-and-repeat design bearing the Columbia logo. Columbia Print’s Senior Graphic Artist Brian Herzig worked on a variety of designs through five rounds of feedback which culminated in the final design, pictured below. The design was printed on a removable wall graphic substrate using Print’s recently purchased Latex printer. The adhesive is strong and long lasting, but also easily removable without peeling the paint, and it feels like wallpaper to the touch. CUIMC In February, to commemorate the one-year anniversary of the first known COVID-19 case and to thank those on the front lines of the pandemic, CUIMC administrators tasked Columbia Print with creating and installing three 80-by-192-inch banners on the glass windows of the Auditorium on 168th Street. The team took the measurements, advised on the best sizing, printed, coordinated, and executed installation – all in just five days. Learn more about wall graphics and other Columbia Print services at print.columbia.edu. Image Carousel with 2 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: A banner thanking essential medical personnel at CUIMC and NY-Presbyterian for their work in the COVID-19 pandemic. Three medical workers pose for photos wearing protective masks and gloves. Beneath their photos the words "We are stronger because of you" and the Columbia logo are displayed. Slide 2: A banner thanking essential medical personnel at CUIMC and NY-Presbyterian for their work in the COVID-19 pandemic. Three medical workers pose for photos wearing protective masks and gloves. Beneath their photos the words "We are stronger because of you" and the Columbia logo are displayed. Previous Next Tags Wall Graphics News April 06, 2021 Columbia Print Transforms Campus Spaces with Custom Wall Graphics February 04, 2021 Ricoh Highlights Partnership with Columbia Print in Press Release October 12, 2020 Columbia Print Produced Over 75,000 Assets to Aid in Campus Reopening March 20, 2020 Columbia Print Continues to Operate Online, Walk-in Service Suspended March 13, 2020 Columbia Print Recognized for its Sustainability Efforts in Magazine Profile Columbia Print - Morningside CampusPulitzer Hall, 2950 Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Columbia Print - CUIMC Campus[email protected] ∙ , 701 W 168th St · New York, NY 10032 Phone Morningside: (212) 854-3233 CUIMC: (212) 305-8362 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close