Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Print Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Print Services Mail Services Graphic Design Scanning Copier Program Frequently Asked Questions About Us Banners and Posters Binding and Finishing Black and White Copies Booklets Bookmarks Brochures Business Cards Clings Color Copies Envelopes Flyers Invitations Newsletters Postcards Stationery Wall Graphics Locations and Hours Our Team Sustainability Feedback and Questions Testimonials Columbia Print You are here: Home Copier Program Copier Program Copier Program Columbia Print offers centralized purchasing, leasing, and servicing of copiers for the Columbia community. By centralizing copier administration, we are able to pass along beneficial discounts to you, including all equipment acquisition, maintenance, and supply costs. The University strongly recommends that departments acquire a multi-function device (MFD) (i.e. copier that prints, scans and if necessary fax). By acquiring a MFD the department/school minimizes its maintenance spend by eliminating the need to have multiple maintenance contracts for each piece of equipment. All MFD leases and purchases are managed by Columbia Print through the University’s approved Lessor for office equipment (Ricoh USA, Inc – Current Lessor & Equipment Supplier). Departments/schools are billed by Columbia Print on a monthly basis through IDI eliminating the need for requisitions when acquiring leased or purchased MFD’s through Columbia Print. See instructions below on “How to Order a Copier” to initiate the purchase and/or lease of a MFD. Do You Qualify? To qualify for lease, each MFD must meet the following criteria: Each lease must have a minimum order value of $2,500 per equipment cost and per location. Lease Term will be based on equipment values: a. Equipment with values of $2,500 - $34,999 will be at a maximum term of three (3) years. b. Equipment with values over $35,000 will be at a maximum term of four (4) years. It is not advantageous to lease office equipment for periods longer than four (4) years due to wear and tear and rapidly changing technology. Available Copiers Review the Ricoh PDF brochures below to select a copier that best meets your departmental needs: Color Devices: Ricoh IM C2000 / IM C2500 Ricoh IM C3500 Ricoh IM C4500 / IM C6000 Ricoh MP C6503 / MP C8003 Black & White Devices: Ricoh IM 330F Ricoh IM 550F Ricoh MP2555SP Ricoh MP 4055SP / Ricoh MP 5055SP / Ricoh MP 6055SP Ricoh MP 6503SP / Ricoh MP7503SP / Ricoh MP 9003SP leaf icon Paperless Statements In our ongoing effort to be sustainable, Columbia Print is no longer printing copier charge statements. To review your monthly charges, go to ARC FDS Reporting to see charges in the “Transaction Description/Vendor Name” column. Charges for copier maintenance are debited to account #63290 and charges for copier lease fees are debited to account #63293. For more information, please contact us at [email protected]. exclamation-circle icon Is Your Copier Printing Spam? If your copier is spam printing (spontaneously printing unwanted pages), please contact your Ricoh technician for quick resolution. Spam printing issues on other print devices (i.e. printers, faxes) should be reported to your local IT office. tachometer icon Meter Reading Meter reads are collected monthly via remote pull by Columbia Print. If unable to pull, Print will reach out to departments to assist with the meter read. trophy icon Sustainability Success Stories Ricoh featured the Columbia University School of Nursing and the CUIMC Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology in its Sustainability Success Stories publication. Learn more about how the departments reduced their environmental impacts through partnering with Ricoh and Columbia Print. How to place an order: Choose A Copier Review the list of available copiers above to choose one that best meets your departmental needs. Request a Price Quote Send an email to [email protected] requesting a price quote or further information. A customer service representative will contact you within 24 to 48 hours to review your needs. You can also schedule a site review to have any space, electronic, or networking concerns surveyed in person. Review Final Quote Review the final quote sent from customer service representative. Financial Approval To order, have your DAF (financial approving officer) send an email with complete chartstring, which will act as departmental financial authorization, along with a copy of final quote to [email protected] or faxed to (212) 854-4421 for processing. Estimated delivery from this point is generally 3 to 5 weeks, depending on copier inventory status and accessories ordered/copier configuration. Schedule Delivery Upon receipt of purchase order, your customer service representative will work directly with you to schedule delivery and installation (generally 2 to 4 weeks), including any requirements for network administrator support. Billing Columbia Print will bill you upon successful completion of install for total purchase price or first month lease through IDI. Subsequent lease payments and maintenance charges will be billed monthly. Columbia Print - Morningside CampusPulitzer Hall, 2950 Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Columbia Print - CUIMC Campus[email protected] ∙ , 701 W 168th St · New York, NY 10032 Phone Morningside: (212) 854-3233 CUIMC: (212) 305-8362 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close