Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Print Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Print Services Mail Services Graphic Design Scanning Copier Program Frequently Asked Questions About Us Banners and Posters Binding and Finishing Black and White Copies Booklets Bookmarks Brochures Business Cards Clings Color Copies Envelopes Flyers Invitations Newsletters Postcards Stationery Wall Graphics Locations and Hours Our Team Sustainability Feedback and Questions Testimonials Columbia Print You are here: Home Documents Feedback and Questions Feedback and Questions Have feedback on our services or our staff? Need an answer to a question? We are constantly working to improve our service to you. In order to do that, we need to hear both where we need to improve so we can make changes, and what we are doing well so that we can keep doing it. Equally important to us is helping you understand our services and how to request them so that you get exactly the outcome you are looking for in the shortest amount of time possible. Use the form below to submit your feedback or question and we will respond to you as quickly as possible. Webform Your feedback or question: To help us prioritize how we review feedback, please indicate the type of feedback you are providing, or whether you have a question (we want to respond more quickly if you have a question, or if you've had a bad experience to make sure it doesn't get worse) Positive feedback A question A negative experience Ideas for improvement Use this text field to provide your feedback and let us know what we can do better or keep doing well. (Maximum of 1,500 characters) Optional feedback: We appreciate your responses to these questions, but they are not required. However, if you would like a response to your feedback or question, please make sure to enter your UNI. How satisfied are you with the print jobs we have completed for you in the past? Very satisfied Satisfied Neutral Unsatisfied Very unsatisfied How satisfied are you with the service you've received from our staff? Very satisfied Satisfied Neutral Unsatisfied Very unsatisfied Approximately how often do you use Columbia Print? This is my first time About once per month Several times per month Several times per year How likely are you to recommend Columbia Print to a colleague? Very likely Likely Somewhat likely Not likely Very unlikely If you would like us to follow up with you, please include your UNI: Submit Columbia Print - Morningside CampusPulitzer Hall, 2950 Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Columbia Print - CUIMC Campus[email protected] ∙ , 701 W 168th St · New York, NY 10032 Phone Morningside: (212) 854-3233 CUIMC: (212) 305-8362 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close