Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Print Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Print Services Mail Services Graphic Design Scanning Copier Program Frequently Asked Questions About Us Banners and Posters Binding and Finishing Black and White Copies Booklets Bookmarks Brochures Business Cards Clings Color Copies Envelopes Flyers Invitations Newsletters Postcards Stationery Wall Graphics Locations and Hours Our Team Sustainability Feedback and Questions Testimonials Columbia Print You are here: Home About Us Our Team Our Team Our Team Learn more about the Columbia Print team. Ulysses L. Grant As Production Coordinator, Ulysses Grant assists clients with all printing needs including file set-up, editing, printing and finishing. He has been a valued member of the Columbia Print team since 1991. Salvador J. Bernardino Sal Bernardino is the Bulk Mail Manager for Columbia Print. He is responsible for coordinating the fulfillment and shipping of large volume mail jobs, as well as the messenger service. A true Columbia veteran, Sal has been employed with the University since 1968. Robert Kuzmiak Rob Kuzmiak is a Production Coordinator for Columbia Print. Among his responsibilities, Rob coordinates in-coming projects and print requests. As a liaison between clients and the production team, he is tasked with finding solutions that best fit each design and budget. He began working at Columbia in the summer of 2007. Miguel A. Pagan Miguel Pagan is the Executive Director of Administrative Services, charged with the leadership of Columbia Mail, Columbia Print, and Columbia Transportation. Mike provides strategic and operational oversight to these departments, with a focus on customer service, operational efficiency, and sustainable solutions. Having joined the University in 2004, Mike brings significant operational focus and expertise to the organization. He spent nearly two decades in healthcare administration, debuting in a staff position at Mt. Sinai Hospital and rising to Corporate Director of Materials Management at St. Luke’s-Roosevelt Hospital. Matthew J Dougherty As Assistant Director, Matt Dougherty is responsible for the day to day operations of Columbia Print’s Morningside and CUMC locations. He is tasked with overseeing project coordination, graphic design and customer service across all clients. Matt earned a degree in graphic design from William Paterson University and began his career as a production manager and graphic designer at a corporate advertising agency. He joined Columbia in October of 2006 with several year's experience under his belt. Domingo Tapia As a Production Coordinator for Columbia Print, Domino Tapia assists all University departments with their printing needs and ensures that any and all printing requests are fulfilled and any issues resolved. Before joining the team in 1991, Domingo was as a manager at a printing company and also has some experience in the real estate industry. Daniel P. Romanello As Associate Director at Columbia Print, Dan Romanello works closely with the entire Print team to ensure that they are providing a superior print product with quick turnaround times. He also focuses on creating an excellent customer service experience for all clients on both the Morningside and Medical Center campuses. Dan spent over 20 years working in private sector printing before coming to Columbia in 1996. Sort Department Group Function Keyword filter: Filter Filter Filter Filter AllLetter Profiles, showing - Clear filtersFilterFilterFilterFilter no photo photo of edit edit Columbia Print - Morningside CampusPulitzer Hall, 2950 Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Columbia Print - CUIMC Campus[email protected] ∙ , 701 W 168th St · New York, NY 10032 Phone Morningside: (212) 854-3233 CUIMC: (212) 305-8362 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close