Skip to main content Princeton University Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × COVID-19 Information Masks are optional in most University spaces. The visitor policy has been updated, effective May 16. See the COVID Resources site for details. University Covid Resources ‘The value of persistence’: Princeton Class of 2022 celebrates Commencement The University awarded 1,234 undergraduate degrees and 655 graduate degrees during a Commencement ceremony held in Princeton Stadium on Tuesday, May 24. Read more Dr. Fauci to Princeton seniors on Class Day: ‘It is our collective responsibility not to shrug our shoulders’ or to accept ‘the normalization of untruths’. He also encouraged the graduating class to join others and 'work with all our might to remedy the cultural disease of racism, just as we fight the viral disease of COVID-19.' Read more More University News Stories Baccalaurate speaker Wendy Kopp ’89: The path to happiness is to align our lives with our values. Princeton's Baccalaureate service, one of the University's oldest traditions, offers seniors a chance to look back and think ahead. Kopp, who founded Teach For America and Teach For All, told them, “Our society’s injustices are solvable, but they are also massive and complex, and it takes a lot of time to make a meaningful impact in the face of them — so the path of no regrets is to start early.” Read more More University News Stories At Hooding, a ritual celebration of extraordinary scholarly accomplishment. Princeton’s Ph.D. and master’s degree recipients were honored in a ceremony held May 23 on Cannon Green. Read more More University News Stories After Princeton graduation, ROTC students are commissioned as U.S. Army and Marine Corps officers. Sixteen members of Princeton’s Class of 2022 became commissioned officers in the U.S. Army and Marine Corps on May 24 during a ceremony led by Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Mark Milley, Class of 1980. Read more More University News Stories #VentureForward The Venture Forward campaign promotes alumni engagement and service, in the spirit of the University’s informal motto: “In the nation’s service and the service of humanity.” Dare to Venture University News Select a news category All News Academics Campus Life Research University News Princeton women's Varsity Four rowers win national title Read more World Series of Birding title goes to a Princeton student team Read more Princeton marks more than 50 years of kosher dining on campus Read more Margaret and Robert Hariri name new dormitory to support undergraduate expansion Read more 2022 Commencement Salutatio by Frances Mangina (Latin and English) Read more 2022 Valedictory remarks by Natalia Orlovsky Read more New partnerships, programs and positions are part of Princeton’s ongoing commitment to combat systemic racism. Princeton is providing an interim update on the University-wide and department-level initiatives launched during the 2021-22 year as part of the University's ongoing commitment to combat systemic racism. A full annual report will be released in the fall. Read more More Diversity & Inclusion Stories Environmental research at Princeton is addressing the world's challenges. Research groups across the University are making pivotal contributions across the spectrum of environmental issues. The Princeton Environmental Research portal tracks the full scope of activity arising out of more than a dozen different academic units, from physical, biological and applied sciences to art, architecture, psychology, policy and more. Read more More Research Stories Upcoming Events View All Mindfulness Meditation - Virtual Event Jun 2 12:30 p.m. MINDFULNESS MEDITATION Thursdays at 12:30pm A weekly breathing meditation session led by Dean Matt Weiner. Open to all Princeton University ID holders (… Special Events, Wellness Drawing from the Collections | Colored Pencils: Observing Color in the Everyday Jun 2 8:00 p.m. The Museum is partnering with the Arts Council of Princeton to provide free online drawing classes. Weekly classes are taught by artist-instructor Barbara… Arts Jummah Gathering Jun 3 1:00 p.m. JUMMAH PRAYER Fridays at 1pm, Murray-Dodge Hall Join our Jummah Gathering in Murray-Dodge Hall beginning at 1pm Qur’anic Recitation, 1.15pm Call to Prayer (… Special Events, Religious Princeton Actors Collective presents Old Times Jun 3 Wallace Dance & Theater 7:30 p.m. Princeton-based actors & Program in Theater guest artists Katharine Powell, Vivia Font, and Ben Steinfeld share an actor-led investigation of "Old Times,"… Arts, Theater Guided Tour of "Through A Glass Darkly: Alchemy and the Ripley Scrolls 1400-1700" Jun 4 1:00 p.m. A 45-minute guided tour of the latest exhibition in the Milberg Gallery in Firestone Library at Princeton University. Tours meet in the lobby of Firestone… Community Princeton Actors Collective presents Old Times Jun 4 Wallace Dance & Theater 2:00 p.m. Princeton-based actors & Program in Theater guest artists Katharine Powell, Vivia Font, and Ben Steinfeld share an actor-led investigation of "Old Times,"… Arts, Theater Study at Princeton Our approach to learning combines the best aspects of a great research university and an outstanding liberal arts college. Areas of Study Learning Abroad Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Work at Princeton Every employee has the opportunity to make an impact supporting our mission of teaching and research. Faculty and Academic Positions Staff Positions Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice