Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Print Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Print Services Mail Services Graphic Design Scanning Copier Program Frequently Asked Questions About Us Banners and Posters Binding and Finishing Black and White Copies Booklets Bookmarks Brochures Business Cards Clings Color Copies Envelopes Flyers Invitations Newsletters Postcards Stationery Wall Graphics Locations and Hours Our Team Sustainability Feedback and Questions Testimonials Columbia Print You are here: Home Print Services Business Cards Business Cards Columbia Print can provide you with professional quality business cards for your office. Image Carousel with 2 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: Business card samples Slide 2: Business card samples Business card samples Business card samples Previous Next Columbia Print makes it easy for you to order business cards for your role at Columbia University, or for the members of your department. University-approved templates are available for Morningside Campus (including all administrative departments and students), Columbia University Irving Medical Center, Mailman School of Public Health, and Lamont-Doherty (including IRI). We are also able to consult on the proper use of University branding on all of your stationery. There are different processes for ordering business cards for employees and students. Please refer to the additional information below to ensure that you place your order correctly based on your role. Expand all Collapse all Faculty & Staff Business Cards Columbia University faculty & staff business cards can be ordered through our online ordering system. Use the Order Now button to the right to begin the process. You will need to have your ARC chart string to complete your order. Student Business Cards In this economy, it’s imperative that you stand out when applying for jobs and meeting employers at networking events. A well-designed business card can be one of the most valuable tools you can use to distinguish yourself from the competition. 250 cards for $40 plus tax. Student business cards are very high quality, printed on the same paper and inks as Columbia University faculty and staff cards. Placing an Order: Click the Order Now button on this page or come in person to our Morningside or CUIMC locations between the hours of 9:00 am and 4:00 pm, Monday - Friday. Orders can be picked up from our location or delivered to via to an alternate address via FedEx ground for an additional $15. How long will it take to receive my order? Business cards can take up to 7-10 business days to produce. You will receive an email when the cards are ready for pickup or have been shipped. Who can order cards? All students of Columbia University are eligible to order cards using the standard Columbia University student business card template. This includes students at Teachers College, Union Theological Seminary, Barnard College, School of Social Work, Lamont-Doherty and Columbia University Irving Medical Center. Mailman School of Public Health, Columbia Law School and Columbia Journalism School students can order using their school’s official student business card template. Free Estimates Available Click Order Now above to begin a new order or to submit a request for an estimate. Have Questions? Refer to our Frequently Asked Questions. Locations & Hours Morningside Campus 106 Pulitzer Hall p: (212) 854-3233 f: (212) 854-4421 Hours: Monday – Friday 9:00 a.m.– 5:00 p.m. Closed Saturday and Sunday CUIMC Campus Hammer Health Sciences Building 2nd Floor (At the far end of the floor–past the e-lounge computers.) p: (212) 305-6989 Hours Monday – Friday 9:00 a.m. – 1:00p.m. and 2:00p.m. – 5:00 p.m. Closed Saturday and Sunday (212) 854-3233 [email protected] Columbia Print - Morningside CampusPulitzer Hall, 2950 Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Columbia Print - CUIMC Campus[email protected] ∙ , 701 W 168th St · New York, NY 10032 Phone Morningside: (212) 854-3233 CUIMC: (212) 305-8362 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close