Skip to main content Search: Submit Search Search Filters: Search Options Search This Site Search Cornell University Privacy Main Menu Search Home About Us Our Services Key Partners Organizational Chart Staff Directory Contact Us Privacy at Cornell University Privacy Statement Privacy Principles at Cornell University Privacy Committee Privacy Framework Key Regulations University Policies Information Use Information Use at Cornell Use of Location Data Report a Concern About Us Our Services Key Partners Organizational Chart Staff Directory Contact Us Privacy at Cornell University Privacy Statement Privacy Principles at Cornell University Privacy Committee Privacy Framework Key Regulations University Policies Information Use Information Use at Cornell Use of Location Data Report a Concern Breadcrumb Home About Us Staff Directory Directory Listing Christine Stallmann Chief Compliance Officer Christine Stallmann joined Cornell in 2007 and most recently served as associate vice president in the Department of Environmental Health and Safety and Risk Management. Prior to Cornell, Christine had 17 years of industry experience with Alcoa Inc, in multiple global positions, primarily involving safety, risk, supply chain and compliance management, as well as auditing. Christine has been called upon nationally for her expertise. Contact cms353@cornell.edu 607-255-2800 395 Pine Tree Rd, Suite 330 Alexis Brubaker Associate Compliance Officer Alexis Brubaker is the associate compliance officer for Cornell University. Alexis began her tenure at with the university in 2012. Alexis previously served as the university biosafety officer within Cornell’s Environmental Health and Safety unit. Alexis has a background in forensic science and microbiology. She previously worked in bioterrorism response for state government, before starting her biosafety career at the National Institutes of Health (NIH). In her role as associate compliance officer, Alexis oversees the University Compliance, Policy, and Privacy Offices. She has 15 years of experience in risk reduction and compliance, with extensive experience in project planning, leading teams, and business analysis. Contact ab2324@cornell.edu 607-255-2800 395 Pine Tree Rd, Suite 330 Lindsay LaLonde Executive Staff Assistant Lindsay LaLonde joined Cornell in 2010 and began increasing responsibilities with each position. Prior to joining the office of CRS, she was with Student and Campus Life which has brought out her compassionate side. Using her business expertise and motivation, she has taken on multiple leadership roles. Lindsay is a self-starter and is eager to support and grow the important needs of the office. Contact lmb92@cornell.edu 607-255-2800 395 Pine Tree Rd, Suite 330 Dave Vernon Assistant Vice President, Chief Technology Officer, Data Privacy Officer R. David Vernon is the Chief Technology Officer and the Data Privacy Officer at Cornell University. He joined Cornell in late 1999. His leadership responsibilities span a broad suite of IT services including but not limited to IT governance, data networking, voice services, enterprise applications, system engineering, data architecture and analytics, hosting services, support services and cloud initiatives. Prior to joining Cornell, David work at Indiana University’s information technology organization in support of research computing, instructional technology, data networking and general IT architecture. He is also currently the chair of the NYSERnet.org board. Contact rdv2@cornell.edu 607-255-6461 Maple Ave 120 See Also: Children and Youth Safety Compliance and Risk Services Emergency Management and Business Continuity Environment, Health and Safety Ethics and Compliance Hotline Office of Student Health Benefits University Compliance University Policy Admin CRS Staff Portal University Privacy 395 Pine Tree Road, Suite 330 East Hill Office Building Ithaca, NY 14850 Phone: 607-255-2800 Contact Us If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.