Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Procurement & Business Services Main navigation Home Home Contact Us Organizational Chart Procurement Purchasing Purchasing & PCard Forms Department Resources PCard Policy Training Resources Virtual Office Hours Suppliers Payables & Tax Payables Payables Forms Procure-to-Pay Tax Information Travel Travel Travel Forms & Training Insurance & Claims Insurance & Claims Insurance & Claims Forms Special Events Property Control Logistics FAQs Forms Open Search Search Search Breadcrumb Home Payables Important Updates Fiscal Year End Closeout Deadlines Reminder for Campus Staff We are quickly approaching the year end close out for fiscal year 2022. Please be reminded of the following deadlines to ensure timely payments. It is imperative that the following deadlines are adhered to... How to Access WebNow using MyCloud WebNow requires the Internet Explorer browser with Java enabled. Due to security concerns with Internet Explorer and Java, OIT provides a virtual desktop environment called MyCloud to safely use it... Changes to Pay Cycles for Checks The Office of Procurement & Business Services has reviewed the frequency of pay cycles for checks and implemented the following changes... Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Accounts Payable Process Crosswalk Workday go-live was on July 1, 2019 and some of the processes for Accounts Payable have changed. All invoices are still to be delivered to apinvoices@gatech.edu with a valid Workday PO number. Please see the AP Crosswalk as a guide on pre Workday processes and how the same tasks can be accomplished in Workday. For additional questions or concerns, please submit a ServiceNow request. Suppliers should use the Supplier Portal for payment inquires. Payment Inquiries Workday PO/Invoice Payment Inquiry (NON-TRAVEL) NOTE: Campus personnel needing to inquire on legacy Travel payments should use Legacy Financials system. The legacy Travel reporting site has been decommissioned. Contacts Questions? Submit a ServiceNow request to Accounts Payable Fax: 404-894-8195 Related Links FAQs Page Policies and Procedures Employee or Independent Contractor? Chart of Accounts Lookup State Department Travel Advisory E-Verify Information for Vendors and Campus Users Allowable Cost Matrix How To Access WebNow using MyCloud Procurement & Business Services Georgia Institute of Technology 711 Marietta ST NW Atlanta, GA 30332 404-894-5000 Procurement & Business Services Map Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN