Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Procurement & Business Services Main navigation Home Home Contact Us Organizational Chart Procurement Purchasing Purchasing & PCard Forms Department Resources PCard Policy Training Resources Virtual Office Hours Suppliers Payables & Tax Payables Payables Forms Procure-to-Pay Tax Information Travel Travel Travel Forms & Training Insurance & Claims Insurance & Claims Insurance & Claims Forms Special Events Property Control Logistics FAQs Forms Open Search Search Search Home FRAUD ALERT We have received reports that suppliers are receiving fraudulent requests from persons impersonating Georgia Tech purchasing staff for the purchase of goods. These requests do not come from Georgia Tech and suppliers should ensure that they perform due diligence on any request for goods and services. Georgia Tech issues purchase orders for all goods and services, and suppliers should ensure that they receive a valid purchase order prior to supplying any goods. Suppliers may check whether a purchase order is valid by navigating to the Workday Supplier PO Validation/Payment Inquiry page and selecting the Purchase Order Inquiry icon. News from Procurement & Business Services Fiscal Year End Closeout Deadlines Reminder for Campus Staff We are quickly approaching the year end close out for fiscal year 2022. Please be reminded of the following deadlines to ensure timely payments. It is imperative that the following deadlines are adhered to... Georgia Per Diem Rate Increase - Effective February 1, 2022 The Institute has been notified by the State Accounting Office and the University System of Georgia of an increase in the Per Diem allowance within the State of Georgia, effective February 1, 2022... Procurement Training Required for RQ Reviewer and Cost Center Manager Roles - Effective January 4, 2022 Effective January 4, 2022, all users who request to have the RQ Reviewer or Cost Center Manager role will need to complete both Procurement training courses before the role request will be approved... Mileage Reimbursement Rate Change - Effective January 1, 2022 The Institute has been notified by the State Accounting Office of an increase in mileage reimbursement rate, effective January 1, 2022... UPS Shipping Alternatives Due to Contract Expiration Georgia Tech Procurement & Business Services has been advised by the Georgia Department of Administrative Services, State Purchasing Division (SPD) that contract negotiations with United Parcel Service (UPS) are ongoing. The previous agreement expired on November 27, 2021. State customers, including Georgia Tech, have been moved to UPS’s published commercial pricing schedule and terms... How to Access WebNow using MyCloud WebNow requires the Internet Explorer browser with Java enabled. Due to security concerns with Internet Explorer and Java, OIT provides a virtual desktop environment called MyCloud to safely use it... Georgia Tech COVID-19 Business Travel Requirements Summary - Effective June 14, 2021 Conditions have changed and policies have been revised. Business travel requirements will be updated as needed... Purchasing Virtual Office Hours Purchasing is hosting regular Virtual Office Hours to help answer any questions that our campus partners have about current or future Procurement needs. The Virtual Office Hours will be setup by commodity for the general campus and by lab for GTRI... No-Bid Limit Increased, PO Cancellation Procedure Change - Effective February 1, 2021 Effective Monday, February 1, 2021, Georgia Tech will raise the “no-bid” limit for the purchase of goods and services (not covered under a GT or State Contract) to $24,999... Guidelines for Payment or Reimbursement of Meals for Virtual Meetings, Events and Celebrations Institute management would like to provide guidelines to the campus community for payment or reimbursement of meals for virtual meetings, events and celebrations. The intent of existing policies is to pay for or reimburse for meals that would allow work, a meeting or an event to continue when food is not readily available... Staples Home Delivery During COVID-19 As an interim measure for COVID-19, Staples has created a link for PCard holders to be able to set-up their (and/or their co-worker’s) home addresses as delivery destinations for office supplies... Important Procedure Changes for COVID-19 Business Continuity Due to COVID-19 and to ensure business continuity, the Office of Procurement & Business Services is making the following temporary policy/procedure changes... Important Information Year End Information (Controllers office) ImageNow Access Request Form Have Questions? FAQs Page Policy and Procedures Procurement & Business Services Georgia Institute of Technology 711 Marietta ST NW Atlanta, GA 30332 404-894-5000 Procurement & Business Services Map Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN