Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Procurement & Business Services Main navigation Home Home Contact Us Organizational Chart Procurement Purchasing Purchasing & PCard Forms Department Resources PCard Policy Training Resources Virtual Office Hours Suppliers Payables & Tax Payables Payables Forms Procure-to-Pay Tax Information Travel Travel Travel Forms & Training Insurance & Claims Insurance & Claims Insurance & Claims Forms Special Events Property Control Logistics FAQs Forms Open Search Search Search Breadcrumb Home Purchasing Important Updates Procurement Training Required for RQ Reviewer and Cost Center Manager Roles - Effective January 4, 2022 Effective January 4, 2022, all users who request to have the RQ Reviewer or Cost Center Manager role will need to complete both Procurement training courses before the role request will be approved... UPS Shipping Alternatives Due to Contract Expiration Georgia Tech Procurement & Business Services has been advised by the Georgia Department of Administrative Services, State Purchasing Division (SPD) that contract negotiations with United Parcel Service (UPS) are ongoing. The previous agreement expired on November 27, 2021. State customers, including Georgia Tech, have been moved to UPS’s published commercial pricing schedule and terms... FRAUD ALERT We have received reports that suppliers are receiving fraudulent requests from persons impersonating Georgia Tech purchasing staff for the purchase of goods. These requests do not come from Georgia Tech and suppliers should ensure that they perform due diligence on any request for goods and services... Certification of Funding for Conference-Hotel-Venue Reservations - Effective May 25, 2021 Conferences are now permitted. The threshold to require signoffs has been lowered from $50k to $25k effective 05/25/2021... Purchasing Virtual Office Hours Purchasing is hosting regular Virtual Office Hours to help answer any questions that our campus partners have about current or future Procurement needs. The Virtual Office Hours will be setup by commodity for the general campus and by lab for GTRI... No-Bid Limit Increased, PO Cancellation Procedure Change - Effective February 1, 2021 Effective Monday, February 1, 2021, Georgia Tech will raise the “no-bid” limit for the purchase of goods and services (not covered under a GT or State Contract) to $24,999... Staples Home Delivery During COVID-19 As an interim measure for COVID-19, Staples has created a link for PCard holders to be able to set-up their (and/or their co-worker’s) home addresses as delivery destinations for office supplies... Important Procedure Changes for COVID-19 Business Continuity Due to COVID-19 and to ensure business continuity, the Office of Procurement & Business Services is making the following temporary policy/procedure changes... Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Body Overview At Georgia Institute of Technology, the day-to-day procurement activities are carried out by the Purchasing Department. These duties include processing routine purchase orders, conducting bids for goods and services, agency contract administration, purchasing card program administration, and reviewing the Georgia Procurement Manual and communicating updates from Department of Administrative Services (DOAS) to staff and faculty when needed. Georgia Institute of Technology is a unit of the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia (BOR) and an agency of the State of Georgia. All procurement activities are conducted according to the policies and regulations established by DOAS, O.C.G.A. and the BOR. The Institute expects employees responsible for the acquisition of goods and services to make sound purchasing and contracting decisions that conform to all relevant policies and procedures. Department Resources Forms Training PCard Supplier Resources Policy Contacts Questions? Submit a ServiceNow request to Procurement Fax: 404-894-8552 Procurement & Business Services Georgia Institute of Technology 711 Marietta ST NW Atlanta, GA 30332 404-894-5000 Procurement & Business Services Map Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN