Program for Community-Engaged Scholarship (ProCES) Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Main Menu Menu Home About Submenu Meet Our Staff for Faculty Submenu Teach a Course Find Course Support Arrange a Consultation for Students Submenu Find a Course Find an Internship Fund Independent Work Apply for Thesis Prize Explore Service Focus for Graduate Students for Community Partners Submenu Partner Organizations Issue Areas Submenu Children, Youth, and Families Civil Rights and Advocacy Economic and Workforce Development Education and Literacy Environment and Urban Development Food Systems and Gardening Health Housing and Homelessness News Office of the Dean of the College Log in Search Search Program for Community-Engaged Scholarship (ProCES) Learn through Community Engagement : Read About ProCES Courses Students share research with local organizations and the Princeton University community at the Medical Humanities Poster Fair. Read About ProCES Courses The Program for Community-Engaged Scholarship (ProCES) is an academic program that connects the curriculum with Princeton's signature commitment to service. It fosters collaborative, change-oriented projects of an intellectual nature that benefit students, faculty members, and community partners. Announcements Congratulations 2022 Dobin Prize Winners ProCES is proud to award this year's Dean Hank Dobin Prize in Community-Engaged Independent Work. The prize is presented to students whose outstanding thesis best engages a community audience, whether through extensive research, policy recommendations, or new… ENG Students: Summer internship at HomeWorks Trenton This 8-week long internship will provide the selected English major with a paid opportunity to gain experience in public service careers along with Internship Milestone Credit. Interns will work at HomeWorks Trenton in coordination with the Program for Community-Engaged Scholarship (ProCES) and the English Department at Princeton University. This opportunity is open to current junior concentrators in English and sophomores intending to declare an English concentration this spring. View All News for Faculty Community-engaged teaching can enhance student learning, communicate disciplinary knowledge to the broader public, and equip students to be service-oriented scholars and leaders. ProCES resources make it easy to teach a service-oriented course. for Students Do you want to make a difference? From your first semester at Princeton through your senior thesis, ProCES can help you. Find service courses, internships, and funding for community-engaged independent work. for Community Partners ProCES works with a wide range of community partners in the Princeton-Trenton area and beyond to serve the needs of organizations while providing meaningful learning experiences for students. Footer 112 Nassau Street, Suite 300, Princeton, NJ 08542 P: 609.258.9750 proces@princeton.edu Join our student mailing list on MyPrincetonU ProCES Facebook A unit of the Office of the Dean of the College Photos by Fotobuddy Facebook Twitter Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University