Stanford Profiles Menu Browse Schools Graduate School of Business Graduate School of Education School of Earth, Energy and Environmental Sciences School of Engineering School of Humanities and Sciences School of Medicine Institutes & Research Centers Bio-X Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies Institute for Computational and Mathematical Engineering (ICME) Institute for Human-Centered Artificial Intelligence (HAI) Institute for Stem Cell Biology and Regenerative Medicine Precourt Institute for Energy SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory Sarafan ChEM-H Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research (SIEPR) Stanford PULSE Institute Stanford Woods Institute for the Environment Wu Tsai Human Performance Alliance Wu Tsai Neurosciences Institute Administration Office of External Relations Office of VP for University Human Resources Office of Vice President for Business Affairs and Chief Financial Officer Stanford University Libraries Vice Provost and Dean of Research Vice Provost for Student Affairs Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education Sign In Edit My Profile View Stanford-only Results Bio-X Showing 1-10 of 990 Results Geoffrey Abrams, MD Associate Professor of Orthopaedic Surgery Current Research and Scholarly InterestsDr. Abrams' research is focused on elucidating the pathobiology behind tendinoapthy and developing new treatment modalities for the disease. Specifically, his team is studying the role of micro-RNA as it relates to chronic inflammation and stem cell differentiation in the development and perpetuation of chronic tendinopathy. Contact Info 450 Broadway St Mail Code 6342 Redwood City, California 94063 Mail Code: 6342 Monther Abu-Remaileh Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering and, by courtesy, of Genetics BioThe Abu-Remaileh Lab is interested in identifying novel pathways that enable cellular and organismal adaptation to metabolic stress and changes in environmental conditions. We also study how these pathways go awry in human diseases such as cancer, neurodegeneration and metabolic syndrome, in order to engineer new therapeutic modalities. To address these questions, our lab uses a multidisciplinary approach to study the biochemical functions of the lysosome in vitro and in vivo. Lysosomes are membrane-bound compartments that degrade macromolecules and clear damaged organelles to enable cellular adaptation to various metabolic states. Lysosomal function is critical for organismal homeostasis—mutations in genes encoding lysosomal proteins cause severe human disorders known as lysosomal storage diseases, and lysosome dysfunction is implicated in age-associated diseases including cancer, neurodegeneration and metabolic syndrome. By developing novel tools and harnessing the power of metabolomics, proteomics and functional genomics, our lab will define 1) how the lysosome communicates with other cellular compartments to fulfill the metabolic demands of the cell under various metabolic states, 2) and how its dysfunction leads to rare and common human diseases. Using insights from our research, we will engineer novel therapies to modulate the pathways that govern human disease. Contact Info Mail Code: 4300 monther@stanford.edu Nima Aghaeepour Associate Professor (Research) of Anesthesiology, Perioperative and Pain Medicine (Adult MSD), of Pediatrics (Neonatology) and, by courtesy, of Biomedical Data Science BioThank you for your interest. Please use the links on the bottom right side of this page to learn more about our laboratory's work. Contact Info Mail Code: 5175 Aijaz Ahmed, MD Professor of Medicine (Gastroenterology and Hepatology) BioDr. Ahmed is an internationally recognized hepatologist with expertise in the treatment of acute and chronic liver diseases. He is a board-certified specialist in gastroenterology and hepatology, transplant hepatology, and obesity medicine. Currently, he serves as the Medical Director of the Adult Liver Transplant Program at Stanford University. Dr. Ahmed graduated from Dow Medical College, Karachi, Pakistan. He completed his residency training in Internal Medicine at Brown University, Providence, RI and fellowship training in Gastroenterology and Hepatology at Stanford University. During his fellowship, he focused on clinical and research training in General and Transplant Hepatology. For patients under his care, Dr. Ahmed remains dedicated to creating a personalized, comprehensive, and above-all a compassionate treatment plan. He outlines the diagnostic and follow-up management pathway in an individualized fashion; he updates his patients and their family/support at each step of the decision-making process; and he focuses on prioritizing the wishes of his patients and their family/support for an optimal outcome and quality of life. Dr. Ahmed remains clinically active and has been instrumental in establishing a wide network of hepatology outreach clinics in remote and underserved regions of California and Nevada. In addition to his patient care responsibilities, Dr. Ahmed remains committed to the educational mission of Stanford ford University. He remains deeply interested in mentoring trainees and students al levels from undergraduates to trainee physicians and junior colleagues. Dr. Ahmed has received several teaching awards during his career. Dr. Ahmed’s research interests include 1) multidisciplinary approach to nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), 2) disparities in the management of chronic liver disease, 3) improving screening and management of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), and 4) outcomes research in NAFLD, HCC, viral hepatitis, alcoholic liver disease, and liver transplantation. He heads a busy and productive outcomes research team. In addition, he collaborates with basic scientists and is participating in several translational research projects at Stanford University. He has published his findings in textbooks, abstracts, case reports, and high- profile medical journals including Gastroenterology, Journal of Hepatology, Hepatology American Journal of Gastroenterology, and other well-renowned peer-reviewed publications. Dr. Ahmed and his team has made presentations to his peers at many national and international conferences: the American Association for the Study of Liver Disease, International Liver Congress, European Association for the Study of the Liver, Asian Pacific Association for the Study of the Liver, and more. His presentations have addressed leading-edge approaches to the treatment of chronic liver disease, liver cancer, and liver failure. He also has presented his insights into the gastrointestinal impact of COVID-19. For his clinical, research, and teaching achievements, Dr. Ahmed has earned extensive recognition. His honors include being named as one of America’s Top Physicians by the Consumers’ Research Council of America. He is an active member of the American Gastroenterological Association and the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases. Contact Info 750 Welch Road Suite # 210 Palo Alto, California 94304 Mail Code: 5729 (650) 725-3360 (office) (650) 498-5692 (fax) safia93@stanford.edu Alex Aiken Alcatel-Lucent Professor of Communications and Networking and Professor of Particle Physics and Astrophysics BioAlex Aiken is the Alcatel-Lucent Professor of Computer Science at Stanford. Alex received his Bachelors degree in Computer Science and Music from Bowling Green State University in 1983 and his Ph.D. from Cornell University in 1988. Alex was a Research Staff Member at the IBM Almaden Research Center (1988-1993) and a Professor in the EECS department at UC Berkeley (1993-2003) before joining the Stanford faculty in 2003. His research interest is in areas related to programming languages. Contact Info Department of Computer Science 490 Gates Stanford University Stanford, California 94305 Mail Code: 9040 (650) 725-3359 (office) aaiken@stanford.edu Raag Airan Assistant Professor of Radiology (Neuroimaging and Neurointervention) and, by courtesy, of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences and of Materials Science and Engineering Current Research and Scholarly InterestsOur goal is to develop and clinically implement new technologies for high-precision and noninvasive intervention upon the nervous system. Every few millimeters of the brain is functionally distinct, and different parts of the brain may have counteracting responses to therapy. To better match our therapies to neuroscience, we develop techniques that allow intervention upon only the right part of the nervous system at the right time, using technologies like focused ultrasound and nanotechnology. Megan Albertelli Associate Professor of Comparative Medicine Contact Info Mail Code: 5410 albertel@stanford.edu Ash A. Alizadeh, MD/PhD Moghadam Family Professor Current Research and Scholarly InterestsMy research is focused on attaining a better understanding of the initiation, maintenance, and progression of tumors, and their response to current therapies toward improving future treatment strategies. In this effort, I employ tools from functional genomics, computational biology, molecular genetics, and mouse models. Clinically, I specialize in the care of patients with lymphomas, working on translating our findings in prospective cancer clinical trials. Contact Info Stanford Comprehensive Cancer Center 875 Blake Wilbur Drive Stanford, California 94305 Mail Code: 5151 arasha@Stanford.Edu Other Names: Arash Alizadeh Ash Alizadeh Ash A. Alizadeh Russ B. Altman Kenneth Fong Professor and Professor of Bioengineering, of Genetics, of Medicine (General Medical Discipline), of Biomedical Data Science and, by courtesy, of Computer Science Current Research and Scholarly InterestsI refer you to my web page for detailed list of interests, projects and publications. In addition to pressing the link here, you can search "Russ Altman" on http://www.google.com/ Contact Info Department of Bioengineering Shriram Center, 443 Via Ortega, Room 209 Altman Lab, MC: 4245 Stanford, California 94305-4145 Mail Code: 5444 (650) 725-3394 (office) (650) 725-0659 (office) (650) 725-3863 (fax) Russ.Altman@stanford.edu Web page: https://rbaltman.people.stanford.edu Derek F. Amanatullah, M.D., Ph.D. Associate Professor of Orthopaedic Surgery BioDr. Amanatullah specializes in hip and knee replacements for individuals with osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, infectious arthritis and avascular necrosis. He also performs revision surgeries of knee and hip implants with problems. Contact Info 450 Broadway Street, M/C 6342 Pavilion C, 4th Floor, Room 402 Redwood City, California 94305 Mail Code: 6342 (650) 723-2257 (office) dfa@stanford.edu First Previous 1/99 Next Last 10 Results / Page 10 / Page Change 10 20 50 100 Show Only All Profiles Faculty, Research and Teaching Staff Staff Postdocs Graduate Students Last Name A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Report Accessibility Issues Stanford University SU Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Terms of Use Copyright Complaints © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305