Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... Admitted Students School of Professional Studies Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Search Search Menu Leader as Coach | Live Online Develop your leadership effectiveness and maximize your team’s results by learning and applying proven coaching methods. Fall cohort begins October 4, 2022 Breadcrumb Home Executive Education Sub Navigation In This Section American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Program Content Program Schedule Faculty Registration & Cost About & Contact Us Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Learn More Leader as Coach | Learn More Our next cohort begins Fall 2022. Register for an upcoming webinar or request more information and we'll be in touch. Upcoming Info Sessions Request More Info Schedule a Call Connect with an Advisor Leader as Coach | Live Online Develop your leadership effectiveness and maximize your team’s results by learning and applying proven coaching methods. Fall cohort begins October 4, 2022 Effective coaching skills are essential for leaders to enhance team performance while quickly adapting to constant changes in business. Leader as Coach is a highly-experiential live online program that prepares you with a “coach-like” skillset using concepts grounded in developmental psychology, neuroscience, and research in leadership effectiveness. Throughout the 8-week online course you will develop a core competency of coaching, equipped with tools to build collaborative, trusting relationships and learn to communicate effectively on different levels throughout your organization. You will be prepared to transform your leadership approach and empower your team to achieve optimal productivity in real-time. Register Today Request More Information Schedule a Call Upcoming Information Sessions Program Snapshot Online Dates: October 4 - November 15, 2022 Highly-experiential format blending live online sessions, team-work, and self-paced learning 8 Weeks 4 Hours Per Week Approximate Time Commitment $ 2,995 Tuition Cost “ The Leader as Coach program is very thought-provoking, allowing us the ability to think (and rethink) the way we go about coaching others, using the tools and knowledge learned throughout the course. ” Dale Bowring Amica Mutual Insurance Program Benefits Expand your potential by acquiring new coaching skills for leaders Empower your team, motivate them and ultimately guide them to reach their full potential while achieving results in your organization Apply coaching skills to different work contexts Network with peers in other industries and functions Upon successful completion of the 8-week, online program, you will receive a Certificate of Completion from Brown University School of Professional Studies. What We Cover Leader as Coach is a highly-experiential, 8-week online course focusing on developing leaders to become more “coach-like”. The program curriculum includes four main topic areas designed to give you all the knowledge and tools you need. Coaching Foundations Coaching Skills and Values Reactive to Creative Application and Integration View Detailed Program Content Who Should Attend? This program is for business professionals with responsibility for leading and managing others who would like to enhance their leadership skills, with a particular focus on coaching. Examples of target program participants: Seasoned leaders High-potential executives Mid-career managers Emerging leaders Entrepreneurs HR and Talent professionals Play 1 of 4 Leader as Coach | Vicki Jordan, a Senior Executive within the US federal government, describes how ACT's Leader As Coach course is shifting the culture within her agency. Play 2 of 4 Leader as Coach | Robin Rose, Associate Professor of the Practice of Leadership at Brown University, shares about how traditional leadership skills don’t cut it anymore and why now — more than ever — is the time for you to invest in your coaching skills. Play 3 of 4 Leader as Coach | Learn from 3 senior leaders how they are integrating coaching skills from ACT's Leader As Coach program into their leadership style and developing their teams. Play 4 of 4 Amol Naik, former Partner Goldman Sachs talks about the Leader as Coach program. Upcoming Events Learn more about our Leader as Coach program. Sign-up for one of our informational webinars. Past Webinars In case you missed it or can't attend a live webinar, watch a recording of our past information sessions to learn more about Leader as Coach from past students and program faculty. Leader as Coach Overview and Q&A Student Experience and Program Impact Learn More Leader as Coach | Learn More Our next cohort begins Fall 2022. Register for an upcoming webinar or request more information and we'll be in touch. Upcoming Info Sessions Request More Info Schedule a Call Connect with an Advisor Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-7901 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation Privacy Policy Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University For You Admitted Students Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Leader as Coach | Live Online Open details for Leader as Coach | Live Online Bookmark this Page