Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... Admitted Students School of Professional Studies Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Search Search Menu Jacinto D. Duran '19 Vice President of Projects, GlassPoint Solar jacinto_duran_sanchez@alumni.brown.edu Santa Clarita, California LinkedIn Biography Why did you choose the IE Brown Executive MBA? I was attracted to the reputations of Brown and IE and their curriculum/quality of education. What made Brown's program different from other programs you considered? The EMBA curriculum is definitely different from most; balancing social sciences, humanities, and business. What did you enjoy most about your program? My cohort and learning experiences were diverse, and the opportunity to get a taste of both IE and Brown were really enjoyable. What was your primary academic area of interest and why? I am passionate about implementing projects related to renewable energy and sustainability and enjoy thinking beyond theory and getting things done. What were your postgraduate goals? I hope to pursue a corporate path to CEO, then start my own business in the future. What advice would you give to prospective applicants? Enjoy the process! Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-7901 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation Privacy Policy Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University For You Admitted Students Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Jacinto D. Duran Open details for Jacinto D. Duran Bookmark this Page