Stanford Profiles Menu Browse Schools Graduate School of Business Graduate School of Education School of Earth, Energy and Environmental Sciences School of Engineering School of Humanities and Sciences School of Medicine Institutes & Research Centers Bio-X Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies Institute for Computational and Mathematical Engineering (ICME) Institute for Human-Centered Artificial Intelligence (HAI) Institute for Stem Cell Biology and Regenerative Medicine Precourt Institute for Energy SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory Sarafan ChEM-H Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research (SIEPR) Stanford PULSE Institute Stanford Woods Institute for the Environment Wu Tsai Human Performance Alliance Wu Tsai Neurosciences Institute Administration Office of External Relations Office of VP for University Human Resources Office of Vice President for Business Affairs and Chief Financial Officer Stanford University Libraries Vice Provost and Dean of Research Vice Provost for Student Affairs Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education Sign In Edit My Profile View Stanford-only Results Stanford Woods Institute for the Environment Showing 1-10 of 203 Results Michelle Anderson Professor of Law and Senior Fellow at the Woods Institute for the Environment Contact Info Mail Code: 8610 mwa@stanford.edu Jason Andrews Associate Professor of Medicine (Infectious Diseases) and, by courtesy, of Epidemiology and Population Health Current Research and Scholarly InterestsOur laboratory aims to develop and test innovative approaches to the diagnosis, treatment and control of infectious diseases in resource-limited settings. We draw upon multiple fields including mathematical modeling, microbial genetics, field epidemiology, statistical inference and biodesign to work on challenging problems in infectious diseases, with an emphasis on tuberculosis and tropical diseases. Contact Info Mail Code: 5107 jandr@stanford.edu Eric Appel Assistant Professor of Material Science and Engineering, by courtesy, of Pediatrics (Endocrinology), of Bioengineering and Center Fellow, by courtesy, at the Woods Institute for the Environment Current Research and Scholarly InterestsThe underlying theme of the Appel Lab at Stanford University integrates concepts and approaches from supramolecular chemistry, natural/synthetic materials, and biology. We aim to develop supramolecular biomaterials that exploit a diverse design toolbox and take advantage of the beautiful synergism between physical properties, aesthetics, and low energy consumption typical of natural systems. Our vision is to use these materials to solve fundamental biological questions and to engineer advanced healthcare solutions. Contact Info Mail Code: 4034 eappel@stanford.edu Web page: http://supramolecularbiomaterials.com Nicole Ardoin Director, E-IPER, Associate Professor of Education and Senior Fellow at the Woods Institute for the Environment Current Research and Scholarly InterestsCommunity Involvement Community/Youth Development and Organizations Diversity Environmental Education Ethnography Evaluation Organizations Qualitative Research Methods Contact Info 212 Cubberley 485 Lasuen Mall Stanford, California 94305 Mail Code: 4205 (650) 721-2231 (office) (650) 725-7412 (fax) nmardoin@stanford.edu Katherine Arkema Casual - Non-Exempt, Woods Research Natural Capital Project Staff, Woods Research Natural Capital Project Contact Info c/o School of Environmental and Forest Sciences University of Washington Box 352100 Seattle, Washington 98195 Mail Code: 5020 karkema@stanford.edu Other Names: Katie Arkema Kevin Arrigo Donald and Donald M. Steel Professor of Earth Sciences Current Research and Scholarly InterestsInvestigates role of ocean biology in gobal carbon and nutrient cycles. Contact Info Y2E2 Building, Room 141 Stanford, California 94305 Mail Code: 4216 (650) 723-3599 (office) arrigo@stanford.edu Inês Azevedo Associate Professor of Energy Resources Engineering and Senior Fellow at the Woods Institute for the Environment and the Precourt Institute for Energy Current Research and Scholarly InterestsProfessor Azevedo is passionate about solving problems that include environmental, technical, economic, and policy issues, where traditional engineering approaches play an important role but cannot provide a complete answer. In particular, she is interested in assessing how energy systems are likely to evolve, which requires comprehensive knowledge of the technologies that can address future energy needs and the decision-making process followed by various agents in the economy. Contact Info Mail Code: 2220 iazevedo@stanford.edu Khalid Aziz Otto N. Miller Professor in the School of Earth Sciences, Emeritus Current Research and Scholarly InterestsOptimization and reservoir Simulation. Contact Info 367 PANAMA MALL STANFORD, California 94305 Mail Code: 2220 (650) 723-9116 (office) (650) 725-2099 (fax) aziz@stanford.edu Jeremy Bailenson Thomas More Storke Professor, Senior Fellow at the Woods Institute for the Environment and Professor, by courtesy, of Education BioJeremy Bailenson is founding director of Stanford University’s Virtual Human Interaction Lab, Thomas More Storke Professor in the Department of Communication, Professor (by courtesy) of Education, Professor (by courtesy) Program in Symbolic Systems, a Senior Fellow at the Woods Institute for the Environment, and a Faculty Leader at Stanford’s Center for Longevity. He earned a B.A. cum laude from the University of Michigan in 1994 and a Ph.D. in cognitive psychology from Northwestern University in 1999. He spent four years at the University of California, Santa Barbara as a Post-Doctoral Fellow and then an Assistant Research Professor. Bailenson studies the psychology of Virtual and Augmented Reality, in particular how virtual experiences lead to changes in perceptions of self and others. His lab builds and studies systems that allow people to meet in virtual space, and explores the changes in the nature of social interaction. His most recent research focuses on how virtual experiences can transform education, environmental conservation, empathy, and health. He is the recipient of the Dean’s Award for Distinguished Teaching at Stanford. In 2020, IEEE recognized his work with “The Virtual/Augmented Reality Technical Achievement Award”. He has published more than 200 academic papers, spanning the fields of communication, computer science, education, environmental science, law, linguistics, marketing, medicine, political science, and psychology. His work has been continuously funded by the National Science Foundation for over 20 years. Bailenson consults pro bono on Virtual Reality policy for government agencies including the State Department, the US Senate, Congress, the California Supreme Court, the Federal Communication Committee, the U.S. Army, Navy, and Air Force, the Department of Defense, the Department of Energy, the National Research Council, and the National Institutes of Health. His first book Infinite Reality, co-authored with Jim Blascovich, emerged as an Amazon Best-seller eight years after its initial publication, and was quoted by the U.S. Supreme Court. His new book, Experience on Demand, was reviewed by The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, The Washington Post, Nature, and The Times of London, and was an Amazon Best-seller. He has written opinion pieces for Harvard Business Review, The Washington Post, The Wall Street Journal, CNN, PBS NewsHour, Wired, National Geographic, Slate, The San Francisco Chronicle, and The Chronicle of Higher Education, and has produced or directed six Virtual Reality documentary experiences which were official selections at the Tribeca Film Festival. His lab’s research has exhibited publicly at museums and aquariums, including a permanent installation at the San Jose Tech Museum. Contact Info Department of Communication Stanford, California 94305 Mail Code: 2050 (650) 723-0701 (office) Web page: http://web.stanford.edu/people/bailenso Banny Banerjee Adjunct Professor, ChangeX Contact Info Mail Code: 2210 banny@stanfordalumni.org First Previous 1/21 Next Last 10 Results / Page 10 / Page Change 10 20 50 100 Show Only All Profiles Faculty, Research and Teaching Staff Staff Postdocs Graduate Students Last Name A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Report Accessibility Issues Stanford University SU Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Terms of Use Copyright Complaints © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305