Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... Admitted Students School of Professional Studies Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Search Search Menu Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Breadcrumb Home Executive Education Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification The Brown University School of Professional Studies, in partnership with ACT Leadership, is offering ACT’s Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Program accredited by the International Coach Federation. Learn More & Inquire Based in Science, Delivering Results Leadership and Performance Coaching is a critical professional development skill for senior leaders. This certification offers the unique opportunity to develop your full leadership potential, maximize team performance, and increase results in your workplace. Improve employee engagement and positively impact employee development, client satisfaction, and business performance — Now Enrolling! Coaching concepts are grounded in developmental psychology, neuroscience, and research in leadership effectiveness. Coaches hone critical leadership skills in the following areas: Effective communication across teams and organizations Innovative solutions Decision making Leading change Critical thinking Team and relationship building “ Hands down, the best leadership course I have taken. ACT was absolutely fantastic in their approach, structure, and delivery of the content. ” Play 1 of 5 ACT Leadership + Performance Coaching Certification Student Testimonials Play 2 of 5 Erin and Mike Hutchins explored why leadership and performance coaching is a critical professional development skill for senior leaders. Play 3 of 5 What is Coaching?: Robin Rose, Ph.D. | Brown University School of Professional Studies Play 4 of 5 ACT Student Experience: Meryl Moss, MPA, EMHL | COO, Coastal Medical Inc. Play 5 of 5 ACT Student Experience: Jenna Williams, SPHR Program Snapshot 6 Month Program Entry Terms Spring/ Summer/ Fall/ Winter Fall Virtual September 9, 2022 - March 15, 2023 100% Online Fall Hybrid September 27, 2022 - March 31, 2023 Hybrid Online & In-Person A Proven Approach ACT’s Leadership & Performance Coach Training Certification Program is a six-month program, with three live experiential sessions supplemented with online group and individual learning. The Spring and Fall are hybrid classes (in-person and virtual) and the Summer and Winter are 100% virtual. In-person sessions are held on the Brown University campus in Providence, Rhode Island. Upon completion of the program, students receive a certificate of completion from ACT Leadership and Brown University School of Professional Studies. The ACT Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Program is approved for the Associate Certified Coach accreditation via the International Coaching Federation ACSTH pathway. About ACT Leadership ACT is an internationally recognized coaching, leadership development and consulting company known for its commitment to leadership and performance coaching, valuing its long term partnerships with Brown University, the intelligence communities and its loyal and devoted diverse community. The Brown University School of Professional Studies has relied on ACT’s superior leadership and performance coaching as an integral component in their Executive Masters curriculum. “ We chose to partner with ACT Leadership because we share a common mission, to develop effective, reflective, and inclusive leaders, to effect positive change in the world and to improve human welfare. ” Leah VanWey Dean, School of Professional Studies Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-7901 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation Privacy Policy Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University For You Admitted Students Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Open details for Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Bookmark this Page