Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... Admitted Students School of Professional Studies Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Search Search Menu Program Faculty Breadcrumb Home Executive Education Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Sub Navigation In This Section Program Content Program Schedule Registration & Cost Program Faculty Program Faculty & Leadership Brian Clyne, MD, MHL Dr. Brian Clyne is a Professor of Emergency Medicine at the Alpert Medical School of Brown University where he has served in numerous clinical, educational, and administrative leadership roles over the past 20 years. As Vice Chair for Education, Dr. Clyne develops and supports programs across the continuum of learners from undergraduates to faculty. In addition to medical education, Dr. Clyne’s areas of interest include career development and physician leadership. He founded and directed Leadership in Healthcare, a master’s level course for Alpert Medical School students. Nationally, Dr. Clyne is past chair of the Society for Academic Emergency Medicine Faculty Development Committee and was the recipient of the 2019 SAEM Hal Jayne Excellence in Education Award. He is a graduate of the Brown University Executive Master’s in Healthcare Leadership program and the ACT Leadership and Performance Coaching Certificate program. His coaching practice is focused on mid-career healthcare professionals seeking to expand their leadership capabilities to make a lasting impact. Erin Hutchins, PCC Erin is the other co-founder of ACT Leadership. Erin is an executive coach, trainer and organizational consultant who support’s leaders and organizations to act with greater purpose, authenticity, and impact. Through coaching, consulting, and leadership development, Erin helps individuals, teams and organizations achieve alignment, clarity, and results. Erin has trained over thousands of individuals to become certified coaches to lead with greater impact. She has designed and executed large scale coaching programs with Fortune 100 companies, the Federal Government and humanitarian organizations. Prior to entering the field of coaching and development, Erin was a change and organizational consultant for PwC and for the Federal Government. She has delivered coaching and leadership programs in North America, Europe, and Asia. Mike Hutchins, PCC, CPA Mike is one of the co-founders of ACT Leadership and has over 25 years consulting, training and coaching experience with large professional services organizations. He qualified as a Professional Certified Coach through the ICF and has worked with over 100 clients from leading international organizations. He co-created the ICF-accredited ACSTH coaching certification program, “Leadership and Performance Coaching” which is being delivered worldwide across a number of organizations including 500 senior leaders in the federal government. Mike is also a CPA and Lean Six Sigma Black Belt. Robin Rose, PH.D., ACC Robin is a highly skilled facilitator, educator and coach. She has worked in senior level positions and as an instructor at Brown University for 38 years. As a coach she works with executives from health care organizations, educational institutions and scientific and technology corporations. She is passionate about learning and helping others develop their practice of leadership. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-7901 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation Privacy Policy Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University For You Admitted Students Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Program Faculty Open details for Program Faculty Bookmark this Page