Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... Admitted Students School of Professional Studies Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Search Search Menu Resources for Alumni Resources for Alumni Brown University and the School of Professional Studies are committed to cultivating a lifelong relationship with alumni to support your social and professional interests. As a graduate of Brown University’s programs, you join a dynamic, powerful global network of 100,000+ Brown alumni. Below you will find links to valuable benefits, services and opportunities to ensure your connections to the School, the University and fellow alumni continue long into the future. LinkedIn Group Join the conversation in our LinkedIn group for alumni and current students. Visit Page Open details for LinkedIn Group Alumni Events Check out the alumni events page for activities near you. Visit Page Open details for Alumni Events BrownConnect Support Brown students by posting internships, research opportunities and funding. Visit Page Open details for BrownConnect Alumni Connections Alumni Directory The Brown Alumni Directory is an online searchable database of alumni. In addition to using this powerful database to identify alumni contacts, it is important to update your profile so the University and fellow alumni can stay connected with you. Need Help? Email the Alumni Help Desk with any questions. Please include your full name, class year and name while at Brown (if it has changed) along with your question. Alumni Events Calendar The Alumni Events Calendar includes alumni events that are happening throughout the world and are a great way to stay in touch with Brown and make new connections with fellow alumni. BrownConnect BrownConnect is an online tool that connects students with alumni. Students can reach out to alumni learn more about career options (networking and internships). Alumni are encouraged to list internship opportunities on the site as well. Brown Club Network Brown Clubs are volunteer alumni communities around the world. Currently, more than 100 clubs offer programming and engagement opportunities to keep you connected to Brown and to fellow alumni. Brown alumni are eligible to join the Cornell Club in New York, which has reciprocity with a number of clubs around the world. Alumni Benefits Alumni Email Address Alumni receive “@alumni.brown.edu” email addresses through Gmail. Additionally, alumni accounts will continue to include Google calendar, contacts, documents and sites. This transition takes place shortly after graduation and graduates are alerted to the transition via email. Career Tools and Resources Brown offers a suite of career tools and resources that are easy to use, free and exclusively for alumni. Free Access to Rosetta Stone Want to learn Swedish, Spanish, or Swahili? The online version of Rosetta StoneⓇ language instruction is available for free to all Brown alumni. Learn any of 30 languages—from the most commonly spoken (such as Spanish and Mandarin) to the less prominent (including Swahili, Swedish and Tagalog). Access the program from the comfort of your home—or on the go using the Rosetta Stone mobile app. How it works Rosetta Stone language learning provides instant feedback, fun activities and expert guidance to keep you engaged and motivated. Learn at your own pace and on almost any device. Software tracks your progress and self–adjusts. Speech recognition technology will evaluate your pronunciation. Immediate feedback will help you build confidence that you're using your new language correctly. Stay Connected Social Media The School of Professional Studies has a presence on LinkedIn, Twitter and Instagram. Brunonia also lists a number of additional Brown alumni groups active on social media. We encourage Brown SPS students and alumni to join the SPS Alumni LinkedIn group— a great way to stay in touch, share news and post professional opportunities. Brown Newsletter & Alumni Magazine Please enter your email at the bottom of the News from Brown page to subscribe to Brown's weekly digest of University news and events. All alumni automatically receive a mailed edition of Brown Alumni Magazine, a bi-monthly print publication, free of charge. Campus Resources Brown Faculty Club The Brown Faculty Club, in the heart of College Hill, offers membership to alumni. It is also a member organization of the Association of College and University Clubs and shares reciprocity among members. Athletic Facilities Alumni are offered special membership rates at Brown's Athletic Facilities. To learn more about these rates and for a membership application, please visit the Athletics Membership page. Brown Bookstore Located in the heart of College Hill, the Brown Bookstore is your resource for books about Brown, a robust span of publications and Brown branded materials, many of which are available on their online store. Transcripts The Office of the Registrar maintains all academic records for credit-bearing programs at Brown University for current and former students. For copies of transcripts, please view the information on the website. For other matters relating to academic records, please contact registrar@brown.edu. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-7901 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation Privacy Policy Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University For You Admitted Students Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Resources for Alumni Open details for Resources for Alumni Bookmark this Page