Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... Admitted Students School of Professional Studies Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Search Search Menu Curriculum Breadcrumb Home Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Certificate Sub Navigation In This Section Curriculum Registration & Cost MBSR Faculty What You Will Learn As a global leader in MBSR teacher training, the Mindfulness Center at Brown through the School of Professional Studies offers an experiential and didactic education. In the certificate program, as an MBSR teacher-trainee, you can: Apply the training to enhance your mindfulness practice Cultivate skills to guide meditation practices and group learning Use the only researched rubric available for assessing mindfulness-based teaching effectiveness Ground yourself in the science of mindfulness Understand the underlying principles of trauma-sensitivity, inclusion, and diversity Develop the skills necessary to guide MBSR mindfulness practices for clients, patients, or students The MBSR Teacher Training Program includes three steps to be taken sequentially for certification (prerequisites must be completed prior to entering the Certificate program). Each step involves coursework along with personal practice and progressively more advanced teaching practice. Included in these three steps are three silent retreats and teaching requirements that are necessary to complete the training. There are also professional continuing education programs for MBSR teachers and teachers-in-training that are not required for certification to teach and are offered to enhance the teacher’s knowledge and competencies. Prerequisites Qualified Teacher Level 1 Qualified Teacher Level 2 Certified MBSR Teacher Prerequisites The prerequisites to begin MBSR teacher training involve both formal learning and personal practice experiences and are outlined below. Prerequisites: Maintain a personal meditation practice of at least two years (less experience may be considered) A graduate degree (medicine, healthcare, education, or business preferred—others considered) is preferred. Equivalency in experience is considered and must be demonstrated (additional written document required within application). Yoga or other contemplative movement practice experience Attendance at an 8-week MBSR program It is important to take this MBSR program before deciding to be an MBSR teacher and before beginning the training so that you make a more informed decision that requires a major commitment and can experience the program fully as a participant. You will then take a second 8-week MBSR program as part of MBSR Foundations. The second time around, you will be invited to participate fully in the classes, and you will also be invited to observe what is happening in the classes. The weekly MBSR class becomes a key part of each Foundations seminar as you have an opportunity to unpack the program with your classmates and the instructor. Attendance at your first qualifying silent, teacher-led meditation retreat of at least 5-7 days. Qualified Teacher Level 1 The first step in the Certificate explores the very personal nature of mindfulness practice and students begin to cultivate skills for the classroom and private practice. Level 1 Requirements: MBSR Foundations Teach three introductory sessions Attend your second qualifying retreat MBSR Teacher Advancement Intensive Qualified Teacher Level 2 During this step of the Certificate, students strengthen their teaching skills and focus their practice. It is highly-recommended students teach one 8-week MBSR program before enrolling in Curriculum Study Group and Skill Building Workshop. Level 2 Requirements: MBSR Curriculum Study Group and Skill-Building Workshop Teach a minimum of three 8-week MBSR programs MBSR Individual Mentoring Attend your third qualifying retreat, Insight Inside Us Successfully completed teaching a total of six (6) MBSR programs Certified MBSR Teacher Completing the Certificate represents a culmination of formal training programs, teaching, as well as one's personal meditation and retreat experience. Certification Requirements: Ethos of Mindfulness-Based Programs* Dialogue and Inquiry for Mindfulness-Based Programs* Attend your fourth qualifying retreat MBSR Teacher Certification Review *May be taken anytime after completion of MBSR Foundations Program Descriptions MSBR Foundations The first step in MBSR teacher training, providing a deep excavation of the practices, curriculum, pedagogy, and unfolding process of the MBSR program through living into the course--and then having the opportunity to talk about it with the teacher and your cohort. This is a 10-week program that meets twice per week, once for the MBSR program and once for the Foundations seminar. Register MBSR Teacher Advancement Intensive This is the “train-to-teach MBSR,” course that offers multiple opportunities to practice teach to your peers, with feedback from the group and the teachers. The TAI also includes daily meditation practice sessions where you continue the exploration of the MBSR practices, develop and deepen skills for guiding, pacing, and more. This program meets for three, three-day sessions for a total of 9 days over a period of 1-2 months as a live-online program. Register MBSR Curriculum Study Group and Skill Building Especially created for new teachers to continue the practice-teaching process from the TAI. This weekly, 10-session program offers opportunities to teach all the elements of the MBSR curriculum, to gain skills in giving and receiving feedback, and in self-reflection and self-assessment. This is a 10- week program that meets once per week for two and a half hours each week. Register MBSR Individual Mentoring While teaching a full 8-week MBSR class, trainees record themselves teaching, review their class recordings and meet weekly with a mentor, sharing recorded clips of the class, reviewing class plans, group dynamics, and more. This is an intensely personal journey receiving support, clarity, and refinement in teaching, week by week, for 10 sessions, one hour per week. The schedule for this individual program is flexible and arranged between the instructor and participant. Register Ethos of Mindfulness-Based Programs This course extends and deepens your knowledge base, while offering important experiential learning and reflective opportunities. The Ethos program covers four (4) fundamental topics: (1) Buddhist underpinnings, (2) Experiential learning, (3) Diversity, identity, and trauma, and (4) the Science of MBSR. This program may be taken any time after Foundations, affording trainees an opportunity to study and synthesize conceptual learning into practice. Register Dialogue and Inquiry for Mindfulness-Based Programs In Dialogue & Inquiry for Mindfulness-Based Programs trainees are invited to explore--via peer-led practice sessions--a variety of inquiry and dialogue skills, as they are often employed in the MBP classroom. This is unfolded week to week and draws upon didactic considerations from some of the tenets of Buddhist psychology In this way, trainees receive a grounding in both the types of dialogic methodologies employed in MBP programs and their skillful application. This program meets weekly for 5 weeks, 2 hours each week. This program may be taken any time after Foundations, affording trainees an opportunity to practice the specifics of dialogue and inquiry, in a focused way. Register MBSR Teacher Certification Review The final step in a process that is never really over! This marks a moment of culmination in one’s formal training, and highlights the depth, rigor, practice, and dedication of a trainee’s teaching--and learning--experience. Participants submit an extensive portfolio that is thoroughly reviewed and assessed by a senior MBSR trainer, which is followed by a 1-1 session. Register Brown University's Certificate in Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching is a training pathway of 7 courses. The first course is the MBSR Foundations. We encourage all participants to take the full 7-course pathway with our program and faculty, however, we understand you may have already started the pathway with another provider. Brown University will recognize and accept from another school and/or provider the MBSR Foundations course only. As of June 1, 2022 we will no longer accept any courses as transfer other than MBSR Foundations. If you have taken the MBSR Foundations with another provider you will be asked to indicate the course details when registering for the Teacher Advancement Intensive. You can complete the new courses, Ethos of Mindfulness-Based Programs and Dialogue and Inquiry for Mindfulness-Based Programs, and other professional continuing education courses at any time during your training after completion of the MBSR Foundations. Learn More Request Information Qualified Retreats Prerequisite program Registration Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-7901 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation Privacy Policy Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University For You Admitted Students Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Curriculum Open details for Curriculum Bookmark this Page