Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... Admitted Students School of Professional Studies Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Search Search Menu Admissions and Financial Aid Breadcrumb Home Master's in Technology Leadership Sub Navigation In This Section Curriculum Capstone Program Schedule Admissions People Learn More Request Information Upcoming Events Diversity & Inclusion Apply Today Access the Application Admissions and Financial Aid We seek dynamic, motivated and creative candidates and consider how each applicant will contribute to — and benefit from — Brown's diverse and collaborative culture. The committee takes a holistic look at each application and factors in your unique talents, accomplishments, energy, curiosity, perspective and identity. We strongly encourage you to apply and look forward to getting to know you. Apply Today Access the Application Request Information Upcoming Information Sessions Admissions Process Applicant Profile Application Deadlines Application Components Applicant Profile Successful Candidates Will be Able to Demonstrate: Professional achievements Leadership potential Academic excellence Basic Admissions Criteria 5+ years of professional technology experience Demonstrate a strong track record of achievement Undergraduate degree GRE/GMAT not required We look to build a diverse cohort and consider candidates with diverse backgrounds (e.g., technical/non-technical undergraduate degree, senior managers to the C-suite) and that come from many industries. INTERNATIONAL APPLICANTS: At this time, we do not offer I-20 certificates for students in the Technology Leadership master's programs due to their blended low-residency/online program formats. Other visa types are not supported for studying in the United States. If you do not require a visa to study in the United States, but received your degree(s) outside of the United States, we require a course-by-course credential evaluation sent directly from World Education Services (WES) to the Brown University School of Professional Studies. Application Deadlines Application Due Decision Communicated Priority II June 1, 2022 July 13, 2022 Priority III September 12, 2022 October 24, 2022 Regular Decision November 7, 2022 December 12, 2022 Applications are accepted and admitted on a rolling basis throughout the year until November 7. Application Components To complete your application, submit the following via the online application system: Official Transcripts Please submit an official transcript for all programs, both undergraduate and graduate, for which you were awarded a degree. Please note that unofficial transcripts may be uploaded to the online application, but official transcripts are required prior to the program start date. Please have all official transcripts emailed to Professional@brown.edu. Personal Statement As part of the online application you will need to prepare a personal statement that addresses why you want to pursue the Master of Science in Technology Leadership at Brown, what you hope to learn from the program, and how your participation will enrich the experience of others in the program (approximately 500 words). Resume or CV Description of Critical Challenge This critical challenge will become the focus of your independent study in the Critical Challenge Project course throughout the duration of the program. Describe a critical challenge related to your field and interests, drawing from your own experience and vision for the future. In your submission (500 – 1000 words) you should address, in four clearly marked sections: The complexity and challenges of the problem in the current environment, Technical, organizational, and social barriers and constraints, The specific work you anticipate completing while a student at Brown that will advance solutions to the problem, and Deliverables for your project besides a report, if any. Letters of Recommendation You must give the names and contact information for three professional colleagues who will submit a letter of recommendation on your behalf. One letter should come from your present or past supervisor or from a more senior executive in your organization. Please note that you only need to provide their names and contact information, not the actual recommendations, in order to submit your application. The referee will be asked: For how long and in what capacity have you known the applicant? If you have experience with the applicant in an academic setting, please comment on their academic performance and potential. Finally, any relevant information you would like to share is welcome. We would appreciate your opinion on the candidate’s career achievements, strengths and weaknesses, initiative, creativity, their ability to contribute in a peer-to-peer learning environment, and how the program fits with the candidate’s career aspirations. Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition $83,300 USD Tuition and fees for the ScM in Technology Leadership Class of 2024 (beginning study in February 2023) are $83,300 USD. Travel and lodging for residential sessions and immersion experiences and any required books and materials are additional. Financial Aid The majority of students enrolled in this program are self-supported and/or supported in part by their employers. We encourage master's applicants to maximize funding sources: Scholarship Consideration Scholarship support may be awarded to select candidates who have demonstrated financial need and who have a record of outstanding achievements and demonstrate the potential to contribute significantly to peer-to-peer learning that is valued so highly in the program. The scholarship committee will consider scholarship applications from candidates who are admitted to the program, complete a scholarship form, and provide documentation regarding their financial circumstances. Apply for External Funding We encourage you to simultaneously apply for outside scholarships and pursue educational benefits at your organization. Military applicants are encouraged to research benefits eligibility for the Post-9/11 GI Bill®; Brown University School of Professional Studies is also a proud participant of the Yellow Ribbon Program. Enroll in the Installment Payment Plan Students may choose to enroll in one of our Installment Payment Plans (IPP) to pay the semester's expenses over scheduled monthly installments. Apply for Loans U.S. citizens and permanent residents are encouraged to apply for federal student loans using the FAFSA. Private educational loans are available for domestic and international students. Learn more about loans on Financial Aid's website. Scholarships Limited scholarship support may be awarded to select candidates who demonstrate a need for financial aid and who have a record of outstanding achievements and demonstrate the potential to contribute significantly to peer-to-peer learning that is valued so highly in the program. Please reach out to: Professional@brown.edu to request the scholarship application link. Please submit your scholarship application only after you have submitted your program application. The scholarship committee will consider scholarship applications from candidates who are admitted to the program. If eligible, scholarships could be awarded up to 10% of program cost. Our Location Frequently Asked Questions Answers to our most commonly asked questions. What is the time commitment for this program? Outside of the residential sessions on campus, you should anticipate 15-20 hours of online coursework per week. How many courses are taken at a time? Typically 2-3 classes are taken at a time. The blended format of our program offers our students the best of both worlds: low-residency, in-person instruction paired with online learning. What is the cost of the program? Tuition for the Class of 2024, beginning study in early 2023, is $83,300 USD. The comprehensive tuition covers the 16-month academic program and related fees. It does not include travel, lodging for the residential sessions at Brown University, or any books and materials that may be required for courses. What is your application fee and do you offer application fee waivers? Our application fee is $200 and payable online. Application fee waivers are available to Active Military and Veterans for the Master's in Healthcare Leadership and Master's in Technology Leadership programs. Please contact professional@brown.edu for more information. Do you offer scholarships? Yes, a limited number of scholarships are available for students with financial need. If the student is eligible, the scholarship could be up to 10% of tuition. How many total courses will I take? The ScM in Technology Leadership program includes 9 classes plus your Critical Challenge Project. How many graduate credits will I earn? The ScM in Technology Leadership program is a 40-credit program. What degree will I earn on my diploma? Your diploma will declare that you have obtained an ScM in Technology Leadership from Brown University. Do you offer Advising Calls/Appointments? Yes, please click on this link to schedule. The Brown Difference Our commitment to educational innovation, diversity and inclusion, collaboration and making an impact in the world is at the core of what we do. Learn More Learn More Request Information Upcoming Events Diversity & Inclusion Apply Today Access the Application Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-7901 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation Privacy Policy Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University For You Admitted Students Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Admissions and Financial Aid Open details for Admissions and Financial Aid Bookmark this Page