Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... Admitted Students School of Professional Studies Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Search Search Menu Curriculum Breadcrumb Home Master's in Technology Leadership Sub Navigation In This Section Curriculum Capstone Program Schedule Admissions People Learn More Request Information Upcoming Events Diversity & Inclusion Apply Today Access the Application Curriculum We fuel leaders with the knowledge, network and cross-industry expertise to address complex global and industry-specific challenges. Now more than ever, strategic leadership is needed to respond to crisis events. Brown’s rigorous curriculum, world-class faculty and dynamic, diverse community allows you to build the network and skills vital to advance your business and transform your career. Over 16-months, Brown's ScM in Technology Leadership prepares technology professionals with the cross-industry expertise to meet the new and evolving demands for leadership. Our comprehensive and timely curriculum is designed to meet the unique needs of the science and technology fields. Balancing technical expertise with foundational skills rooted in the social sciences and humanities — such as strategic thinking and persuasive communication — we curate a unique learning experience that breaks down silos and integrates a diversity of perspectives to bring new ideas forward. Learn from outstanding faculty from the Brown School of Engineering and other university departments as well as highly accomplished practitioners who bring their expertise to the program. Access the Application Request Information Upcoming Information Sessions With this program, students: Benefit from Brown’s strength in innovative education, multidisciplinary research and complex problem-solving Address real-time challenges and immediately apply knowledge and skills learned in the program back at work Complement technical expertise with communication, leadership, and relational skills Gain a broader perspective that adds insight from customers, governments, regulators and system constraints that will provoke discussions about ethical decision-making, data privacy, climate change, human-centered designs and artificial intelligence’s impact on humans. Contribute to a dynamic, peer-to-peer learning environment while working closely with world-class faculty Leave the classroom well-positioned to lead in larger leadership roles and advance their career "The program pushes me beyond my limits. Learning with faculty and peers from a wide range of industries allows me to rethink my industry and enhance my leadership skills and impact on my company's vision and mission." Minnie Lui, Class of 2018 IPMO Chief of Staff and Technical Assistant at Intel Leadership Courses Effective Leadership: Theory and Practice Instructor: Robert Allio Leadership is not a science. It is a craft honed through practice and study. In this course, students forge their own models of leadership. They review the classic models of leadership delineated through literature and philosophy and examine a range of contemporary models. Students then develop individual plans for becoming more effective leaders. The course explores how leadership and strategy intersect and how leaders engage followers to create impact. Upon completion of this course, students should be able to: Develop a model for leadership based on principles of theory and practice revealed through literature, history, philosophy, and politics. Learn how strategy provides the linkage between an organization’s values and vision. Study how leaders strengthen their relationship with followers by unifying them around shared purpose. Establish a leadership identity that reconciles personal and organizational ethics. Persuasive Communication Instructors: Barbara Tannenbaum and Nancy Newman Engineers that impact industry don’t just have good ideas. They have the ability to sell them. In this course, students develop the communications skills to do just that. This course provides students with theory, practice opportunities and individualized coaching to help them enhance their oral and written communication skills. Students focus on persuasive communication, including verbal and nonverbal communication, and the relationship between a presenter’s goal and the goals/perspectives of his or her audience. Students also learn how to create compelling business presentations using data visualization to garner people’s attention and stimulate action. This course also uses the practice of writing as a means to think, learn and reflect, developing a greater awareness of one’s self and others. Upon completion of this course, students should be able to: Communicate effectively through oral presentation. Formulate strategy in a multi-faceted environment of social, political, economic, and legal entities and forces. Complete strategic and financial analysis required to support corporate goals. Perform short and long term investment evaluations. Technology Leadership in a Changing Environment Instructor: Donald Stanford This course takes a broad look at the factors that contribute to successful technology leadership in today’s fast paced and ever evolving environment. Students will use examples and case studies from a wide range of industries to learn about, and gain practical experience in, the issues that ultimately determine the success (or failure) of highly technical undertakings. The alignment of marketing, technology and project execution is examined in both its best case and worst case implementation as students learn from both successful and failed endeavors. Through the lens of organizational effectiveness, value creation, addressing market needs and meeting customer expectations, students will discuss and examine best practices used to engage the array of stakeholders that are crucial to positive outcomes. Via the same framework, students will also study some of the cultures and practices that foster continuous innovation and effectively leverage technology trends and trajectories. Upon completion of this course, students should be able to: Understand changing technology trends and develop responsive leadership skills to effectively mitigate adversity in an ever evolving environment, while leveraging knowledge of development and innovation models that are applied across the business landscape. Apply leadership skills to align and mobilize organizational support for technology innovation opportunities with a clear execution plan. Develop understanding of the effectiveness of joint ventures, collaborations and outsourcing. Create and prioritize ideation processes to effectively address market needs. Consider stakeholder input in an innovation culture and understand the voice of customers in value creation models. Strategic Thinking Courses Data Analytics and Machine Learning for Digital Enterprises Instructor: Amber Carpenter Companies are generating 10-1000 times more data every 12 months as the Internet of Things (IoT) explodes. Leaders have a strong desire to derive more and more value from it—machine learning is the tool used to monetize this gold mine of data. In this course students work to understand the big data ecosystem, use cases, business case methodology and ethical implications of digital transformation and big data initiatives. Topics addressed include Identifying and leveraging source data throughout your organization and third parties to help you solve tough business problems; identifying and carefully distinguishing challenges particular to data science and other related computational methods of analysis such as machine learning and artificial intelligence, including which methodology would be best used to solve a specific business problem and the relevant resources to do such analysis; and identifying opportunities to avoid data bias and pursue big data projects in an ethical and legally responsible manner. The goal is to lead and articulate the return on investment of a big data initiative and monetize the efforts of the project internally and externally. Upon completion of this course, students should be able to: Understand the complex nature of big data and data science methodologies Understand where data lives internally and externally across an organization and the potential value of each data set. Apply the learnings to assemble and solve big data problems within their own organization from business case creation including return on investment and /monetization to resourcing and driving adoption Identify, mediate and question potential data bias and ethical implications of big data projects Finance and Business Strategy Instructor: Paul Walsh The business strategy “shelf life” is decreasing as new technologies and externalities (e.g., data privacy) create a strong case for change. The students begin with an introduction to the lingua franca of commercial and financial activity. They will learn to merge the finance language with a deep understanding of business strategy. The case studies will provide practical examples of industry analysis which help formulate available strategic options. These options will be explored through the lens of an incumbent industry participant and a new entrant. We will explore concepts around the innovator’s dilemma and digital transformations for incumbent companies. Advancing their understanding of business strategy further, they learn to leverage this knowledge to master concepts like “no regrets” strategies and the potential optionality of new strategic choices. Upon completion of this course, students should be able to: Formulate strategy in a multi-faceted environment of social, political, economic, and legal entities and forces. Complete strategic and financial analysis required to support corporate goals. Perform short and long term investment evaluations. Psychological Perspectives on Strategic Decision Making Instructor: Steven Sloman This course introduces students to elements of social and cognitive psychology related to business, leadership and entrepreneurship. This course is based on empirical scientific research on how people behave and make decisions. Students review two major perspectives on judgment and decision-making that distinguish among riskless, risky and uncertain contexts for making decisions. Students examine trust and power, the two great, interrelated challenges of interpersonal behavior, and consider these challenges as social dilemmas that do not have simple, “one-approach-fits-all-situations” solutions. Delicate issues of “mind-reading” (e.g., empathy, perspective-taking) and uncertainty management are considered. Students understand that the psychology of creativity lies at the core of innovation, competitiveness, and sustainability, while the psychology of happiness raises issues about broader interpretations of the bottom line, utility and productivity. Upon completion of this course, students should be able to: Learn to frame problems of judgment and decision-making depending on context. Consider the two great (and interrelated) challenges of interpersonal behavior — trust and power — especially how they affect decision-making. Apply current research on creativity and happiness to leadership challenges. Unlocking Value Globally Instructor: Banu Ozkazanc-Pan If you’re a business professional in today’s globalized economy, then the world is your oyster. It offers unprecedented pools of technical know-how that companies can tap into and embrace. This course develops an understanding of the global dynamics (political, social, and financial) that influence entrepreneurial enterprises in different regions of the world and how contemporary technological change – such as advances in data analytics, sensing, automation and cognitive computing – has changed the nature of cross-border learning and innovation. Throughout the course, students examine how processes at the firm level interact with societal institutions, governmental policies and other ostensibly non-market forces. Upon completion of this course, students should be able to: Identify and articulate key considerations when comparing entrepreneurial ecosystems Critically and strategically evaluate major global opportunities and identify and communicate their implications for entrepreneurial action Identify and evaluate potential strategies to leverage global resources (financial, human and physical) to strategic advantage Develop frameworks to use in thinking about ways to solve global problems and establish entrepreneurial opportunity Integrated Applications Capstone: Critical Challenge Project Instructor: Rod Beresford The Critical Challenge Project (CCP) is central to the ScM in Technology Leadership. The project identifies a critical technology challenge for an organization, drawing from the student’s own work experience. Under the direction of a faculty member, the student analyzes this critical challenge from multiple perspectives and develops a comprehensive plan for addressing it. The CCP draws upon the knowledge and skills gained by the student from each course, with particular emphasis on integrating technology, policy, and human factor aspects, considering ethical implications, and developing innovative, transformative, and viable solutions. The CCP is expected to be relevant to the student in terms of background, interests, current job, and future aspirations. Also, it should have practical applicability to the field of technology and take into account multiple stakeholders, such as customers, developers, policymakers, and government and industry executives. Upon completion of this course, students should be able to: Tackle a technology problem facing your industry Position yourself for leadership in your industry Build a network of advisors for your long term career aspirations International Experience Technology leaders must acquire an understanding of international business practices and global technologies. We’ve addressed this need through an innovative and structured global immersion opportunity designed for working professionals. Upon completion of this course, students should be able to: Experience dramatically different culture Understand how to conduct business in a new country Evaluate lessons learned from this new culture Leadership and Professional Development Instructor: Robin Rose The professional development component of the ScM in Technology Leadership is a critical piece of the student experience and spans the length of the program. In both residential and online settings, students will engage in discussions, reflections, lectures, simulations and experiential activities focused on their professional development as leaders. Students will be consistently challenged to apply the leadership theory and practice they are exploring in the program to their work environment. They will also have opportunities to establish professional development goals and receive support from peers and faculty relative to those aspirations. As a result of participating in several different workshops and activities, students will: Increase their self-awareness of their leadership style and their strengths and weaknesses. Develop an ability to create and implement a professional development plan. Develop their skills in coaching and supporting the professional development of their peers and employees regardless of race, culture, gender, age, creed or ability. Enhance their skills at managing difficult conversations. Increase their understanding of how they function in a group, how groups function and how they can effectively lead groups to become high performing teams. Display professionalism and ownership of professional growth and learning. This element of the program is not graded. Capstone Learn More Request Information Upcoming Events Diversity & Inclusion Apply Today Access the Application Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-7901 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation Privacy Policy Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University For You Admitted Students Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Curriculum Open details for Curriculum Bookmark this Page