Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... Admitted Students School of Professional Studies Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Search Search Menu Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Become a more effective healthcare leader by learning and applying proven coaching methods. Program Dates: October 4 - November 18, 2022 Breadcrumb Home Executive Education Sub Navigation In This Section American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Program Content Program Schedule Registration & Cost Program Faculty Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Learn More Register for an upcoming webinar or request more information and we'll be in touch. Upcoming Events Request More Info Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Become a more effective healthcare leader by learning and applying proven coaching methods. Program Dates: October 4 - November 18, 2022 Enhance your leadership effectiveness, drive culture change and optimize patient experience. Today more than ever, healthcare professionals must address a myriad of complex challenges such as improving the patient experience, enhancing the quality of care, containing costs, and promoting provider well-being. Coaching is a core competency of agile healthcare leaders who empower teams to achieve goals and improve patient outcomes. Leader as Coach is a highly experiential blended learning online program designed for leaders who want to become more “coach-like.” The curriculum is grounded in developmental psychology, neuroscience, and leadership research and is designed specifically for healthcare professionals. ACT and Brown are committed to delivering transformative learning and results to all program participants. We have been training coaches from the healthcare sector for the last decade using proven coaching and leadership development methodologies. Health care systems face some of the biggest challenges and they are already recognizing the value of coaching. Learn More Program Snapshot Online Highly-experiential live online sessions, team-work & self-paced learning 8 Weeks 3 Hours Per Week Live online bi-weekly. Self-paced work in between live sessions $2,995 Tuition Cost “ One thing I really appreciated about the coaching and coaching skills was empowering our people to help solve their problems because they’re the ones actually doing the work. ” Dr. Raki Pai Physician Leader of Metro Health, University of Michigan Health, Grand Rapids Michigan Program Benefits Prepare leaders to solve problems and make a positive impact on patients, teams and organizations. Expand your leadership range by acquiring new coaching frameworks and skills. Network with peers from across the full spectrum of healthcare. View Detailed Schedule Upon successful completion of the 8-week, online program, you will receive a Certificate of Completion from Brown University School of Professional Studies. What We Cover Leader as Coach for Healthcare is a highly-experiential, 8-week online course focusing on developing leaders to become more “coach-like”. The program curriculum includes four main topic areas designed to give you all the knowledge and tools you need. Coaching Foundations Coaching Skills and Values Reactive to Creative Application and Integration View Detailed Program Content Who Should Attend? This program is for healthcare professionals with responsibility for leading and managing others and who would like to enhance their leadership skills, with a particular focus on coaching. Target program participants include anyone with an interest in improving patient outcomes: Clinicians with direct patient care responsibilities Healthcare units or teams with specialized expertise Professionals working in public health, office practices and home care settings Healthcare leaders at the medical school, departmental, or system level Upcoming Webinars Learn more about our Leader as Coach for Healthcare program. Sign-up for one of our informational webinars. Play 1 of 3 Play 2 of 3 Dr. Brian Clyne describes how he has applied and integrated coaching skills into his leadership style. Play 3 of 3 Dr. Raki Pai, an alum of the ACT/Brown coaching program, shares his experiences applying coaching concepts as a healthcare leader of a large organization. Learn More Register for an upcoming webinar or request more information and we'll be in touch. Upcoming Events Request More Info Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-7901 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation Privacy Policy Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University For You Admitted Students Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Open details for Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Bookmark this Page