Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Open Mobile Navigation Pro Futuris About Pro Futuris The Strategic Vision: Launched May 2012 Letter From the President A Name for Our Strategic Vision A Symbol for Our Strategic Vision Baylor's Distinctive Role Baylor's Commitments Mission Statement Foundational Assumptions Core Convictions Unifying Academic Themes Institutional and Environmental Context Developing Our Strategic Vision Overview of Progress During Baylor 2012 The State of Higher Education Baylor's Financial Position The Planning Process Strategic Vision: Pro Futuris One: Transformational Education Two: Compelling Scholarship Three: Informed Engagement Four: Committed Constituents Five: Judicious Stewardship Pro Futuris Downloads Five Year Goals: 2014-2018 Transformational Education Compelling Scholarship Informed Engagement Committed Constituents Judicious Stewardship Progress - July 2017 Illuminate: 2018 - 2022 Pro Futuris The Strategic Vision: Launched May 2012 Institutional and Environmental Context The Planning Process Letter From the President A Name for Our Strategic Vision A Symbol for Our Strategic Vision Baylor's Distinctive Role Baylor's Commitments Institutional and Environmental Context Developing Our Strategic Vision Overview of Progress During Baylor 2012 The State of Higher Education Baylor's Financial Position The Planning Process Strategic Vision: Pro Futuris Pro Futuris Downloads The Planning Process The selection of Kenneth Winston Starr as Baylor’s 14th president coincided with the latter days of Baylor 2012. Shortly after he took office in July 2010, the regents and senior administration reviewed the University’s foundational assumptions, core convictions, unifying academic themes, and mission statement and determined that these commitments should continue to guide the institution through its next strategic vision. In addition, Executive Vice President and Provost Elizabeth Davis was charged with leading a deliberately open and participatory planning process that would actively engage the University’s multiple constituencies, and result in the production of a new strategic vision to take effect June 1, 2012. In November 2010 the University issued “Envisioning our Future,” a document to prompt reflection as well as to set the stage for community input to inform the development of the new strategic vision. The period for community input extended from December 2010 through April 2011. Three primary forms of input resulted: 165 Group Input reports were submitted following on-campus discussions within existing organizational structures (e.g., academic departments, schools, administrative units, and student organizations) as well as in multi-disciplinary groups. A total of 17 Community Input Sessions were held across the country. Eleven of the sessions were held in Texas, with others in New York City, Los Angeles, Chicago, Washington, D.C., Nashville, and Marietta, GA. In total, more than 700 individuals participated in these sessions, the vast majority Baylor alumni, but also parents of currently enrolled students and other interested parties. Individual input submissions were provided electronically by approximately 300 unique respondents. Many were members of more than one constituent group, but more than half identified themselves as Baylor alumni. Provost Davis appointed a Strategic Themes Committee (STC) to study, analyze, and synthesize all of the input received during the Community Input period of the strategic planning process. This 23-member committee, drawn from the University’s faculty, staff, and students, was chaired by Mitchell J. Neubert, the Chavanne Chair of Christian Ethics in Business in the Hankamer School of Business. The STC commenced its work in January 2011. The committee inductively developed criteria for sorting and grouping the information and eventually adopted a framework of 12 themes by which to code/categorize the input data. Each piece of input was read more than once by more than one person. The culmination of these efforts led to the production in June 2011 of the Strategic Input Report (SIR) that distilled thousands of pages of data, capturing both the areas about which there was significant consensus (which were many) as well as fairly recording differing viewpoints, telling both sides of the story. The SIR highlighted multiple areas of convergence, including: The conviction that steadfastly holding on to Baylor’s Christian identity was both foundational and a critical differentiator; A broad-based commitment to the importance of teaching excellence; and The importance of strengthening connections within the Baylor family and between the Baylor family and the community. The areas of divergence included: The ideal emphasis to be placed on research in light of institutional commitments to teaching and faith; The specific areas of focus or programs that would offer the greatest potential for success and impact; and How best to balance inclusiveness with intentionality in affirming Baylor’s uniqueness. Beginning in July 2011, the Regents and the Executive Council, with assistance from the Academic Deans and Vice Provosts, deliberated the findings from the SIR and began crafting a draft of Pro Futuris. The SIR was invaluable in confirming that Baylor’s new strategic vision should not seek to alter the trajectory set by Baylor 2012, but should reinforce the commitments already established, while also articulating a renewed set of strategic aspirational statements to guide ongoing institutional decision-making during the decade ahead. The intent was to craft aspirational statements of ends rather than means in order that Pro Futuris would provide ample guidance for future decision-making without attempting to dictate a decade’s worth of specific actions. The draft of Pro Futuris was released in December 2011. Faculty, staff, students, alumni, and others interested in Baylor’s future were invited to continue their active participation in the vision’s development by responding to a series of questions designed to provide targeted feedback on how the draft vision could be improved. Feedback on the draft of Pro Futuris was accepted through March 2012. Drawing primarily from members of the STC, Provost Davis charged a Feedback Review Working Group to examine all feedback submitted and share their findings with her for consideration by the Executive Council and Regents. Final revisions to Pro Futuris were incorporated during April 2012, and the vision was adopted by the Board of Regents on May 11, 2012. Pro Futuris The Strategic Vision: Launched May 2012 Institutional and Environmental Context The Planning Process About Pro Futuris The Strategic Vision: Launched May 2012 Back Letter From the President A Name for Our Strategic Vision A Symbol for Our Strategic Vision Baylor's Distinctive Role Baylor's Commitments Back Mission Statement Foundational Assumptions Core Convictions Unifying Academic Themes Institutional and Environmental Context Back Developing Our Strategic Vision Overview of Progress During Baylor 2012 The State of Higher Education Baylor's Financial Position The Planning Process Strategic Vision: Pro Futuris Back One: Transformational Education Two: Compelling Scholarship Three: Informed Engagement Four: Committed Constituents Five: Judicious Stewardship Pro Futuris Downloads Five Year Goals: 2014-2018 Back Transformational Education Compelling Scholarship Informed Engagement Committed Constituents Judicious Stewardship Progress - July 2017 Illuminate: 2018 - 2022 General Information Academics & Research Administration Admissions Gateways for ... About Baylor Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate News Pro Futuris Search Social Media Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Accessibility Anonymous Reporting Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Digital Privacy Legal Disclosures Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678