Stanford Profiles Menu Browse Schools Graduate School of Business Graduate School of Education School of Earth, Energy and Environmental Sciences School of Engineering School of Humanities and Sciences School of Medicine Institutes & Research Centers Bio-X Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies Institute for Computational and Mathematical Engineering (ICME) Institute for Human-Centered Artificial Intelligence (HAI) Institute for Stem Cell Biology and Regenerative Medicine Precourt Institute for Energy SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory Sarafan ChEM-H Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research (SIEPR) Stanford PULSE Institute Stanford Woods Institute for the Environment Wu Tsai Human Performance Alliance Wu Tsai Neurosciences Institute Administration Office of External Relations Office of VP for University Human Resources Office of Vice President for Business Affairs and Chief Financial Officer Stanford University Libraries Vice Provost and Dean of Research Vice Provost for Student Affairs Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education Sign In Edit My Profile View Stanford-only Results Institute for Computational and Mathematical Engineering (ICME) Showing 1-10 of 190 Results Nicolas Aagnes Masters Student in Computational and Mathematical Engineering, admitted Autumn 2019 Contact Info naagnes@stanford.edu Stacey Abbott Administrative Associate 3, Institute for Computational and Mathematical Engineering (ICME) Contact Info 475 Via Ortega Ste 60 Stanford, California 94305-4121 Mail Code: 4042 (650) 736-0638 (office) smabbott@stanford.edu Guillermo Aboumrad Sidaoui Ph.D. Student in Computational and Mathematical Engineering, admitted Summer 2018 BioWillie was born and raised in Mexico City. He later moved to the UK to complete his high school studies. In the fall of 2014, Willie arrived at Stanford to begin his undergraduate career in Mathematics. Interested in applications of mathematical theory, he later gained admission to the Master's program at ICME. He is currently pursuing a doctoral degree under the advisory of Prof. Daniel Bump. Contact Info Mail Code: 4042 willieab@stanford.edu Christiane Adcock Ph.D. Student in Computational and Mathematical Engineering, admitted Autumn 2018 Current Research and Scholarly InterestsI research theoretical and computational methods to model, design, and control energy systems. These methods include computational fluid dynamics, uncertainty quantification, and high performance computing. Energy systems include wind turbines, the electricity grid, vehicles, and carbon sequestration systems. Currently, I am researching hybrid RANS-LES methods for wind farm modeling in the Uncertainty Quantification lab in collaboration with the National Renewable Energy Laboratory. Izabel Pirimai Aguiar Ph.D. Student in Computational and Mathematical Engineering, admitted Autumn 2018 BioHello! I’m a third year PhD candidate at ICME where I’m lucky to be advised by Johan Ugander, and grateful to be a Knight-Hennessy Scholar and NSF Graduate Research Fellow. I received my BS in Applied Mathematics and Statistics from the Colorado School of Mines in May 2017 and my MS in Computer Science from the University of Colorado, Boulder in August 2018. After receiving my MS I was a visiting researcher in the Stanford Autonomous Systems Lab, a Safeway cake decorator, and the owner and baker of Bell’s Bakery. Contact Info Mail Code: 4035 izzya@stanford.edu Ayya Alieva Ph.D. Student in Computational and Mathematical Engineering, admitted Winter 2021 Juan Alonso Vance D. and Arlene C. Coffman Professor On Partial Leave from 10/01/2021 To 06/30/2022 BioProf. Alonso is the founder and director of the Aerospace Design Laboratory (ADL) where he specializes in the development of high-fidelity computational design methodologies to enable the creation of realizable and efficient aerospace systems. Prof. Alonso’s research involves a large number of different manned and unmanned applications including transonic, supersonic, and hypersonic aircraft, helicopters, turbomachinery, and launch and re-entry vehicles. He is the author of over 200 technical publications on the topics of computational aircraft and spacecraft design, multi-disciplinary optimization, fundamental numerical methods, and high-performance parallel computing. Prof. Alonso is keenly interested in the development of an advanced curriculum for the training of future engineers and scientists and has participated actively in course-development activities in both the Aeronautics & Astronautics Department (particularly in the development of coursework for aircraft design, sustainable aviation, and UAS design and operation) and for the Institute for Computational and Mathematical Engineering (ICME) at Stanford University. He was a member of the team that currently holds the world speed record for human powered vehicles over water. A student team led by Prof. Alonso also holds the altitude record for an unmanned electric vehicle under 5 lbs of mass. Contact Info Mail Code: 4035 jjalonso@stanford.edu Ryan Michael Aronson Ph.D. Student in Computational and Mathematical Engineering, admitted Autumn 2018 BioI am a third year PhD student in the Institute for Computational and Mathematical Engineering (ICME). I am mainly interested in developing numerical methods with applications to computational mechanics and fluid dynamics. I am particularly interested in high-order, structure-preserving, finite element, and isogeometric methods. Prior to coming to Stanford, I earned a B.S. in Aerospace Engineering Sciences at the University of Colorado Boulder, where I worked with Professor John Evans on residual-based variational multiscale turbulence modeling and isogeometric, structure-preserving collocation methods. Contact Info Mail Code: 4042 rmaronso@stanford.edu Susan Athey Economics of Technology Professor, Senior Fellow at the Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research and Professor, by courtesy, of Economics Contact Info Mail Code: 4800 (650) 725-1813 (office) athey@stanford.edu Web page: http://athey.people.stanford.edu/ Amel Awadelkarim Ph.D. Student in Computational and Mathematical Engineering, admitted Autumn 2017 BioMy academic background is in Computational Fluid Dynamics, Finite Element Analysis, and Continuum Mechanics with an M.S. in Engineering Science and Mechanics from Penn State University. I am becoming more and more intrigued by data analytics & applying machine learning techniques to social sciences and networks. Outside of academia, my interests include consuming music at all times (digitally and at live shows), competing on various Ultimate Frisbee teams (Club and National levels), cooking, and generally exploring the surrounding area. Contact Info Mail Code: 4042 ameloa@stanford.edu First Previous 1/19 Next Last 10 Results / Page 10 / Page Change 10 20 50 100 Show Only All Profiles Faculty, Research and Teaching Staff Staff Postdocs Graduate Students Last Name A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Report Accessibility Issues Stanford University SU Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Terms of Use Copyright Complaints © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305