Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... Admitted Students School of Professional Studies Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Search Search Menu Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Improve your communication skills and become a more dynamic public speaker. Program Dates: October 20 - November 17, 2022 Breadcrumb Home Executive Education Sub Navigation In This Section American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Program Content Program Schedule Faculty Registration & Cost Team Coaching Program Learn More Want to learn more about Powerful and Persuasive Communication? Request more information and we'll be in touch. Request More Info Upcoming Info Sessions Schedule a Call Connect with an Advisor Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Improve your communication skills and become a more dynamic public speaker. Program Dates: October 20 - November 17, 2022 Maximize the impact of your voice and gain greater influence as a leader. Powerful and Persuasive Communication is an interactive and intensive live online, limited enrollment public speaking course designed by Brown University's Distinguished Senior Lecturer, Barbara Tannenbaum, Ph.D. Our unique program provides direct access to the highly-effective core concepts, practices and one-on-one coaching techniques that are hallmarks of Dr. Tannenbaum’s academic and professional programs. Our 4-week online program will transform how you communicate, both professionally and personally. Through live classes with Dr. Tannenbaum, individualized coaching sessions from experts and practice in teams, you will build on your strengths while gaining new skills to dramatically improve your public speaking and communication in every scenario: one-on-one, small groups and large audiences. See your growth week-over-week and apply key concepts to your own work in real-time. Upon successful completion of the program, participants receive a Certificate of Completion from Brown School of Professional Studies. Register Today Request More Information Schedule a Call Upcoming Events Program Snapshot Online Dates: October 20 - November 17, 2022 Highly-interactive format blending live online lectures, small group workshops and one-on-one coaching 4 Weeks 4 Hours Per Week Approximate Time Commitment $ 2,995 Tuition Cost “ This course has forever changed my communication style. I trust in my credibility and my overall confidence in public speaking improved. You will see the difference in your speaking week over week if you allow yourself to be open to the feedback and apply the lessons learned. ” Veronica Pickens Managing Director, MA Compliance Oversight, Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan What You'll Learn This program will change how you communicate and how you evaluate others’ communication. Learn the key elements of persuasive communication, including audience-centered communication Gain acceptance for your proposals or ideas by learning how to use different techniques for compelling audiences to take action or change their attitudes Understand the impact of non-verbal, vocal and message elements of communication and manage these elements to maximize your effectiveness as a speaker Find and develop your own authentic style of communication by building on your strengths and embracing your opportunities for growth View Detailed Schedule Who Should Attend? Powerful and Persuasive Communication is designed for any professional who wants to substantially improve their communication skills quickly. Examples of target program participants: Sales and Business Development professionals Team leaders, managers and directors Technical professionals who want to learn how to better communicate their ideas or proposals to non-technical audiences Upcoming Events Play 1 of 1 [Watch] Professor Tannenbaum discusses how excellent communication skills are not innate, they must be learned and are essential to maximizing the impact of your work. Learn More About Powerful and Persuasive Communication Request More Info Learn More Want to learn more about Powerful and Persuasive Communication? Request more information and we'll be in touch. Request More Info Upcoming Info Sessions Schedule a Call Connect with an Advisor Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-7901 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation Privacy Policy Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University For You Admitted Students Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Open details for Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Bookmark this Page