Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... Admitted Students School of Professional Studies Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Search Search Menu Team Coaching Program Program Dates: September 20-22, 2022 and November 15-16, 2022 Breadcrumb Home Executive Education Team Coaching Program Program Dates: September 20-22, 2022 and November 15-16, 2022 We are excited to announce the launch of the ACT Team Coaching Program for Coaches! Brown School of Professional Studies in partnership with ACT Leadership is offering a Team Coaching Program. Team Coaching is a critical component in helping teams be successful in optimizing effectiveness, strong relationships and achieving results. Module 1 Module 2 Date September 20-22, 2022 November 15-16, 2022 Time 9:00 AM - 4:30 PM ET 9:00 AM - 4:30 PM ET Cost* $4,495.00 *Early bird by May 31, 2022: $3,995.00 - Coupon Code: TeamEARLYBIRD2022 Military Discount Available: 10% off (one discount code per customer) - Coupon Code: Military10Team Organization Discount: If three or more individuals from the same organization register, a discount of 10% will be applied. Learn More & Inquire “ The Team Coaching Program is critical for coaches who are wanting to help teams achieve a greater level of effectiveness, take responsibility and see transformative results that stick. ” Prior Team Coaching Participant What You'll Learn The Team Coaching Program is highly experiential with a mix of training, team coaching, observations and leadership development. This program’s interactive and experiential learning approach helps teams move from Reactive to Creative. Holding the team as creative, resourceful and whole, you will develop an acute awareness of the team dynamics and how to help shift teams into greater effectiveness and performance. There is a high emphasis on practice so you can immediately start implementing and applying your knowledge in the workplace. Program Structure The Team Coaching training takes place over 3 months. There are 2 live modules that will take place on zoom. Module 1 is 3 days and Module 2 is 2 days. There is a field project between Module 1 and 2. The program has been approved by the International Coaching Federation. Program Dates: Module 1: September 20-22, 2022, 9am - 4:30pm Module 2: November 15-16, 2022, 9am - 4:30pm The program will be led by Ashley Abbott, Executive and Team Coach and Erin Hutchins, Master Coach and Co-Founder of ACT Leadership. Who Should Attend? If your work requires working with teams or coaching teams, this program is invaluable. Hierarchical challenges, personality styles, unclear expectations, and unclear decision-making processes are all factors that impact the performance and effectiveness of a team. The ACT Team Coaching program is specifically designed for certified coaches. In this 3-month program you will learn how to move from individual to team coaching. Prerequisite: A graduate of the LPCC Program or certified by a coaching school or accredited coaching program. For non-LPCC graduates, minimal bridging pre-work required. Our Experience The ACT team has worked with organizational teams various roles including consulting, team coaching, team assessments, facilitation and training. The ACT team has extensive experience observing how teams interact and the factors that impact performance and effectiveness. Whether it is hierarchical challenges, debating skills, personality styles, unclear roles and responsibilities or no clearly defined decision-making process, teams often fail to live up to expectations. The results of ACT's observations has formed the basis of the team coaching program, which focuses on group dynamics: how individuals interact with each other, share their collective talents, collaborate and hold each other mutually accountable to achieve a common purpose and set of performance goals. Play 1 of 2 ACT Student Experience: Teach Coaching Program Play 2 of 2 ACT Student Experience: Team Coaching Program Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-7901 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation Privacy Policy Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University For You Admitted Students Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Team Coaching Program Open details for Team Coaching Program Bookmark this Page