Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... Admitted Students School of Professional Studies Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Search Search Menu Frequently Asked Questions Breadcrumb Home Admissions Sub Navigation In This Section Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students Frequently Asked Questions Answers to our most commonly asked master's program questions. Please find below our most commonly asked admissions questions. If you have a question not addressed below, please email professional@brown.edu. Application Process What are your application requirements and deadlines? Application requirements and deadlines vary by program. We encourage you to explore our admissions requirements page for general information about the application process. There, you will also find links to individual program's admissions pages for more detailed instructions. Do you have a minimum GPA requirement? All applications to Brown are reviewed holistically by a faculty admissions committee. Applicants with GPAs below 3.0 are strongly advised to submit additional evidence demonstrating academic potential. Do you require GRE or GMAT scores? We do not require GRE or GMAT scores for admission to our master's programs. How should transcripts be submitted? Applicants are encouraged to upload unofficial transcripts to their applications for review. If admitted, official transcripts sent from all undergraduate/graduate school's registrar's office will be required as part of the enrollment process. How many recommendation letters are required in the application? We require three (3) letters of recommendation. At least one of these letters should come from your present or past supervisor, or from a senior executive in your organization. We encourage recommenders to highlight your: career achievements strengths and weaknesses initiative creativity ability to contributed in a peer-to-peer learning environment your career aspirations and how they align with the program professional relationship and how long they have known you academic performance or any other relevant information about you, if applicable What is your application fee and do you offer application fee waivers? Our application fee is $200 and payable online. Application fee waivers are available to Active Military and Veterans for the Master's in Healthcare Leadership and Master's in Technology Leadership programs. Please contact professional@brown.edu for more information. Do you include an interview as part of the application process? Select applicants are invited to interview once all application components are received and reviewed by our faculty admissions committee. Interviews are typically held via web conferencing platform. Do you require an enrollment deposit? We currently require a non-refundable $1,500 deposit (payable online) to reserve your seat in our Healthcare Leadership and Technology Leadership master's programs. The enrollment deposit for the IE Brown Executive MBA is $13,500 and submitted directly to IE Business School. Do you accept transfer credits? Due to the curated nature of our curriculum—offered in a blended low-residency and online format—unfortunately, we do not accept transfer credits. Do you offer Advising Calls/Appointments? Yes, we do. Please click on your program of interest below: Healthcare Leadership Technology Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Program Experience Are the residential sessions required? Due to the low-residency format of our programs, residential sessions are an important component of the academic and professional networking experience in our programs. Participation in these sessions is required. How are courses graded? Grades are most often based on reading assignments, papers, group projects and the completion of your capstone project. Where do I stay for residential sessions? Brown University (and IE Business School for the Executive MBA program) shares a list of preferred hotels with students. As travel and accommodations are arranged individually and not included in tuition & fees, we encourage students to seek accommodations that meet their needs and budget. If your program includes an immersion experience, you will need to stay in the designated hotel provided by the program team for that residential stay. What is the average class/cohort size? A typical cohort ranges from 25-45 students depending on program and varies from year-to-year and classes are taken in a cohort model. Is there pre-work required? Yes. Typically one month prior to the start of our programs, students are provided access to the online learning portal for pre-work readings and assignments. Do your programs offer elective courses? Due to the curated nature of our curriculum—offered in a blended low-residency and online format—unfortunately, we do not offer elective courses at this time. We encourage you to view the curriculum pages of our programs to view their dynamic coursework offerings. Can you describe a typical class experience? You will begin and finish your classes in person. For example, at the beginning of the program during your first residential session, you will begin your coursework. At the conclusion of the residential session, you will then continue coursework online. At your next residential session, you will conclude the classes you started and begin new ones. This format continues throughout the program. Do you require a thesis or capstone? Our programs do not require a thesis, though students are required to propose and complete a capstone project as part of their learning experience. Students are asked to identify a critical challenge for an organization, drawing from the student’s own work experience. Under the direction of a faculty member, the student analyzes this critical challenge from multiple perspectives and develops a comprehensive plan for addressing it. How are online courses offered? Our online platforms are very user-friendly. Brown's programs are offered through Canvas, and IE Business School (our joint Executive MBA) uses Campus. Do you require students to be employed when enrolled? Due to the low-residency and online format of our programs, our programs are designed for working professionals. What alumni connections or benefits do you have? Brown University has over 100,000 alumni and offers robust support for its graduates. We encourage you to visit our alumni resources page for more information about alumni benefits. What is the time commitment I should expect? Residential sessions vary by program; we encourage you to research the program schedule on your program's website. On average, you can anticipate 15-20 hours of online coursework per week when not in a residential session. Are your programs accredited? Every 10 years, Brown undergoes a process of reaccreditation by the New England Commission of Higher Education (NECHE). Brown’s reaccreditation occurred in the Spring of 2018. The IE Brown Executive MBA is additionally accredited by AACSB, AMBA, and EQUIS. Financial Aid Do you offer financial aid? The majority of students are self-supported and/or supported in part by their employers. We encourage master's applicants to maximize funding sources, detailed on the funding opportunities page. Do you offer financial support for veterans or active military members? Military applicants are encouraged to research benefits eligibility for the Post-9/11 GI Bill®; Brown University School of Professional Studies is also a proud participant of the Yellow Ribbon Program. We require a Certificate of Eligibility (COE). Within your COE application, you may use print-outs of your WAVE Benefits Status page or your eBenefits Education page in lieu of an award letter or Certificate of Eligibility (COE). Can you pay tuition with a credit card? Unfortunately only the application fee and Brown's enrollment deposit are payable by credit card. Tuition payments must be paid with check/electronic check. Students in the IE Brown Executive MBA work directly with IE Business School for tuition payments arrangements, which differ slightly from Brown. Do you accept employer-sponsored tuition payments? Yes, Brown University accepts employer vouchers that are not contingent upon receipt of grades. Students whose employers or sponsors reimburse them for tuition and fees after receipt of grades must pay in full upon receipt of the Student Account Statement to avoid interest, late fees, and/or cancellation of registration. Under all circumstances, the charges for tuition and fees remain the responsibility of the student. International Applicants Do you issue F-1 student visas for international students? At this time, we do not offer I-20 certificates for students in the Healthcare Leadership and Technology Leadership master's programs due to their blended low-residency/online program formats. Other visa types are not supported for studying in the United States. The IE Brown Executive MBA is an authorized F-1 program and can issue I-20s to qualified international students to attend the Brown-hosted sessions in United States. It is the student’s responsibility to obtain the F-1 entry visa from the Department of State. Do you accept international tuition payments? Brown University strongly encourages students to pay via FlyWire if they are wiring funds to Brown from an international bank. Please note the visa requirements above, and that IE Brown Executive MBA students pay tuition directly to our academic partner, IE Business School. The Brown Difference Our commitment to educational innovation, diversity and inclusion, collaboration and making an impact in the world is at the core of what we do. Learn More Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-7901 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation Privacy Policy Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University For You Admitted Students Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Frequently Asked Questions Open details for Frequently Asked Questions Bookmark this Page