Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Open Mobile Navigation Pro Futuris About Pro Futuris The Strategic Vision: Launched May 2012 Letter From the President A Name for Our Strategic Vision A Symbol for Our Strategic Vision Baylor's Distinctive Role Baylor's Commitments Mission Statement Foundational Assumptions Core Convictions Unifying Academic Themes Institutional and Environmental Context Developing Our Strategic Vision Overview of Progress During Baylor 2012 The State of Higher Education Baylor's Financial Position The Planning Process Strategic Vision: Pro Futuris One: Transformational Education Two: Compelling Scholarship Three: Informed Engagement Four: Committed Constituents Five: Judicious Stewardship Pro Futuris Downloads Five Year Goals: 2014-2018 Transformational Education Compelling Scholarship Informed Engagement Committed Constituents Judicious Stewardship Progress - July 2017 Illuminate: 2018 - 2022 Pro Futuris The Strategic Vision: Launched May 2012 Letter From the President A Name for Our Strategic Vision A Symbol for Our Strategic Vision Baylor's Distinctive Role Baylor's Commitments Institutional and Environmental Context Strategic Vision: Pro Futuris Pro Futuris Downloads The Strategic Vision: Launched May 2012 On May 11, 2012, the Baylor Board of Regents adopted Pro Futuris: a Strategic Vision for Baylor University. Developed over the course of two years, Pro Futuris reflects the input and wisdom of the extended Baylor community. This web site provides information about our new vision, our development process, and the context in which our vision will flourish in the years to come. Pro Futuris serves as a compass for our future, providing direction without dictating specific actions-pointing us toward our destination while inviting creativity in determining the paths by which we will arrive. It follows on the heels of the very successful Baylor 2012 vision which ushered in unprecedented growth and development at Baylor impacting every area of university life. We have named our new vision Pro Futuris, an extension of Baylor's beloved motto, Pro Ecclesia, Pro Texana. It reminds us that our past is inextricably linked to our future, and that responsibility to God, and to the world, continues to lead us. Letter From the President Among the many notable facts about Baylor is our long and rich history as the oldest, continuously operating university in Texas. Since 1845, the vision of Baylor's founders has inspired and guided us. It now informs the direction of our new strategic vision. A Name for Our Strategic Vision We have named our new vision Pro Futuris — for the future. An extension of our motto, Pro Futuris reminds us that our past is inextricably linked to our future, and that our obligation, to God and to the world, continues. A Symbol for Our Strategic Vision The star is a symbol with deep historic significance to Baylor University and to Texas. Occupying the center of our University seal, the star reflects our standing as the oldest, continuously operating university in the state of Texas. Baylor's Distinctive Role As a Christian university committed to scholarship of the highest quality, we offer a distinctive voice to global conversations about crucial issues — such as social responsibility, health care, economic growth, human rights, poverty, diversity, and sustainability — in a way that few others can. Baylor's Commitments Baylor is committed to the University’s mission, foundational assumptions, core convictions, and unifying academic themes. Institutional and Environmental Context Pro Futuris was developed from broad-based input characterized by a clear understanding and celebration of Baylor’s distinctive role in higher education. Strategic Vision: Pro Futuris Pro Futuris serves as a compass for our future, providing direction without dictating specific action - a guiding document that points us toward our destination while inviting creativity in determining the paths by which we will arrive. Pro Futuris Downloads Two printable PDF versions of the strategic vision, a text version and the full-color publication. Pro Futuris The Strategic Vision: Launched May 2012 About Pro Futuris The Strategic Vision: Launched May 2012 Back Letter From the President A Name for Our Strategic Vision A Symbol for Our Strategic Vision Baylor's Distinctive Role Baylor's Commitments Back Mission Statement Foundational Assumptions Core Convictions Unifying Academic Themes Institutional and Environmental Context Back Developing Our Strategic Vision Overview of Progress During Baylor 2012 The State of Higher Education Baylor's Financial Position The Planning Process Strategic Vision: Pro Futuris Back One: Transformational Education Two: Compelling Scholarship Three: Informed Engagement Four: Committed Constituents Five: Judicious Stewardship Pro Futuris Downloads Five Year Goals: 2014-2018 Back Transformational Education Compelling Scholarship Informed Engagement Committed Constituents Judicious Stewardship Progress - July 2017 Illuminate: 2018 - 2022 General Information Academics & Research Administration Admissions Gateways for ... About Baylor Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate News Pro Futuris Search Social Media Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Accessibility Anonymous Reporting Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Digital Privacy Legal Disclosures Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678