Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... Admitted Students School of Professional Studies Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Search Search Menu Registration & Cost Breadcrumb Home Executive Education Leader as Coach | Live Online Sub Navigation In This Section Program Content Program Schedule Faculty Registration & Cost About & Contact Us Learn More Leader as Coach | Learn More Our next class starts in Fall 2022. Register for an upcoming webinar or request more information and we'll be in touch. Upcoming Info Sessions Request More Info Schedule a Call Connect with an Advisor Registration & Cost Tuition $2,995 Registration deadline: September 27, 2022 Register Today Certificate of Completion Upon successful completion of the 8-week, online program, you will receive a Certificate of Completion from Brown University School of Professional Studies. Proven approach: The Leader as Coach program is a highly effective way to help leaders adopt a coach approach. From our most recent program, 100% of the participants saw the application of their new skills at work. Cancellation Policy All cancellation requests must be made in writing to Brown. Requests can be submitted to execeducation@brown.edu. You must submit a request to cancel your enrollment and receive a refund no later than 14 days prior to the course start date to receive a full refund. Refunds will be processed the same way the original payment was made and within 30 days following the receipt request. If cancellation is requested less than 14 days prior to the course start date, funds may be credited to the same course scheduled within the next 12 months. If the course price changes in the 12 months from the start of the course, you will be responsible for paying the price differential. If the course is not presented again within the 12-month window, you may apply the credit towards another course. All unclaimed credits expire at the end of 12 months from the start of the course. If a cancellation is made after the course start date, no refund or credit will be granted. Upcoming Events Past Webinars In case you missed it or can't attend a live webinar, watch a recording of our past information sessions to learn more about Leader as Coach from past students and program faculty. Leader as Coach Overview and Q&A Student Experience and Impact of Leader as Coach Learn More Leader as Coach | Learn More Our next class starts in Fall 2022. Register for an upcoming webinar or request more information and we'll be in touch. Upcoming Info Sessions Request More Info Schedule a Call Connect with an Advisor Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-7901 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation Privacy Policy Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University For You Admitted Students Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Registration & Cost Open details for Registration & Cost Bookmark this Page