Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... Admitted Students School of Professional Studies Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Search Search Menu Privacy Policy 2020 and Before Application Form Current applicants to the Brown School of Professional Studies apply via CollegeNET (privacy policy), managed by Brown's Graduate School. Future applicants will apply in Technolutions Slate (privacy policy) beginning in September 2020, managed by the Brown School of Professional Studies. All future applications will apply in Technolutions Slate as of January 2021. Inquiry Form All information collected from our opt-in inquiry form is used solely for the purposes of contacting and providing interested prospects with information on our program offerings. We will never sell or share any of your information with third-party vendors. Mailchimp We use an email management service called mailchimp to manage all newsletter email communications. Please see their privacy policy for more information. You can opt-out of email communications via the “unsubscribe from this list” link at the bottom of each email. Pardot and Salesforce We use Pardot as a lead collection and nurturing system and Salesforce (Pardot's parent company) as our system of record and for contact management purposes. Please see their privacy policy for more information. 2020 and Beyond Technolutions Slate As of April 2020, all activities above will be replaced with Technolutions Slate. Existing data will remain in the existing systems of record, new/future data will be maintained in Technolutions Slate, and former inquiries will be invited to opt-in to the new inquiry form/communications. Cookies Google Analytics We use a tool called “Google Analytics” to collect information about use of this site. Google Analytics collects information such as how often users visit this site, what pages they visit when they do so, and what other sites they used prior to coming to this site. We use the information we get from Google Analytics only to improve this site. Google Analytics collects only the IP address assigned to you on the date you visit this site, rather than your name or other identifying information. We do not combine the information collected through the use of Google Analytics with personally identifiable information. Although Google Analytics plants a permanent cookie on your web browser to identify you as a unique user the next time you visit this site, the cookie cannot be used by anyone but Google. Google’s ability to use and share information collected by Google Analytics about your visits to this site is restricted by the Google Analytics Terms of Use and the Google Privacy Policy. You can prevent Google Analytics from recognizing you on return visits to this site by disabling cookies on your browser. Remarketing We use tools such as Google Adwords and Google Display to remarket to individuals who visit our program pages. Third-party vendors, such as Google, show our ads on sites across the internet, and in some cases, use cookies to serve ads based on someone’s past visits to our website. You can opt out of Google’s use of cookies by visiting Google’s Ads Settings. You can also opt out of all third-party vendor’s use of cookies by visiting the Network Advertising Initiative opt-out page. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-7901 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation Privacy Policy Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University For You Admitted Students Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Privacy Policy Open details for Privacy Policy Bookmark this Page