Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... Admitted Students School of Professional Studies Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Search Search Menu Greg Calderiso '19 Director - Information Technology, CUNA Mutual Group gregory_calderiso@alumni.brown.edu Lincoln, Rhode Island LinkedIn Biography Why did you choose the Executive Master in Science and Technology program? When I decided I wanted to pursue my master's degree, I wanted to challenge myself to the fullest and also choose a school that would differentiate me and help me grow into the leader I wanted to become. By choosing Brown, I knew I'd be surrounded by the kind of faculty and peers I wanted to be in a classroom with to learn from and be exposed to. Growing up in Rhode Island, I also felt a huge sense of accomplishment and pride by attending Brown University. What made Brown's program different from other programs you considered? The EMSTL program was so perfectly aligned to the areas of growth I was looking for personally and professionally given where I was at in my career. It had a nicely balanced blend of online mixed with residential sessions along with the international immersion experience. What did you enjoy most about your program? The leadership portion of the program was transformational. It started with a 360-degree assessment to help you truly understand your areas of strength and areas of improvement. It's then followed by an incredibly thoughtful and reflective course that helps you become the leader you have always dreamt of becoming. What was your primary academic area of interest? My primary area of interest continues to be digital transformation within industries and companies. Working in the financial services industry my entire career I hadn't been exposed to how other industries transformed through disruption. Being in an industry that is prime for disruption it was incredibly important to me to learn as much as I could through courses, faculty and my peers so I could bring this back to my company and help lead us through these disruptive times. What were your postgraduate goals? My postgraduate plans are to continue my career at Amica on our Senior Management team in the CIS department. I'm working with our team to lead our department through a complete transformation in the way we work today. What did you like most about Providence? The city has great heart, and is rich in culture from great food, to art, music, comedy and theater! What advice would you give to prospective applicants? If you want to truly transform yourself and become a leader in your area of focus this is the program for you. Take advantage and really lean in to all the resources it has to offer and the network you will develop. The program is thoughtfully designed and crafted to open up your mind in different ways than a traditional business school. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-7901 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation Privacy Policy Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University For You Admitted Students Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Greg Calderiso Open details for Greg Calderiso Bookmark this Page