Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... Admitted Students School of Professional Studies Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Search Search Menu Our Location Sub Navigation In This Section The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Our Location Overlooking the Providence River, the School of Professional Studies links Downtown Providence and College Hill. 225 Dyer Street Brown University’s School of Professional Studies, located in the new Wexford Innovation Center, is at the center of a growing professional innovation ecosystem emerging in Providence's Jewelry District. Alongside entrepreneurial co-tenants such as the Cambridge Innovation Center (CIC), our location enhances our ability to make greater strides in educational innovation and engage populations beyond the traditional residential educational model. 1 of 8 225 Dyer Street, home of the new Brown School of Professional Studies. 2 of 8 Sharing the 4th and 5th floors of 225 Dyer Street, Brown School of Professional Studies occupies 50,000 square feet of classroom, meeting, event, and office space. 3 of 8 Modern, open floor plans accommodate the diverse needs of our residential sessions and corporate events. 4 of 8 Our state-of-the-art classrooms are light-filled and equipped with the latest technology. 5 of 8 Our professional staff offers expert customer service, ensuring the success of our residential sessions and corporate events. 6 of 8 Our flexible event spaces accommodate groups of all sizes. 7 of 8 Our student lounge space offers expansive views of the Providence River and the new pedestrian bridge. 8 of 8 Light-filled meeting rooms accommodate breakout sessions and small-group meetings. Brown Campus The School of Professional Studies is integrated into Brown’s multi-nodal campus with strong connections, deep history, and modern facilities. This includes a robust network of academic institutes and centers throughout the University. The campus and surrounding city is easy to navigate and accessible: Brown University's Walk Score is 94, along with high ratings for bike and transit Free statewide bus fare is free with your Brown ID 15-minute walk to Providence Station 15-minute drive to the airport (PVD) Providence, Rhode Island We're located in Rhode Island’s vibrant capital—known for its innovative arts scene, exceptional culinary offerings, and unpretentious vibe. Known as "The Ocean State," Rhode Island boasts New England charm, history and affordability, yet is still close to the amenities and offerings of nearby Boston and New York City. Brown benefits from being a big player in a small state, with access to government officials and to unique integrated datasets for many fields of research. Highly accessible, statewide bus fare is free with your Brown ID, and the School is a 15-minute walk to Providence Station and 15-minute drive to the airport (PVD). Things to Do Whether you're looking for a new experience, a local event, or just a chance to get outside, Providence has options for everyone. WATERFIRE PROVIDENCE PARKS MORE THINGS TO DO Arts and Culture Providence has a rich and vibrant arts scene with iconic theaters, diverse events, and opportunities for growth and discovery. RISD MUSEUM PERFORMANCES MORE ARTS AND CULTURE Food and Dining Providence has earned a reputation as a go-to spot for "foodies" due to a wealth of restaurants ranging from fine dining to eclectic eateries. Providence Food Scene Restaurants to Try More at Brown Elite athletes. Unforgettable events. Iconic speakers and performers. Brown's vibrant campus community brings something for everyone to experience. Brown Athletics University Events Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-7901 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation Privacy Policy Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University For You Admitted Students Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Our Location Open details for Our Location Bookmark this Page