Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... Admitted Students School of Professional Studies Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Search Search Menu Faculty Breadcrumb Home Executive Education Leader as Coach | Live Online Sub Navigation In This Section Program Content Program Schedule Faculty Registration & Cost About & Contact Us Learn More Leader as Coach | Learn More Our next class starts in Fall 2022. Register for an upcoming webinar or request more information and we'll be in touch. Upcoming Info Sessions Request More Info Faculty Ashley Abbott, PCC, B.SC. HONOURS Ashley has 20 years of experience in enterprise software, professional services, and digital marketing, and has held leadership roles in operations, client portfolio management, consulting practice management and project delivery in both corporate and startup environments. He has led enterprise software implementations for many Global 2000 companies such as IBM, Citibank, British Airways, Best Buy, Merck, REI, and L’Oréal. He is a coach and facilitator with clients such as Rexall, Government of Ontario, Molson Coors. Erin Hutchins, PCC Erin is the other co-founder of ACT Leadership. Erin is an executive coach, trainer and organizational consultant who support’s leaders and organizations to act with greater purpose, authenticity, and impact. Through coaching, consulting, and leadership development, Erin helps individuals, teams and organizations achieve alignment, clarity, and results. Erin has trained over thousands of individuals to become certified coaches to lead with greater impact. She has designed and executed large scale coaching programs with Fortune 100 companies, the Federal Government and humanitarian organizations. Prior to entering the field of coaching and development, Erin was a change and organizational consultant for PwC and for the Federal Government. She has delivered coaching and leadership programs in North America, Europe, and Asia. Mike Hutchins, PCC, CPA Mike is one of the co-founders of ACT Leadership and has over 25 years consulting, training and coaching experience with large professional services organizations. He qualified as a Professional Certified Coach through the ICF and has worked with over 100 clients from leading international organizations. He co-created the ICF-accredited ACSTH coaching certification program, “Leadership and Performance Coaching” which is being delivered worldwide across a number of organizations including 500 senior leaders in the federal government. Mike is also a CPA and Lean Six Sigma Black Belt. Robin Rose, PH.D., ACC Robin is a highly skilled facilitator, educator and coach. She has worked in senior level positions and as an instructor at Brown University for 38 years. As a coach she works with executives from health care organizations, educational institutions and scientific and technology corporations. She is passionate about learning and helping others develop their practice of leadership. Learn More Leader as Coach | Learn More Our next class starts in Fall 2022. Register for an upcoming webinar or request more information and we'll be in touch. Upcoming Info Sessions Request More Info Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-7901 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation Privacy Policy Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University For You Admitted Students Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Faculty Open details for Faculty Bookmark this Page