Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Open Mobile Navigation Pro Futuris About Pro Futuris The Strategic Vision: Launched May 2012 Letter From the President A Name for Our Strategic Vision A Symbol for Our Strategic Vision Baylor's Distinctive Role Baylor's Commitments Mission Statement Foundational Assumptions Core Convictions Unifying Academic Themes Institutional and Environmental Context Developing Our Strategic Vision Overview of Progress During Baylor 2012 The State of Higher Education Baylor's Financial Position The Planning Process Strategic Vision: Pro Futuris One: Transformational Education Two: Compelling Scholarship Three: Informed Engagement Four: Committed Constituents Five: Judicious Stewardship Pro Futuris Downloads Five Year Goals: 2014-2018 Transformational Education Compelling Scholarship Informed Engagement Committed Constituents Judicious Stewardship Progress - July 2017 Illuminate: 2018 - 2022 Pro Futuris About Pro Futuris About Pro Futuris In May, 2014, the Baylor University Board of Regents adopted a broad-ranging array of Five-Year Goals for 2014-2018. Constructed around the five high-level Aspirational Statements that represent due north for the University's future course, these Five-Year Goals are a natural outgrowth of the University's continuing implementation of Pro Futuris. With a clear understanding of the desired destination, the University leadership spent months considering the essential steps that must be taken to realize our ambitious vision. That process of collaboration resulted in the creation of a set of highly specific Institutional Acts of Determination reflected in the form of Five-Year Goals. Baylor University remains a place where the Lordship of Jesus Christ is embraced, studied, and celebrated. We love God with our heart, so we are compelled to care for one another and to address the challenges of our hurting world. We love God with our soul, so we are called to worship Him and to serve Him in building His church. We love God with our mind, so we are called to instruction, research, scholarship, and creative endeavors that truth may be discovered and disseminated, beauty revealed, and goodness honored. As articulated in its mission, Baylor endeavors "to educate men and women for worldwide leadership and service by integrating academic excellence and Christian commitment within a caring community" - a mission further illustrated through the University's foundational assumptions, core convictions, and unifying academic themes. These commitments motivated the founding of Baylor in 1845 and have guided the university at every point in its history. Together with Baylor's motto, Pro Ecclesia, Pro Texana, they continue to define Baylor's exceptional character, purpose, and vocation in the world of higher education. In these Five-Year Goals one finds, as if looking in a mirror, a reflection of the best of one's hopes and dreams for Baylor University at this exciting time in history. The Five-Year Goals bring a higher level of specificity to the vision of Pro Futuris and set clear expectations for the shape of things to come. Pro Futuris About Pro Futuris About Pro Futuris The Strategic Vision: Launched May 2012 Back Letter From the President A Name for Our Strategic Vision A Symbol for Our Strategic Vision Baylor's Distinctive Role Baylor's Commitments Back Mission Statement Foundational Assumptions Core Convictions Unifying Academic Themes Institutional and Environmental Context Back Developing Our Strategic Vision Overview of Progress During Baylor 2012 The State of Higher Education Baylor's Financial Position The Planning Process Strategic Vision: Pro Futuris Back One: Transformational Education Two: Compelling Scholarship Three: Informed Engagement Four: Committed Constituents Five: Judicious Stewardship Pro Futuris Downloads Five Year Goals: 2014-2018 Back Transformational Education Compelling Scholarship Informed Engagement Committed Constituents Judicious Stewardship Progress - July 2017 Illuminate: 2018 - 2022 General Information Academics & Research Administration Admissions Gateways for ... About Baylor Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate News Pro Futuris Search Social Media Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Accessibility Anonymous Reporting Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Digital Privacy Legal Disclosures Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678