Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... Admitted Students School of Professional Studies Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Search Search Menu Program Content Breadcrumb Home Executive Education Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Sub Navigation In This Section Program Content Program Schedule Faculty Registration & Cost Learn More Want to learn more about Powerful and Persuasive Communication? Request More Info Upcoming Info Sessions Schedule a Call Connect with an Advisor Program Content What You'll Learn This program will change how you communicate and how you evaluate others’ communication. Learn the key elements of persuasive communication, including audience-centered communication Gain acceptance for your proposals or ideas by learning how to use different techniques for compelling audiences to take action or change their attitudes Understand the impact of non-verbal, vocal and message elements of communication and manage these elements to maximize your effectiveness as a speaker Find and develop your own authentic style of communication by building on your strengths and embracing your opportunities for growth Apply Everything You Learn in Real-Time In this 4-week program, you will see improvement in your communication in real-time. With feedback from Dr. Tannenbaum, highly trained coaches and your peers, you will have many opportunities to practice speaking in large and small groups and apply changes to your communication style. You will also receive at least three video analyses of your communication skills in action and two 1:1 coaching sessions. Register Today Request More Information View Detailed Schedule Schedule a Call “ Barbara Tannenbaum and her team have taught me how to communicate with any audience effectively. Whether I am speaking to senior leaders, introverts, extroverts, early-career hires, subject matter experts, my staff members, professional peers, or strangers, I can now apply her teachings and inspire transformational change across NASA. ” Sara Dickens Head of Training and Development, OSPO, NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory Program Topics The program curriculum includes the following topics designed to give you all the knowledge and tools you need to become an effective communicator. Week 1: Principles of Powerful Communication What are the components of powerful professional presence? How can we communicate in audience-centered ways? What are tools to communicate in different contexts, including effective slide deck creation (online and in-person, with different audiences, etc)? Week 2: Tactics to Persuade & Influence & Answering Questions How can we be persuasive? How can we create trust with our audiences? How do we answer questions with authority? Week 3: Speaking to Get Action and Speaking to Change People's Minds How do we change people's attitudes? How can we get people to act? What are tools for speaking to hostile audiences? How far can we move an audience? How do we present to internal and external audiences? How do we apply what we've learned? Week 4: Application Activity in Small Groups & Wrap Up A Speech to Persuade and Influence Play 1 of 1 Professor Tannenbaum discusses how excellent communication skills are not innate, they must be learned and are essential to maximizing the impact of your work. Learn More Want to learn more about Powerful and Persuasive Communication? Request More Info Upcoming Info Sessions Schedule a Call Connect with an Advisor Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-7901 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation Privacy Policy Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University For You Admitted Students Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Program Content Open details for Program Content Bookmark this Page