Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... Admitted Students School of Professional Studies Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Search Search Menu Admitted Students Breadcrumb Home Admissions Sub Navigation In This Section Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students Admitted Students Welcome, future Brunonians! Here, you'll find helpful information about enrolling at Brown. Congratulations on your recent admission to Brown. The Brown School of Professional Studies is a collaborative and supportive environment dedicated to transforming your career. Building a diverse and inclusive environment is central to our mission; bringing together students, faculty, and staff with a range of life experiences creates a dynamic community that offers the contrasting perspectives and ideas needed for today's dynamic workplaces — and those who lead them. Funding Your Degree Financial aid for master’s students varies by program, though most students are self-supported through a combination of scholarship, loans and outside funding. We encourage master's applicants to maximize funding sources. Admitted applicants should factor in the following expenses: Comprehensive tuition covering the academic program and related fees Required books and materials Travel and lodging for residential sessions (and immersion experiences, if applicable) Health insurance with a U.S. carrier (while on campus); students without coverage may purchase insurance from the University. Enrollment Deposit A non-refundable $1,500 program deposit is due within 10 business days of admission and will be credited to your first tuition payment. This deposit can be submitted directly through your online application portal. Once accepted into the program, there is a window of 5 business days to submit a scholarship application. Access to Virtual Learning Portal Before the program starts, students have access to the online program orientation to become familiar with online learning, to get acquainted with their peers, and to prepare for the program with recommended readings. Students work individually and collaboratively on one course at a time, allowing them to fully engage with their peers and faculty in the residential sessions and continuously online. Online learning at Brown is asynchronous. Students and faculty log-in regularly for meaningful interaction at times that are most convenient for them. Additional Enrollment Information Third Party Billing Authorization (Corporate Sponsorship) Brown University accepts employer vouchers that are not contingent upon receipt of grades. Students whose employers or sponsors reimburse them for tuition and fees after receipt of grades must pay in full upon receipt of the Student Account Statement to avoid interest, late fees and/or cancellation of registration. Under all circumstances, the charges for tuition and fees remain the responsibility of the student. If you are using this option, you will have to submit a Third Party Billing Authorization Form. For more information on third party billing, please contact the Bursar Office at bursar@brown.edu or (401) 863-2484. Virtual Learning Technical Requirements You will need the following hardware and software to effectively participate in Brown University's online programs. A reliable, high-speed Internet connection. If you’re able to view YouTube videos, you should have the required bandwidth to participate in course activities. A laptop or desktop computer running an up-to-date Internet browser supported by Canvas. NOTE: Mobile devices (smart phones, tablets) are also supported, but may be less than optimal for some required assignments. Camera for still and video images (or smartphone) Headphones, earbuds or speakers Webcam and microphone Word Processing application to save and open Microsoft Office formats (.doc,.docx, .xls, .xlsx, .ppt, .pptx). Brown students have free access to Microsoft Office 365 and will be provided with instructions on how to access it at the start of the course. Courses can also be accessed on tablets and mobile devices. These devices can be used as supplemental access points in order to complete most coursework. Student Conduct Students are expected to read and abide by the policies in the Brown University Academic and Student Conduct Code. Questions? We encourage admitted students to connect directly with their program directors, below. Our student and alumni ambassadors are also great resources. General Questions: professional@brown.edu Healthcare Leadership: Sandra Ferretti IE Brown Executive MBA: Brendan McNally Technology Leadership: Peter Chomowicz Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-7901 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation Privacy Policy Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University For You Admitted Students Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Admitted Students Open details for Admitted Students Bookmark this Page