Skip to Content Open Close primary navigation Search Search About UsExpand Collapse section Office Directory Leadership Team Faculty Directory Staff Directory Dean’s Message Our History News Info for…Expand Collapse section Prospective Students Online Learners Veterans & Military-Connected Students Transfer Students Current Students High School Students Alumni Faculty Request Info AcademicsExpand Collapse section Apply Online Degrees and Certificates On Campus Part-time Degrees Professional Acceleration and Microcredentials International Programs Registration and Course Information Forms and Links Academic Advising Tuition and Financial AidExpand Collapse section Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Forms & Links Scholarships and Grants Non-Matriculated Students Contact Us Give Search Search Future-ready programs. Flexible formats. Syracuse University's College of Professional Studies offers accessible academic pathways to market-sensitive degrees, certificates and credentials so you can excel in your education and career. Learn how you can start today Close dialog Get in touch today: Phone: 315.443.9378 Toll Free: 1.866.498.9378 E-mail: parttime@syr.edu Request More Info Information Sessions Featured Pages Online Benefits High engagement programs with dedicated support. Online Degrees and Certificates In demand credentials, 100% online. On Campus Part-time Degrees Choose from over 100 undergraduate degrees. Professional Acceleration and Microcredentials Enhance your professional skillsets. Contact Us Have questions? Call or email us—we’re here to help! Previous slide Next slide Learn on Your Time and Your Terms Link The College of Professional Studies connects learners and leaders with future-ready degrees, credentials and academic pathways to Syracuse University. Flexible formats allow you to pursue what matters most to you in a way that works best for you. Whether you’re home or abroad, with online, on-campus and part-time options, the College of Professional Studies makes earning a Syracuse University degree accessible, so you can take your education to the next level while investing in your family, career and community. News & Headlines Digital Badges at Syracuse University: Recognizing and Authenticating Microcredential Moments in Higher Education May 25, 2022 As higher education continues to anticipate and react to the needs of an evolving workforce, new programs and various modalities have been introduced to provide just-in-time learning opportunities that meet the needs of hard and soft skills sought by employers. Microcredentials give learners a pathway to quickly upgrade or enhance professional skillsets or interests in… College of Professional Studies to Honor Women of the University Community Sept. 29 May 13, 2022 History provides copious examples of women supporting women. This fall, Syracuse University’s College of Professional Studies will honor a campus organization that has spent 94 years doing exactly that. On Thursday, Sept. 29, Dean Michael Frasciello will present the Women of the University Community (WUC) with the Dean’s Lifetime Ambassador Award at the college’s Alumni… Syracuse University’s College of Professional Studies Honors Class of 2022 May 13, 2022 Syracuse University’s College of Professional Studies celebrated the Class of 2022 on Thursday, May 12, 2022 at Hendricks Chapel. Twelve students were individually recognized for completing a Bachelor of Professional Studies degree alongside 26 certificate, associate and bachelor’s degree candidates who studied part-time at Syracuse through other schools and colleges on campus. Dean Michael Frasciello… Read More News Quick Links Online Learners Online credentials with dynamic learning environments Making Syracuse University Affordable Think you can't afford Syracuse University? Think again! Search / Register for Classes No login needed to find classes! Veterans & Military-Connected Students Dedicated to supporting your education Forms and Links Quick access to the forms you need Previous slide Next slide 700 University Ave, Syracuse, NY 13244 | 315.443.9378 Toll-free: 1.866.498.9378 Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter Follow Us on Instagram © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy