Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... Admitted Students School of Professional Studies Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Search Search Menu Robin Rose Associate Professor of the Practice of Leadership robin_rose@brown.edu Biography Dr. Rose has worked at Brown University for 39 years in senior level administrative positions, overseeing critical divisions at Brown. Throughout her career she has been a creative force in utilizing experiential education to inspire young people and transform the lives and careers of professionals. Her leadership in these roles has earned her a national reputation for innovation. As the chief student affairs officer, Rose directed the growth of Brown’s state of the art student services including: the residential system and programming, health services, the counseling center, crisis management team, support for students with disabilities, and support for historically underrepresented groups. With a background in Counseling Psychology Rose also developed Brown’s comprehensive mental health outreach program. Rose created and developed the Leadership Institute, a program focused on leadership and social justice for talented high school students from around the world. She also served as the Senior Associate Dean for Pre-College programs which included close to 6,000 high school students from around the world in summer academic experiences. More recently she has provided engaging instruction in the practice of leadership to Executive Masters students and participants in custom corporate programs at Brown University and with students in leadership and performance coaching programs. As an instructor she wins high praise from students for her powerful insights, energy, humor and compassion. She creates inclusive learning environments that both challenge and support students. She often teaches sessions on coaching, managing difficult conversations, adaptive leadership, diversity and inclusion and human resilience. She is also a certified professional coach with a private practice. In her teaching and coaching she helps leaders in corporate and non-profit organizations to be creative, resourceful and have a positive impact on the world. Education: Bachelor of Arts, The College of Wooster Master of Arts, University of Connecticut Doctor of Philosophy, Counseling Psychology, University of Connecticut Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-7901 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation Privacy Policy Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University For You Admitted Students Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Robin Rose Open details for Robin Rose Bookmark this Page