Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... Admitted Students School of Professional Studies Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Search Search Menu Program Schedule Breadcrumb Home Executive Education Leader as Coach | Live Online Sub Navigation In This Section Program Content Program Schedule Faculty Registration & Cost About & Contact Us Learn More Leader as Coach | Learn More Our next class starts in Fall 2022. Register for an upcoming webinar or request more information and we'll be in touch. Upcoming Info Sessions Request More Info Schedule a Call Connect with an Advisor Program Schedule The program includes live sessions led by two instructors and a robust asynchronous curriculum to help you develop as a coach-like leader in eight weeks. The live online sessions are supported by asynchronous learning, where you have the flexibility to learn on your own time and schedule. We know this is important for busy leadership professionals. Our approach is for you to observe, practice, reflect, apply and integrate. How You’ll Learn Observe live coaching demonstrations, pre-recorded audio and video presentations, and role play videos recorded specifically for this program. Practice coaching skills with your cohort members in small groups Reflect and Self-Assess your own leadership style and impact, triggers, beliefs and values and gain self-awareness by receiving feedback from program instructors and peers Apply new learnings at work and with others in your small peer accountability group created to encourage practice and challenge. SESSION DATE LENGTH TIME Orientation Call Pre-recorded 1 hour Live Online Session #1 October 4, 2022 3.5 hours 9:30am - 1:00pm EST Live Online Session #2 October 18, 2022 3.5 hours 9:30am - 1:00pm EST Live Online Session #3 November 1, 2022 3.5 hours 9:30am - 1:00pm EST Live Online Session #4 November 15, 2022 3.5 hours 9:30am - 1:00pm EST Cohort Completion Call December 16, 2022 1 hour 12:00pm - 1:30pm EST Register Today Request Information Register for an Upcoming Event Live, online instructor-led sessions are highly interactive Our delivery style for the live online sessions is highly-experiential and engaging, with participants practicing coaching, receiving coaching and working in small break-out groups. Each of the four live, three and a half-hour sessions has a mix of trainer-led content delivery and coaching demonstrations, small break-out group coaching practice, large group discussions and coaching and reflection time. Self-Paced Learning and Real Time Application During the weeks in between the live online sessions, you will have access to asynchronous course content in the form of audios, videos and articles to deepen your understanding of the materials. You will receive a Participant Guide that summarizes the course content and includes the learning objectives and expectations for each module. You will have homework after each live session that will challenge you to apply the concepts at work. Accountability Practice Groups Also during the weeks in between the live online sessions, you will work in small triad groups between live sessions to practice, observe and provide constructive feedback on each other’s coaching. In this way, you will be holding each other accountable for action and will have the opportunity to reflect and share your learning with each other and the trainers. “ Through this program, I have seen an improvement in my coaching sessions and how my team members interact to challenges. LAC has encouraged me to feel empowered to be a better leader. ” Alexandria Ruza Learn More Leader as Coach | Learn More Our next class starts in Fall 2022. Register for an upcoming webinar or request more information and we'll be in touch. Upcoming Info Sessions Request More Info Schedule a Call Connect with an Advisor Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-7901 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation Privacy Policy Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University For You Admitted Students Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Program Schedule Open details for Program Schedule Bookmark this Page