Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... Admitted Students School of Professional Studies Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Search Search Menu Program Content Breadcrumb Home Executive Education Leader as Coach | Live Online Sub Navigation In This Section Program Content Program Schedule Faculty Registration & Cost About & Contact Us Learn More Leader as Coach | Learn More Our next class starts in Fall 2022. Register for an upcoming webinar or request more information and we'll be in touch. Upcoming Info Sessions Request More Info Schedule a Call Connect with an Advisor Program Content What You’ll Learn Coaching concepts are grounded in developmental psychology, neuroscience, and research in leadership effectiveness. Upon successful completion of our online program, you will: Develop multi-dimensional leadership skills Reframe limiting mindsets to ones connected to your values and purpose Apply coaching skills to different work contexts Build your capacity to engage in more meaningful interactions Create authentic, real relationships focused on performance effectiveness Empower your team, motivate them and ultimately guide them to reach their full potential while achieving results in your organization Navigate through uncertainty and complexity with more ease and clarity Proven approach: The Leader as Coach program is a highly effective way to help leaders adopt a coach approach. From our most recent program, 100% of the participants saw the application of their new skills at work. Register Today Request More Information Schedule a Call Upcoming Information Sessions “ The Leader as Coach program has equipped me with the skills to build more meaningful and authentic relationships with my team members. The skills were immediately applicable, within the first week or so of the program. ” Stephanie Dalwin Research Director, Novarica Program Topics The program curriculum includes four main topic areas designed to give you all the knowledge and tools you need to become an effective coach-like leader. 1. Coaching Foundations 2. Coaching Skills and Values 3. Reactive to Creative 4. Application and Integration Why Coaching + Leadership? Coaching Skills Achieving Results & Creating Authentic Relationships The Coach-Like Leader In Practice Creating Safety and Trust The Arc and Structure of a Coach-Like Conversation Self-Limiting Beliefs and Reactivity Having Difficult Conversations Different Styles of Leading (Coaching vs. Mentoring) ACT: Awareness —> Choice —> Transformation Reframing Leadership Integration Coaching Mindsets & Core Coaching Skills Leading with Values Sustaining Peak Performance Leadership Pledge Topic 1: Coaching Foundations In Session 1, we introduce the concept of a “coach-like” leader and how this is distinct from other styles of leadership. Through trainer-led demos, you will appreciate how coaching enables the employee to develop their own critical thinking skills to solve their own problems. You will learn how to create safety and trust with your employees. You will learn the coaching mindsets and foundational coaching skills – Active Listening and asking Powerful Questions. Sessions: Why Coaching + Leadership? Creating Safety and Trust Different Styles of Leading (Coaching vs. Mentoring) Coaching Mindsets & Core Coaching Skills Topic 2: Coaching Skills and Values In Session 2, we continue to develop your leadership toolkit by providing you with more coaching skills. You will learn how to build more structure into a coach-like conversation, focusing on both reflection and action. You will learn how to coach using values, focusing on the things that are important to you. We will train you in how to use a structured approach to coaching employees and teams to define, honor and make value-based decisions and work through value conflicts in a constructive way. Sessions: Coaching Skills The Arc and Structure of a Coach-Like Conversation ACT: Awareness —> Choice —> Transformation Leading with Values Topic 3: Reactive to Creative In Session 3, participants learn how to apply the coaching skills to help employees and teams shift from a reactive to creative orientation. By building greater awareness of self-limiting beliefs and assumptions, you will help employees and teams to make more affirming choices aligned to their values. You will learn how to apply the coach approach to sustaining peak performance. Sessions: Achieving Results & Creating Authentic Relationships Self-Limiting Beliefs and Reactivity Reframing Sustaining Peak Performance Topic 4: Application and Integration In Session 4, we demonstrate how the coach approach can be applied to a range of different work contexts, whether it be having difficult conversations such as giving feedback, career development, facilitating meetings or leading a change initiative. There will be time for you to reflect on and commit to how you will integrate coaching into your leadership style. Other members of the class will be your Accountability Partners, supporting and coaching you in your leadership journey. Sessions: The Coach-Like Leader In Practice Having Difficult Conversations Leadership Integration Leadership Pledge Learn More Leader as Coach | Learn More Our next class starts in Fall 2022. Register for an upcoming webinar or request more information and we'll be in touch. Upcoming Info Sessions Request More Info Schedule a Call Connect with an Advisor Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-7901 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation Privacy Policy Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University For You Admitted Students Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Program Content Open details for Program Content Bookmark this Page