Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... Admitted Students School of Professional Studies Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Search Search Menu American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Program Dates: To Be Announced Breadcrumb Home Executive Education Sub Navigation In This Section American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Program Content & Schedule Program Faculty Registration & Fees Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Learn More Want to learn more about American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era? Request more information and we'll be in touch. Request More Info American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Program Dates: To Be Announced In this course, Dr. Ashish Jha and Dr. Megan Ranney are joined by national experts to share frameworks and tools to support leaders in healthcare and public health in the recovery from the coronavirus pandemic and preparing for what comes next. The COVID pandemic has demanded innovation in all areas of healthcare, including rapid pivots to telehealth, standing up robust testing infrastructure, and efforts to ensure the safety of healthcare workers, patients and workplaces. The health sector has driven key non-medical interventions including TTSI (testing, tracing and supported isolation) programs, and efforts to reopen and safeguard critical institutions such as schools and universities. This course will build upon these experiences to strengthen American healthcare. PROGRAM DATES: To Be Announced* *Thank you for your interest in this program. While we plan to hold this program in the future, currently, there are no future dates. Please request information and we will let you know when new dates become available. Request Information Please contact execeducation@brown.edu if you have questions. Online Asynchronous materials each week Weekly live sessions on Wednesdays 4 Weeks *Program Dates TBA $995 Tuition Sample Key Questions Addressed During this Program: How do you counteract disinformation and respond to the public regarding policy decisions? How do you identify determinants of health and how do you effectively make decisions in regards to healthcare equity? How do you develop and scale infrastructure for future pandemic preparedness? Join this course to learn from key leaders and work through essential problem sets with industry peers. Get the insights and tools to support your organization - and our country - to recover from the COVID-19 pandemic, and seize new opportunities for innovation and transformation in the healthcare system. Asynchronous Course Material & Live Online Sessions Wherever you are in the world, you now have the ability to collaborate and learn from Brown’s world-class faculty and global experts. In this asynchronous format, you will be able to work through the course material in your own time, and still attend live sessions with other professionals in healthcare. View Program Schedule Learning Objectives Who Should Attend Accreditation Learning Objectives The goal of this course is to build your capacity to: Keep people safe and informed Leverage novel technologies for public health Respond to future pandemics Factor in social determinants of health You will also learn to: Assess strengths and vulnerabilities of existing healthcare infrastructure in the aftermath of COVID-19, and design strategies to improve health systems to better meet the challenges of the next decade Communicate effectively in the evolving media environment to support individual and population health, counteract misinformation, and respond to crises. Optimally deploy emerging technologies and non-pharmaceutical innovations to meet the needs of clinicians and patients in the wake of the pandemic Design strategies both to determine the extent and impact of racial inequities in health and care and mitigate these inequities. Who Should Attend American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era is designed for: Hospital administrators, healthcare providers, and senior healthcare leaders preparing for what comes next in the post-pandemic world Policymakers and consultants seeking tools to support their organization in pandemic recovery and preparedness View Detailed Program Content Accreditation The live synchronous activity has been approved for AMA PRA Category 1 Credits™ Accreditation: The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education (ACCME) to provide continuing medical education for physicians. Credit Designation: Physicians: The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University designates this live activity for a maximum of 4.0 AMA PRA Category 1 Credits™. Physicians should claim only the credit commensurate with the extent of their participation in this activity. Other Healthcare Professionals: Participants will receive a Certificate of Attendance stating this program is designated for 4.0 hours AMA PRA Category 1 Credits™. Learn More Want to learn more about American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era? Request more information and we'll be in touch. Request More Info Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-7901 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation Privacy Policy Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University For You Admitted Students Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Open details for American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Bookmark this Page