Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... Admitted Students School of Professional Studies Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Search Search Menu Registration & Cost Breadcrumb Home Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Certificate Sub Navigation In This Section Curriculum Registration & Cost MBSR Faculty Tuition $6,270 Qualified to Teach Level 1 and begin teaching MBSR $3,905 Qualified to Teach Level 2 $4,050 Complete Certification to Teach $14,225 The total cost for the Brown Certificate in MBSR Teaching For a la carte pricing and registration deadlines of the individual MBSR Teacher Training programs offered through the School of Professional Studies and Mindfulness Center at Brown, please click here. The Mindfulness Center at the School of Public Health, in collaboration with the School of Professional Studies at Brown University is also offering a fully-funded BIPOC MBSR Teacher Training Program for participants who identify as Black, Indigenous, or Latino/Latina. The MBSR Teacher Training curricula provides an in-depth training in teaching MBSR, experiential learning, and the contemplative and scientific underpinnings of MBSR. Learn more here. Certification Upon successful completion of the certification requirements, you will receive the Brown University Certificate in MBSR Teaching from the School of Professional Studies and an online certificate badge for sharing your achievement digitally. Transfer Application For the Brown Certificate, Brown does not recognize training from other institutions, except the MBSR Foundations course. To receive the Brown Certificate, you must complete the required programs for the Certificate at Brown. You can complete the new courses, “Ethos of Mindfulness-Based Programs” and “Dialogue and Inquiry for Mindfulness-Based Programs”, and other professional continuing education courses. Cancellation Policy All cancellation requests must be made in writing to Brown. Requests can be submitted to execeducation@brown.edu. You must submit a request to cancel your enrollment and receive a refund no later than 14 days prior to the course start date to receive a full refund. Refunds will be processed the same way the original payment was made and within 30 days following the receipt request. If cancellation is requested less than 14 days prior to the course start date, funds may be credited to the same course scheduled within the next 12 months. If the course price changes in the 12 months from the start of the course, you will be responsible for paying the price differential. If the course is not presented again within the 12-month window, you may apply the credit towards another course. All unclaimed credits expire at the end of 12 months from the start of the course. Frequently Asked Questions Do I need to take MBSR before I apply to this professional training program? Yes. Successful completion of the MBSR course prior to your application to the teacher training is required. While many applicants have long-standing mediation practices when they apply, the format of MBSR, the unfolding of the program week to week, the unique aspects of dialogue and inquiry along with practice and didactic presentational elements offered, is very different than what one encounters in a meditation hall. Likewise, while other MBPs such as MBCT rest on the same foundations, each course’s intentions and activities are different enough that the prerequisites for each training are specific. We also recognize that many come to MBSR teacher training with years of professional and/or clinical experience, including psychology, psychiatry, yoga training, and other forms of holistic or therapeutic work. The skills and knowledge in these professional areas may be quite helpful in the MBSR teacher-training pathway, but the quality of personal, experiential, and “human to human” interactions available in the MBSR classroom and training programs is rare. The opportunity to investigate one’s own life through the lens of meditation practice, compassion, and wisdom, and within a community of learning unites personal exploration with professional development in a unique way. If you haven't yet taken MBSR, go here for information and/or to register for one of our classes. If it has been more than 8 years since you took the MBSR course, we strongly recommend that you take it again before applying for MBSR teacher training Where can I take MBSR that qualifies as a prerequisite? You can take MBSR through the Mindfulness Center at Brown or from a well-qualified teacher elsewhere as long as the MBSR class fulfills the Standards of Practice and is taught in a live format (online or in-person). Do I need to have a personal mindfulness practice to apply for this program? Yes. We prefer a minimum of two years of regular formal mindfulness practice for entrance into the training program. If you don't yet have a mindfulness practice and would like to develop one, go here to learn about our MBSR courses for individuals. Do I need a graduate degree to take this program? The graduate degree requirement is one avenue of assessing a potential MBSR teacher's level of critical thinking, writing, and speaking skills, a dedication to an area of study, research or professional development separate from mindfulness or meditation experience. Often, the learning experiences that reflect these capacities occur outside more formal, academic venues. For example: Certificates in coaching, education, or writing; higher-level yoga teacher training, massage therapy or bodywork training; or other non-academic but rigorous formal learning experiences (i.e., not individually or independently directed) may be equivalent to this requirement. When completing the application for the program, you are welcome to list your training to see if they would fulfill this equivalency, prior to your anticipated training. In addition, there is a written document required with the application to MBSR Foundations with the submission of materials for Teacher Certification in MBSR to demonstrate your ability to write and articulate your learning from these pathways. Where do the trainings happen? Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, we have shifted all our training online for now, and anticipate including some residential training when it is safe to do so. However, the necessity of online training is clear, and we will also continue to offer training online to serve a global community. When it is safe, our residential training will once again happen around the world in cooperation with our global partners, in our home state of Rhode Island, and throughout the United States. What is an introductory session that I teach after MBSR Foundations? Introductory sessions are brief 1.5 to 2.5 hour sessions offered using content based on the 8-week MBSR program. These sessions are an opportunity for teacher trainees to start teaching elements of the MBSR curriculum before teaching a complete 8-week MBSR program. Introductory sessions include presentational and practice elements learned in the MBSR Foundations program and use the pedagogical approach of MBSR: interactive, experientially-based, and using appropriate science to connect practice with outcomes. Offered to general audiences or to specific groups such as work colleagues, parent groups, church or synagogue communities or other, these sessions are a way for participants to try out mindfulness, deepen their practice, or learn new applications. Preparation for presenting introductory sessions is covered in the MBSR Foundations program. How long does it take to complete this program? The prerequisites can be completed within 3-4 months if you have a daily established mindfulness practice of two years. Once you begin the professional training to become an MBSR teacher, the most common progression is 3-6 years. During this time you will have attended three more qualifying retreats and begun teaching MBSR. Because part of this training is experiential, the time between the formal training components is still very important: time for practice and reflection, in order to more fully digest and integrate what is being learned, and also, towards the middle of the training pathway, time teaching MBSR. The program should not take more than five years to complete. In what language are the courses in other countries taught? All courses held in the US are taught in English. Global Collaborative trainings are often taught in the language of the host country; some include English-speaking teachers; and some are taught in English with simultaneous translation provided by reliable and skilled translators. Please check the details of each program, especially those being offered outside of the US. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-7901 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation Privacy Policy Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University For You Admitted Students Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Registration & Cost Open details for Registration & Cost Bookmark this Page