Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... Admitted Students School of Professional Studies Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Search Search Menu Program Content & Schedule Breadcrumb Home Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Sub Navigation In This Section Program Content & Schedule Program Faculty Registration & Fees Learn More Want to learn more about American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era? Request more information and we'll be in touch. Request More Info Register Today Program Content & Schedule Program Schedule This asynchronous 4-week program is anchored by weekly live sessions led by Dr. Ashish Jha, Dean of the Brown University School of Public Health and one of the country’s foremost public health experts, and Dr. Megan Ranney, the founding Director of the Brown-Lifespan Center for Digital Health. In this course, Dr. Ashish Jha and Dr. Megan Ranney are joined by national experts to share frameworks and tools to support leaders in healthcare and public health in the recovery from the coronavirus pandemic and preparing for what comes next. Asynchronous Course Material & Live Online Sessions Wherever you are in the world, you now have the ability to collaborate and learn from Brown’s world-class faculty and global experts. In this asynchronous format, you will be able to work through the course material in your own time, and still attend live sessions with other professionals in healthcare. Week # Date Time Session Topics (Subject to Change) 1 To Be Announced 5:00PM-6:00PM EST Technology & Data 2 To Be Announced 5:00PM-6:00PM EST Communications 3 To Be Announced 5:00PM-6:00PM EST Health Equity 4 To Be Announced 5:00PM-6:00PM EST Healthcare Infrastructure Learning Objectives The goal of this course is to build your capacity to: Keep people safe and informed Leverage novel technologies for public health Respond to future pandemics Factor in social determinants of health You will also learn to: Assess strengths and vulnerabilities of existing healthcare infrastructure in the aftermath of COVID-19, and design strategies to improve health systems to better meet the challenges of the next decade Communicate effectively in the evolving media environment to support individual and population health, counteract misinformation, and respond to crises. Optimally deploy emerging technologies and non-pharmaceutical innovations to meet the needs of clinicians and patients in the wake of the pandemic Design strategies both to determine the extent and impact of racial inequities in health and care and mitigate these inequities. Accreditation The live synchronous activity has been approved for AMA PRA Category 1 Credits™ Accreditation: The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education (ACCME) to provide continuing medical education for physicians. Credit Designation: Physicians: The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University designates this live activity for a maximum of 4.0 AMA PRA Category 1 Credits™. Physicians should claim only the credit commensurate with the extent of their participation in this activity. Other Healthcare Professionals: Participants will receive a Certificate of Attendance stating this program is designated for 4.0 hours AMA PRA Category 1 Credits™. Learn More Want to learn more about American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era? Request more information and we'll be in touch. Request More Info Register Today Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-7901 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation Privacy Policy Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University For You Admitted Students Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Program Content & Schedule Open details for Program Content & Schedule Bookmark this Page