Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... Admitted Students School of Professional Studies Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Search Search Menu Program Schedule and Format Breadcrumb Home Master's in Healthcare Leadership Sub Navigation In This Section Curriculum Capstone Program Schedule Admissions People Learn More Request Information Upcoming Events Diversity & Inclusion Apply Today Access the Application Program Schedule and Format Designed for busy, ambitious healthcare professionals our program blends online learning with in-person sessions. Regardless of where you live, Brown’s rigorous curriculum, world-class faculty and dynamic community allows you to build the network and skills vital for advancing your business without interrupting your career. Access the Application Request Information Upcoming Information Sessions Program Schedule The class of 2024 will begin study in January 2023, with Commencement taking place in May 2024. Online learning is woven throughout the program. When not on campus, students complete coursework and interact with professors and classmates through an online portal. Participants will have access starting December 2022 to familiarize themselves with online learning, get acquainted with their peers and prepare for the program with selected readings. 2023 Term Begins January 25, 2023 In-Residence: Providence, RI Spring Term 2023 January 29 - February 4, 2023 In-Residence: Providence, RI Summer Term 2023 June 25 - July 1, 2023 In-Residence: Providence, RI Fall Term 2023 September 10 - 16, 2023 2024 In-Residence: Providence, RI Spring Term 2024 January 28 - February 3, 2024 In-Residence: Providence, RI Final CCP Presentations May 5 - 9, 2024 Commencement May 24 - 26, 2024 **Dates subject to change. Program Format Our Master’s in Healthcare Leadership degree is a 16-month program designed to quickly strengthen your expertise as a leader. The intensive program blends residential and online learning, allowing you to work full-time and apply new knowledge and skills immediately in your work settings. Students enter the program in January and begin their academic journey taking part in one of Brown’s many great traditions: the Convocation ceremony. During this celebration, new students are welcomed into the Brown community by professors, upper level students and staff. Graduates celebrate their achievements by participating in Brown’s Commencement in May. Robust In-Person Sessions In-person coursework is the foundation of the program. Students convene during five on-campus residential sessions, led by Brown’s world-class faculty, provide an opportunity for peer-to-peer collaboration and community building. These relationships are the foundation for the powerful network that develops, creating an environment for a lively exchange of ideas and connections that serve as expert resources during and after the program. The coursework includes a mix of lectures, class work and group projects. Each session features specially curated events such as guest speakers, visits to leading companies, social events and expert panels that enable students to learn from Brown’s deep network of experts and industry contacts. Dynamic Distance Learning That Caters to Your Schedule Our program is tailored for professionals with career demands, family commitments and other responsibilities that cannot be put on hold. The online classroom provides a dynamic and engaging environment where students are connected through thoughtfully curated content, meaningful coursework, challenging discussions and collaborative projects, designed to inspire strong and high-impact learning. When not on campus, students complete coursework and interact with professors and classmates through an online portal. Utilizing state-of-the-art digital tools and learning strategies designed for dynamic distance learning, the online modules are built with a brief introduction, readings or videos, and interactive assignments that foster thoughtful, substantive contributions from every participant. Online learning at Brown is asynchronous — so you can log in to view the course material and complete individual and team assignments at your convenience. A Connected, Diverse Community Our program is cohort-based, meaning each student follows the same path to graduation by taking each course together. This learning format forges a collaborative community of engaged and bonded students. Through sharing their personal and professional insight, cohort members create a vibrant and authentic learning experience, while building lifelong professional networks. This multidisciplinary community of peers enables you to develop a deep understanding across healthcare institutions and industries, and broadens your vision for creating innovative and practical solutions to serious healthcare challenges. Learn More Request Information Upcoming Events Diversity & Inclusion Apply Today Access the Application Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-7901 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation Privacy Policy Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University For You Admitted Students Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Program Schedule and Format Open details for Program Schedule and Format Bookmark this Page