Stanford Profiles Menu Browse Schools Graduate School of Business Graduate School of Education School of Earth, Energy and Environmental Sciences School of Engineering School of Humanities and Sciences School of Medicine Institutes & Research Centers Bio-X Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies Institute for Computational and Mathematical Engineering (ICME) Institute for Human-Centered Artificial Intelligence (HAI) Institute for Stem Cell Biology and Regenerative Medicine Precourt Institute for Energy SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory Sarafan ChEM-H Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research (SIEPR) Stanford PULSE Institute Stanford Woods Institute for the Environment Wu Tsai Human Performance Alliance Wu Tsai Neurosciences Institute Administration Office of External Relations Office of VP for University Human Resources Office of Vice President for Business Affairs and Chief Financial Officer Stanford University Libraries Vice Provost and Dean of Research Vice Provost for Student Affairs Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education Sign In Edit My Profile View Stanford-only Results Stanford PULSE Institute Showing 1-10 of 29 Results Philip Bucksbaum Marguerite Blake Wilbur Professor of Natural Science and Professor of Photon Science, of Applied Physics and of Physics BioPhil Bucksbaum holds the Marguerite Blake Wilbur Chair in Natural Science at Stanford University, with appointments in Physics, Applied Physics, and in Photon Science at SLAC. He conducts his research in the Stanford PULSE Institute (https://web.stanford.edu/~phbuck). He and his wife Roberta Morris live in Menlo Park, California with their cat. Their grown daughter lives in Toronto. Bucksbaum was born and raised in Iowa, and graduated from Harvard in 1975. He attended U.C. Berkeley on a National Science Foundation Graduate Fellowship and received his Ph.D. in 1980 for atomic parity violation experiments under Professor Eugene Commins, with whom he also has co-authored a textbook, “Weak Interactions of Leptons and Quarks.” In 1981 he joined Bell Laboratories, where he pursued new applications of ultrafast coherent radiation from terahertz to vacuum ultraviolet, including time-resolved VUV ARPES, and strong-field laser-atom physics. He joined the University of Michigan in 1990 and stayed for sixteen years, becoming Otto Laporte Collegiate Professor and then Peter Franken University Professor. He was founding Director of FOCUS, a National Science Foundation Physics Frontier Center, where he pioneered research using ultrafast lasers to control quantum systems. He also launched the first experiments in ultrafast x-ray science at the Advanced Photon Source at Argonne National Lab. In 2006 Bucksbaum moved to Stanford and SLAC, and organized the PULSE Institute to develop research utilizing the world’s first hard x-ray free-electron laser, LCLS. In addition to directing PULSE, he has previously served as Department Chair of Photon Science and Division Director for Chemical Science at SLAC. His current research is in laser interrogation of atoms and molecules to explore and image structure and dynamics on the femtosecond scale. He currently has more than 250 publications. Bucksbaum is a Fellow of the APS and the Optical Society, and has been elected to the National Academy of Sciences and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. He has held Guggenheim and Miller Fellowships, and received the Norman F. Ramsey Prize of the American Physical Society for his work in ultrafast and strong-field atomic and molecular physics. He served as the Optical Society President in 2014, and also served as the President of the American Physical Society in 2020. He has led or participated in many professional service activities, including NAS studies, national and international boards, initiatives, lectureships and editorships. Contact Info 230 Varian Physics Laboratory 382 Via Pueblo Mall Stanford, California 94305-4060 Mail Code: 59 (650) 926-5337 (office) (650) 723-3571 (office) (650) 723-9173 (fax) phb@slac.stanford.edu Ryan Coffee Senior Scientist, SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory Current Role at StanfordSr. Staff Scientist at SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory Contact Info 2575 Sand Hill Rd Mailstop 0059 Menlo Park, California 94025 Mail Code: 0210 (650) 926-4608 (office) coffee@SLAC.Stanford.EDU James P. Cryan Lead Scientist, SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory Current Role at StanfordPrincipal Investigator, Stanford PULSE Institute Atomic, Molecular, and Optical Sciences Department Head, Linac Coherent Light Source. Contact Info 2575 Sand Hill Rd Mailstop 0059 Menlo Park, California 94025 Mail Code: 59 (650) 926-3290 (office) jcryan@stanford.edu Leora Dresselhaus-Marais Assistant Professor of Materials Science and Engineering Current Research and Scholarly InterestsMy group develops new optical and analytical tools to reveal how imperfections deep inside materials instigate the dynamics that transform them. Spanning length- and time-scales from bonds breaking at single atoms through fracture or fatigue in macroscopic materials, these defect dynamics define complex high-dimensional problems that are difficult to reconcile at intermediate scales in order to predict or understand a material's behavior. To address this challenge, my group develops new types of time-resolved experiments aimed at the elusive "mesoscale" to directly visualize how large populations of subsurface defects drive them. With these new approaches, we tackle fundamental studies of how temperature drives materials, and more applied problems that connect our new insights to structural materials, manufacturing, energy science, and beyond. Contact Info 476 LOMITA MALL STANFORD, California 94305 Mail Code: 4045 leoradm@stanford.edu Matthew R. Edwards Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering BioMatthew Edwards is an Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering. His research applies high-power lasers to the development of optical diagnostics for fluids and plasmas, the study of intense light-matter interactions, and the construction of compact light and particle sources, combining adaptive high-repetition-rate experiments and large-scale simulations to explore new regimes in fluid mechanics, thermodynamics, materials science, and plasma physics. Matthew received BSE, MA, and PhD degrees in Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering from Princeton University. He was then a Lawrence Fellow in the National Ignition Facility and Photon Science Directorate at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory. Contact Info Mail Code: 3032 mredwards@stanford.edu Megan H. Fernandez Procurement/Travel Coordinator, PULSE Contact Info Mail Code: 0210 megan@slac.stanford.edu Alan R. Fry Senior Scientist, SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory Contact Info 2575 Sand Hill Rd Mailstop 0020 Menlo Park, California 94025 Mail Code: 0210 (650) 926-7422 (office) alanfry@SLAC.Stanford.EDU Shambhu Ghimire Lead Scientist, SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory Current Role at StanfordPrincipal Investigator in a DOE-funded research area: High-order Harmonic Generation (HHG) Contact Info 2575 Sand Hill Rd Mailstop 0059 Menlo Park, California 94025 Mail Code: 0210 (650) 926-2071 (office) shambhu@SLAC.Stanford.EDU Siegfried Glenzer Professor of Photon Science and, by courtesy, of Mechanical Engineering Current Research and Scholarly InterestsPlease see our website for detailed information: https://heds.slac.stanford.edu Contact Info Mail Code: 72 (650) 926-3511 (office) glenzer@SLAC.Stanford.EDU Jerome Hastings Professor (Research) of Photon Science Contact Info 2575 Sand Hill Rd Mailstop 0059 Menlo Park, California 94025 Mail Code: 59 (650) 926-3107 (office) jerome.hastings@stanford.edu First Previous 1/3 Next Last 10 Results / Page 10 / Page Change 10 20 50 100 Show Only All Profiles Faculty, Research and Teaching Staff Staff Postdocs Graduate Students Last Name A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Report Accessibility Issues Stanford University SU Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Terms of Use Copyright Complaints © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305