Stanford Profiles Menu Browse Schools Graduate School of Business Graduate School of Education School of Earth, Energy and Environmental Sciences School of Engineering School of Humanities and Sciences School of Medicine Institutes & Research Centers Bio-X Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies Institute for Computational and Mathematical Engineering (ICME) Institute for Human-Centered Artificial Intelligence (HAI) Institute for Stem Cell Biology and Regenerative Medicine Precourt Institute for Energy SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory Sarafan ChEM-H Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research (SIEPR) Stanford PULSE Institute Stanford Woods Institute for the Environment Wu Tsai Human Performance Alliance Wu Tsai Neurosciences Institute Administration Office of External Relations Office of VP for University Human Resources Office of Vice President for Business Affairs and Chief Financial Officer Stanford University Libraries Vice Provost and Dean of Research Vice Provost for Student Affairs Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education Sign In Edit My Profile View Stanford-only Results Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research (SIEPR) Showing 1-10 of 92 Results Ran Abramitzky Senior Associate Dean for Social Sciences, Professor of Economics and Senior Fellow at the Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research BioRan Abramitzky is a Professor of Economics and the Senior Associate Dean of the Social Sciences at Stanford University. His research is in economic history and applied microeconomics, with focus on immigration and income inequality. He is a research associate at the National Bureau of Economic Research and a senior fellow at the Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research. He is the former co-editor of Explorations in Economic History. He was awarded an Alfred P. Sloan Research Fellowship, as well as National Science Foundation grants for research on the causes and consequences of income inequality and on international migration. His book, The Mystery of the Kibbutz: Egalitarian Principles in a Capitalist World (Princeton University Press, 2018) was awarded by the Economic History Association the Gyorgi Ranki Biennial Prize for an outstanding book on European Economic History. He has received the Economics Department’s and the Dean’s Awards for Distinguished Teaching. He holds a PhD in economics from Northwestern University. Contact Info Mail Code: 6072 ranabr@stanford.edu Claudia Allende Santa Cruz Assistant Professor of Economics at the Graduate School of Business and Center Fellow at the Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research Contact Info Mail Code: 4800 callende@stanford.edu Itai Ashlagi Associate Professor of Management Science and Engineering and Senior Fellow at the Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research BioItai Ashlagi is an Associate Professor at the Management Science & Engineering Department. He is interested in game theory and the design and analysis of marketplaces. He is especially interested in marketplaces, in which matching is an essential activity. markets, for which he developed mechanisms using tools from operations/cs and economics. His work influenced the practice of Kidney exchange, for which he has become a Franz Edelman Laureate. Ashlagi received his PhD in operations research from the Technion-Israel Institute of Technology. Before coming to Stanford he was an assistant professor of Operations Management at Sloan, MIT and prior to that a postdoctoral researcher at HBS. He is the recipient of the outstanding paper award in the ACM conference of Electronic Commerce 2009. His research is supported by the NSF including an NSF-CAREER award. Contact Info Mail Code: 4026 iashlagi@stanford.edu Irena Asmundson Research Scholar Contact Info Mail Code: 6015 iia@stanford.edu Susan Athey Economics of Technology Professor, Senior Fellow at the Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research and Professor, by courtesy, of Economics Contact Info Mail Code: 4800 (650) 725-1813 (office) athey@stanford.edu Web page: http://athey.people.stanford.edu/ Adrien Auclert Assistant Professor of Economics On Leave from 09/01/2021 To 08/31/2022 Contact Info Mail Code: 6072 aauclert@stanford.edu Kyle Bagwell Donald L. Lucas Endowed Professor of Economics and Senior Fellow at the Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research Contact Info 579 JANE STANFORD WAY Landau Economics Building Stanford University STANFORD, California 94305 Mail Code: 6015 (650) 723-3251 (office) kbagwell@stanford.edu Laurence Baker Bing Professor of Human Biology and Senior Fellow at the Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research Current Research and Scholarly InterestsDr. Baker's research is in the area of health economics, and focuses on the effects of financial incentives, organizational structures, and government policies on the health care delivery system, health care costs, and health outcomes. Contact Info 615 CROTHERS WAY STANFORD, California 94305 Mail Code: 6019 (650) 723-4098 (office) (650) 725-6951 (fax) Laurence.Baker@stanford.edu Other Names: Loren Baker B. Bernheim Edward Ames Edmonds Professor and Senior Fellow at the Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research BioB. Douglas Bernheim is the Edward Ames Edmonds Professor of Economics in the Department of Economics at Stanford University, as well as Department Chair. After completing an A.B. in Economics from Harvard University and a Ph.D. from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, he joined the Stanford faculty as an Assistant Professor in 1982. He moved to Northwestern University’s J. L. Kellogg Graduate School of Management in 1988, and to Princeton University in 1990, before returning to Stanford in 1994. His awards and honors include election as a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, election as a fellow of the Econometric Society, a John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation Fellowship, and an Alfred P. Sloan Foundation Research Fellowship. Professor Bernheim’s work has spanned a variety of fields, including public economics, behavioral economics, game theory, contract theory, industrial organization, political economy, and financial economics. His notable contributions include the following: in the area of game theory, introducing and exploring the concepts of rationalizability (thereby helping to launch the field of epistemic game theory), coalition-proofness, and collective dynamic consistency (also known as renegotiation-proofness); in the area of incentive theory, introducing and exploring the concepts of common agency and menu auctions, and developing a theory of incomplete contracts; in the area of industrial organization, developing theories of multimarket contact and exclusive dealing; concerning social motives in economics, introducing and exploring the concept of strategic bequest motives, and developing theories of conformity, Veblen effects, and the equal division norm; developing and applying a framework for behavioral welfare economics; developing an economic theory of addictive behaviors; conducting the earliest economic analyses of financial education; and analyzing the conceptual foundations for Ricardian equivalence. Professor Bernheim is a Research Associate of the National Bureau of Economic Research, a Senior Fellow of the Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research (SIEPR), and Co-Director of SIEPR's Tax and Budget Policy Program. He has also served as the Director of the Stanford Institute for Theoretical Economics (SITE), and as Co-Editor of the American Economic Review. He is currently serving as Co-Editor of the Handbook of Behavioral Economics. Contact Info Economics Bldg 247 Stanford, California 94305-6072 Mail Code: 6072 (650) 725-8732 (office) (650) 725-5702 (fax) bernheim@stanford.edu Eric Bettinger Conley DeAngelis Family Professor, Professor of Education, Senior Fellow at the Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research and Professor, by courtesy, of Economics at the Graduate School of Business Current Research and Scholarly InterestsBettinger, Eric and Bridget Long. “Simplification and Incentives: A Randomized Experiment to Increase College Savings." Antonio, Anthony, Eric Bettinger, Brent Evans, Jesse Foster, and Rie Kijima. “The Effect of High School College Advisement: Evidence from a Randomized Evaluation in Texas.” Bettinger, Eric, Michael Kremer, Maurice Kugler, and Juan Saavedra. “The Effect of Educational Vouchers in Colombia on Students’ Labor Market Outcomes.” Bettinger, Eric, Oded Gurantz, Laura Kawano, and Bruce Sacerdote. "The Long-run Impacts of Merit Aid: Evidence from California's Cal-Grant." Bettinger, Eric, Lindsay Fox, Susanna Loeb, and Eric Taylor, “Changing Distributions: How Online College Classes Alter Student and Professor Performance.” Contact Info Mail Code: 3096 ebetting@stanford.edu First Previous 1/10 Next Last 10 Results / Page 10 / Page Change 10 20 50 100 Show Only All Profiles Faculty, Research and Teaching Staff Staff Postdocs Graduate Students Last Name A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Report Accessibility Issues Stanford University SU Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Terms of Use Copyright Complaints © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305