Stanford Profiles Menu Browse Schools Graduate School of Business Graduate School of Education School of Earth, Energy and Environmental Sciences School of Engineering School of Humanities and Sciences School of Medicine Institutes & Research Centers Bio-X Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies Institute for Computational and Mathematical Engineering (ICME) Institute for Human-Centered Artificial Intelligence (HAI) Institute for Stem Cell Biology and Regenerative Medicine Precourt Institute for Energy SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory Sarafan ChEM-H Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research (SIEPR) Stanford PULSE Institute Stanford Woods Institute for the Environment Wu Tsai Human Performance Alliance Wu Tsai Neurosciences Institute Administration Office of External Relations Office of VP for University Human Resources Office of Vice President for Business Affairs and Chief Financial Officer Stanford University Libraries Vice Provost and Dean of Research Vice Provost for Student Affairs Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education Sign In Edit My Profile View Stanford-only Results Institute for Stem Cell Biology and Regenerative Medicine Showing 1-10 of 126 Results Hadia S. Ahsan Life Science Research Professional 1, Stem Cell Bio Regenerative Med Institute Contact Info Mail Code: 5461 hahsan@stanford.edu Ash A. Alizadeh, MD/PhD Moghadam Family Professor Current Research and Scholarly InterestsMy research is focused on attaining a better understanding of the initiation, maintenance, and progression of tumors, and their response to current therapies toward improving future treatment strategies. In this effort, I employ tools from functional genomics, computational biology, molecular genetics, and mouse models. Clinically, I specialize in the care of patients with lymphomas, working on translating our findings in prospective cancer clinical trials. Contact Info Stanford Comprehensive Cancer Center 875 Blake Wilbur Drive Stanford, California 94305 Mail Code: 5151 arasha@Stanford.Edu Other Names: Arash Alizadeh Ash Alizadeh Ash A. Alizadeh Laura Amaya Ph.D. Student in Stem Cell Biology and Regenerative Medicine, admitted Autumn 2017 RA Temp, Pediatrics - Ped Stem Cell Transplantation Contact Info Mail Code: 5798 lamaya@stanford.edu Alvaro Amorin MD Student, expected graduation Spring 2022 Ph.D. Student in Stem Cell Biology and Regenerative Medicine, admitted Autumn 2019 MSTP Student Contact Info Mail Code: 5404 amorin@stanford.edu Lay Teng Ang Instructor, Institute for Stem Cell Biology and Regenerative Medicine BioAs a stem cell biologist, my overall goal is to understand the mechanisms through which stem cells differentiate into progressively-specialized cell-types and to harness this knowledge to artificially generate pure populations of desired cell-types from stem cells. My work over the past 10 years has centered on pluripotent stem cells (PSCs, which include embryonic and pluripotent stem cells), which have the remarkable ability to generate any of the hundreds of diverse cell-types in the body. However, it has been notoriously difficult to guide PSCs to differentiate into a pure population of a given cell-type. Current differentiation strategies typically generate heterogeneous cell populations unsuitable for basic research or clinical applications. To address this challenge, I mapped the cascade of branching lineage choices through which PSCs differentiate into a variety of endodermal and mesodermal cell-types. I then developed effective methods to differentiate PSCs into specific lineages by providing the extracellular signal(s) that specify a given lineage while inhibiting the signals that induce the alternate fate(s), enabling the generation of highly-pure human heart, bone (Loh & Chen et al., 2016; Cell) and liver (Loh & Ang et al., 2014; Cell Stem Cell) from PSCs. My laboratory currently focuses on differentiation of human PSCs into liver progenitors (Ang et al., 2018; Cell Reports) and blood vessel progenitors. I earned my Ph.D. jointly from the University of Cambridge and A*STAR and was subsequently appointed as a Research Fellow, and later, a Senior Research Fellow, at the Genome Institute of Singapore. I then moved my laboratory to Stanford University as a Siebel Investigator and Instructor at the Stanford Institute for Stem Cell Biology & Regenerative Medicine, where my laboratory has been supported by the Siebel Investigatorship, California Institute for Regenerative Medicine, and other sources. Contact Info Mail Code: 5461 layteng@stanford.edu Web page: https://anglab.stanford.edu/ Chiara Anselmi Postdoctoral Scholar, Stem Cell Biology and Regenerative Medicine BioMy expertise is in the areas of regeneration, evolution, the nervous system and cell biology. I use a marine colonial tunicate, Botryllus schlosseri, characterized by having robust regenerative capabilities and an assayable and frequent (weekly) CNS (Central nervous system) tissue regeneration and loss throughout adult life. I believe that comparative studies on a simple chordate can help us elucidate the principal mechanisms that are the foundation of regeneration and aging. I use a multidisciplinary methodology that integrates advanced single cell RNAseq, imaging, multi-parameter flow cytometric isolation of cellular populations and transplantation assays to elucidate the cellular and genetic changes associated with neuronal degeneration process in young and old colonies. Contact Info Mail Code: 5461 chiara90@stanford.edu Jessica Arozqueta Basurto Ph.D. Student in Stem Cell Biology and Regenerative Medicine, admitted Autumn 2020 Allison Banuelos Ph.D. Student in Stem Cell Biology and Regenerative Medicine, admitted Summer 2019 Contact Info aban@stanford.edu Khristian Erich Bauer-Rowe Ramos MD Student, expected graduation Spring 2023 Ph.D. Student in Stem Cell Biology and Regenerative Medicine, admitted Autumn 2021 MSTP Student Philip Beachy The Ernest and Amelia Gallo Professor, Professor of Urology, of Developmental Biology and, by courtesy, of Chemical and Systems Biology Current Research and Scholarly InterestsFunction of Hedgehog proteins and other extracellular signals in morphogenesis (pattern formation), in injury repair and regeneration (pattern maintenance). We study how the distribution of such signals is regulated in tissues, how cells perceive and respond to distinct concentrations of signals, and how such signaling pathways arose in evolution. We also study the normal roles of such signals in stem-cell physiology and their abnormal roles in the formation and expansion of cancer stem cells. Contact Info Lorry I. Lokey Stem Cell Research Building G3120a 265 Campus Drive Stanford, California 94305-5463 Mail Code: 5463 (650) 723-4521 (office) pbeachy@stanford.edu Other Names: Phil Beachy First Previous 1/13 Next Last 10 Results / Page 10 / Page Change 10 20 50 100 Show Only All Profiles Faculty, Research and Teaching Staff Staff Postdocs Graduate Students Last Name A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Report Accessibility Issues Stanford University SU Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Terms of Use Copyright Complaints © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305