Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... Admitted Students School of Professional Studies Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Search Search Menu Registration & Fees Breadcrumb Home Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Sub Navigation In This Section Program Content & Schedule Program Faculty Registration & Fees Registration & Fees Registration & Fees Tuition – $995 Thank you for your interest in this program. While we plan to hold this program in the future, currently, there are no future dates. Please request more information and we will let you know when new dates become available. Please contact execeducation@brown.edu if you have additional questions. Cancellation Policy All cancellation requests must be made in writing to Brown. Requests can be submitted to execeducation@brown.edu. You must submit a request to cancel your enrollment and receive a refund no later than 14 days prior to the course start date to receive a full refund. Refunds will be processed the same way the original payment was made and within 30 days following the receipt request. If cancellation is requested less than 14 days prior to the course start date, funds may be credited to the same course scheduled within the next 12 months. If the course price changes in the 12 months from the start of the course, you will be responsible for paying the price differential. If the course is not presented again within the 12-month window, you may apply the credit towards another course. All unclaimed credits expire at the end of 12 months from the start of the course. If a cancellation is made after the course start date, no refund or credit will be granted. Accreditation The live synchronous activity has been approved for AMA PRA Category 1 Credits™ Accreditation: The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education (ACCME) to provide continuing medical education for physicians. Credit Designation: Physicians: The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University designates this live activity for a maximum of 4.0 AMA PRA Category 1 Credits™. Physicians should claim only the credit commensurate with the extent of their participation in this activity. Other Healthcare Professionals: Participants will receive a Certificate of Attendance stating this program is designated for 4.0 hours AMA PRA Category 1 Credits™. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-7901 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation Privacy Policy Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University For You Admitted Students Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Registration & Fees Open details for Registration & Fees Bookmark this Page