Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Open Mobile Navigation Pro Futuris About Pro Futuris The Strategic Vision: Launched May 2012 Letter From the President A Name for Our Strategic Vision A Symbol for Our Strategic Vision Baylor's Distinctive Role Baylor's Commitments Mission Statement Foundational Assumptions Core Convictions Unifying Academic Themes Institutional and Environmental Context Developing Our Strategic Vision Overview of Progress During Baylor 2012 The State of Higher Education Baylor's Financial Position The Planning Process Strategic Vision: Pro Futuris One: Transformational Education Two: Compelling Scholarship Three: Informed Engagement Four: Committed Constituents Five: Judicious Stewardship Pro Futuris Downloads Five Year Goals: 2014-2018 Transformational Education Compelling Scholarship Informed Engagement Committed Constituents Judicious Stewardship Progress - July 2017 Illuminate: 2018 - 2022 Pro Futuris Five Year Goals: 2014-2018 Transformational Education Compelling Scholarship Informed Engagement Committed Constituents Judicious Stewardship Progress - July 2017 Five Year Goals: 2014-2018 (Approved by the Baylor University Board of Regents, May 2014) Baylor University stands in a place occupied by few other institutions - set apart by an unwavering Christian identity, an enduring dedication to transformative education, and a strong and growing commitment to research. We hold firm to the conviction that the world needs a preeminent research university that is unambiguously Christian - where such a commitment does not imply a lack of scholarly inquiry, but rather requires scholarship and creative endeavors at the highest levels of quality to complement and inform its teaching and service. Developed by Baylor's executive administration during six months of collaborative work across campus, Baylor University's Five-Year Goals reflect high-level, measurable objectives against which future progress can be clearly assessed in the years ahead. It should be noted that these goals are not all-encompassing. They are strategically selective, culled from the wide range of possibilities represented in the five Aspirational Statements of Pro Futuris. They are goals that will meaningfully impact our educational enterprise, increase our institutional influence in the world, extend our research productivity, engage our constituencies and advance the Christian mission of the University. The goals also impose a discipline. While remaining flexible enough to accommodate emerging opportunities, they demand a steady resolve that will guide future decisions about where the University will and will not focus its energies and resources as it moves forward. The implementation of the goals is necessarily a shared endeavor, and so they will be undergirded with a complementary management plan that will be used by executive leadership to assess the steady progress and guide the work of the many organizational units. The effective implementation of these incremental steps across campus and over time will ensure the University is successful in attaining its five-year institutional goals. Transformational Education Pro Futuris calls Baylor to be a place where academic excellence and life-changing experiences ignite leadership potential. Compelling Scholarship Faculty and students at Baylor are dedicated to joining the national and international community of scholars and artists in exploring the manifold issues and creative possibilities at the forefront of human discovery. Informed Engagement Pro Futuris calls Baylor to be a place where our Christian faith, in conjunction with our expertise and resources, inspires a desire to address systemic problems facing our community. Committed Constituents Pro Futuris calls Baylor to be a place where the dedication of alumni and friends advances Baylor through sustained involvement and philanthropy. Judicious Stewardship Pro Futuris calls Baylor to be a place where the value generated by and derived from a Baylor experience is supported through a diversity of revenues. Progress - July 2017 Learn about Baylor’s progress on the Five Year Goals of Pro Futuris. Pro Futuris Five Year Goals: 2014-2018 About Pro Futuris The Strategic Vision: Launched May 2012 Back Letter From the President A Name for Our Strategic Vision A Symbol for Our Strategic Vision Baylor's Distinctive Role Baylor's Commitments Back Mission Statement Foundational Assumptions Core Convictions Unifying Academic Themes Institutional and Environmental Context Back Developing Our Strategic Vision Overview of Progress During Baylor 2012 The State of Higher Education Baylor's Financial Position The Planning Process Strategic Vision: Pro Futuris Back One: Transformational Education Two: Compelling Scholarship Three: Informed Engagement Four: Committed Constituents Five: Judicious Stewardship Pro Futuris Downloads Five Year Goals: 2014-2018 Back Transformational Education Compelling Scholarship Informed Engagement Committed Constituents Judicious Stewardship Progress - July 2017 Illuminate: 2018 - 2022 General Information Academics & Research Administration Admissions Gateways for ... About Baylor Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate News Pro Futuris Search Social Media Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Accessibility Anonymous Reporting Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Digital Privacy Legal Disclosures Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678