Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... Admitted Students School of Professional Studies Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Search Search Menu Master's in Technology Leadership Transforming technical experts into strategic, innovative leaders prepared to meet the new and evolving demands in science and technology. Sub Navigation In This Section Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Curriculum Capstone Program Schedule Admissions People Learn More Request Information Upcoming Events Diversity & Inclusion Apply Today Access the Application Master's in Technology Leadership Transforming technical experts into strategic, innovative leaders prepared to meet the new and evolving demands in science and technology. Science and technology are undergoing rapid and disruptive change. This rapidly evolving climate requires a new type of leadership. In this environment, you need a sophisticated understanding of the technical, business, policy and human factors affecting the business landscape. To thrive, you need to complement your technical expertise with solid leadership, communication and relational skills. Brown’s Master of Science (ScM) in Technology Leadership goes beyond a traditional MBA — it is a transformative 16-month program designed for busy, ambitious professionals who want to take on larger leadership roles and make a real impact in their industry. Our rigorous curriculum, taught by world-class faculty, is curated to break down industry silos, build cross-function collaborations and bring a diversity of perspectives into your learning experience. We develop science and technology leaders equipped with a broad vision and ability to innovate in a complex business climate. Structured for professionals, our program blends online learning with in-person sessions so you can earn a Brown degree and build the network and skills vital for advancing your business — without interrupting your career. Apply Today Request Information UPCOMING DEADLINES: Application Due Decision Communicated Priority II June 1, 2022 July 13, 2022 Priority III September 12, 2022 October 24, 2022 Regular Decision November 7, 2022 December 12, 2022 We recommend applying as early as possible, as this program will fill up. If you are able to submit your application by a Priority Deadline date we will be able to give you an expedited decision on your candidacy for the program. However, you do not have to wait for the Priority Deadline date to submit your application as we are reviewing applications daily. If you have any questions, please contact Professional@brown.edu. Access the Application Request Information Upcoming Information Sessions Program Snapshot Format: Blended Low-Residency & Online Length: 16 months starting in February Profile: Between 5-15 years of experience Partner: Brown School of Engineering Play 1 of 5 Heather Orser | Senior Engineering Manager, Medtronic 2 of 5 Brown University, founded in 1764, is located in Providence, Rhode Island. Play 3 of 5 Prayag Patil | Product Manager, Ebsco Information Services 4 of 5 225 Dyer Street, home of the new Brown School of Professional Studies. Play 5 of 5 Greg Calderiso | Senior Assistant Vice President, Amica Insurance The Brown Difference Student-Centered Learning Diverse Collaboration Impact & Career ROI Student-Centered Learning A learning experience centered around you. Join a close-knit, diverse community of peers and benefit from our intentionally small class sizes with a low student-to-faculty ratio. Our rigorous and highly-supportive curriculum — taught by world-class faculty — is designed to build the network and skills vital to transform your career and business in real-time. Diverse Collaboration Experience a dynamic, peer-to-peer learning environment that pushes you in new ways. Our programs transcend boundaries and integrate knowledge across fields of study — designed to break down industry silos, broaden your perspective and bring innovative ideas forward. Leave the classroom positioned to transform from a team member to the team leader. Impact & Career ROI Brown students and alumni are more than thinkers — they are change agents and doers! We prepare strategic leaders with the deep knowledge, critical thinking, powerful network and cross-industry expertise to go confidently into the world to innovate, solve real-world challenges and drive what's next, both in their fields and in their careers. Recent Outcomes 84 % Promoted within 1 year of graduation 48 % Promoted while still in the program 24 % Promoted to VP or C-Suite 2-3 Year Average Return on Investment Graduate Student Veteran Support Brown continues its commitment to veterans by collaborating with the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) on the Post 9/11 GI Bill and the Yellow Ribbon GI Education Enhancement Program. Benefits Learn More Request Information Curriculum Capstone Program Schedule & Format Admissions & Financial Aid People Learn More Request Information Upcoming Events Diversity & Inclusion Apply Today Access the Application Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-7901 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation Privacy Policy Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University For You Admitted Students Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Master's in Technology Leadership Open details for Master's in Technology Leadership Bookmark this Page