Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... Admitted Students School of Professional Studies Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Search Search Menu Curriculum Breadcrumb Home Digital Health Innovation Certificate Sub Navigation In This Section Curriculum Program Schedule Registration & Cost Faculty Schedule a Call Connect with an Advisor Curriculum The online Digital Health Innovation Certificate offers a multidisciplinary, experiential curriculum that prepares you to launch a digital health innovation. Over six months, participants complete four sequential digital health courses that explore the full lifecycle of the digital health innovation process including needs assessment, user-centered design, evaluation, and innovation implementation with an emphasis on ethics, diversity, and inclusion. Register Today Request More Information Schedule a Call Online Learning Badging & Certificate Digital Health Capstone Online Learning We’ve created a student-centered, online learning environment that combines the best qualities of real-time courses with an engaging self-paced experience. Complete most of your coursework on your schedule while connecting with Brown’s world-class scholars, guest speakers, and fellow participants during one 1-hour scheduled meeting per week. Badging & Certificate The Digital Health Innovation curriculum comprises four sequential courses. With the completion of each course, you will receive a digital Credly badge from Brown University that allows you to demonstrate academic progress throughout the program in the form of this micro credential. You can post digital badges to your LinkedIn profile, electronic resume, website, and other professional platforms to exhibit your specialized expertise. Upon completion of the program, you will receive a Brown University Certificate. Digital Health Capstone Throughout Brown’s 6-month Digital Healthcare Innovation certificate, you will work on developing a commercialization or implementation plan for an existing or new digital healthcare innovation. In your final digital health course, you will complete your plan, refine it with feedback from Brown faculty and industry leaders, and create a 10-minute pitch for your digital health solution. Courses Course 1: Foundations of Digital Health Innovation The first course in the Digital Health Innovation Certificate program answers the question, “What is the current digital health landscape, and where can I fit in?” By the end of this six-week course, you will be able to: Define characteristics of successful digital health products. Identify innovation opportunities using existing research/scientific evidence. Analyze the current market to guide the design and development of an effective and equitable digital health product. Course 2: Digital Health Innovation Design The second course in the Digital Health Innovation Certificate program answers the question, “What is the innovation and design process for digital health?” By the end of this six-week course, you will be able to: Establish a development strategy for concepts following industry best practices. Apply user-centered design thinking practices to create high-quality, inclusive, and user-friendly digital health products. Identify relevant innovation funding sources to start your business design. Course 3: Digital Health Evaluation and Deployment The third course in the Digital Health Innovation Certificate program answers the question, “What are the best practices to evaluate and bring a digital health product to market?” This digital health course was developed in partnership with the Digital Medicine Society. By the end of this six-week course, you will be able to: Evaluate digital health products for safe, effective, ethical, and equitable use Optimize outcomes for scalable deployment and broader adoption, including pursuit of suitable regulatory pathways in the United States Strategize on dissemination and commercialization options Course 4: Digital Health Innovation Capstone The final course in the Digital Health Innovation Certificate program pulls all the pieces together by exploring future directions, special use cases, and ethical issues, and completing a capstone project that prepares you to launch your next idea. By the end of this six-week course, you will have completed: An innovation implementation plan for a new or existing product with faculty input. A 10-minute pitch presentation. Schedule a Call Connect with an Advisor Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-7901 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation Privacy Policy Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University For You Admitted Students Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Curriculum Open details for Curriculum Bookmark this Page