Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... Admitted Students School of Professional Studies Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Search Search Menu Master's in Healthcare Leadership Preparing visionary leaders who drive innovative, sustainable cross-industry solutions to solve today's complex healthcare challenges. Sub Navigation In This Section Healthcare Leadership Curriculum Capstone Program Schedule Admissions People IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Learn More Request Information Upcoming Events Diversity & Inclusion Apply Today Access the Application Master's in Healthcare Leadership Preparing visionary leaders who drive innovative, sustainable cross-industry solutions to solve today's complex healthcare challenges. Now more than ever, strategic leadership is needed to respond to our most pressing healthcare challenges. Brown University’s Master of Science in Healthcare Leadership (MHL) is a transformative, 16-month program designed for busy clinical leaders and ambitious healthcare professionals who want to make a real, positive impact in the world. Our rigorous curriculum, taught by world-class faculty, provides a sophisticated, cross-industry understanding of the policy, regulations and global forces disrupting the healthcare sector and the skills needed to meet the new and evolving demands for leadership. We break down industry silos, build cross-function collaborations and bring a diversity of perspectives into your learning experience, developing leaders with a broad vision who can innovate in the healthcare industry. Structured for healthcare professionals, our program blends online learning with in-person sessions to build the network and skills vital for advancing your organization — without interrupting your career. Apply Today Request Information Download Brochure UPCOMING DEADLINES: Priority II Priority III Regular Deadline June 1, 2022 September 12, 2022 November 7, 2022 We recommend applying as early as possible, as this program will fill up. If you are able to submit your application by a Priority Deadline date we will be able to give you an expedited decision on your candidacy for the program. However, you do not have to wait for the Priority Deadline date to submit your application as we are reviewing applications daily. If you have any questions, please contact Professional@brown.edu. Access the Application Request More Information Upcoming Information Sessions Program Snapshot Format: Blended Low-Residency & Online Length: 16 months starting in January Profile: Avg. 10+ Years of Work Experience Partner: Brown School of Public Health Play 1 of 5 Our program prepares leaders to transform healthcare. 2 of 5 Brown University, founded in 1764, is located in Providence, Rhode Island. Play 3 of 5 Classroom excellence, real-world application | Kelly Doyle, Class of 2019 4 of 5 225 Dyer Street, home of the new Brown School of Professional Studies. 5 of 5 Our state-of-the-art classrooms are light-filled and equipped with the latest technology. The Brown Difference Student-Centered Learning Diverse Collaboration Impact & Career ROI Student-Centered Learning A learning experience centered around you. Join a close-knit, diverse community of peers and benefit from our intentionally small class sizes with a low student-to-faculty ratio. Our rigorous and highly-supportive curriculum — taught by world-class faculty — is designed to build the network and skills vital to transform your career and business in real-time. Diverse Collaboration Experience a dynamic, peer-to-peer learning environment that pushes you in new ways. Our programs transcend boundaries and integrate knowledge across fields of study — designed to break down industry silos, broaden your perspective and bring innovative ideas forward. Leave the classroom positioned to transform your impact as a leader. Impact & Career ROI Brown students and alumni are more than thinkers — they are change agents and doers! We prepare strategic leaders with the deep knowledge, critical thinking, powerful network and cross-industry expertise to go confidently into the world to innovate, solve real-world challenges and drive what's next, both in their fields and in their careers. Recent Outcomes 96 % Recommend program to others 73 % Received a managerial-level promotion 67 % Reported "significant" salary increase 60% Promoted to VP or C-Suite Learn More Request Information Curriculum Capstone Program Schedule & Format Admissions & Financial Aid People Learn More Request Information Upcoming Events Diversity & Inclusion Apply Today Access the Application Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-7901 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation Privacy Policy Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University For You Admitted Students Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Master's in Healthcare Leadership Open details for Master's in Healthcare Leadership Bookmark this Page