Skip to content Professional Development | Harvard DCE Harvard Division of Continuing Education Programs Find a Program Leadership Certificates Registration Details Frequently Asked Questions For Organizations Visit Plan Your Visit Return-to-Campus Guidelines About About Us Our Participants at a Glance Participant Success Stories Our Faculty Instructor Publications Teaching Opportunities Events Contact Us Blog Request Information Professional Development | Harvard DCE Harvard Division of Continuing Education Find a Program Registration Details Frequently Asked Questions Programs for Organizations Plan Your Visit Transportation And Directions Return-to-Campus Guidelines About Us Professional Development Participants at a Glance Participant Success Stories Our Faculty Instructor Publications Events Teaching Opportunities Contact Us Professional Development Blog Privacy Statement Join Us For a Free Panel Discussion: How Professional Development Programs Helped My Career Register Today Twitter Facebook YouTube Build skills for a changing world. Advance your career and develop the confidence to lead. Whether you want to hone your existing skillset or reinvent your career, our programs give you the knowledge and expertise you need to succeed. Business Strategy Marketing Communication Innovation Leadership and Management Negotiation Our short, intensive programs — offered online or in person — provide you with the strategies you need to return to the office ready to solve today’s challenges. Expertise Learn from industry leaders in the Harvard and Boston communities who have deep subject matter expertise grounded in the context of today's business world. Impact Develop new strategies and skills you can implement today, for immediate impact on your workplace and your career. Leadership Advance your leadership skills as you build industry-specific expertise to transform how you work and think to keep your career moving in the right direction. Explore Our Programs The framework the instructor provided for thinking through how to build organizational facets was both really digestible and highly practical.” Stacie Calder Vice President Sales & Marketing, Conquest Planning Participant Success Stories Grow Your Network With participants from more than 102 countries and a variety of industries, our programs are designed to be interactive and energetic, sparking rich dialogue, and offering new and diverse perspectives. Our Participants Certificates of Leadership Excellence Certificate of Leadership Excellence in Management Development Participants refine their management and leadership skills while challenging their current thinking. Certificate of Leadership Excellence in Strategy and Innovation for Senior Leaders Designed to equip senior leaders with tools to lead, manage change, innovate and compete in our disruptive global landscape. Certificate of Leadership Excellence in Leading Teams Participants will learn effective strategies to motivate, engage, and empower teams. Learn evolving best practices for leadership. Digital Skills Certificates, Provided by Pathstream Built in partnership with technology companies, these programs build key skills in social media, project management, and Salesforce administration. Learn More From the Blog What to Know About Earning a Project Management Certificate Blog Is Your Workplace Communication Style As Effective As It Could Be? Blog How the Associated Press Brought PDP to an Entire Team Blog The Benefits of Promoting Gender Diversity in Leadership Blog How to Better Manage Your Remote Team Blog Join Us For a Free Panel Discussion: How Professional Development Programs Helped My Career On Tuesday, June 14, participants will share their experience in their program(s) and how they implemented what they learned in their careers. There will also be a Q&A for you to ask the panelists or Harvard staff any questions you have. Register Today Follow Professional Development | Harvard DCE Twitter Facebook YouTube Harvard Division of Continuing Education A division of Harvard University dedicated to bringing rigorous programs and innovative online teaching capabilities to distance learners, working professionals, high school students, college students, and those seeking higher learning in retirement. Harvard Extension School Harvard degrees, certificates and courses—online, in the evenings, and at your own pace. Harvard Summer School Academic summer opportunities for adult, college and high school students—at Harvard and abroad. Harvard Professional Development Short, intensive programs to develop skills and strengthen your professional profile. Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement Peer learning in the liberal arts—a community program for retired and semi-retired professionals. Harvard Division of Continuing Education Privacy Statement Accessibility Rights & Regulations Digital Accessibility Policy Harvard.edu Cookie Settings Copyright ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College