Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... Admitted Students School of Professional Studies Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Search Search Menu The Brown Difference Breadcrumb Home About Us Sub Navigation In This Section The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy The Brown Difference Our commitment to educational innovation, diversity and inclusion, collaboration and making an impact in the world is at the core of what we do. Brown is an internationally-renowned Ivy League university known for innovative education, multidisciplinary research, complex problem-solving and community service. We prepare students to transform their careers and have real impact in the world. When you come to Brown’s School of Professional Studies, you can expect: A Learning Experience Centered Around You Rigorous? Yes. Highly supportive? Absolutely! Brown’s student-centered programs are taught by world-class faculty and carefully curated to fuel intellectual curiosity, transform careers, and drive real impact in the world. You’ll join a close-knit, dynamic and diverse community of peers. Our intentionally small class sizes are designed to give you individualized attention from faculty who truly care. Students know each other, too. Walk into any class and you'll know everyone in the room. Diverse Collaboration, Pushing You to Think in New Ways Brown excels at collaborative learning and research that transcends boundaries and integrates knowledge across fields of study — with the goal to bring new ideas forward and cultivate critical thinkers. To broaden your vision, our curriculum is designed to break down industry silos, build cross-function collaborations and bring a diversity of perspectives to your learning experience to teach you to look at the world from a different point of view. Impact on a Personal, Professional and Global Scale Brown students and alumni are more than thinkers — they are change agents and doers! We prepare leaders with the deep knowledge, powerful network and cross-industry expertise necessary to confidently go into the world and solve complex real-world and industry challenges. Our community is driven by a deep sense of purpose and the idea that their work will have an impact on the world. 100,000 Alumni Network at Brown 6:1 Student-to-Faculty Ratio 94 Brown University Walk Score Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-7901 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation Privacy Policy Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University For You Admitted Students Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search The Brown Difference Open details for The Brown Difference Bookmark this Page