Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... Admitted Students School of Professional Studies Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Search Search Menu Custom Programs for Organizations Learning experiences tailored to address your talent and organizational challenges — delivered online, in-person or a blended format. Breadcrumb Home Executive Education Custom Programs for Organizations Learning experiences tailored to address your talent and organizational challenges — delivered online, in-person or a blended format. The rules of business are changing. Now more than ever, leaders need a broad vision, innovative thinking, and informed decision-making to address complex global and industry-specific challenges. Cultivating professionals with these critical skills within your company is also vital to your organization’s future. Brown is uniquely qualified to help. Our custom programs are designed for online, in-person and blended environments based on your needs. Let's solve your key challenges together Brown is an internationally-renowned Ivy League university known for innovative education, world-class faculty, multidisciplinary research and complex problem-solving. When you partner with us, you get a unique solution that addresses your business challenges and advances your goals. We go beyond traditional business education and develop custom programs that are carefully curated to break down silos and integrate knowledge across diverse fields of study. Currently, we offer custom programs for organizations in the following areas and welcome your suggestions for new content areas: Leadership and Organizational Advancement Leadership and Executive Development Specialized Leadership Development in Healthcare, Technology and Cybersecurity industries Innovation and Entrepreneurship Communication and Public Speaking Coaching and Coaching Certification Diversity and Inclusion Evidence-based Mindfulness for Professionals Emerging Technologies and Special Topics Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning Cybersecurity Data Science and Analytics Environmental Sustainability Global Economy and Politics Request Information https://www.youtube.com/embed/e-gfnzUX8AU Custom Programs at Brown Tap into world-class faculty expertise across Brown’s academic portfolio for a learning experience designed to solve your organization's challenges. Flexible delivery options to meet your needs Come learn on Brown’s campus in our new, state-of-the-art building located in the heart of Providence’s innovation district, at your corporate office, online or in a hybrid format. The School of Professional Studies is integrated into Brown’s multi-nodal campus which, along with the surrounding city, is easy to navigate and accessible. The Providence airport is conveniently located — a quick 15-minute drive with easy in-and-out access and multiple flying options — and nearby hotel and accommodation for travelers are affordably priced. Any company that is focused on increasing knowledge and exposure to leading-edge thinking and practice in business, should work with Brown. The faculty is top-notch, the facilities are great, the support staff is extremely helpful, and the program ran very smoothly Matthew Josefowicz ‘94 CEO, Novarica Our Clients – Partnering for Success Learn more about how some of our clients have partnered with Brown to create tailored learning solutions to address key business challenges, deliver impact and cultivate leaders in their organizations. Client Case Studies Citizens Bank: Best Data Practices in Artificial Intelligence (AI) Conference Citizens Bank collaborated with Brown’s Data Science Initiative and the School of Professional Studies on a conference that brought together business, technical, academic and legal experts in data science, law, and ethics to discuss the current and emerging challenges posed by increased use of AI and Machine Learning. Read full case study. Visit Page Open details for Citizens Bank: Best Data Practices in Artificial Intelligence (AI) Conference JSW: Advanced Strategic Leadership for Global Organizations Brown School of Professional Studies created a week-long transformative learning experience for JSW’s top senior leaders. The program was designed and delivered by Brown’s distinguished faculty and top scholars across more than 10 departments. Visit Page Open details for JSW: Advanced Strategic Leadership for Global Organizations Novarica: Insurance IT Leadership Development Program Brown developed a 2.5-day Executive Development Program to accelerate the development of IT executives. The program was designed to augment participant’s technical skills with a broader strategic perspective and expertise dealing with team members, employees and supervisors. Visit Page Open details for Novarica: Insurance IT Leadership Development Program “ Brown has raised the bar for customized Ivy League programming for corporate global leadership development. As a Brown alum, I was confident in the value of the University’s global expertise and interdisciplinary excellence. However, I now have a new respect for Brown’s unparalleled agility, flexibility, and expertise in the delivery of highly customized and goal-focused senior management educational experiences. ” Parth Jindal, Brown ’12 Managing Director, JSW Cement Learn more about partnering with Brown Maximize your impact and organizational return on learning — advance your employee leadership development or change management through custom programs or group enrollment into any of our master's programs. We would be happy to explore the possibilities that Brown can offer to your organization. To connect with us, please complete the brief form below or contact Sandra Smith, Corporate and Executive Education Programs Officer at customprograms@brown.edu. Connect with Us The Brown Difference Our commitment to educational innovation, diversity and inclusion, collaboration and making an impact in the world is at the core of what we do. Learn More Our Location 1 of 8 225 Dyer Street, home of the new Brown School of Professional Studies. 2 of 8 Sharing the 4th and 5th floors of 225 Dyer Street, Brown School of Professional Studies occupies 50,000 square feet of classroom, meeting, event, and office space. 3 of 8 Modern, open floor plans accommodate the diverse needs of our corporate clients. 4 of 8 Our state-of-the-art classrooms are light-filled and equipped with the latest technology. 5 of 8 Our professional staff offers expert customer service, ensuring the success of our corporate programs. 6 of 8 Our flexible event spaces accommodate groups of all sizes. 7 of 8 Our student lounge space offers expansive views of the Providence River and the new pedestrian bridge. 8 of 8 Light-filled meeting rooms accommodate breakout sessions and small-group meetings. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-7901 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation Privacy Policy Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University For You Admitted Students Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Custom Programs for Organizations Open details for Custom Programs for Organizations Bookmark this Page