Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Georgia Tech Research Projects Main navigation Home Projects Categories Safety Tips User account menu Log in Home COVID-19 Research Projects Connecting the Georgia Tech community to Covid-19-related research across campus and facilities Welcome to Georgia Tech Research Projects This site is designed to provide a centralized location for all projects inside of the Georgia Tech community related to the Covid-19 response. This site allows users to filter and sort through the database and glean pertinent information about projects of interest. If perhaps you are looking to collaborate with others doing research in a similar or mutually beneficial area of research, start here as this site is designed to promote cross-campus collaboration. Visitors to the site can start by viewing all projects. You will be able to sort and filter to predefined categories for ease of navigation. View All Projects Interactive Dashboard We now have an interactive dashboard that can display project data for our categories. View the Interactive Dashboard Recently Updated CDL - Recovery Status Closed CDL-Recovery is a pivot of the Creative Destruction Lab (CDL), an objective-setting mentoring program for early-stage science projects. CDL-Recovery focuses on mentoring and developing ventures and projects in two streams: public health and economic recovery. The goal is to identify and support ventures with prospects for massive scalability, developing products and services that will enhance public health resilience and promote economic recovery in a changing work environment over six to 24 months. The team’s work on CDL-Recovery, which is a collaborative effort of CDL’s global network, is both an end in itself and the precursor to CDL-Atlanta, which is due to launch in Fall 2020 and will focus on consumer health and retail tech. For more information about this effort, check out the press release CDL launches rapid response effort. Category Economics, Public Health Project Lead(s) Peter Thompson Department GT - Scheller College of Business (SCOB) UV-Clear Status Closed Our objective is to demonstrate disinfecting using UV-C light directed by a robot arm. By applying the light extremely close to the surface (about 5 cm), we hope to drastically decrease the time needed to kill pathogens. Category Mechanical Devices Project Lead(s) Konrad Ahlin Department GTRI - Aerospace, Transportation & Advanced Systems Laboratory (ATAS) View All Projects Completed Projects Covid-19 Patient Monitoring using the Smartphone This project aims to support the development of a cross-platform smartphone application for the triage and monitoring of Covid-19 patients. The team plans to do so by leveraging sensors data collected with smartphones and the existing Health Readiness and Performance System (HRAPS) cloud for machine learning and data analytics. The developing technology will also apply to the longitudinal tracking of exposure to chemical and biological threats in military environments. For now, the technology will allow doctors and healthcare facilities to manage readmissions for Covid-19 patients better, intervene on patients before they become critical with potentially life-saving implications, and reduce the burden on emergency rooms and hospitals. Category AI & Apps Project Lead(s) Alessio Medda Department GTRI - Aerospace, Transportation & Advanced Systems Laboratory (ATAS) Covid-19 Response Assessment Project details will not be shared at this time. For any inquiries, please use the contact us section on this site. Category Data Management Project Lead(s) Benjamin Clough Department GTRI - Aerospace, Transportation & Advanced Systems Laboratory (ATAS) COTS Parts Ventilator This project aims to design an emergency ventilator that could be built entirely with widely available off-the-shelf parts from hardware and auto parts stores. The design valued efficiency and simplicity in multiple areas. No specialized tools, computer programming, or electronics/manufacturing skills are required. The design can be built by one or two people in approximately one day. The total cost is roughly $350 in parts. In the basic configuration, the design supports a pressure-controlled constant mandatory ventilation mode (PC-CMV), with continuous independent control of positive inspiratory pressure (PIP), positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP), and an inhale/exhale ratio selection of either 1:1 or 3:1. Category Mechanical Devices Project Lead(s) Cade Cashen Department GTRI - Sensors and Electromagnetic Applications Laboratory (SEAL) Viral Nasal Swab-State-Wide Testing Support the manufacturing industry in upscaling the production of plastic nasal swabs that go into Covid-19 swab kits. Researchers teamed with Kimberly Clark, connected the company to Puritan Medical Diagnostics, and provided other "learning curve" support. The goal has been to support the manufacturers in soliciting key manufacturing expertise. The team has provided several key expert connections, so the companies can upscale their production more rapidly. Researchers have learned that the core U.S. manufacturers have the capacity to supply millions of swabs per week, but they still need to repurpose these to Covid-19 kits and break out of existing supply contracts for other supplies. Thus, the critical limitations are at the distribution level though sufficient materials exist. The effort is being handled by these manufacturers, and the team is on standby for further input as needed. Category Tests Project Lead(s) Carson Meredith Department GT - Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering View All Completed Projects Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN