Skip to main content The Maryland Promise Scholarship Program Main Menu About Program Components Eligibility and Requirements Our Scholars Cohort 1 (2019-20) Cohort 2 (2020-21) Cohort 3 (2021-22) Support the Program Impact Stories $6.8M Gift to Extend Opportunities to Underserved Montgomery County Students Contact Our Promise The Maryland Promise Scholarship Program provides supportive educational and financial opportunities to undergraduate students from the state of Maryland and Washington, D.C. exhibiting strong academic and leadership potential. Meet Our Scholars "The Maryland Promise Scholarship Program is an investment in our region's talented, hardworking students. Scholars in the program will receive support to develop academically, professionally and personally—and to ultimately become the next generation of leaders." Darryll J. Pines President, University of Maryland The next generation of leaders The Maryland Promise Scholarship Program emphasizes four important components to help cultivate the next generation of leaders and community change agents: Academic Excellence / Professional Development Leadership Development / Community Engagement Follow their journey on Instagram. The inaugural class of the Maryland Promise Scholarship Program with the Clark Foundation Front row left to right: Winter Hawk, Rachel (Tessa) Choi, Amoni Hawkins, Amanda Hernández, Daryl Perry, Anna Phung, Vivian Le and Julian Guerra Back row left to right: Dean Bill Cohen, Danielle Hamberger (Clark Foundation), Michelle Udeli, Joe Del Guercio (Clark Foundation), Courtney Clark Pastrick (Clark Foundation), Natalie Grandison (Clark Foundation), Andrew Knutson (Clark Foundation), Diana Lanahan (Clark Foundation) and Sarah Elbert (Clark Foundation). 57 Total Maryland Promise Scholarship Program Scholars $219.5M Transformative investment will propel UMD to the forefront of education and research worldwide 12 Colleges and Schools represented View previous stat View next stat “My father always said that education changes lives, and his education changed his life.” Courtney Clark Pastrick, daughter of A. James Clark and Board Chair, A. James & Alice B. Clark Foundation — Read more about A. James Clark Support the Maryland Promise Scholarship Program Building Together: an investment for Maryland Donor Impact Stories Family’s $2.5M Gifts to Provide Resources for Art and Education, New Outdoor Exhibition Space Clarvits’ Gifts Will Fund Innovation in the Arts, Support College of Education Students View Article Family’s $2.5M Gifts to Provide Resources for Art and Education, New Outdoor Exhibition Space Incoming Regent Makes Gift to Support Maryland Promise Scholarships Former State Senator, Alum Doug Peters Gets Sworn in to Board Position on Campus View Article Incoming Regent Makes Gift to Support Maryland Promise Scholarships Incentive Awards Program Celebrates Milestone in Helping Underserved Students Thrive Program Graduates Nearly 200 Students in Two Decades View Article Incentive Awards Program Celebrates Milestone in Helping Underserved Students Thrive Read More Stories at Maryland Today Support the Program Contact Us Eligibility and Requirements Building Together: An Investment for Maryland The Maryland Promise Scholarship Program 1117 Hornbake Library, University of Maryland, College Park, MD 301-314-9880 · mpp@umd.edu Visit our Twitter Visit our Facebook Visit our Instagram Visit our Youtube Undergraduate Studies Undergraduate Admissions Student Financial Aid Accessibility Privacy Notice umd.edu Back to Top