Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Protect KU myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home FAQs Health Guidance & Resources Select to follow link Classroom Guidance for Instructors General Health Safety Info Health Safety Requirements Personal Health Assessment Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Protect KU Pledge Quarantine & Isolation KU's Pandemic Response Team Policies Latest Messages and Updates Select to follow link Phasing Out Mask Mandate 3/3/22 What to Know for Spring '22 - Faculty and Staff What to Know for Spring '22 - Students Guidance on COVID in the Classroom Metrics Dashboard Operation of Campus Facilities Select to follow link Cleaning Mail Research Operations Sanitation Stations Transit People Resources Select to follow link Edwards Campus Faculty & Instructional Staff Staff Students Supervisors Pandemic Medical Advisory Team Testing Vaccines Select to follow link General Vaccine Info Vaccine Mandate Injunction Office of the Chancellor Watkins Health Services Human Resource Management myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Protect KU Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Vaccines Where to Get a Vaccine Both the state of Kansas and the federal government have established websites to help you find vaccine locations near you. KS Vaccine Website KS Vaccine Website Federal Vaccine Website Federal Vaccine Website General Information The best way each of us can do our part to protect ourselves and each other and fight the pandemic is to get vaccinated. While the COVID-19 vaccine is not required, KU strongly recommends that everyone get vaccinated and boosted as soon as possible if they have not already done so. Current research shows the vaccines are safe and effective at preventing severe illness from COVID-19. Vaccines are widely available at no cost for those 5 and older in Douglas County and elsewhere. Information about upcoming clinics is available through Lawrence-Douglas County Public Health, which will begin offering walk-in appointments next week. The federal government has established a Vaccine website that also can help you find a vaccine location near you. Members of the KU community may also set a vaccine appointment through Watkins Health Services, which has both Pfizer and Johnson & Johnson doses available. Students may call 785-864-9507 or schedule an appointment through their secure patient portal. KU encourages students who have completed their vaccination series to upload their information to the Watkins Patient Portal. You can learn more about the Student Vaccine Incentive Program on this site. Booster Shots Booster shots are widely available for anyone who meets the CDC's eligibility requirements. KU employees who meet this criteria and completed their initial Pfizer or Modera series at least six months ago, or their initial one-dose J&J shot at least two months ago, may schedule an appointment to receive a booster at Watkins Health Services: KU students may call 785-864-9507 Faculty and staff may call 785-864-9565 Additional drive-through appointments and information about eligibility is available through Lawrence-Douglas County The CDC is also permitting a "mix-and-match" booster approach. More information on receiving a booster shot that differs from your original vaccine is available through the CDC. More Information Douglas Co. Vaccine Sign Up CDC Vaccine Finder Vaccine FAQ for Students State of Kansas Vaccine Info Federal Drug Administration Center for Disease Control Weekly Vaccine Metrics Frequently Asked QuestionsSearch FAQsSubmit Search CONTACT US WITH OTHER QUESTIONS Helpful Resources Covid-19 Vaccine Form Privacy Notice Form KU Notice of Privacy Practices FDA COVID-19 Vaccine Information Available Vaccines Vaccines are readily available on campus at Watkins Health Services and at local health clinics, doctors' offices, drug stores, and pharmacies. Pfizer Vaccine Click to learn more from the CDC about the Pfizer vaccine. Learn More Moderna Vaccine Click to learn more from the CDC about the Moderna vaccine. Learn More Johnson & Johnson Vaccine Click to learn more from the CDC about the J&J vaccine. Learn More Swipe to see more Strong Hall 1450 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 provost@ku.edu 785-864-2700 facebook instagram twitter youtube Watkins Health Services Lawrence Douglas County Public Health Kansas Department of Health and Environment Lawrence Memorial Hospital Human Resource Management Office of the Chancellor Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.