Skip to content Roadmap MENU English Español (Spanish) Search Announcements Campus Information Academics For Students and Families For Faculty For Staff For Visitors Guidelines Health and Wellness Events Travel Athletics Research Vaccinations and Testing COVID Dashboard FAQs Home Faculty Faculty Our faculty members are what make Texas a university of the first class. It’s of the utmost importance that our faculty are supported and prepared while continuing their teaching, scholarship and research. We recognize that some faculty will be apprehensive about returning to in-person instruction due to their own medical condition or the medical condition of a dependent. Programs established last fall have been extended through the spring semester: Faculty and staff may request Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) accommodations for their own medical conditions through the ADA accommodation process Faculty living with immunocompromised dependents may request a change in teaching modality for the spring semester by submitting an application for a Faculty Flexible Teaching Modality Agreement We also encourage faculty to continue to find ways to be equitable and flexible while adapting to the needs of your students. Coronavirus Resources for Employees Research FAQs Research Restart Information Faculty & Instructional FAQs Online Teaching Resources COVID-19 Reporting for UT Employees How to Support a Longhorn Testing and Reporting COVID-19 Testing Employees and students are eligible to participate in the free UT Proactive Community Testing (PCT) Program for asymptomatic individuals, regardless of vaccination status. If you are a UT faculty member exhibiting COVID-19 symptoms, you will be able to schedule a test with UT Health Austin. You can also arrange a test with the health care provider of your choice. UT Health Austin (UTHA) will bill an individual’s insurance plan for this clinical testing, and most insurance plans, including the UT Select employee insurance plan fully cover the cost of testing for symptomatic individuals. For employees who are uninsured, UTHA will explore the use of federal programs, if available, to help cover the cost. Report All Testing In order to slow the spread of COVID-19 and to help keep our employees safe, it is important that employees, including student employees, and managers report symptoms and testing regardless of test results to the Occupational Health Program (OHP) as soon as possible. Contact 512-471-4647 or email the Occupational Health Program to report COVID-19 symptoms or tests regardless results. OHP values employee privacy and is following privacy guidelines that allow the university to keep our workplace and co-workers safe while still protecting individual privacy as much as possible. Learn more about the COVID-19 reporting process and how it helps slow the spread of the virus. Staying Healthy On Campus University Masking Guidance Individuals at low risk do not need to wear a mask. Individuals who are immunocompromised or at high risk should continue to take precautions. UT’s masking guidance aligns with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Daily Health Screenings Daily symptom screening will help keep the campus community safer. Please use the university’s Protect Texas Together app before leaving for campus. If you don’t have a smartphone, a phone-based application is also available. Accommodations Faculty with a medical condition or other risk factor placing them at high risk for COVID-19 can request a reasonable accommodation using the Americans with Disabilities Act process. Faculty who already have a written arrangement with their department chair to teach online do not need to go through this process. All others can request this accommodation through the Employee Accommodation Request Form. Supporting Your Students Students with Special Circumstances Students with special circumstances including COVID-19 symptoms should submit the Student Emergency Services absence notification request form. Health and Safety Rule Violations Instructors can refer student violations to Student Conduct and Academic Integrity to initiate the discipline process. Office Hours Faculty members may choose to hold office hours on campus, while adhering to campus safety guidelines. Ways to Help Students Students can contact Student Emergency Services for more information related to financial assistance. The Counseling and Mental Health Center has a variety of resources for students in need. Research Six-Level Plan UT has implemented a six-level plan to reopen research activity. Detailed information can be found in the Restart Research plan. The university is currently at Research Level 0, effective July 5, 2021. Frequently Asked Questions Filter by ClickTap to view/close FAQ Questions The university is continually updating the FAQs as new guidance and information is shared from the CDC and local, state and federal health authorities. If you have a question that is not addressed in the FAQs, please submit it using the web form. Submit Your Question 110 Inner Campus Drive Austin, Texas, 78712-3400 512-232-5050 University Links University Health Services Texas Global Texas One Stop Official Information on COVID-19 Center for Disease Control and Prevention World Health Organization © The University of Texas at Austin 2022 Emergency Information | Site Policies | Web Accessibility Policy | Web Privacy Policy