Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Protect KU myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home FAQs Health Guidance & Resources Select to follow link Classroom Guidance for Instructors General Health Safety Info Health Safety Requirements Personal Health Assessment Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Protect KU Pledge Quarantine & Isolation KU's Pandemic Response Team Policies Latest Messages and Updates Select to follow link Phasing Out Mask Mandate 3/3/22 What to Know for Spring '22 - Faculty and Staff What to Know for Spring '22 - Students Guidance on COVID in the Classroom Metrics Dashboard Operation of Campus Facilities Select to follow link Cleaning Mail Research Operations Sanitation Stations Transit People Resources Select to follow link Edwards Campus Faculty & Instructional Staff Staff Students Supervisors Pandemic Medical Advisory Team Testing Vaccines Select to follow link General Vaccine Info Vaccine Mandate Injunction Office of the Chancellor Watkins Health Services Human Resource Management myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Protect KU Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Operation of Campus Facilities Transit Masks are no longer required on KU Buses The TSA announced the discontinuation of the mask mandate on public transportation, effective April 18, 2022. TSA Discontinues Mask Requirements Enhanced Safety Practices on Buses Protective barriers are in place for drivers. Passengers will enter at the front of the bus, and exit through the back of the bus. KU buses will be limited to 34 passengers at a time; passengers may only board a bus if it is below this capacity. Digital head signs will say “bus full” when 34 passengers are on board. Certain windows will remain open to create air circulation for health and safety during COVID-19. Drivers will participate in daily health checks before starting their shift. Enhanced cleaning practices will be conducted daily, with HVAC intake and filter cleaning will be conducted weekly. KU Transportation Services, Lawrence Transit System, and their operator, First Transit, may begin enforcing stricter passenger limits should they become necessary. Bus schedules and additional information can be found at: https://lawrencetransit.org/routes/ Enhanced Cleaning Practices on Buses All drivers have canisters of wipes, gloves and hand sanitizer. Use of GenEon mister daily to clean rotating vehicles. All the vehicles are sprayed nightly. Use of the stabilized aqueous ozone solution to wipe down high- traffic areas during the day while the drivers are on route. The Ozone 5 generator is used weekly for the added disinfecting and deodorizing. The HVAC intakes and filters on all the vehicles are cleaned each Sunday. Strong Hall 1450 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 provost@ku.edu 785-864-2700 facebook instagram twitter youtube Watkins Health Services Lawrence Douglas County Public Health Kansas Department of Health and Environment Lawrence Memorial Hospital Human Resource Management Office of the Chancellor Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.