Skip to content Roadmap MENU English Español (Spanish) Search Announcements Campus Information Academics For Students and Families For Faculty For Staff For Visitors Guidelines Health and Wellness Events Travel Athletics Research Vaccinations and Testing COVID Dashboard FAQs Home COVID-19 Vaccines and Testing COVID-19 Vaccines and Testing Authorized COVID-19 vaccines are effective at preventing COVID-19 disease, especially severe illness and death. As a way to protect yourself and others from COVID-19, we encourage all UT community members to get vaccinated. Frequently Asked Questions Vaccine FAQs (English and Spanish) CDC Information about COVID-19 Vaccine Vaccine Administration Clinics A booster dose of an mRNA vaccine is recommended for individuals who completed their primary series of the Pfizer vaccine 5 or more months ago, the Moderna vaccine 5 or more months ago, or the initial dose of Johnson & Johnson 2 or more months ago. The FDA has authorized a second booster of an mRNA vaccine for all individuals 50 and over and individuals 12 and older who are immunocompromised at least four months after their first booster. Speak with your healthcare provider if you have questions about whether or when to receive an additional dose. When determining when to get an additional booster dose, consider your eligibility, personal risk factors, how long the booster may protect you, and current levels of COVID-19 within your community. University Health Services In the Student Services Building 100 W. Dean Keeton Open to UT students, faculty and staff. All vaccines are by appointment only. Schedule your appointment online through the MyUHS portal. Pfizer vaccines and boosters Allows mixed boosters according to CDC guidelines. Family Wellness Center 2901 N. I35, Suite 1.301 By appointment only. Call 512-232-3900. Moderna, Pfizer, and Johnson & Johnson vaccines and boosters Allows mixed boosters according to CDC guidelines. Vaccines: ages 5 and up | Boosters: ages 12 and up Outside of Austin If you are outside of Austin and want to find a vaccine locally, visit vaccines.gov. Like other state government agencies in Texas, University of Texas institutions are required to comply with Governor Abbott’s executive order and cannot mandate COVID-19 vaccines. Testing Learn more about Proactive Community Testing. How to get or report a test: 1 If you have symptoms: Students, please contact University Health Services. There is no cost for students to get tested — even without insurance. Employees, please contact UT Health Austin. Use a rapid-antigen self-test kit. UT students, faculty and staff can pick up a free self-test kit at distribution sites throughout campus. 2 If you do not have symptoms: You can take a free Proactive Community Test (saliva or painless nasal swab test). Use a rapid-antigen self-test kit. UT students, faculty and staff can pick up a free self-test kit at distribution sites throughout campus. 3 If you got a positive test result at an off-campus location: Students, please contact UT Austin’s Behavior Concerns Advice Line. Employees, please contact Occupational Health Program (OHP). Your identifying information will be kept confidential. Educational Resources To help our students, faculty and staff understand the benefits of the COVID-19 vaccine and to help spread the word, the university has created these educational tools, which include digital and print options. Check back frequently as content hosted on UT Box will be updated and new resources will be added as they become available. COVID-19 FAQs One-Pager In both English and Spanish, this FAQ one-pager covers the most frequently asked questions about the vaccine. This FAQ can be downloaded, printed and posted in common areas. Vaccination Video with Dr. Liz Douglass In this short video, Dr. Liz Douglass shares her personal experiences getting the COVID-19 vaccine. COVID-19 Vaccine: Myth vs. Fact In this video, Dr. Ana Avalos dispels common myths and confirms facts about the COVID-19 vaccine. Social Media Kit This social media kit contains helpful and educational statements and graphics for use on official UT or personal social media platforms. This document requires a UT EID and password. Vaccination Video with Donna Shanor, School of Social Work and Dell Medical School In this Spanish-language video with English subtitles, Donna Shanor discusses getting the COVID-19 vaccine as a member of the Latinx and Black communities. Vaccination Video with Senior Vice President and CFO Darrell Bazzell In this video, Senior Vice President and CFO Darrell Bazzell discusses why he chose to receive the COVID-19 vaccine and his experiences receiving the vaccine as a member of the Black community. How mRNA COVID-19 Vaccines Work In this video, learn how mRNA is being used in mRNA COVID-19 vaccines to help our immune systems fight off the virus Printable Posters These posters cover common questions and answers related to the vaccine in both English and Spanish. These posters can be downloaded, printed and posted in common areas. Frequently Asked Questions Filter by ClickTap to view/close FAQ Questions The university is continually updating the FAQs as new guidance and information is shared from the CDC and local, state and federal health authorities. If you have a question that is not addressed in the FAQs, please submit it using the web form. Submit Your Question 110 Inner Campus Drive Austin, Texas, 78712-3400 512-232-5050 University Links University Health Services Texas Global Texas One Stop Official Information on COVID-19 Center for Disease Control and Prevention World Health Organization © The University of Texas at Austin 2022 Emergency Information | Site Policies | Web Accessibility Policy | Web Privacy Policy