Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Protect KU myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home FAQs Health Guidance & Resources Select to follow link Classroom Guidance for Instructors General Health Safety Info Health Safety Requirements Personal Health Assessment Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Protect KU Pledge Quarantine & Isolation KU's Pandemic Response Team Policies Latest Messages and Updates Select to follow link Phasing Out Mask Mandate 3/3/22 What to Know for Spring '22 - Faculty and Staff What to Know for Spring '22 - Students Guidance on COVID in the Classroom Metrics Dashboard Operation of Campus Facilities Select to follow link Cleaning Mail Research Operations Sanitation Stations Transit People Resources Select to follow link Edwards Campus Faculty & Instructional Staff Staff Students Supervisors Pandemic Medical Advisory Team Testing Vaccines Select to follow link General Vaccine Info Vaccine Mandate Injunction Office of the Chancellor Watkins Health Services Human Resource Management myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Protect KU Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Employee Wellness Supporting Others We are currently living in extraordinarily difficult times. It can be hard to manage your own stress and anxiety, let alone the stress and anxiety of others. We must remember that we are all in this together! Within our community there are many vulnerable populations that need support during this time. A word of encouragement, a kind note, or refraining from a negative comment can go a long way. Let's remember to rise to the occasion and foster a community of support. KU Edwards’ Dr. Angie Pastorek shares more ways to communicate with humility and empathy in your workplace conversations. You can read more about these techniques here. Mental Wellness Employees are encouraged to utilize the Employee Assistance Program (EAP), which is a confidential, free service that provides benefits-eligible KU employees and their immediate family members with professional counseling and referral services for help in dealing with life’s challenges. If you need support now - or any time -, please contact the EAP. EAP counselors provide short-term counseling (up to eight sessions per issue) and/or referral to other professional resources. The EAP is available 24/7 by calling 1-888-275-1205 (option 1. or logging into www.guidanceresources.com with company ID SOKEAP. TDD service for those with a hearing impairment is available at 800-697-0353. 2019-20 Staff Fellows Project KU is committed to removing barriers, creating a proactive inclusive culture, and ending stigma surrounding mental health. The 2019- 2020 Staff Fellows project focused on identifying and examining current campus stigma, perceptions, and barriers regarding mental health. The Staff Fellows cohort focused on six key areas: Raising awareness and ending stigma Improving climate and culture Identifying gaps in resources and/or services Improving access to resources Identifying proactive campus-wide policies, and Identifying innovative ideas that promote an understanding of mental health, compassion and a sense of belonging for all Jayhawks. Strong Hall 1450 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 provost@ku.edu 785-864-2700 facebook instagram twitter youtube Watkins Health Services Lawrence Douglas County Public Health Kansas Department of Health and Environment Lawrence Memorial Hospital Human Resource Management Office of the Chancellor Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.