Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Protect KU myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home FAQs Health Guidance & Resources Select to follow link Classroom Guidance for Instructors General Health Safety Info Health Safety Requirements Personal Health Assessment Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Protect KU Pledge Quarantine & Isolation KU's Pandemic Response Team Policies Latest Messages and Updates Select to follow link Phasing Out Mask Mandate 3/3/22 What to Know for Spring '22 - Faculty and Staff What to Know for Spring '22 - Students Guidance on COVID in the Classroom Metrics Dashboard Operation of Campus Facilities Select to follow link Cleaning Mail Research Operations Sanitation Stations Transit People Resources Select to follow link Edwards Campus Faculty & Instructional Staff Staff Students Supervisors Pandemic Medical Advisory Team Testing Vaccines Select to follow link General Vaccine Info Vaccine Mandate Injunction Office of the Chancellor Watkins Health Services Human Resource Management myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Protect KU Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Health Guidance & Resources Quarantine & Isolation If you are sick, have been exposed to someone who tested positive for COVID, or have tested positive yourself, you will need to either quarantine or isolate. Guidelines vary depending on where you are located. KU's local health authority is the Lawrence Douglas County Health Department (LDCHD). Details on the LDCHD quarantine and isolation guidelines can be found on this page. Quarantine & Isolation Calculator This tool will calculate the exact dates for your quarantine or isolation period. Start by identifying the situation that best applies to you and then enter the requested date information to calculate your results. Tested positive and have symptoms If you are symptomatic and have tested positive for COVID-19 then you must stay at home and isolate, regardless of your vaccination status. Use the date calculator below to determine the exact duration of your isolation period. Enter the first day your symptoms began. Calculate Quarantine and Isolation Calculator× Please enter a date Close Tested positive with NO symptoms If you have tested positive for COVID-19, even if you don't have symptoms, you must stay at home and isolate, regardless of your vaccination status. Use the date calculator below to determine the exact duration of your isolation period. Enter the date you tested. Calculate Quarantine and Isolation Calculator× Please enter a date Close Identified as a close contact and are unvaccinated If you have not received a COVID vaccine or are not fully boosted, you are required to quarantine for 5 days following an exposure to someone who tested positive for COVID. You should watch for symptoms and take a test upon the conclusion of quarantine. Use the calculator below to determine dates of your quarantine and test. Enter the date you last had contact with a COVID-positive person. Calculate Quarantine and Isolation Calculator× Please enter a date Close Identified as a close contact and are up-to-date on your COVID vaccines Individuals who are up-to-date on their COVID vaccine do NOT need to quarantine following exposure to someone who tested positive for COVID, however it is recommended that you wear a mask around others and take a test. Use the calculator below to determine how long you need to take precautions and on what day you need to take a test. Enter the date you last had contact with a COVID-positive person. Calculate Quarantine and Isolation Calculator× Please enter a date Close Previously tested positive for COVID and want to know when you are susceptible to reinfection (90 days after contracting COVID) Reinfection among individuals who test positive for SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19 appears to be uncommon during the initial 90 days after symptom onset of your COVID-19 diagnosis. Use the calculator below to determine the exact date your 90-day window ends. Enter the first day your symptoms began OR your test date if you did not have symptoms but tested positive. Calculate Quarantine and Isolation Calculator× Please enter a date Close COVID Health Assessment & Guidance Form Click on the button below to access the COVID Health Assessment & Guidance form. Answer a few brief questions to generate customized, detailed instructions on what you need to do given your individual circumstances. COVID Assessment & Guidance Form Quick Reference Guide Quickly identify what steps you need to take if you are sick, have been exposed to someone who has COVID, or have tested positive for COVID yourself. Sick or Tested Positive? Isolate! Isolation Guidance Isolate for a full 10 days OR 5 days if you are able to meet the following: 1) Improved symptoms 2) Fever free for 24 hours, AND 3) Tested negative using an Antigen COVID test. Exposed? Quarantine! Quarantine Guidance 1) Wear a mask for 10 days and get tested after day 5 (if fully vaccinated), OR 2) Quarantine at home for 5 days if not fully vaccinated or overdue for a booster, then get tested and wear a mask for 5 days, OR 3) Quarantine for a full 10 days if unable to mask or test. Additional Quarantine & Isolation Resources Helpful information to help you decide if you should quarantine/isolate and, if so, what steps to take. Should You Quarantine/Isolate? Help in deciding what to do if you might have been exposed to COVID. (PDF document) Learn More How & When Do You Quarantine/Isolate? Individualized guidance for your unique circumstances, based on the latest local health ordinances. (Online Assessment) Learn More Are Local COVID rules the same as KU? Yes! KU adheres to the local requirements defined by the Lawrence Douglas County Health Department. Check out the latest updates here. (External Website) Learn More Swipe to see more Strong Hall 1450 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 provost@ku.edu 785-864-2700 facebook instagram twitter youtube Watkins Health Services Lawrence Douglas County Public Health Kansas Department of Health and Environment Lawrence Memorial Hospital Human Resource Management Office of the Chancellor Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.