Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Remember... it is okay to not be okay. Mental Health Resources at Stanford Stanford Protected Identity Harm Reporting Search this site Submit Search Menu Home Learn About Us & Connect Talk to Someone Working Group & Advisory Board Members Data Collection Educational Resources Definitions Free Speech and the Fundamental Standard Important Announcements Report an Incident The Process Reporting Reporting a Hate Crime Response Resolutions FAQs Community PIH Incidents & Updates Dashboard What PIH Incidents are Included? History & Background Student Affairs News Main content start We envision a process that will create an environment where students who report harm feel heard and supported. If you are on this website, we recognize that you might have experienced something traumatic. Take a sip of water. Take a deep breath. When you are ready please proceed to review the site. Community PIH Incidents & Updates Dashboard Report an Incident The Protected Identity Harm Reporting process is the University's process to address incidents where a community member experiences harm because of who they are and how they show up in the world. Learn More Resources for Our Communities Student Affairs offers our communities support and we are continually seeking ways in which we can provide resources to those who may need it, whether on or off campus. Learn More COVID-19 Guidance for Students We want to assure you that we are taking steps to protect everyone’s health and safety. We invite you to join us in minimizing the prevalence and reducing the spread of COVID-19 on our campus. Learn More Stanford Against Hate Through the COVID-19 pandemic, more attention and awareness has grown around long standing issues of oppression and injustice. Learn More Stanford University Indigenous Land Acknowledgment Stanford Protected Identity Harm Reporting Web Login Want to report an incident? Access the Protected Identity Harm Reporting Form. Links to Student Affairs Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top