Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Protect KU myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home FAQs Health Guidance & Resources Select to follow link Classroom Guidance for Instructors General Health Safety Info Health Safety Requirements Personal Health Assessment Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Protect KU Pledge Quarantine & Isolation KU's Pandemic Response Team Policies Latest Messages and Updates Select to follow link Phasing Out Mask Mandate 3/3/22 What to Know for Spring '22 - Faculty and Staff What to Know for Spring '22 - Students Guidance on COVID in the Classroom Metrics Dashboard Operation of Campus Facilities Select to follow link Cleaning Mail Research Operations Sanitation Stations Transit People Resources Select to follow link Edwards Campus Faculty & Instructional Staff Staff Students Supervisors Pandemic Medical Advisory Team Testing Vaccines Select to follow link General Vaccine Info Vaccine Mandate Injunction Office of the Chancellor Watkins Health Services Human Resource Management myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Protect KU Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Health Guidance & Resources Policies & Procedures Exisiting Policies Public Health Safety Requirements – COVID-19 Establishes requirements, guidelines and expectations — including masks — to minimize the inherent risks associated with COVID-19. Remote Work Policy Defines the philosophy and expectations regarding remote work to strategically facilitate continuity of business operations, ensure effective use of facility resources, and enhance the quality of work life for employees. Reductions in Salary of Exempt Employees To outline the conditions under which an exempt (salaried) employee may have salary reduced; currently, a Temporary Salary Savings Plan in effect due to COVID-19. Reductions in Campus Services To reduce services because of emergency or other exceptional circumstances. General Travel Information To provide general instructions for reimbursement of travelers; currently, also restrictions specifically related to COVID-19. Whistleblower To provide appropriate reporting mechanisms for notification of known or suspected wrongdoing, with protection from retaliation for disclosures made in good faith. Public Assembly To promote safety, security, access, and freedom of expression in the conduct of public assemblies. Employee Payments To provide instructions for reimbursing employees. Notice of Non-Reappointment for Unclassified Professional Staff To consult with administrative channels and HRM, pursuant to Kansas Board of Regents policy, before issuing a notice of non-reappointment. Procedures for the Board of Regents Social Media Policy To articulate procedures for implementing the Kansas Board of Regents Social Media policy. Strong Hall 1450 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 provost@ku.edu 785-864-2700 facebook instagram twitter youtube Watkins Health Services Lawrence Douglas County Public Health Kansas Department of Health and Environment Lawrence Memorial Hospital Human Resource Management Office of the Chancellor Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.