Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Protect KU myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home FAQs Health Guidance & Resources Select to follow link Classroom Guidance for Instructors General Health Safety Info Health Safety Requirements Personal Health Assessment Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Protect KU Pledge Quarantine & Isolation KU's Pandemic Response Team Policies Latest Messages and Updates Select to follow link Phasing Out Mask Mandate 3/3/22 What to Know for Spring '22 - Faculty and Staff What to Know for Spring '22 - Students Guidance on COVID in the Classroom Metrics Dashboard Operation of Campus Facilities Select to follow link Cleaning Mail Research Operations Sanitation Stations Transit People Resources Select to follow link Edwards Campus Faculty & Instructional Staff Staff Students Supervisors Pandemic Medical Advisory Team Testing Vaccines Select to follow link General Vaccine Info Vaccine Mandate Injunction Office of the Chancellor Watkins Health Services Human Resource Management myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Protect KU Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home People Resources Students This page provides COVID-19 updates and information for new and returning students at the KU Lawrence and Edwards campuses. Check back frequently for the most recent information. Covid-19 Information Academic calendar Click to expand The 2021-2022 academic year calendar follows a typical pre-pandemic schedule. Download a printable version of the academic calendar (.pdf). Buildings & facilities Click to expand To further enhance the ‘in room’ filtration, air purifiers have been installed in classroom and shared spaces. Filter units use hospital-grade filters to continually scrub and circulate the air. Adapting common facilities Most buildings have at least one entrance with a touch-free door opener. Hand sanitizing stations available in hallways, typically located near elevators. Most restrooms have touch-free flushing and faucets. Drinking fountains remain unavailable, but most buildings have at least one water bottle filling station. One-way restriction on stairs removed. Common areas open. Break rooms open and restrictions of food storage lifted. Conference and meeting rooms open. Classrooms Alcohol wipes still available for cleaning desktops. Rolling plexiglass barriers are available by request. Classroom seating designed for an optimal teaching and learning environment based on the Higher Learning Commission recommendations. Regular seating capacity in lecture halls. Study Spaces Outdoor tents with electricity and WiFi are available for study breaks. Changes to instruction Click to expand Special Course Adaptations We recognize there are students who will need online courses due to various complications related to COVID-19. Students should work with their academic advisor to enroll in courses that are offered in the format they need. Students who need courses in online or hybrid formats should work with their advisor to find suitable courses that will help them stay on track in their programs. Our collective priority continues to be focused on helping students enroll in courses that keep them on track with their degree requirements. The process for students needing online courses as we prepare for the 2021-2022 academic year is as follows: Students needing online courses should discuss options with their academic advisor. For information about KU advising units, visit the Academic Success website. Advisors will help students explore online course options that meet degree requirements. As a reminder, students can also search specifically for online and hybrid course options on the Schedule of Classes website. If there are no viable degree-appropriate online course options for a graduate student, the student’s home academic department should determine if there are alternative options in the form of a course substitution or other arrangement. If there are no viable degree-appropriate online course options for an undergraduate student, the advising unit is asked to reach out to the student’s home department to determine if there are alternative options in the form of a course substitution or other arrangement. Instructors and departments are not required to offer course adaptions. Some courses, especially labs and field work will continue to be unavailable online. For more information about course adaptations, please visit the course adaptations website through Student Affairs or contact course-adapt@ku.edu. Exposure & quarantine guidance Click to expand Possible COVID-19 Exposure: Steps and Guidance Anyone concerned about potential exposure should do the following: Complete the KU COVID-19 Health Assessment Form and follow the recommended guidance. If you feel well and pass the health assessment test, you may return to the office. If you feel unwell, please stay home! You should take a COVID test in 3-5 days from the date of possible exposure. Tests are free and available to you on campus. Details about where and how to test can be found on the COVID-19 testing page. If you are positive, you should immediately isolate and notify your instructors that you are COVID positive. Your instructor will notify your classmates who may have been exposed so that they can take precautions if needed. Your name will NOT be released in this process and you will remain anonymous. Please remember that the two best things you can do to keep from getting COVID are: Get vaccinated! Vaccines are available on campus. Go to the Vaccine Incentive page to learn how to receive a vaccine. Keep wearing your mask. Thank you for doing your part to keep our campus safe! Answers to questions you may have related to COVID can be found at https://protect.ku.edu. Any questions not found on the Protect KU webpage can be directed to protect@ku.edu. Graduate researchers Click to expand Researchers are no longer required to create and maintain individual lab and fieldwork COVID-19 safety plans that are approved by deans, department chairs or center directors and kept on file with the Office of Research. Research facility managers are no longer required to track vendors or other visitors to buildings. GTA offices are open to use as needed in the Fall. There are no longer COVID-19 related distancing requirements. Refer to the Protect KU Research page or visit Graduate Studies for more information. Health & wellness Click to expand Campus Health Protocols We are taking a comprehensive and coordinated approach to provide for our community’s health and wellness this school year. These efforts include: Enhanced cleaning methods and schedules across all campus classrooms, dining, transportation, and facilities. Posting hand sanitizer and disinfecting wipes in all classrooms and around campus. Providing personal protective equipment and sanitizing supplies to students and employees. We ask that all Jayhawks follow appropriate safety guidelines to help protect our campus community. Masks Effective at March 28, our mask policy is as follows: Masks ware no longer required in classrooms. Masks are no longer required in non-classroom settings such as libraries, dining halls, research labs, hallways, athletics facilities, offices, meeting rooms and similar areas. Masks are no longer required on KU buses (as of April 18). The only settings in which masks are still required are Watkins Health Center, childcare facilities and campus buses. Personal resources For students Your psychological and emotional well-being are just as important as your physical health. All students are encouraged to reach out to the university for personal help if it’s needed. If you encounter other students who may be struggling to adjust, reach out to them. Jayhawks have resources they can turn to: Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) Watkins Student Health Campus Cupboard Student Emergency Aid Network International students Click to expand International students are encouraged to partner with International Support Services (ISS) as they explore options or if they have questions or concerns. The staff’s expert knowledge can help protect immigration status and help students navigate issues related to on-campus and off-campus housing, completing the semester, how to depart campus in light of travel restrictions, and considerations for accessing online courses and maintaining contact with professors from abroad if they leave the United States. Read the latest updates from ISS on COVID-19 and what it means for KU’s international student population. Information specifically tailored to parents of international students is available at the ISS parents page. Parking & Transportation Click to expand Parking Additional parking options, such as short-term permits, are now available in response to the COVID-19 pandemic to better accommodate our hybrid population. Permit information for: Graduate Students Undergraduate Students Short-term permits Bus Service Federal law requires all drivers and passengers to wear masks. More information about health safety protocols can be found on the Transportation Services website. Student housing Click to expand On-campus residential facilities are open for the fall. Contact Student Housing at housing@ku.edu or 785-864-4560 if you have questions about residence facility guidance or requirements. Testing Click to expand Testing at KU Tests are offered free of charge to all KU students, faculty, and staff at Watkins Health Services. It is recommended that you take a COVID-19 test if any of the following are true: You are experiencing COVID-19 symptoms. You may have been exposed to someone who tested positive for COVID-19. You should test on day 3-5 following possible exposure. To reduce risk of transmission, please contact Watkins Health Services before arriving for a test: STUDENTS - call Watkins Health Services Nurse Helpline at 785-864-9583 COST AND BILLING Symptomatic and close contact individuals should not have to pay for any of the testing resources on campus. Symptomatic COVID-19 tests will be billed to insurance. All insurance providers are required to cover these medically necessary tests in full when ordered by a healthcare provider. Members of the KU community who are showing symptoms of COVID-19 and who do not have insurance will not be charged to receive this test. The cost will be covered through alternate funding sources. All asymptomatic COVID-19 saliva tests for KU’s randomized prevalence testing and for testing of close contacts of positive cases will be provided at no cost to those who meet the criteria to receive these tests. Vaccine Click to expand KU is offering the COVID-19 vaccine at Watkins Health Services. STUDENTS - Schedule an appointment online through your secure patient portal. Alternatively, you may call 785-864-9507 to schedule an appointment. Vaccine Incentives Click to expand Vaccine Incentives Students who have been vaccinated, regardless of when or where, can upload their vaccination cards for a chance to win BIG in weekly prize drawings! Check out the details on the Vaccine Incentive page. Vaccinations Do you still need to get your vaccine? We've got you covered! KU provides a choice of Johnson & Johnson or Pfizer vaccines for free at Watkins Student Health. For more information about testing both on and off campus, visit the Testing page. Helpful links 2021-22 Academic calendar Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) Watkins Student Health Campus Cupboard Student Emergency Aid Network Student Housing Transportation Services Graduate Studies Human Resource Management Employee Assistance Program Strong Hall 1450 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 provost@ku.edu 785-864-2700 facebook instagram twitter youtube Watkins Health Services Lawrence Douglas County Public Health Kansas Department of Health and Environment Lawrence Memorial Hospital Human Resource Management Office of the Chancellor Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.