Skip to content Roadmap MENU English Español (Spanish) Search Announcements Campus Information Academics For Students and Families For Faculty For Staff For Visitors Guidelines Health and Wellness Events Travel Athletics Research Vaccinations and Testing COVID Dashboard FAQs Home Academics Academics Providing our students a safe, supportive and high-quality learning experience is of the utmost importance. Currently, the majority of courses are scheduled to take place face-to-face in the classroom. As always, the university will continue to follow guidance from the CDC and public health experts. Texas One Stop Keep Learning Study Habits for Online Learning COVID-19 Updates for Undergraduates Graduate School COVID-19 Updates Three Modes of Classes Lectures will be streamed and/or recorded in many in-person and hybrid classes to allow students who become ill or who need to self-isolate to keep up with the classes. Online An online course is a class designed from the ground up so all students will attend the main class experience online. Material in these classes may be presented synchronously, with a live lecture in real time, or asynchronously, with recorded lectures and materials. Classes with enrollments of approximately 100 students or more will have online lectures. Online courses are listed as WB, web-based, in the course schedule. For some online courses, students may have the option of taking sections in person, if they are on campus, but will never be required to do so. In-person Classes designated as in-person are those for which there is at least some material critical for the course that can only be acquired through in-person attendance. Many of these courses involve learning skills or using equipment that would not be available remotely. In-person classes may have some content presented online, but students who register for classes without coming to campus cannot take these courses. Hybrid A hybrid class has both in-person and remote learning elements, with the frequency of in-person learning based on instructional needs. Students may be able to take some hybrid courses on a completely remote basis, but other hybrid courses will require students to be on campus for a portion of their coursework. The specific frequency of in-person class meetings will vary by course and may be modified by departments in consultation with their deans over the course of the semester as conditions change. The specific hybrid classes that can be taken all online will be communicated to students in the coming weeks. Classroom Experience Every class is designed to ensure that all students can focus on learning while maintaining a healthy environment by adhering to classroom guidelines. Masks in Classrooms Individuals at low risk do not need to wear a mask. Individuals who are immunocompromised or at high risk should continue to take precautions. UT’s masking guidance aligns with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Classroom Guidelines The university developed training materials on basic safety precautions for students, staff and faculty. Classrooms will be cleaned thoroughly. Students needing ADA accommodations should work with Services for Students with Disabilities. All other students with special circumstances should work with Student Emergency Services. Internships Students will have full access to internships. For any in-person internship for credit, the student or program should communicate with the employer about contingency planning, in the event that the in-person component of the internship must be paused or canceled. Libraries University Libraries are open. The PCL is open 24/7, and most branch locations are open. Services such as group study rooms and computer labs are available, and staff experts are available in-person and virtually to assist students, faculty and researchers. Office Hours Something we learned during the pandemic was online office hours were a great benefit to students as they were more easily accessible. Faculty and staff members who interact directly with students may choose to hold office hours on campus while adhering to campus safety guidelines. If the faculty member, staff member or their student is unable to come to campus, office hours should be held via phone or Zoom. Frequently Asked Questions Filter by ClickTap to view/close FAQ Questions The university is continually updating the FAQs as new guidance and information is shared from the CDC and local, state and federal health authorities. If you have a question that is not addressed in the FAQs, please submit it using the web form. Submit Your Question 110 Inner Campus Drive Austin, Texas, 78712-3400 512-232-5050 University Links University Health Services Texas Global Texas One Stop Official Information on COVID-19 Center for Disease Control and Prevention World Health Organization © The University of Texas at Austin 2022 Emergency Information | Site Policies | Web Accessibility Policy | Web Privacy Policy