Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Protect KU myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home FAQs Health Guidance & Resources Select to follow link Classroom Guidance for Instructors General Health Safety Info Health Safety Requirements Personal Health Assessment Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Protect KU Pledge Quarantine & Isolation KU's Pandemic Response Team Policies Latest Messages and Updates Select to follow link Phasing Out Mask Mandate 3/3/22 What to Know for Spring '22 - Faculty and Staff What to Know for Spring '22 - Students Guidance on COVID in the Classroom Metrics Dashboard Operation of Campus Facilities Select to follow link Cleaning Mail Research Operations Sanitation Stations Transit People Resources Select to follow link Edwards Campus Faculty & Instructional Staff Staff Students Supervisors Pandemic Medical Advisory Team Testing Vaccines Select to follow link General Vaccine Info Vaccine Mandate Injunction Office of the Chancellor Watkins Health Services Human Resource Management myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Protect KU Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Health Guidance & Resources Safety Guidelines How COVID-19 Spreads The COVID-19 virus is believed to spread primarily from person-to- person contact. This includes: Between people who are in close contact with one another. Close contact is within approximately six feet. Through respiratory droplets (aerosol transmission) produced when an infected person coughs or sneezes. These drops can land in the mouths, noses, or eyes of nearby people and could potentially be inhaled into the lungs. The virus is believed to survive on surfaces and may be spread by contact when a person touches a surface and then touches their face, nose, eyes, etc. The virus is most transmissible from individuals who are symptomatic with fever, cough, and/or shortness of breath. Asymptomatic individuals may also transmit the virus Health Safety Guidelines These health safety requirements are for all members of the KU community to follow while they are on KU property or affiliated work/travel. We are providing a self-screening tool to help individuals monitor their health to check for any symptoms. Here is the link to that tool: KU COVID-19 Health Assessment Form. Follow local and/or county health guidelines and mandates. If you are exhibiting COVID-19 symptoms, you should not go to any KU facility or property. If you believe you have been exposed, or have been identified by health professionals as part of a contact investigation, you must isolate for 14 days. If you require COVID-19 testing, coordinate with Watkins Health Services or LMH Health (see Testing & Reporting for additional information). Use disinfectant wipes (provided in all spaces) to clean all personal surfaces. Wash your hands often throughout the day. Recommended times to wash hands: Between classes and/or meetings After handling mail or packages Before and after eating After touching door handles, light switches, desks, or other communal items When handwashing is not practical, use hand sanitizer to clean your hands. Do not touch your face, eyes, or nose. Use good etiquette, such as covering your mouth when you cough or sneeze. Strong Hall 1450 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 provost@ku.edu 785-864-2700 facebook instagram twitter youtube Watkins Health Services Lawrence Douglas County Public Health Kansas Department of Health and Environment Lawrence Memorial Hospital Human Resource Management Office of the Chancellor Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.