Skip to content Roadmap MENU English Español (Spanish) Search Announcements Campus Information Academics For Students and Families For Faculty For Staff For Visitors Guidelines Health and Wellness Events Travel Athletics Research Vaccinations and Testing COVID Dashboard FAQs Home Travel Travel Travel Guidance During the COVID-19 Pandemic Updated 05/18/2022 Domestic Travel Policy Domestic travel for business or study requires a created and approved RTA (Request for Travel Authorization per the Handbook of Business Procedures: Travel Management Services (TMS) recommends the use of Concur or a UT Contracted travel agency, and some departments require this due to reimbursement processes & duty of care. The use of a UT contracted agency or Concur is highly recommended due to state airline rates, contracted airfares, 24-hour customer support provided as well as many useful benefits. All travel, regardless of booking method, must be the best value for university funds. Travelers using online tools other than Concur must include the following statement on their purchase invoice submitted to the Accounting and Financial Management for reimbursement: “Online selection is the best value as consistent with institutional priorities.” Health and Safety Business travel by unvaccinated employees is permissible but not recommended consistent with CDC guidance. Fully vaccinated travelers returning from domestic travel may return to in-person work immediately. Unvaccinated travelers, following CDC guidance, must get tested for COVID-19 with a viral test 3-5 days after travel AND refrain from returning to the office for 7 days from the date of arrival. If the traveler does not wish to get tested, they should stay home and self-quarantine for 10 days. Students and employees can access testing for free through the UT Proactive Community Testing International Travel Policy The International Oversight Committee (IOC) maintains a Restricted Regions List of locations worldwide that pose a heightened travel risk due to health, safety and/or security reasons . Travel to these countries must receive pre-approval prior to making travel arrangements. All UT employees and students are required, per UT System requirements, to register their international travel prior to departure. By registering your travel, you will be supported by Texas Global Risk and Safety staff, who can assist you in case of emergencies abroad. Employees and student travelers who are not participating in approved education abroad programs must register their trip in the UT Austin International Travel Registry (UTAITR). Students participating in approved education abroad programs will register their international travel in the MyAbroad portal. All registered UT travelers will be covered through On Call International Overseas Insurance Once you are registered with On Call, you will have access to their pre-departure itinerary reviews and comprehensive destination intelligence to help you prepare for the realities on-site. On Call International provides extensive coverage for UT travelers who experience emergencies abroad, to include coverage for quarantining in the host country and assistance in seeking medical diagnoses of and treatment for COVID-19. For more information on preparing for safe travel abroad, follow the International Travel Process. TO REGISTER YOUR TRAVELS WITH ON CALL INTERNATIONAL: Employees and student travelers who are not participating in approved education abroad programs will enroll in On Call coverage by registering their trip in the UT Austin International Travel Registry (UTAITR). Students participating in approved education abroad programs will enroll through registration in the MyAbroad portal. For more information on preparing for safe travel abroad, follow the International Travel Process. Health and Safety The Centers of Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) maintains the requirements to enter the United States. The current guidance requires all air passengers, regardless of vaccination status, to show a negative COVID-19 test taken no more than 1 day before travel to the United States. For more information on CDC international travel guidance, visit International Travel During COVID-19. All travelers must review the following information designed to prioritize your health and safety, along with the health of our campus community. COVID-19 Pre-Departure and Arrival Expectations for International Travelers Texas Global Health and Safety Resources Fully vaccinated travelers returning from international destinations may return to in-person work immediately. Following CDC guidance, testing 3-5 days upon return is recommended regardless of vaccination status. Unvaccinated travelers returning from international destinations, following CDC guidance, must get tested for COVID-19 with a viral test 3-5 days after travel AND refrain from returning to the office for 7 days from the date of arrival. If the traveler does not wish to get tested, they should stay home and self-quarantine for 10 days. Non-U.S. citizens must show proof of vaccination to board flights for all travelers to the U.S. per President Biden’s Proclamation and travelers on non-essential business to enter at land ports per Department of Homeland Security (effective 11/8/2021). All travelers entering at land ports will be required to show proof of vaccination beginning January 2022. Students and employees can access testing for free through the UT Proactive Community Testing As a reminder, the university may not require individuals to receive a COVID-19 vaccine nor inquire about an individual’s vaccine status, other than healthcare professionals in order to provide appropriate care or for the purposes of contact tracing. Read more on Protect Texas Together. Employees who believe they may have been exposed to COVID-19 will report to the Occupational Health Program (OHP). Students who believe they have been exposed to COVID-19 will report to University Health Services (UHS). Visitors to Campus Visitors/researchers/scholars from abroad must be approved by the CSU/department. Delegations requiring engagement with multiple CSUs are coordinated by Texas Global and facilitated by completing the visiting delegation request form. All visitors will be subject to the same quarantine provisions as UT Austin approved travelers returning from abroad. Questions The university is continually updating the FAQs as new guidance and information is shared from the CDC and local, state and federal health authorities. If you have a question that is not addressed in the FAQs, please submit it using the web form. Submit Your Question 110 Inner Campus Drive Austin, Texas, 78712-3400 512-232-5050 University Links University Health Services Texas Global Texas One Stop Official Information on COVID-19 Center for Disease Control and Prevention World Health Organization © The University of Texas at Austin 2022 Emergency Information | Site Policies | Web Accessibility Policy | Web Privacy Policy