Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Protect KU myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home FAQs Health Guidance & Resources Select to follow link Classroom Guidance for Instructors General Health Safety Info Health Safety Requirements Personal Health Assessment Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Protect KU Pledge Quarantine & Isolation KU's Pandemic Response Team Policies Latest Messages and Updates Select to follow link Phasing Out Mask Mandate 3/3/22 What to Know for Spring '22 - Faculty and Staff What to Know for Spring '22 - Students Guidance on COVID in the Classroom Metrics Dashboard Operation of Campus Facilities Select to follow link Cleaning Mail Research Operations Sanitation Stations Transit People Resources Select to follow link Edwards Campus Faculty & Instructional Staff Staff Students Supervisors Pandemic Medical Advisory Team Testing Vaccines Select to follow link General Vaccine Info Vaccine Mandate Injunction Office of the Chancellor Watkins Health Services Human Resource Management myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Protect KU Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Health Guidance & Resources Classroom COVID-19 Guidance Exposure and Quarantine Notification of a Positive Case of COVID-19 If a student informs you they must miss in-person class because of a positive test or that as a close contact they have been instructed to isolate or quarantine, please support them in following the guidance provided to them by their healthcare professional. Everyone should consult in the guidance provided on Protect KU's Quarantine & Isolation page. Instructors set the attendance policies for their classes. Students are expected to reach out to you as the instructor to make arrangements for staying on track in the class and with any examinations. Instructors are not expected to create a full online version of their course for students who are sick or are asked to quarantine. Instructors may request documentation for student absences, and we encourage consideration of documentation other than doctors’ notes in order to keep as many appointments available at Watkins for students who must see a physician. If you have concerns about your own health, please reach out to your healthcare provider and follow their instructions. Notification of a Possible Exposure of COVID-19 to an Entire Class If a student notifies you that they have tested positive for the COVID-19 virus and attended one of your classes in person at any point in the previous 10 days, the student should NOT come to class until their isolation period has concluded. You will need to notify the rest of the class that they may have been exposed to someone who tested positive for COVID-19. To protect privacy, do not share health information about a student unless they have given you permission to do so. Copy and paste the message below into an email to send to students who may have attended class with person who tested positive. Dear Students, I am writing to inform you that you may have been exposed to COVID-19 during __________ class. Please carefully review and adhere to the following protocol for possible COVID exposure: Complete the COVID-19 Health Assessment & Protocol Guidance Form for specific instructions on what you need to do in terms of testing and quarantine. As we are all considered close contacts, the assessment will advise testing 3-5 days from the date of possible exposure. Tests are free and available to you on campus at Watkins Health Center. Your individual circumstance may warrant additional steps, so please complete the assessment to obtain those instructions. If you feel well and the results of your Health Assessment indicate it is safe for you to be around others, you should attend class and continue to wear a mask and practice good hygiene. If you feel unwell, please stay home! You should take a COVID test in 3-5 days from the date of possible exposure. Tests are free and available to you on campus at Watkins Health Center. Thank you for doing your part to keep our campus safe! Answers to questions you may have related to COVID can be found at https://protect.ku.edu. Any questions not found on the Protect KU webpage can be directed to protect@ku.edu. When an Instructor Needs to Quarantine or Isolate Moving a class entirely online cannot be done without approval of the dean, with requests made through chairs/directors in schools with chairs/directors. Please inform your chair/dean if you have been personally contacted and advised by a county health professional that it is appropriate to move your class online. If you have any concerns about your own health, please contact your healthcare provider. If you have any concerns about your own health, please contact your healthcare provider. When an Instructor's Dependent Needs to Quarantine or Isolate If you find yourself in the difficult situation of having to care for a child required to quarantine by a local school district or daycare due to possible COVID-19 exposure, we ask that you take the following steps to manage your teaching responsibilities: Inform your chair, dean, or faculty supervisor and work with them to find another instructor to meet with the class. If another instructor is not available, then devise a meaningful alternative that could include: Engaging students remotely, but with students in the classroom and someone else designated to assist in facilitating course activities. Engaging students remotely until the end of the quarantine period. When a Course Should be Moved to Online Should attendance drop below 25% for a week, and instructor may move their course to online for a one-time period of no more than two weeks. You must send a request to your chair or dean that includes a brief justification and documentation (sharing attendance records or emails from students). Student Displaying Symptoms of COVID-19 As in any situation when a student is obviously in distress, encourage students appearing ill to leave class and seek assistance. Watkins Health Services provides walk-in services for students. Remind students that they need to contact you about how to complete missed work or exams, and to follow health care provider instructions or Douglas County Health officials about when it is safe to return to class. Contact Tracing State law precludes the university from undertaking its own contact tracing efforts, but KU provides relevant information to LCDHE and KDHE, as appropriate, to assist in contact tracing. As we have throughout the pandemic, KU will continue to support contact tracing efforts of the Lawrence/Douglas County Health Department in conjunction with the Kansas Department of Health. Safety Precautions Available to Instructors Instructors will find familiar safety features in classrooms such as plexiglass barriers, sanitizer, and air purification systems. PPE can be requested through Campus Operations by completing the PPE Requisition Form. Instructors may also benefit from scheduling a meeting in their classroom with an operations employee to discuss the safety precautions of the room, space configuration, and ventilation specifications by contacting protect@ku.edu. A PAPR (powered air purifying respirator) can be requested by emailing operations@ku.edu. Room Ventilation FS HVAC teams, in partnership with the University Engineer, studied the effects of increasing our MERV (Minimum Efficiency Reporting Value) rating and it resulted in an exponential drop in air exchange rates and therefore a drop in the introduction of fresh air in the spaces. This would have an overall negative effect on the health and safety of our buildings (stagnant air). Increasing outside air intake and optimizing exchange rates are far more important than filtering. Mask wearing reduces the likelihood that the airborne particles make it back into the return air system at all. To further enhance the ‘in room’ filtration, air purifiers have been installed in classroom and shared spaces. Filter units use hospital-grade filters to continually scrub and circulate the air. Steps to Take if Exposed or are Experiencing Symptoms of COVID-19 Vaccinated Persons who are not fully vaccinated or are experiencing symptoms of COVID-19 should continue to follow current quarantine guidance if exposed to someone with suspected or confirmed COVID-19. If you are required to quarantine or self-isolate: Stay home until it’s safe to be around others or if medical care is needed. Contact your employer (if applicable). Call the individual(s) who can help with getting you food and other supplies. Be prepared to speak with public health officials who may be assisting with contact tracing. Contact your instructors as soon as possible to seek a course adaptation. Know how to engage with university services remotely. Stay connected with family and friends remotely. Use personal tools like Zoom and Google Hangouts for meeting with your faculty, advisors, university programming, student organizations, or talking to friends and family. Vaccinated Vaccinated individuals do not need to quarantine as long as they: Are fully vaccinated (i.e., ≥2 weeks following receipt of the second dose in a 2-dose series, or ≥2 weeks following receipt of one dose of a single-dose vaccine). Are within six months following receipt of the last dose in the series. Have remained asymptomatic since the current COVID-19 exposure. For additional support please call the Watkins Health Services Nurse Helpline at 785-864-9583. Mask Requirements Our current mask policy is as follows: Masks are no longer required in classrooms nor in non-classroom settings such as libraries, dining halls, research labs, hallways, athletics facilities, offices, meeting rooms and similar areas. The only settings in which masks are still required are Watkins Health Center, childcare facilities and campus buses. Teaching Requirements Online Course Options If the course you’re teaching was offered in-person prior to the pandemic, the expectation is that the course will be offered in-person again. Instructors and departments are not required to offer course adaptions. Students needing online courses should discuss options with their academic advisor. Advisors will help students explore online options that meet degree requirements. If there are no viable options, students will need to work with their home academic department . The details of each adaptation will be worked out between the student, their instructor, and the academic department. Because of the possibility of the need for students or instructors to quarantine, instructors are encouraged to build flexibility into their course plans to more easily adapt to changing public health circumstances. Visit the Flex Teaching website for more information. For more information about course adaptations, please visit the Student Affairs website or contact course-adapt@ku.edu. Faculty teaching assignments are established by their departments/chairs. If you have an in person teaching assignment and you are concerned about returning to campus due to an underlying health condition, we welcome you to contact the ADA Resource Center for Equity and Accessibility to discuss your concerns and potential workplace accommodations. You can contact the office by completing the intake form or emailing accessiblity@Ku.edu. If you have other questions or concerns, please contact Faculty Development at 785-864-3489 or facultydev@ku.edu. Office Hours We know that students appreciated the flexibility offered by Zoom office hours; CTE has encouraged instructors to continue at least some office hours via Zoom. Classroom Capacity Over the summer we reset classrooms across campus. Those efforts adjusted classrooms from the pandemic-relegated/physical distanced capacity, to a newly established optimal-learning capacity. The updated classroom seating is designed to accommodate 25 square feet per student, which is the standard for an optimal teaching and learning environment based on Higher Learning Commission recommendations. Regular seating capacity will resume in lecture halls. Attendance Instructors control the attendance policies in their classes. If students are asked to quarantine or they are too sick to attend class, we have reminded them they need to follow their healthcare provider or Douglas County Health instructions and they are responsible for contacting you about how to complete missed work or exams. Strong Hall 1450 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 provost@ku.edu 785-864-2700 facebook instagram twitter youtube Watkins Health Services Lawrence Douglas County Public Health Kansas Department of Health and Environment Lawrence Memorial Hospital Human Resource Management Office of the Chancellor Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.