Skip to content Roadmap MENU English Español (Spanish) Search Announcements Campus Information Academics For Students and Families For Faculty For Staff For Visitors Guidelines Health and Wellness Events Travel Athletics Research Vaccinations and Testing COVID Dashboard FAQs Home Staff Staff We are lucky to have many core strengths across the university, and our staff members are prominent among them. They make the university run. It’s of the utmost importance that our staff feels safe, encouraged and prepared while continuing to support the university. All employees are encouraged to take advantage of vaccine and testing options available across campus. Employees should report to the Occupational Health Program (OHP) if you have tested positive, have symptoms of COVID-19 even if you test negative, or if you have been identified as a close contact of someone who has tested positive. Coronavirus Resources for Employees Flexible Work Arrangements Occupational Health Program COVID-19 Reporting for UT Employees How to Support a Longhorn Testing and Reporting COVID-19 Testing Employees and students are eligible to participate in the free UT Proactive Community Testing (PCT) Program for asymptomatic individuals, regardless of vaccination status. If you are a UT staff member exhibiting COVID-19 symptoms, you will be able to schedule a test with UT Health Austin. You can also arrange a test with the health care provider of your choice. UT Health Austin (UTHA) will bill an individual’s insurance plan for this clinical testing, and most insurance plans, including the UT Select employee insurance plan fully cover the cost of testing for symptomatic individuals. For employees who are uninsured, UTHA will explore the use of federal programs, if available, to help cover the cost. Report All Testing In order to slow the spread of COVID-19 and to help keep our employees safe, it is important that employees, including student employees, and managers report symptoms and testing regardless of test results to the Occupational Health Program (OHP) as soon as possible. Contact 512-471-4647 or email the Occupational Health Program to report COVID-19 symptoms or tests regardless results. OHP values employee privacy and is following privacy guidelines that allow the university to keep our workplace and co-workers safe while still protecting individual privacy as much as possible. Learn more about the COVID-19 reporting process and how it helps slow the spread of the virus. Staying Healthy While Working University Mask Guidance Individuals at low risk do not need to wear a mask. Individuals who are immunocompromised or at high risk should continue to take precautions. UT’s masking guidance aligns with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. PPE is Available The university will provide recommended protective face masks for urgent needs. Required On-Campus Jobs For jobs that require an on-campus presence and where an employee expresses concerns about returning to campus, the university will use its existing processes that have been modified to support these requests. See Accommodation Process for High-Risk Faculty and Staff. Work from Home Staff members who are able to perform their job functions from home are encouraged to do so in consultation with their managers. Daily Health Screenings Daily symptom screening will help keep the campus community safer. Please use the university’s Protect Texas Together app before leaving for campus. If you don’t have a smartphone, a phone-based application is also available. Facility Inspections To ensure facilities are safe and systems are functioning properly and can accommodate adequate distancing, UT has established inspection and certification processes. Student Employees Student employees will work with their supervisor to determine their working modality and expectations, whether working in person, remotely or a hybrid. Frequently Asked Questions Filter by ClickTap to view/close FAQ Questions The university is continually updating the FAQs as new guidance and information is shared from the CDC and local, state and federal health authorities. If you have a question that is not addressed in the FAQs, please submit it using the web form. Submit Your Question 110 Inner Campus Drive Austin, Texas, 78712-3400 512-232-5050 University Links University Health Services Texas Global Texas One Stop Official Information on COVID-19 Center for Disease Control and Prevention World Health Organization © The University of Texas at Austin 2022 Emergency Information | Site Policies | Web Accessibility Policy | Web Privacy Policy