Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Protect KU myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home FAQs Health Guidance & Resources Select to follow link Classroom Guidance for Instructors General Health Safety Info Health Safety Requirements Personal Health Assessment Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Protect KU Pledge Quarantine & Isolation KU's Pandemic Response Team Policies Latest Messages and Updates Select to follow link Phasing Out Mask Mandate 3/3/22 What to Know for Spring '22 - Faculty and Staff What to Know for Spring '22 - Students Guidance on COVID in the Classroom Metrics Dashboard Operation of Campus Facilities Select to follow link Cleaning Mail Research Operations Sanitation Stations Transit People Resources Select to follow link Edwards Campus Faculty & Instructional Staff Staff Students Supervisors Pandemic Medical Advisory Team Testing Vaccines Select to follow link General Vaccine Info Vaccine Mandate Injunction Office of the Chancellor Watkins Health Services Human Resource Management myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Protect KU Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Protect KU Together, as Jayhawks, we resolve to protect ourselves and our community for the greater good. Latest Updates Masks now optional on KU buses As of April 18, 2022, masks are no longer required on pubic transportation, which includes KU buses. Visit the Federal Transit Administration webpage to learn more. Federal Transit Administration Discontinuation of Mask Mandate _ Quarantine & isolation protocol KU is adhering to the updated isolation and quarantine requirements issued by the Lawrence Douglas County Health Department on Jan. 10. We've created a tool to calculate the duration and give you instructions on what to do. Quarantine & Isolation Guidelines Quick Links Quickly find the information you're looking for. FAQs The answer to your Frequently Asked Question can be found by typing a keyword into the search bar on the FAQ page. Find answers to questions ranging from, "Where can I get a COVID-19 test?" to "What steps should I take if I test positive for COVID-19?" Learn More Testing Free testing is available at Watkins for all students, staff, and faculty, regardless of whether they are experiencing symptoms. Call the Watkins Health Services Nurse Helpline at 785-864-9583 to make an appointment. Learn More Guidance What if I've been exposed? What if I have symptoms? When should I test? Complete a short, anonymous form to help you determine the best course of action for your unique circumstances. Click on the red arrow below to access this helpful tool. Learn More Swipe to see more Key Information Curated information for all members of our campus community. Students Click here find information specific to students on testing, vaccines, classroom quarantine procedures, and other important COVID health safety information for the KU Lawrence and Edwards Campuses. Learn More Staff Click here to find COVID-related information specific to KU Lawrence staff pertaining to campus spaces, workplace accommodations, possible exposure protocol, useful resources, testing and vaccination. Learn More Faculty Click here to find COVID-related information specific to KU Lawrence faculty and instructional staff pertaining to campus spaces, research, changes to mode of instruction, possible exposure protocol in the classroom, and vaccines. Learn More Swipe to see more Campus Operations Click to expand Campus Mail Campus Spaces Sanitation Stations Transit: KU Bus Safety Precautions Updated Parking Permit Options Health Guidance and Resources Click to expand Campus Health Safety Requirements Kansas Department of Health & Environment (KDHE) KU COVID-19 Health Assessment Form Mental Health Quarantine and Isolation Testing Vaccines Our Pledge Click to expand The Protect KU Pledge Together, as Jayhawks, we must resolve to protect ourselves, each other, and the greater Lawrence community. We must adhere to all COVID-19 health and safety guidelines so that we can continue our mission to lift students and society by educating leaders, building healthy communities and making discoveries that change the world. Health Safety Requirements Policies Questions? We understand that this is a challenging time, and every individual has different concerns. Please use these resources to help get answers to your questions. FAQs FAQs Contact us Contact us COVID-19 has no nationality, no ethnicity, no race, no gender If you believe you have been the target of racism or some other form of discrimination and harassment, please report the incident to Institutional Opportunity & Access at ioa@ku.edu or 785-864-6414. For additional support, you can also contact the Office of Diversity & Equity at diversity@ku.edu or 785-864-4904. Strong Hall 1450 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 provost@ku.edu 785-864-2700 facebook instagram twitter youtube Watkins Health Services Lawrence Douglas County Public Health Kansas Department of Health and Environment Lawrence Memorial Hospital Human Resource Management Office of the Chancellor Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.