Skip to content Roadmap MENU English Search Announcements Campus Information Academics For Students and Families For Faculty For Staff For Visitors Guidelines Health and Wellness Events Travel Athletics Research Vaccinations and Testing COVID Dashboard FAQs Home UT Austin COVID-19 Dashboard UT Austin COVID-19 Dashboard Definitions Proactive Community Testing: Screening of asymptomatic individuals within the UT community with no known exposure. UT Austin Clinical Testing: Testing done at University Health Services and UT Health Austin for UT students, faculty and staff who have symptoms of COVID-19 or are asymptomatic close contacts identified through contact tracing. About the Dashboard The UT COVID-19 Test Results Dashboard is the result of collaborative efforts by University Health Services, UT’s Occupational Health Program, UT Health Austin, the High Throughput Testing Core in the UT Center for Biomedical Research Support (CBRS), Dell Medical School, and Austin Public Health. Data reflects all test results confirmed or reported as of the time stamp shown at the bottom of the dashboard. The average turnaround time (i.e., the time between when the sample is collected to when test results are reported) is currently under 24 hours for testing performed at UT (including clinical testing of symptomatic individuals and asymptomatic contacts at University Health Services and UT Health Austin and Proactive Community Testing (PCT) on the UT campus). All clinical positive cases from Proactive Community Testing, University Health Services, and UT Health Austin are included in the Austin Travis County dashboards maintained by Austin Public Health. Why are cases added retrospectively? Multiple data sources feed into our dashboard and we update the dashboard nightly. So there are times when we must retroactively add cases to a previous date due to a gap between when the test results were reported and when the data was shared with us. For example, a student or employee may self-report their positive case to us, but the results were reported to that individual and Austin Public Health several days prior. Reporting the data by the date on which the results were confirmed provides a more accurate reflection of infections than if we were to report by the date on which the university learned about the confirmed case. Questions The university is continually updating the FAQs as new guidance and information is shared from the CDC and local, state and federal health authorities. If you have a question that is not addressed in the FAQs, please submit it using the web form. Submit Your Question 110 Inner Campus Drive Austin, Texas, 78712-3400 512-232-5050 University Links University Health Services Texas Global Texas One Stop Official Information on COVID-19 Center for Disease Control and Prevention World Health Organization © The University of Texas at Austin 2022 Emergency Information | Site Policies | Web Accessibility Policy | Web Privacy Policy