Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Protect KU myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home FAQs Health Guidance & Resources Select to follow link Classroom Guidance for Instructors General Health Safety Info Health Safety Requirements Personal Health Assessment Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Protect KU Pledge Quarantine & Isolation KU's Pandemic Response Team Policies Latest Messages and Updates Select to follow link Phasing Out Mask Mandate 3/3/22 What to Know for Spring '22 - Faculty and Staff What to Know for Spring '22 - Students Guidance on COVID in the Classroom Metrics Dashboard Operation of Campus Facilities Select to follow link Cleaning Mail Research Operations Sanitation Stations Transit People Resources Select to follow link Edwards Campus Faculty & Instructional Staff Staff Students Supervisors Pandemic Medical Advisory Team Testing Vaccines Select to follow link General Vaccine Info Vaccine Mandate Injunction Office of the Chancellor Watkins Health Services Human Resource Management myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Protect KU Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Health Guidance & Resources Personal Protective Equipment Available Personal Protective Equipment KU has purchased large quantities of PPE departments who normally do not purchase PPE for traditional job duties. These items include: Cloth face masks N95 respirators (requires justification) Hand sanitizer (bulk and personal sized) Alcohol sanitizing wipes Plexiglass (or similar material) “sneeze guards” Powered air purifying respirator (PAPR) units KU Operations is also placing additional standard-issue protective supplies in buildings for individuals and departments to use, including: Bulk hand sanitizer stations for refilling personal bottles Disinfectant stations with spray bottles and paper towels for cleaning surfaces Sanitizing wipes in all classrooms/teaching areas Hand sanitizer dispensing stations near entrances and other locations How to Order Employees: Request PPE through your supervisor or department administrative contact. Note: A PAPR (powered air purifying respirator) can be requested by emailing operations@ku.edu. Departments: Use the PPE Requisition Form to order supplies (other than PAPRs). The PPE request is a web form (you do not have to log in to Maximo to access). Once submitted, a work order is created. Once completed, you will be notified via an automated email form. Note: PAPR (powered air purifying respirator) units can be requested by emailing operations@ku.edu. Cost If your department does not typically purchase PPE, there is currently nocharge for securing PPE. If your department does normally purchase these PPE items, you will be charged for those items. Strong Hall 1450 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 provost@ku.edu 785-864-2700 facebook instagram twitter youtube Watkins Health Services Lawrence Douglas County Public Health Kansas Department of Health and Environment Lawrence Memorial Hospital Human Resource Management Office of the Chancellor Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.