Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Protect KU myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home FAQs Health Guidance & Resources Select to follow link Classroom Guidance for Instructors General Health Safety Info Health Safety Requirements Personal Health Assessment Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Protect KU Pledge Quarantine & Isolation KU's Pandemic Response Team Policies Latest Messages and Updates Select to follow link Phasing Out Mask Mandate 3/3/22 What to Know for Spring '22 - Faculty and Staff What to Know for Spring '22 - Students Guidance on COVID in the Classroom Metrics Dashboard Operation of Campus Facilities Select to follow link Cleaning Mail Research Operations Sanitation Stations Transit People Resources Select to follow link Edwards Campus Faculty & Instructional Staff Staff Students Supervisors Pandemic Medical Advisory Team Testing Vaccines Select to follow link General Vaccine Info Vaccine Mandate Injunction Office of the Chancellor Watkins Health Services Human Resource Management myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Protect KU Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Fall 2021 Information Fall 2021 Building Readiness Dashboard Welcome to the Campus ReadinessTracking Tool for the KU Lawrence campus. You can use this dashboard to check on the progress of the many reset efforts currently underway to prepare the campus for the start of the fall 2021 semester. The dashboard tracks the following tasks associated with the campus reset: Space assessments Removal of unnecessary Protect KU signage CVKey kiosk repurpose Building access reset Common space reset Office space reset Classroom space reset IT configurations The Tracking Tool will allow you to check on the progress within your specific building, as well as the overall progress of the entire Lawrence campus. All tasks associated with preparing the KU Lawrence campus will be completed in time for the start of the fall 2021 semester. If you have any questions regarding the dashboard or the reset process in general, please contact kuoperations@ku.edu. Task Descriptions: Space evaluations – initial assessment to assign tasks to each individual space. Removal of unnecessary Protect KU signage – All Protect KU signage will be removed from inside and outside of campus (excluding handwashing signs and no eating in classroom signs). CVKey kiosk repurpose – Scanning the CVKey daily health app at kiosks before entering buildings on campus is no longer required. The kiosks are being reprogrammed to serve as a resource for campus. Building access reset – Buildings previously set to allow for certain entry and exit points during the pandemic will be reset and access will expand to pre-pandemic access. Common space reset – Kitchens, shared common areas, breakrooms, and conference rooms will be reset and reopened for use. Office space reset – Reconfigurations to adjust a unit or department’s offices based on previously requested employee workplace designation adjustments. Classroom space reset – Increasing capacity, returning previously removed furniture, removing seating stickers from fixed seating auditoriums, and adding air purifiers where requested. IT configurations – Addressing any IT support needs associated with office space adjustments, classroom technology needs, or the creation of shared hoteling spaces. Percentage Readiness of Campus Buildings Building Assessment % Readiness % Loading: This process takes a minute... Strong Hall 1450 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 provost@ku.edu 785-864-2700 facebook instagram twitter youtube Watkins Health Services Lawrence Douglas County Public Health Kansas Department of Health and Environment Lawrence Memorial Hospital Human Resource Management Office of the Chancellor Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.