Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Protect KU myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home FAQs Health Guidance & Resources Select to follow link Classroom Guidance for Instructors General Health Safety Info Health Safety Requirements Personal Health Assessment Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Protect KU Pledge Quarantine & Isolation KU's Pandemic Response Team Policies Latest Messages and Updates Select to follow link Phasing Out Mask Mandate 3/3/22 What to Know for Spring '22 - Faculty and Staff What to Know for Spring '22 - Students Guidance on COVID in the Classroom Metrics Dashboard Operation of Campus Facilities Select to follow link Cleaning Mail Research Operations Sanitation Stations Transit People Resources Select to follow link Edwards Campus Faculty & Instructional Staff Staff Students Supervisors Pandemic Medical Advisory Team Testing Vaccines Select to follow link General Vaccine Info Vaccine Mandate Injunction Office of the Chancellor Watkins Health Services Human Resource Management myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Protect KU Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home People Resources Staff This page provides COVID-19 information and guidance for staff at the KU Lawrence campus. Check back frequently for the most recent information. Covid-19 Information Cleaning protocol Click to expand Cleaning protocols If you are a staff or faculty unit leader and you’d like to coordinate a cleaning and disinfection plan for your workspace or building, contact Custodial Services. You can locate your building’s custodial leadership member on the Custodial Services website. Heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) FS HVAC teams, in partnership with the University Engineer, studied the effects of increasing our MERV (Minimum Efficiency Reporting Value) rating and it resulted in an exponential drop in air exchange rates and therefore a drop in the introduction of fresh air in the spaces. This would have an overall negative effect on the health and safety of our buildings (stagnant air). Increasing outside air intake and optimizing exchange rates are far more important than filtering. Mask wearing reduces the likelihood that the airborne particles make it back into the return air system at all. To further enhance the ‘in room’ filtration, air purifiers have been installed in classroom and shared spaces. Filter units use hospital-grade filters to continually scrub and circulate the air. Adapting common facilities Most buildings have at least one entrance with a touch-free door opener. Hand sanitizing stations available in hallways, typically located near elevators. Most restrooms have touch-free flushing and faucets. Drinking fountains remain unavailable, but most buildings have at least one water bottle filling station. One-way restriction on stairs removed. Common areas open. Break rooms open and restrictions of food storage lifted. Conference and meeting rooms open. Classrooms Alcohol wipes still available for cleaning desktops. Rolling plexiglass barriers can be made available by request through KU’s established accommodation process. Classroom seating designed for an optimal teaching and learning environment based on the Higher Learning Commission recommendations. Regular seating capacity in lecture halls. Study Spaces Outdoor tents with electricity and WiFi are available for study breaks. Employee financial assistance Click to expand KU staff members who have been financially impacted by the pandemic may be eligible for the Rosalie Lanier Gray KU Staff Assistance Fund, which assists those who are experiencing financial hardship due to natural or personal disaster. Exposure & quarantine Click to expand Guidance for Staff Anyone concerned about potential exposure should do the following: Complete the KU COVID-19 Health Assessment Form and follow the recommended guidance. If you feel well and pass the health assessment test, you may return to the office. If you feel unwell, please stay home! You should take a COVID test in 3-5 days from the date of possible exposure. Tests are free and available to you on campus. Details about where and how to test can be found on the Testing Information page If you are positive, you should immediately isolate and notify your supervisor of your absence. Your supervisor will notify coworkers who may have been exposed so that they can take precautions if needed. Unless you provide consent, the information should be shared anonymously. Employees, supervisors, and colleagues, are discouraged from discussing an employee’s health at length. You may use sick or vacation time for the duration of your quarantine/isolation. Please remember that the two best things you can do to keep from getting COVID are: Get vaccinated! For information on where vaccines are available please visit the Protect KU Vaccine page. Continue to wear a mask. The mask policy mandates that everyone on campus, regardless of vaccination status, wear masks indoors. Thank you for doing your part to keep our campus safe! When an Employee's Dependent Needs to Quarantine or Isolate Supervisors and department leaders are encouraged to provide flexibility to meet the needs of their employees. If an employee’s work can be completed from home, supervisors and employees should make a plan to provide temporary remote work. No formal request is required to be submitted to Human Resource Management for a temporary quarantine period. If an employee needs to be absent from work, they should use their provided vacation and sick leave accruals. Flexible work arrangements Click to expand Hybrid, Fully Remote, Flexible Schedule The COVID-19 pandemic has made a huge impact on workplace designations for people everywhere, including KU. Flexible work arrangements can look differently based on the position, job duties and customers an employee supports. A flexible work arrangement might be a schedule modification, a change as to where the work is performed, or both. Click on the links below to learn more about flexible working arrangements. Getting Started Basic Guidelines Forms, Policy, & Resources Keys to Success Training FAQs Health & wellness Click to expand Campus Health Protocols We are taking a comprehensive and coordinated approach to provide for our community’s health and wellness this school year. These efforts include: Enhanced cleaning methods and schedules across all campus classrooms, dining, transportation, and facilities. Posting hand sanitizer and disinfecting wipes in all classrooms and around campus. Providing personal protective equipment and sanitizing supplies to students and employees. We ask that all Jayhawks follow appropriate safety guidelines to help protect our campus community. Contact tracing and voluntary reporting In accordance with Kansas law, KU will not conduct or authorize contact tracing or mandate contact tracing for any person. Participation in contact tracing is voluntary and will be conducted solely through the Douglas County Health Department. Employee health coverage Visit the State Employee Health Plan website for information on health benefits related to COVID-19. We ask that all Jayhawks follow appropriate safety guidelines to help protect our campus community. Masks Effective at March 28, our mask policy is as follows: Masks ware no longer required in classrooms. Masks are no longer required on KU buses (as of April 18, 2022). Masks are no longer required in non-classroom settings such as libraries, dining halls, research labs, hallways, athletics facilities, offices, meeting rooms and similar areas. The only settings in which masks are still required are Watkins Health Center, and childcare facilities. You can read the Chancellor's announcement regarding the phased approach to remove the mask mandate on the Lawrence and Edwards campuses by clicking on the following link: Masks no longer required in classrooms on Lawrence, Edwards campuses beginning March 28 | Office of the Chancellor (ku.edu) Hiring Click to expand Please contact employ@ku.edu for any questions regarding new employment at KU. Parking & Transportation Click to expand Parking Additional parking options, such as short-term permits, are now available in response to the COVID-19 pandemic to better accommodate our hybrid population. Permit information for Faculty & Staff can be found on the Parking website. Bus Service Federal law requires all drivers and passengers to wear masks. More information about health safety protocols can be found on the Transportation Services website. Researchers Click to expand Researchers are no longer required to create and maintain individual lab and fieldwork COVID-19 safety plans that are approved by deans, department chairs or center directors and kept on file with the Office of Research. Research facility managers are no longer required to track vendors or other visitors to buildings. GTA offices are open to use as needed. There are no longer COVID-19 related distancing requirements. Refer to the Protect KU Research page or visit Graduate Studies for more information. Temporary Use Office Space Click to expand Hoteling Spaces In response to an increase in our hybrid and remote workforce, KU Operations, in partnership with KU Information Technology, established “hoteling spaces” throughout the KU Lawrence campus. Hoteling spaces are workstations that can be reserved by KU employees who do not have a designated workspace on campus due to their status as a hybrid or remote employee. Details on how to reserve a space, where the spaces are located, features/attributes of each space, and general use guidelines can be found on the Hoteling Spaces webpage. Testing Click to expand Testing at KU Tests are offered free of charge to all KU students, faculty, and staff at Watkins Health Services. It is recommended that you take a COVID-19 test if any of the following are true: You are experiencing COVID-19 symptoms. You may have been exposed to someone who tested positive for COVID-19. You should test on day 3-5 following possible exposure. To reduce risk of transmission, please contact Watkins Health Services before arriving for a test: STUDENTS - call Watkins Health Services Nurse Helpline at 785-864-9583 FACULTY/STAFF - Call the Immediate Care Clinic at 785-864-9565. COST AND BILLING Symptomatic and close contact individuals should not have to pay for any of the testing resources on campus. Symptomatic COVID-19 tests will be billed to insurance. All insurance providers are required to cover these medically necessary tests in full when ordered by a healthcare provider. Members of the KU community who are showing symptoms of COVID-19 and who do not have insurance will not be charged to receive this test. The cost will be covered through alternate funding sources. All asymptomatic COVID-19 saliva tests for KU’s randomized prevalence testing and for testing of close contacts of positive cases will be provided at no cost to those who meet the criteria to receive these tests. Helpful links 2021-22 Academic calendar Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) Watkins Student Health Campus Cupboard Student Emergency Aid Network Student Housing Transportation Services Graduate Studies Human Resource Management Employee Assistance Program Strong Hall 1450 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 provost@ku.edu 785-864-2700 facebook instagram twitter youtube Watkins Health Services Lawrence Douglas County Public Health Kansas Department of Health and Environment Lawrence Memorial Hospital Human Resource Management Office of the Chancellor Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.