Proteomics & Mass Spectrometry Core Search... Services Instrumentation Resources Contacts Skip to content Welcome to the Proteomics & Mass Spectrometry core We are a core facility at the Department of Molecular Biology. We provide support for faculty and student researchers at Princeton University, as well as investigators at other institutes and private companies. The facility has a growing number of mass spectrometers and support equipment that allows us to customize projects to your needs. We are located in Lewis Thomas Laboratory, Room 016. We are willing to: work with you during the planning and protocol development stages; help you understand the results obtained; and help during manuscript preparation when publishing your results. In addition to our fee-for-services, we offer several instruments in an open access format. Staff members will train new users of instruments in one-on-one sessions or small groups. All users are required to demonstrate satisfactory knowledge of instrument operation prior to unsupervised use of the instrument. Usage is scheduled and monitored. Time on the instruments is charged, which varies by the instrument. To initiate a project please review the services we offer, and submit your request using the Project Request icon. Please do not hesitate to contact us to discuss the design of your experiment or any aspect of sample preparation, data collection, or analytical requirements. Current turn-around times: Analysis Type Turn-around time Instrument Status Intact MW 1 day All green Gel band 4 days All green Gel-free (sequencing or PPI) 4 days All green Global gel-free proteome 5-6 days All green Quantitation +2 day to above There are no longer fridges or freezers for sample drop-off. Please hand samples directly to core staff during business hours (8am-6pm). If you need to store samples, store gels (gel bands) at 4°C and other samples at -80°C. Skip to content EXPLORE MOLBIO CENTERS/INSTITUTES CORE FACILITIES/EQUIPMENT OTHER FACILITIES Areas of Research Faculty Postdocs Graduate Studies Undergraduate Studies Summer Research Core Facilities Seminars & Events Center for Quantitative Biology Glenn Center For Quantitative Aging Research Lewis-Sigler Institute for Integrative Genomics Princeton Neuroscience Institute Confocal Microscopy Drosophila Media Electron Microscopy Flow Cytometry Histology Imaging Facility at LSI Laboratory Resources Macromolecular Crystallography Proteomics & Mass Spectrometry Synthesizing/Sequencing Microarray Computing/IT Services Facilities & Maintenance Health & Safety Stockroom © The Trustees of Princeton University, Department of Molecular Biology. All Rights Reserved. Last Update: January 22, 2019