Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Protect KU myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home FAQs Health Guidance & Resources Select to follow link Classroom Guidance for Instructors General Health Safety Info Health Safety Requirements Personal Health Assessment Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Protect KU Pledge Quarantine & Isolation KU's Pandemic Response Team Policies Latest Messages and Updates Select to follow link Phasing Out Mask Mandate 3/3/22 What to Know for Spring '22 - Faculty and Staff What to Know for Spring '22 - Students Guidance on COVID in the Classroom Metrics Dashboard Operation of Campus Facilities Select to follow link Cleaning Mail Research Operations Sanitation Stations Transit People Resources Select to follow link Edwards Campus Faculty & Instructional Staff Staff Students Supervisors Pandemic Medical Advisory Team Testing Vaccines Select to follow link General Vaccine Info Vaccine Mandate Injunction Office of the Chancellor Watkins Health Services Human Resource Management myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Protect KU Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home People Resources Pandemic Medical Advisory Team Pandemic Medical Advisory Team decision-making framework for Changes to State of Campus Operations The Pandemic Medical Advisory Team — comprising nine of the region’s top medical doctors and public health officials — was established to help inform our decisions related to the COVID-19 pandemic. One of the primary tasks of this team is to develop a data-driven decision-making framework to shape decisions regarding campus operations in a way that prioritizes health and safety. The team’s full decision-making framework is available here. Below is a summary of the three key elements of the framework. States of Campus Operations The framework creates a continuum of five states of campus operation based on varying levels of population density. The five states range from Level 1 to Level 5, with Level 1 being a fully open campus and Level 5 being a mostly closed campus. Level 1: Campus Open with New Normal of Managed Density Level 2: Campus Open with Moderate Density Level 3: Campus Open with Low Density Level 4: Campus Open with Ultralow Density Level 5: Campus Open to Essential Personnel and Individuals Only Relevant Circumstances and Data The framework has more than 30 indicators – including metric-based and non-metric-based indicators – we will use to inform decisions and evaluate our state of campus operations. These indicators are grouped into four categories: community considerations, campus considerations, leading indicators, and lagging indicators. It’s important to understand that these criteria will be evaluated collectively, and their relative importance may change as circumstances change. In other words, there is no single indicator, single circumstance, “magic number” or “trigger” that will alone lead us to change the state of campus operations. Rather, the Pandemic Medical Advisory Team will evaluate all of these metrics when making decisions regarding campus operations. Interventions Third, this framework lays out seven specific interventions that can deployed if the public health situation worsens on campus or in the community. Examples include heightened social distancing, specific residence hall occupancy reductions, and expanded testing. Pandemic Medical Advisory Team The Pandemic Medical Advisory Team comprises nine of the region’s top medical doctors, public health officials and scientists. Each member brings tremendous expertise and a unique perspective that has benefited the team’s decision-making framework. As a result, we can be confident that decisions related to campus operations will be data-driven and guided by the latest science, and will continue to prioritize the health and safety of our university above all else. Team members include: Douglas A. Girod, M.D. Chancellor University of Kansas Thomas Marcellino, M.D. Douglas County Health Officer Lawrence-Douglas County Public Health Department Graig Nickel, M.D. Medical Director Watkins Health Services, University of Kansas Matthias Salathe, M.D. Interim Vice Chancellor for Research School of Medicine, KU Medical Center Jennifer Schrimsher, M.D., M.P.H. Infectious Diseases Physician Lawrence Memorial Hospital Robert Simari, M.D. Executive Vice Chancellor KU Medical Center John Stipetich Interim Emergency Management Coordinator University of Kansas Steve Stites, M.D. Committee Chair, Vice Chancellor for Clinical Affairs School of Medicine, KU Medical Center David Volkin, Ph.D. Distinguished Professor of Pharmaceutical Chemistry University of Kansas Strong Hall 1450 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 provost@ku.edu 785-864-2700 facebook instagram twitter youtube Watkins Health Services Lawrence Douglas County Public Health Kansas Department of Health and Environment Lawrence Memorial Hospital Human Resource Management Office of the Chancellor Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.