Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Protect KU myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home FAQs Health Guidance & Resources Select to follow link Classroom Guidance for Instructors General Health Safety Info Health Safety Requirements Personal Health Assessment Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Protect KU Pledge Quarantine & Isolation KU's Pandemic Response Team Policies Latest Messages and Updates Select to follow link Phasing Out Mask Mandate 3/3/22 What to Know for Spring '22 - Faculty and Staff What to Know for Spring '22 - Students Guidance on COVID in the Classroom Metrics Dashboard Operation of Campus Facilities Select to follow link Cleaning Mail Research Operations Sanitation Stations Transit People Resources Select to follow link Edwards Campus Faculty & Instructional Staff Staff Students Supervisors Pandemic Medical Advisory Team Testing Vaccines Select to follow link General Vaccine Info Vaccine Mandate Injunction Office of the Chancellor Watkins Health Services Human Resource Management myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Protect KU Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Operation of Campus Facilities Cleaning The Custodial department will be focused on making the public areas of campus as safe as possible by implementing specific disinfection plans for each building. Hourly Cleaning Because it is not possible for our custodial staff to clean every classroom on campus in between class sessions, students should wipe down their learning space when they arrive for class. Disinfectant wipes are available in every classroom and will be refilled on a daily basis. Daily Cleaning In order for the Custodial Department to concentrate its efforts on the disinfection plans for common area spaces in all buildings throughout the workday, Custodial staff have partnered with building users to maintain offices. To reduce the number of people entering private spaces on a regular basis, custodial work in offices should be scheduled through service requests at http://maximo.ku.edu. Other steps you can take: Coordinate with the Custodial department leadership member responsible for your building, and provide information that can help determine the best cleaning/disinfection plan for your area. Contact information for each building’s custodial leadership member can be found at custodial.ku.edu. Examples of helpful information include: Identifying special use rooms (e.g., weight rooms) Schedule for events in your building Frequency of room use If needed, a disinfection kit will be made available in a centralized area in office suites or public areas in buildings. Use these kits to disinfect areas you in your office space, such as table tops, chair arms, etc. You can request personal protective equipment (PPE), hand sanitizer, sanitizing wipes and other supplies and equipment, if needed. Contact custodial@ku.edu or your building’s custodial leadership member if you have questions or concerns regarding your building’s disinfection plan. The Custodial department will be focused on making the public areas of campus as safe as possible by implementing specific cleaning protocols for each building. Your safety and building cleanliness are very important at KU. (page updated 8/25/20) Strong Hall 1450 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 provost@ku.edu 785-864-2700 facebook instagram twitter youtube Watkins Health Services Lawrence Douglas County Public Health Kansas Department of Health and Environment Lawrence Memorial Hospital Human Resource Management Office of the Chancellor Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.