Skip to content Roadmap MENU English Español (Spanish) Search Announcements Campus Information Academics For Students and Families For Faculty For Staff For Visitors Guidelines Health and Wellness Events Travel Athletics Research Vaccinations and Testing COVID Dashboard FAQs Home Health and Wellness Health and Wellness UT has created a plan to keep our Longhorn family healthy on campus. Taking Care of Yourself and Others Individuals at low risk do not need to wear a mask. UT is aligning its masking guidance with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Our current COVID-19 Community Level is low and individuals at low risk do not need to wear a mask. People may choose to mask at any time, for any reason, and individuals who are immunocompromised or at high risk should continue to take precautions. University Health Services UT Health Austin Counseling and Mental Health Center Center for Disease Control and Prevention UT Health Behavior Guidance How to Support a Longhorn Supporting Mental Well-Being The university has identified the services, programs and initiatives currently available for students, faculty and staff to help address their mental health and well-being during this pandemic. This guide has new and existing resources to support Longhorns. Daily Symptom and Temperature Screening Daily Symptom Screening Daily symptom screening with the university’s Protect Texas Together app will be expected for all students, faculty, and staff coming to campus or living on campus. If you don’t have a smartphone, a phone-based application is also available. Guidance for Daily Symptom and Temperature Screening Temperature Screening in Select Buildings For select campus buildings and units, in-person temperature screenings will be required. One such building is Dell Medical School’s Health Transformation Building, home to UT Health Austin clinics. Symptom Screening by Visitors Visitors will be expected to complete a symptom screening to participate in campus meetings or other activities. How the Virus Spreads Learn more about how the virus is spread. Wash Your Hands Hand hygiene products and cleaning stations will be available across campus at building entrances, elevator lobbies and at the entrance of each Registrar-designated classroom. The university will continue to educate the campus community about the importance of hand hygiene through posters and other communication tools. Guidance for Hand Hygiene and Personal Workplace Hygiene COVID-19 Testing Robust and rigorous testing will be needed to monitor and limit the presence of COVID-19 on our campus and keep our community members as safe as possible as we continue to navigate the pandemic. Participation in all COVID-19 testing and is completely voluntary, but we strongly encourage our community members to use these services as needed. Testing for People with Symptoms Proactive Community Testing Testing for People with Symptoms If you are a UT student exhibiting COVID-19 symptoms, you will be able to schedule a test with University Health Services. If you are a UT faculty or staff member exhibiting COVID-19 symptoms, you will be able to schedule a test with UT Health Austin. You can also arrange a test with the health care provider of your choice. Proactive Community Testing Proactive Community Testing is done at no cost to the individual being tested, who will be notified directly if they test positive. The university follows privacy requirements consistent with public health reporting and contact tracing guidelines, and results are confidential and departments and supervisors will not be notified. Learn more about UT’s plans for proactive community testing. All students, staff and faculty, regardless of vaccination status, are encouraged to participate. Individual Behavior The success of the community will depend on a combination of university action, outlined above, and individual behaviors. As a reminder: If you are sick, stay home. Wash your hands well and often. Carry your own hand sanitizer and surface wipes. UT is aligning its masking guidance with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. People may choose to mask at any time, for any reason, and individuals who are immunocompromised or at high risk should continue to take precautions. If not full vaccinated, maintain 6 feet of distance between yourself and others whenever possible. Avoid touching your face and recommended protective face mask. Keep your hands clean: Sneeze and cough into your elbow, and open doors without your hands if possible. Special Circumstances Employees needing accommodations for special circumstances should work with their supervisors or contact Human Resources. Students needing ADA accommodations should contact Services for Students with Disabilities. All other students with special circumstances should contact Student Emergency Services. Quarantine and Isolation UT community members who test positive will be expected to self-isolate or quarantine, as directed by health care professionals. Following CDC guidance, individuals who are exposed to an individual who has tested positive for COVID-19 and are not fully vaccinated will be directed to self-quarantine. Students should contact the Behavior Concerns and COVID-19 Advice Line for assistance 512-232-5050 if they can’t self-isolate or quarantine safely in their residence — whether living on or off campus spaces. For information on self-quarantine and the return to work process for employees, visit the OHP COVID-19 webpage. Frequently Asked Questions Filter by ClickTap to view/close FAQ Questions The university is continually updating the FAQs as new guidance and information is shared from the CDC and local, state and federal health authorities. If you have a question that is not addressed in the FAQs, please submit it using the web form. Submit Your Question 110 Inner Campus Drive Austin, Texas, 78712-3400 512-232-5050 University Links University Health Services Texas Global Texas One Stop Official Information on COVID-19 Center for Disease Control and Prevention World Health Organization © The University of Texas at Austin 2022 Emergency Information | Site Policies | Web Accessibility Policy | Web Privacy Policy