Skip to content Roadmap MENU English Español (Spanish) Search Announcements Campus Information Academics For Students and Families For Faculty For Staff For Visitors Guidelines Health and Wellness Events Travel Athletics Research Vaccinations and Testing COVID Dashboard FAQs Home Students and Families Students and Families We urge our students to stay connected and engaged while prioritizing their physical health and mental well-being. All students are encouraged to take advantage of vaccine and testing options available across campus. Longhorns Online is a robust site that provides information about academics, advising, student support services and other important online contacts designed to help Longhorns successfully navigate their educational path during their time at UT Austin and beyond. Texas One Stop International Student and Scholar Services University Housing and Dining University Health Services Counseling and Mental Health Center Services for Students with Disabilities Texas Parents University Unions Recreational Sports Coronavirus Exposure Action Chart Staying Healthy on Campus University Masking Guidance Individuals at low risk do not need to wear a mask. Individuals who are immunocompromised or at high risk should continue to take precautions. UT’s masking guidance aligns with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. COVID-19 Testing Employees and students are eligible to participate in the free UT Proactive Community Testing (PCT) Program for asymptomatic individuals, regardless of vaccination status. UT students exhibiting COVID-19 symptoms can schedule a test with University Health Services. Most insurance plans, including the Academic Blue student health insurance plan, fully cover the cost of clinical testing for symptomatic individuals. For uninsured students tested at UHS, the university is subsidizing the costs, so there is no out-of-pocket expense. If a student tests positive for COVID-19 at another testing facility, we recommend they inform UHS. Proactive Community Testing Our goal is to test up to 5,000 UT community members each week. Learn more about UT’s plans for proactive community testing Daily Health Screenings Daily symptom screening will help keep the campus community safer. Please use the university’s Protect Texas Together app before going to class. If you don’t have a smartphone, a phone-based application is also available. Supporting Students Mental Well-Being Counseling, support groups, workshops and recreational opportunities will be offered to help students cope with the stressors caused by COVID-19. Visit our How to Support a Longhorn page for resources. Classroom Accommodations Accommodations for Students with Disabilities UT is still obligated to ensure that students with disabilities have equal access to their courses, regardless of course format. Instructors should consider adopting accessibility best practices and inclusive teaching and learning strategies to provide proactive access for students. Instructors must continue to provide the individualized accommodations outlined in students’ accommodation letters. More information about providing accommodations can be found on Services for Students with Disabilities website and on the FAQ list for faculty. Special Circumstances Students with special circumstances (non-ADA), including COVID-19 symptoms, should go to Student Emergency Services and complete the absence notification request form with the expectation that their attendance requirement will not be affected. Campus Life and Engagement Student Activities To promote safer student life activities and UT events whether fully or partially online, on campus or in outdoor spaces, the university recommends following guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Student-Focused Buildings Please check specific websites for the latest information including operating hours and other details. Counseling and Mental Health The Counseling and Mental Health Center (CMHC) is providing its full array of services to students and continuing telehealth services. University Health Services University Health Services (UHS) is providing all services on campus and will continue telehealth services. UHS will continue to offer students COVID-19 testing through clinical visits. Student Organization Events Student organizations can require the Protect Texas Together app Activity Pass for attendees at their on-campus events. The Activity Pass provides a green check for seven days after a negative test result through Proactive Community Testing. University-Owned Housing and Dining University Masking Guidance Individuals at low risk do not need to wear a mask. UT’s masking guidance aligns with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. On Campus Residence Halls The university’s on-campus residence halls are closed for the summer except for San Jacinto Hall for summer housing and Jester East for New Student Orientation. On Campus Dining For open dining locations and hours of operation, please check the University Housing and Dining website and the University Unions website. Enhanced Housing and Dining Cleaning University staff are provided personal protective equipment to perform enhanced, routine cleaning of common areas. Graduate Programs and International Students Deferred Admission and Student Employment Given the likely delays for newly admitted international students to enter into the United States, graduate programs should be flexible and allow international students to defer admission, if requested. Students who expect be employed as a Teaching Assistant, Graduate Research Assistant, or other position should check with their department about the availability of financial support before beginning their studies from abroad. International Travel The university will follow the recommendations of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and U.S. State Department guidelines regarding international travelers self quarantining before returning to campus. Frequently Asked Questions Filter by ClickTap to view/close FAQ Questions The university is continually updating the FAQs as new guidance and information is shared from the CDC and local, state and federal health authorities. If you have a question that is not addressed in the FAQs, please submit it using the web form. Submit Your Question 110 Inner Campus Drive Austin, Texas, 78712-3400 512-232-5050 University Links University Health Services Texas Global Texas One Stop Official Information on COVID-19 Center for Disease Control and Prevention World Health Organization © The University of Texas at Austin 2022 Emergency Information | Site Policies | Web Accessibility Policy | Web Privacy Policy