Skip to content Roadmap MENU English Español (Spanish) Search Announcements Campus Information Academics For Students and Families For Faculty For Staff For Visitors Guidelines Health and Wellness Events Travel Athletics Research Vaccinations and Testing COVID Dashboard FAQs Protect Texas Together Resuming In-Person Classes and Full Campus Operations During the spring semester, our COVID-19 executive committee will be closely monitoring the virus on campus and in the surrounding area. Vaccines remain widely available, and on-campus testing capabilities have been expanded. We encourage all students, faculty and staff members to get vaccinated and get tested regularly. Help us #ProtectTexasTogether. Learn more about COVID-19 Vaccines and Testing Vaccinations Health and Wellness Academics Flexible Working Arrangements Vaccinations Make your appointment COVID-19 vaccination appointments, including booster doses, are open to members of the UT community and the general public age 12 and older. It takes all of us to stop the spread of COVID-19. Authorized COVID-19 vaccines are effective at preventing COVID-19 disease, especially severe illness and death. As a way to protect yourself and others from COVID-19, we encourage all UT community members to get vaccinated when they are eligible. Learn more about vaccinations Health and Wellness We’re in this together We are asking for your assistance in minimizing the spread of COVID. Individuals at low risk do not need to wear a mask. Individuals who are immunocompromised or at high risk should continue to take precautions. Participate in the UT Proactive Community Testing program. If you have symptoms of COVID-19, please isolate and get tested. The UT community can contact University Health Services for more information. Learn more about Health and Wellness Academics Teaching and learning will return to normal The vast majority of classes will be held in person, at levels similar to fall 2021. View the Academic Calendar for Long Session 2021-2022 for information on schedules. Many professors and teaching assistants may continue to hold office hours remotely, as student feedback indicated that was more accessible. Learn more about Academics Flexible Working Arrangements Returning to Campus We are excited to pilot more widespread use of flexible work arrangements during the 2021-22 academic year. Reach out to your supervisors and HR reps for more detailed information. Learn more about returning to campus What will spring 2022 look like for you? Students and Families Information about classes, student life, health and wellness, and more Faculty Information about office hours, classroom and teaching guidelines, and more Staff Information about campus operations, employee resources, and more Visitors Guidelines for those planning to visit UT Frequently Asked Questions Filter by ClickTap to view/close FAQ Questions The university is continually updating the FAQs as new guidance and information is shared from the CDC and local, state and federal health authorities. If you have a question that is not addressed in the FAQs, please submit it using the web form. Submit Your Question 110 Inner Campus Drive Austin, Texas, 78712-3400 512-232-5050 University Links University Health Services Texas Global Texas One Stop Official Information on COVID-19 Center for Disease Control and Prevention World Health Organization © The University of Texas at Austin 2022 Emergency Information | Site Policies | Web Accessibility Policy | Web Privacy Policy