Skip to main content Office of the Provost About Academic Leadership Academic Initiatives Faculty Resources Open Searches Meet the Provost The provost works to maintain and enhance the university’s excellence in teaching, scholarship and outreach, and is responsible for strategic planning and budgeting, tenure and promotion, academic and research initiatives and general academic supervision of the Ithaca campus. The provost acts as the university’s chief academic officer and chief budget officer and serves as the president’s first deputy officer. The provost oversees all academic programs and units of the university, other than those reporting to the provost for medical affairs. In carrying out these responsibilities, the provost works directly with the deans of the colleges, schools and faculties and with the vice provosts as well as other members of the provost’s executive staff. Michael I. Kotlikoff, V.M.D., Ph.D. Michael I. Kotlikoff, professor of molecular physiology, became the 16th provost of Cornell on August 1, 2015. As the university’s chief academic officer, chief budgeting officer and first deputy officer to the president, he works to enhance the university’s excellence in teaching, scholarship and outreach. His signature initiative, Radical Collaboration, recruits faculty and supports infrastructure in seven key multidisciplinary areas: nanoscale science and microsystems engineering, genome biology, data science, sustainability, digital agriculture, infection biology and the critical inquiry into values, imagination and culture (CIVIC). Kotlikoff has also initiated efforts to invest in academic and student housing facilities, re-evaluate curricula and implement effective academic technologies, as well as developing policies to facilitate greater faculty diversity and dual career hiring across the colleges. Kotlikoff was previously the Austin O. Hooey Dean of Veterinary Medicine at Cornell (2007–2015). He enhanced programs in education, animal health care and research and launched an $87 million capital project to upgrade infrastructure and teaching facilities and enable an increase in the pre-clinical class size. Prior to becoming dean, he was founding chair of the Department of Biomedical Sciences and chair of the Mammalian Genomics Life Science Initiative. Kotlikoff’s research laboratory, continuously funded by the National Institutes of Health for over 30 years, including during his tenure as dean and provost, is internationally recognized in the area of cardiovascular biology and heart repair. Kotlikoff received his B.A. (literature) and V.M.D. degrees from the University of Pennsylvania and his Ph.D. in physiology from the University of California, Davis. Office of the Provost Michael I. Kotlikoff 300 Day Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 (607) 255-2364 (607) 255-9924 provost@cornell.edu Chief Administrator Patty Ard (607) 255-9979 Executive Assistant to the Provost Elizabeth A. Hays (607) 255-2364 © 2022 Cornell University Our Leadership Leadership Board of Trustees Office of the President Provost for Medical Affairs Senior Administration More Information University Organization University Statements If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.