Skip to content utexas.edu Faculty Careers Areas of Study Provost's Office Search Search The Office Initiatives Diversity, Equity & Inclusion News Resources Faculty & Academic Resources Academic Personnel Services provides guidance and support on a number of topics, such as hiring, leave, and promotion and tenure. Keep Reading Finance, Reporting & Compliance Information on official university polices as related to compliance, academic budgeting, finance, required business processes, and related resources. Keep Reading Directory Search our directory for the staff and offices of the Executive Vice President and Provost. Keep Reading Home ▸ News ▸ Vice Provost for Academic, Curricular and Career Innovation Vice Provost for Academic, Curricular and Career Innovation Accepting Applications and Nominations The Senior Vice Provost for Curriculum and Enrollment and the Dean of Undergraduate Studies invites nominations and applications for the Vice Provost for Academic, Curricular and Career Innovation. As an integral member of the senior vice provost’s leadership team, the vice provost is responsible for promoting and driving curricular innovation to advance student achievement and success, including the establishment of partnerships and pathways for transfer and community colleges. The vice provost collaborates with colleges and schools, the Office of Enrollment Management, the Office of Undergraduate Academic Success, Academic Affairs, and the Faculty Council to help students successfully pursue their academic goals and launch their career paths. The vice provost is a 100 percent A&P appointment. Essential functions of the position include: Direct and manage the Office of Curriculum Management and Innovation, a newly established office charged with the oversight, review, assessment and resource management of the undergraduate curriculum. In this capacity, Promote and drive innovation around the creation of new curricular pathways to advance student achievement and success, including innovative cross-college academic programs and credentials. Build upon the success of the Bridging Disciplines Program to facilitate the development of more nimble curricular pathways that allow students to move between colleges in pursuit of changed academic goals. Manage oversight of the undergraduate curriculum, including the review of substantive curricular degree changes, evaluation of resource availability for new and continuing degree programs, assessment of curricular duplication and recommendations for low-performing programs. These functions anticipate and support Faculty Council’s review of proposed curricular changes. Oversee the state-mandated Core Curriculum as well as UT’s core-supplementing Skills and Experience Flags program. Continually assess and evaluate the framework for Flags so that they best serve the educational needs of our students in a changing world and contribute to desired student-success outcomes. Direct and manage the Office of Experiential Education and Career Engagement to help support colleges and schools in their efforts to successfully launch each student into life after UT. In this capacity, Provide strategic oversight for the successful collaboration of Texas Career Engagement with colleges and schools to promote a seamless experience for employers as they partner with UT Austin. Promote an understanding of competencies and skills needed for desired career outcomes, and create inclusion and equity for students in their career journeys. Support experiential learning opportunities and paths that help student identify careers that utilize their skills, talents and education to further their personal and professional goals, including undergraduate research. Oversee the LaunchPad, a program that helps students of all backgrounds navigate and explore entrepreneurship at UT Austin. Required Qualifications Tenured or professional faculty at UT Austin; demonstrated commitment and contributions to student success, equity and inclusion; deep understanding of curricular challenges, processes and solutions in higher education, including experience with curriculum development and management at the department and college level; strong interpersonal skills and experience in building, leading and serving collaborative teams; a stellar record of scholarship / creative activity; a top performer with an ability to motivate and inspire others to strive continuously for excellence in their roles; highest standards of personal and academic integrity; a genuine commitment to providing students with inclusive and equitable excellence in terms of their academic experience and career launch. Preferred Qualifications Administrative experience including leadership and strategic oversight and direction of staff, faculty and students; evidence of strong teaching, mentoring and advising of junior colleagues and students; experience working with community college and minority-serving institutions and involvement with mutually beneficial institutional partnerships. The position will remain open until filled. The committee will begin reviewing applications on May 31. The preferred start date for the Vice Provost for Academic, Curricular and Career Innovation is August 1, 2022. Application Application materials include a curriculum vitae (CV) and a letter of intent. Apply here. Nominations Submit your nomination here. Consultative Committee Dean David Vandenbout Dean, College of Natural Sciences Cassandre Alvarado Associate Dean, Undergraduate Education Jerry Speitel Associate Dean, Cockrell School of Engineering John Morán González J. Frank Dobie Regents Professor of American and English Literature Hillary Procknow Director, School of Undergraduate Studies Brian Dixon Vice Provost for Enrollment Management Cathy Stacy (Ex-officio) Chief of Staff, Office of the Executive Vice President and Provost Application Please use the link below to submit your materials for consideration.  Apply Here Nominations Please use the link below to submit your nomination.  Submit Nomination Contact Us Phone 512-471-4363 Fax 512-475-7385 Email provost.office@utexas.edu 110 Inner Campus Dr. STOP G1000 Austin, TX 78712-1701 Related Public Access to Course Information (HB2504) Faculty & Academic Resources Quicklinks The Office Initiatives Diversity, Equity & Inclusion News UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022