Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of the Provost Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Offices Resources Announcements Provost Mary C. Boyce Vice Provosts Past Provosts About the Office Advisory Committees University Leadership Vice Provost Offices Academic Programs Communications and Engagement Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Senior Vice Provost Faculty Advancement Faculty Affairs Fourth Purpose and Strategic Impact Teaching, Learning, and Innovation University Libraries Other Reporting Units Educational Programs Educational Agreements Educational Programs Approval Policies and Appointments Faculty Handbook Selected Faculty Policies University Policy Library Faculty Life Housing Parenting Well-Being New Faculty Awards, Fellowships, and RFPs For Faculty For Graduate Students Research at Columbia Teaching Resources Library Tools Academic Calendar CourseWorks Registrar CUIT Services for Faculty SSOL Office of the Provost You are here: Home News and Announcements Updated COVID Language for Offer/Reappointment Letters for Academic Personnel Faculty Affairs Updated COVID Language for Offer/Reappointment Letters for Academic Personnel March 24, 2022 Link to: Offer and Reappointment Letter Templates With the recent updating of the University’s COVID-19 protocols, we have revised the relevant paragraphs in the offer/reappointment letters for faculty, officers of research, and officers of the libraries. Please start using these versions immediately in all your letters. For All Faculty UNIVERSITY PUBLIC HEALTH PROTOCOLS COVID-19 Vaccine Mandate Absent a medical or a religious exemption, COVID-19 vaccination, including a booster, is mandatory for all University faculty, officers of research, officers of the libraries, and students, and full vaccination should be completed as soon as possible. Required Protocol for Reporting to Campus All faculty reporting to campus must comply with the University Public Health Protocols that define Columbia’s approach to protecting the safety of the community. Since all classes will meet in person, to enable faculty to comply with the vaccination mandate and teach in person, your departmental administrator will alert you once your appointment has been updated in the Human Resources system. At that time, you should reference https://covid19.columbia.edu/content/columbia-university-vaccination-attestation-tutorial to obtain the procedure for uploading your vaccination attestation. It is imperative that you follow these guidelines as soon as you are notified since proof of your vaccination will be required to give you access to the campus. In addition, all faculty on campus must comply with the basic public health protocols that define Columbia’s approach to protecting the safety of the community. These include the following: Columbia University Test and Trace Program – includes both a gateway test when first on campus and ongoing surveillance testing Online Return-to-Work Training Continued observance of all protocols, as described in the University’s COVID-19 policies and guidelines. For more information, including COVID-19 policies and guidelines, please see the University COVID-19 website at https://covid19.columbia.edu/. Compliance with these measures is mandatory. The health of all depends upon our collective and ongoing commitment. For All Officers of Research and Officers of the Libraries: UNIVERSITY PUBLIC HEALTH PROTOCOLS COVID-19 Vaccine Mandate Absent a medical or a religious exemption, COVID-19 vaccination, including a booster, is mandatory for all University faculty, officers of research, officers of the libraries, and students, and full vaccination should be completed as soon as possible. Required Protocol for Reporting to Campus All officers of research and officers of the libraries reporting to campus must comply with the University Public Health Protocols that define Columbia’s approach to protecting the safety of the community. To enable you to comply with the vaccination mandate, your departmental administrator will alert you once your appointment has been updated in the Human Resources system. At that time, you should reference https://covid19.columbia.edu/content/columbia-university-vaccination-attestation-tutorial to obtain the procedure for uploading your vaccination attestation. It is imperative that you follow these guidelines as soon as you are notified since proof of your vaccination will be required to give you access to the campus. In addition, all officers of research and officers of the libraries on campus must comply with the basic public health protocols that define Columbia’s approach to protecting the safety of the community. These include the following: Columbia University Test and Trace Program – includes both a gateway test when first on campus and ongoing surveillance testing Online Return-to-Work Training Continued observance of all protocols, as described in the University’s COVID-19 policies and guidelines. For more information, including COVID-19 policies and guidelines, please see the University COVID-19 website at https://covid19.columbia.edu/. Compliance with these measures is mandatory. The health of all depends upon our collective and ongoing commitment. Please feel free to contact one of us if you have any questions. Thanks. Carmen and Zeid Carmen DeLeon Zeid Sitnica Assistant Provosts for Academic Appointments Tags Faculty Affairs Office of the Provost535 W. 116th Street, 205 Low Memorial Library, Mail Code 4313 · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2403 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close