Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of the Provost Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Offices Resources Announcements Provost Mary C. Boyce Vice Provosts Past Provosts About the Office Advisory Committees University Leadership Vice Provost Offices Academic Programs Communications and Engagement Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Senior Vice Provost Faculty Advancement Faculty Affairs Fourth Purpose and Strategic Impact Teaching, Learning, and Innovation University Libraries Other Reporting Units Educational Programs Educational Agreements Educational Programs Approval Policies and Appointments Faculty Handbook Selected Faculty Policies University Policy Library Faculty Life Housing Parenting Well-Being New Faculty Awards, Fellowships, and RFPs For Faculty For Graduate Students Research at Columbia Teaching Resources Library Tools Academic Calendar CourseWorks Registrar CUIT Services for Faculty SSOL Office of the Provost You are here: Home Resources Awards, Fellowships, and RFPs Graduate Student Awards, Fellowships, and RFPs Graduate Student Awards, Fellowships, and RFPs The Office of the Provost administers the following funding opportunities for graduate students. Expand all Collapse all For Graduate Students Dolores Zohrab Liebmann Fellowship The purpose of the fund is to attract and support promising graduate students with outstanding character in their chosen fields of study. Learn more. Shardashish Interschool Fellowship This fellowship is available to students in certain master's programs. Awardees demonstrate established commitment to India and its future and demonstrated financial need. Preference is given to residents of India. Learn more. Presidential Awards for Outstanding Teaching The Presidential Awards for Outstanding Teaching are a way to honor the University’s best teachers, among both faculty and graduate students. This award is a great honor, as it demonstrates commitment to excellent and often innovative teaching as recognized by the entire Columbia community. Learn more. Lemann Foundation Interschool Fellowship This program aims to contribute to accelerating positive social change in Brazil through providing financial assistance to master’s students with a commitment to addressing crucial development challenges facing Brazil. Learn more. Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty Advancement Learn about other Faculty Career Development sessions Return to the Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty Advancement homepage (212) 854-0350 [email protected] Office of the Provost535 W. 116th Street, 205 Low Memorial Library, Mail Code 4313 · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2403 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close