Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of the Provost Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Offices Resources Announcements Provost Mary C. Boyce Vice Provosts Past Provosts About the Office Advisory Committees University Leadership Vice Provost Offices Academic Programs Communications and Engagement Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Senior Vice Provost Faculty Advancement Faculty Affairs Fourth Purpose and Strategic Impact Teaching, Learning, and Innovation University Libraries Other Reporting Units Educational Programs Educational Agreements Educational Programs Approval Policies and Appointments Faculty Handbook Selected Faculty Policies University Policy Library Faculty Life Housing Parenting Well-Being New Faculty Awards, Fellowships, and RFPs For Faculty For Graduate Students Research at Columbia Teaching Resources Library Tools Academic Calendar CourseWorks Registrar CUIT Services for Faculty SSOL Office of the Provost You are here: Home Directory Seth M. Marnin Seth M. Marnin Seth M. Marnin is a leader and advocate in higher education and the law who serves as Director of Training and Education for the Office of Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. In this role, Seth directs the development and implementation of EOAA policies, procedures, training, and education efforts. He manages the office’s programs, materials, and initiatives to prevent and respond to discrimination, harassment, and gender-based misconduct. He began his career in student affairs and residential life at the University at Albany; he later joined the University of Connecticut as the Director of Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Transgender Resources. Seth moved from higher education to practicing employment law at Outten & Golden LLP. He subsequently served as the Vice President for Civil Rights at the Anti-Defamation League (ADL) where he oversaw ADL’s domestic civil rights agenda. Before joining Columbia University’s Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Office, Seth founded Workplace Strategies, a consulting firm advising non-profits on a range of legal issues related to nondiscrimination, sexual harassment, equal opportunity, and affirmative action. Seth has spoken nationally and internationally on LGBTQ issues, hate crime laws, discrimination, civil rights, religious liberty, the First Amendment and academic freedom. He co-authored friend-of-the-court briefs in numerous cases before the U.S. Supreme Court and appellate courts around the country. Seth earned his BA in Women’s Studies and Sociology and his MA in Liberal Studies from the University at Albany, SUNY and his JD from the University of Connecticut School of Law. Director of Training and Education, Office of Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Contact Info Office of Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action, Rm 103 Low Library, Mail Code: 535 West 116th Street, New York NY 10027, United States +1 212 854 9952 [email protected] Office of the Provost535 W. 116th Street, 205 Low Memorial Library, Mail Code 4313 · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2403 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close