Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of the Provost Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Offices Resources Announcements Provost Mary C. Boyce Vice Provosts Past Provosts About the Office Advisory Committees University Leadership Vice Provost Offices Academic Programs Communications and Engagement Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Senior Vice Provost Faculty Advancement Faculty Affairs Fourth Purpose and Strategic Impact Teaching, Learning, and Innovation University Libraries Other Reporting Units Educational Programs Educational Agreements Educational Programs Approval Policies and Appointments Faculty Handbook Selected Faculty Policies University Policy Library Faculty Life Housing Parenting Well-Being New Faculty Awards, Fellowships, and RFPs For Faculty For Graduate Students Research at Columbia Teaching Resources Library Tools Academic Calendar CourseWorks Registrar CUIT Services for Faculty SSOL Office of the Provost You are here: Home Directory Karen Fife Karen Fife Karen Fife joined the Office of the Provost in April 2016 as Director of the Metro New York & Southern Connecticut Higher Education Recruitment Consortium (MNYSC HERC). She is responsible for maintaining and expanding the MNYSC HERC and providing significant project leadership to the more than 30 member institutions of the regional HERC. The MNYSC HERC is one of 19 region affiliates of HERC, a non-profit coalition of colleges, universities, hospitals, research labs, government agencies, and related non- and for-profit organizations, committed to diversifying the pipeline of faculty, staff, and executives in academia. HERC supports our member institutions in recruiting and retaining outstanding and diverse employees. Our regional consortium of colleges and universities work together to facilitate up-to-date information resources, technologies, and a professional network to help each other with recruitment and retention issues. Of particular interest to HERC is creating tools for dual-career spouses and partners and diversifying faculty and staff applicant pools of member institutions. HERC maintains one of the only regionally based higher education job site in the Metro New York Southern Connecticut area and offers members access to HERConnect, our virtual member portal, which houses HERC’s webinars and toolkits and discussion platforms. Before joining MNYSC HERC/EOAA in the Office of the Provost, Ms. Fife worked for over 20 years in corporate human resources in strategic staffing, compensation and budget planning, and performance and talent management. Director of HERC, Office of Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Contact Info 535 West 116th Street, Room 103 Low Library, New York NY 10027, United States +1 212 854 5449 [email protected] Office of the Provost535 W. 116th Street, 205 Low Memorial Library, Mail Code 4313 · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2403 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close