Skip to main content Utility Links University of Pennsylvania Office of the Provost Group Created with Sketch. Group Created with Sketch. search Group Created with Sketch. full menu Primary Nav Penn Provost About Education Faculty Research Global Policies Contact Drawer Menu Penn Provost About Explore Back to main menu About the Interim Provost Vice Provosts Provost's Councils Explore Back to main menu Academic Planning and Budget Council of Deans Council of Graduate Deans Council of Professional Master's Degree Deans Council of Undergraduate Deans Graduate Council of the Faculties Provost Council on Research Provost's Staff Conference Centers & Institutes Explore Back to main menu Environmental Innovations Initiative Explore Back to main menu Our Team Research Arts at Penn Explore Back to main menu Annenberg Center Arthur Ross Gallery Institute of Contemporary Art Kelly Writers House Penn Museum Platt Student Performing Arts House Sachs Program for Arts Innovation Campaign for Community Explore Back to main menu Grants Contact Us Provost Administrative Affairs Explore Back to main menu Return to Campus Finance Explore Back to main menu Toolbox Financial Policies Work From Home Equipment Tracking (PennKey Required) Payroll Purchasing Services Payments and Reimbursements Gifts and Endowments Funding Opportunities Strategic Planning Human Resources Explore Back to main menu Human Resources Policies Position (New and Reclass) and Compensation Requests (PennKey Required) Hiring a Staff Member Hiring a Student Worker Hiring a Temporary Staff Member Background Checks Onboarding and I-9 Process Leave Administration (FML, STD, PPL) Individual Service Providers Performance Appraisals and Merit Increases Academic Technology & Planning Planning, Design, & Construction Workday@Penn Contact Provost Administrative Affairs Explore Back to main menu Departments/Centers Reporting to Provost Education Explore Back to main menu COVID-19 ACADEMIC INFORMATION AND RESOURCES Explore Back to main menu Summer 2022 COVID-19 FAQs for Instructors Summer 2022 COVID-19 FAQs for Students Undergraduate Education Graduate and Professional Education Explore Back to main menu Graduate Admissions Graduate Degrees Explore Back to main menu Graduation Information Explore Back to main menu Graduate Degree Calendar Graduate Groups Graduation FAQs Dissertation and Thesis Deposit Explore Back to main menu Dissertation Copyright Dissertation Embargo Guidelines Dissertation Templates ETD Administrator Formatting FAQs Sample Dissertation Title Page Resources for PhD Students Graduate Student Center Family Resource Center Fontaine Society Teaching at Penn Explore Back to main menu Teaching Awards TCPW Award Penn TA Prize Faculty Council Brief Center for Teaching and Learning Resources for Administrators Wellness Ambassadors Accreditation About the Vice Provost Contact Faculty Explore Back to main menu Faculty Handbook Research Global Policies Contact Search Group Created with Sketch. Formatting FAQs Basic Page Sidebar Menu Penn Provost About Explore Back to main menu About the Interim Provost Vice Provosts Provost's Councils Explore Back to main menu Academic Planning and Budget Council of Deans Council of Graduate Deans Council of Professional Master's Degree Deans Council of Undergraduate Deans Graduate Council of the Faculties Provost Council on Research Provost's Staff Conference Centers & Institutes Explore Back to main menu Environmental Innovations Initiative Explore Back to main menu Our Team Research Arts at Penn Explore Back to main menu Annenberg Center Arthur Ross Gallery Institute of Contemporary Art Kelly Writers House Penn Museum Platt Student Performing Arts House Sachs Program for Arts Innovation Campaign for Community Explore Back to main menu Grants Contact Us Provost Administrative Affairs Explore Back to main menu Return to Campus Finance Explore Back to main menu Toolbox Financial Policies Work From Home Equipment Tracking (PennKey Required) Payroll Purchasing Services Payments and Reimbursements Gifts and Endowments Funding Opportunities Strategic Planning Human Resources Explore Back to main menu Human Resources Policies Position (New and Reclass) and Compensation Requests (PennKey Required) Hiring a Staff Member Hiring a Student Worker Hiring a Temporary Staff Member Background Checks Onboarding and I-9 Process Leave Administration (FML, STD, PPL) Individual Service Providers Performance Appraisals and Merit Increases Academic Technology & Planning Planning, Design, & Construction Workday@Penn Contact Provost Administrative Affairs Explore Back to main menu Departments/Centers Reporting to Provost Education Explore Back to main menu COVID-19 ACADEMIC INFORMATION AND RESOURCES Explore Back to main menu Summer 2022 COVID-19 FAQs for Instructors Summer 2022 COVID-19 FAQs for Students Undergraduate Education Graduate and Professional Education Explore Back to main menu Graduate Admissions Graduate Degrees Explore Back to main menu Graduation Information Explore Back to main menu Graduate Degree Calendar Graduate Groups Graduation FAQs Dissertation and Thesis Deposit Explore Back to main menu Dissertation Copyright Dissertation Embargo Guidelines Dissertation Templates ETD Administrator Formatting FAQs Sample Dissertation Title Page Resources for PhD Students Graduate Student Center Family Resource Center Fontaine Society Teaching at Penn Explore Back to main menu Teaching Awards TCPW Award Penn TA Prize Faculty Council Brief Center for Teaching and Learning Resources for Administrators Wellness Ambassadors Accreditation About the Vice Provost Contact Faculty Explore Back to main menu Faculty Handbook Research Global Policies Contact Frequently Asked Questions Where can I get help with formatting my dissertation? Where can I find the Dissertation Formatting Guide, formerly the Dissertation Manual? Why must I format my dissertation this way? How do I find my committee member’s rank and title? How do I find my graduate group coordinator? How do I find my graduate group’s official name? Do I need signatures on my Title Page? Can page numbers go in the margins? Which pages don’t need page numbers? How do I format a landscape page? What if my charts and illustrations are blurry? Where can I get help with formatting my dissertation? One on one dissertation formatting support is available starting in Spring 2022, for students who have formatting questions, need technical support in Word, or just for peace of mind before a deposit appointment. Students can book a virtual appointment on Calend.ly with our Graduate Fellow or can attend drop in hours at the Graduate Student Center. Spring 2022 Drop-in Schedule Located at the Graduate Student Center Room 301 Wednesdays, 2:00-5:00pm Thursdays, 9:00am-12:00pm Where can I find the Dissertation Formatting Guide, formerly the Dissertation Manual? There are multiple resources to help you format your dissertation: PhD Dissertation Formatting Guide Master's Thesis Style Guide PhD Dissertation Formatting Checklist Templates (including a PhD Dissertation Template in LaTeX) Why must I format my dissertation this way? Dissertations must be formatted properly in order to be approved for publication. Please review the Dissertation Formatting Guide and Dissertation Formatting Template or Master's Thesis Style Guide early and often as you write your dissertation or thesis. If your deposited dissertation is rejected more than once, it may delay your graduation term. All revisions must be completed by the Last Day to Deposit, per the Graduation Calendar. This deadline is firm and will not be extended. How do I find my committee member’s rank and title? You may use the Penn Directory to find the rank and division to enter on your committee member’s title line on the Title Page. If your committee member is external to Penn, please include their affiliation after rank and department. If you are still unsure of your committee member’s full name and title, please consult your graduate group coordinator for help. Remember that all committees must comply with the rules for dissertation committee composition. How do I find my graduate group coordinator? You can find contact information for your graduate group coordinator on your graduate group’s website. How do I find my graduate group’s official name? The exact official graduate group name must be used on the Title Page of the dissertation. Consult the list of formal PhD graduate group names. Students in Romance Languages or the Graduate Group in Managerial Science and Applied Economics (Wharton Doctoral) must also include their field of specialization above the graduate group name. These students should refer to the special Romance Languages or Wharton Title Page Samples. Do I need signatures on my Title Page? No, signatures on the Title Page are now optional. However, if you do decide to collect signatures, BOTH the Supervisor AND Graduate Group Chair must sign. Partial signatures will not be accepted. Can page numbers go in the margins? Absolutely nothing can be in the margin space. No text, no page numbers, no footnotes, no headers, no graphs, no charts, nor illustrations may encroach on the blank margin space. Which pages don’t need page numbers? The Title page (required) and Copyright page (optional) do not have page numbers on them. The Title page is understood to be page “i” for counting purposes, but no page number should be visible on the Title page. The Copyright page is page "ii" for counting purposes, but no number should be visible on the page. The first numbered page will start after the Title page and Copyright page. All other pages in the dissertation must be numbered. How do I format a landscape page? Landscape pages are allowed, but they must be formatted as they would be in a book: i.e., they are rotated counterclockwise 90 degrees and bound along the top. A landscape page will have a 1.5 inch margin on the top (instead of the left) and 1 inch margins on the right, bottom, and left. The page number will be on the left side of the page (instead of the bottom), and the number will be horizontal. View a sample of a properly formatted landscape page. What if my charts and illustrations are blurry? All supplemental materials and images in your dissertation must be legible. Updated 3/24/2022 122 College Hall University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA 19104 215-898-5000 provost@upenn.edu ©2022 University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104 Footer Menu University of Pennsylvania Penn Directory Site Credits