Skip to main content Office of the Provost Navigation The Office Office of the ProvostMichael D. JohnsonLeadership TeamCollegesReporting UnitsUniversity-wide CommitteesProvost StaffProvost Appearance Request Form Initiatives UCF Strategic Investment Program Faculty OverviewFaculty RecruitmentFaculty Center for Teaching and LearningFaculty ExcellenceFaculty SenateAwardsUndergraduate CurriculumFaculty Resources Contact Newsroom Office of the Provost University of Central Florida Skip to Section Coronavirus Updates: Click here for more information | Faculty Toolkit Provost’s Welcome At UCF, innovation thrives and students of all backgrounds can realize dreams of a brighter future. Our talented and entrepreneurial faculty lift our society through their research, scholarship and creativity. UCF is a top producer of talent among America's public universities. We embrace inclusion and academic excellence as we transform lives and address the workforce needs of our diverse state and nation. On many fronts, our faculty, staff, students and alumni make our world a better place through creativity, caring and community service. The best part of all: We are just getting started in discovering how impactful our Knights family can be. Let's keep charging on! Michael D. Johnson Michael D. Johnson Provost and Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs Learn More About the Provost Follow @UCFJohnson Advancing Student Success, Faculty Excellence and Impact The Office of the Provost and Academic Affairs oversees the academic enterprise of the university. The office champions faculty excellence, works to enhance student learning and implements academic policies and procedures. Learn more about what we do. Faculty Focused A robust faculty is the foundation of UCF’s academic enterprise. We attract and retain excellent faculty members by championing opportunity, personal growth, diversity and inclusion. Faculty Excellence Faculty Center for Teaching and Learning Provost Forums Center For Distributed Learning Faculty Multimedia Center Student success UCF provides a high-value college experience that prepares students to invigorate the workforce and make the world a better place. UCF Undergraduate Admissions UCF Graduate Admissions Burnett Honors College High-Impact Practices Integrative Academic Center for Engagement Student Development and Enrollment Services Info & Resources See the academic calendar and explore important details about promotion and tenure, research, recognition and more. Academic Calender Academic Catalogs Promotion & Tenure Research Faculty Recognition Faculty Resources More Information >> News & Information Check out more stories Philanthropist MacKenzie Scott Makes $40 Million Transformational Investment in UCF The largest gift in the university’s history will enhance student success, academic  excellence and faculty research for generations. Learn More May 31 New Physical Therapy Professor Brings Clinical Research, Passion to Position Abigail “Abby” Wilson always knew that she wanted to help people. She wanted to have more than a successful career – she wanted to have a purpose that made her feel… Continue reading › May 31 ‘Brain-on-a-Chip’ Technology Advances Toward a New Form of Drug Screening AUCF researcher’s work to create a “brain-on-a-chip” aims to improve neurological disorder research by speeding up drug discovery and providing an alternative to animal testing. James Hickman — professor of chemistry, biomolecular… Continue reading › May 31 Research in 60 Seconds Video: Examining Effective Crisis Communication Whether it’s solving the world’s biggest problems or investigating the potential of novel discoveries, researchers at UCF are on the edge scientific breakthroughs that aim to make an impact. Through… Continue reading › Thirteen colleges. Unlimited possibilities. At UCF, being big means you have more options. Check out our 220+ degree programs, award-winning faculty, groundbreaking research and exciting opportunities — there’s so much to experience and learn at Florida’s largest university. Arts and Humanities Business Burnett Honors Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Rosen College of Hospitality Management Sciences Graduate Studies Undergraduate Studies Office of The Provost and Academic Affairs Millican Hall, Room 331 Orlando, FL 32816-0065 Phone: 407-823-2302 Fax: 407-823-6379 provost@ucf.edu Links The Office Initiatives Faculty Contact Resources UCF Home Privacy Policy Policies and Procedures Emergency Information