Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of the Provost Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Offices Resources Announcements Provost Mary C. Boyce Vice Provosts Past Provosts About the Office Advisory Committees University Leadership Vice Provost Offices Academic Programs Communications and Engagement Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Senior Vice Provost Faculty Advancement Faculty Affairs Fourth Purpose and Strategic Impact Teaching, Learning, and Innovation University Libraries Other Reporting Units Educational Programs Educational Agreements Educational Programs Approval Policies and Appointments Faculty Handbook Selected Faculty Policies University Policy Library Faculty Life Housing Parenting Well-Being New Faculty Awards, Fellowships, and RFPs For Faculty For Graduate Students Research at Columbia Teaching Resources Library Tools Academic Calendar CourseWorks Registrar CUIT Services for Faculty SSOL Office of the Provost You are here: Home Faculty Service Award Faculty Service Award The Faculty Service Award recognizes full-time faculty whose extraordinary and creative voluntary service has contributed significantly to the University’s diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) efforts. Recognized activities may include substantial service on a university-wide or school-wide diversity/equity committee and/or development/implementation of DEI programming that impacts Columbia and its neighbors (i.e. anti-racist initiatives, pipeline programs, community service programs, etc.). Meet the 2022 recipients of the Faculty Service Award Selection Process The selection process begins with an open nominations period when any member of the Columbia University faculty can nominate an eligible faculty member. The Selection Committee reviews all nominations, requests dossiers for a pool of finalists they wish to consider for the award, and ultimately chooses up to five winners to recommend to the Provost. Eligibility requirements Full-time faculty members with an official academic appointment are eligible to be nominated. Barnard and Teachers College faculty, visiting faculty and campus-level administrators (e.g., in the offices of the President and Provost, deans or department chairs) are not eligible for this award. Nominees should have engaged in volunteer service activities that impacted faculty and/or students, including activities that benefit underrepresented groups (e.g., scholarship, community engagement and/or student mentorship). Service activities can be at the program, department/unit, college, or university level. This award is bestowed as a once in a lifetime achievement. Past winners are not eligible to receive a second award. Selection Criteria A demonstrated, sustained commitment to DEI-focused service activities A record of innovative and impactful service A history of consistent University service Strength of letters of support from school/department/unit leadership If you have questions about the Faculty Service Award, please contact the Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty Advancement at [email protected] Meet Past Faculty Service Award Recipients Office of the Provost535 W. 116th Street, 205 Low Memorial Library, Mail Code 4313 · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2403 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close