Skip to main content Office of the Provost About Academic Leadership Academic Initiatives Faculty Resources Open Searches Academic Initiatives Part Time Bachelor’s Degree for Non-traditional Students Proposal In the spring of 2021, the provost convened a committee to explore the possibility of expanding access to a Cornell education to non-traditional students. The committee reviewed programs at other universities, consulted experts, and considered our capacity for offering this option to certain populations that would not be in competition with our traditional, residential students. Part Time Bachelor’s Degree for Non-traditional Students Proposal (PDF) School of Public Policy and Super-Departments Building on the Provost’s Review of the Social Sciences, Cornell announced the development of a School of Public Policy as well as cross-college super-departments in psychology, sociology and economics. These initiatives will elevate Cornell’s excellence and prominence in public policy and will foster collaboration among faculty in core social science disciplines who are based in multiple colleges. Explore Bolstering Cornell’s Excellence in the Social Sciences External Education Cornell delivers a broad range of courses and learning programs to individuals and organizations across the world through online, in-person and blended formats. Through the external education initiative and eCornell, the Provost’s office supports faculty who are interested in developing learning experiences to strategically extend the reach of the university. Cornell faculty from every college and school have designed over 150 professional certificates and lifelong learning programs available through eCornell. These offerings encompass both courses for individual professionals as well as executive education tailored to the needs of companies, governments and nonprofits. The external education initiative also includes the development of social impact programs that help underserved audiences access learning opportunities, improving lives and careers across the world. Explore External Education Celebrating Radical Collaboration in Faculty Research Cornell is launching an ambitious series of initiatives to enhance faculty hiring and pave the way to new discovery. The focus areas target and elevate strategic, radically collaborative discipline areas that point the way toward the discoveries and solutions of tomorrow: nanoscale science and molecular engineering; genome biology; data science; sustainability; the social sciences; infection biology; and the humanities and arts. Each area will have a dedicated task force led by faculty members. Over the next couple of years, Cornell will be aligning its strategic fundraising initiatives around this investment in academics, both on the multidisciplinary side and in the university’s traditional areas of strength. This will help us recruit the faculty that will ensure Cornell’s future excellence, inspiring our students and creating new knowledge that will influence the world. Explore Radical Collaboration in Faculty Research Community-Engaged Learning Initiative In 2015, the university launched the Community-Engaged Learning Initiative, an effort to grow and enhance community-engaged learning opportunities for Cornell students. The initiative builds upon Cornell’s founding land grant mission and commitment to “knowledge with a public purpose.” Innovation in teaching and learning is the core means of realizing this institutional mission through shared practices that connect students, faculty, and curricula with communities and with the public realm in local, national, and global arenas through meaningful reciprocal partnerships addressing the world’s biggest challenges. The David M. Einhorn Center for Community Engagement stewards this transformational initiative which was established with a $50 million gift from the Einhorn Collaborative. Read more about the initiative Faculty Development and Diversity The Office of Faculty Development & Diversity (OFDD) provides a range of resources, training, and support for deans, department chairs, and individual faculty members in the areas of faculty development and diversity. The OFDD works with deans, chairs, and search committees to improve recruitment and retention practices and to increase diversity in faculty hiring. It provides guidance to the academic leadership and to individual faculty members on mentoring and the tenure and promotion processes. The OFDD offers a variety of professional development programming and grants opportunities for faculty. The office actively collaborates with the Division of Human Resources, the Dean of the University Faculty, and other offices on campus in its efforts to support the success and well-being of all faculty members. Explore Faculty Development and Diversity In fall 2017 the Provost convened a faculty task force to recommend new approaches to enhance and accelerate the diversity of the Cornell faculty. The task force conducted an extensive review of current programs at Cornell and researched best practices nationally. Several recommendations for recruiting and retaining under-represented and women faculty and enhancing the climate for faculty at Cornell are outlined in the final report. Report of the Provost’s Task Force to Enhance Faculty Diversity (PDF) Global Cornell Initiative Cornell is a global university with a core value of exploration across boundaries. To prepare students for leadership and service in an interdependent world, the university launched the Global Cornell initiative in fall 2013. During the first years of the initiative, members of the Cornell community created new linkages where none existed before, both within the university and with partners worldwide. Since then, Global Cornell has become a community of belonging with a border-crossing spirit of exploration, learning, and shared discovery. Our internationally engaged units foster high-impact international research and collaborations, teach and mentor the next generation of global citizens, and support international experiences and cultural exchange for all Cornellians. Explore Global Cornell The Living–Learning Experience All first-year students live together on North Campus as part of a living–learning community that fosters academic and intellectual learning, personal development, holistic well-being, and a sense of belonging and connectedness. Faculty-in-Residence (who live in the residence halls) and Faculty Fellows play pivotal roles, encouraging students to make meaningful connections with faculty members, inspiring learning outside the classroom, making the residence halls a space for learning as well as living, and deepening students’ intellectual experiences. The West Campus House System offers a living-learning experience for sophomores, juniors, and seniors. With the goal of bringing students and faculty together in a spirit of inquiry and active citizenship, the House System promotes meaningful interactions with faculty members; self-governance; intellectual, cultural, and social programming; privacy; and independence. West Campus includes five houses, each led by a House Professor-Dean who lives in the house. Each house also has 30 affiliated House Fellows who interact with residents during meals and programs. Public Engagement Council To support Cornell’s strategic goal of “Excellence in Public Engagement,” the Provost established a campus-wide Public Engagement Council comprised of senior staff and tenured faculty. The Council is co-chaired by the Vice Provost and the Provost’s Fellows for Public Engagement and is advisory to the Vice Provost and Provost. The Public Engagement Council is currently on hiatus. Updates coming May 2022. Explore the Public Engagement Council The Active Learning Initiative at Cornell The Active Learning Initiative supports departments in redesigning their courses to implement research-based active learning strategies and to create sustainable improvements to undergraduate education at Cornell. Initiated in 2012 with the help of Alex and Laura Hanson ’87 and initially overseen by the College of Arts and Sciences, the Active Learning Initiative has already enhanced the learning experience for thousands of Cornell students. Explore the The Active Learning Initiative at Cornell Innovative Teaching and Learning Awards Cornell encourages instructors to propose and implement projects that explore new tools and emerging technologies, approaches, and teaching strategies to facilitate vibrant, challenging, and reflective learning experiences at Cornell. This program is administered by the Center for Teaching Innovation. Explore the Innovative Teaching and Learning Awards Office of the Provost Michael I. Kotlikoff 300 Day Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 (607) 255-2364 (607) 255-9924 provost@cornell.edu Chief Administrator Patty Ard (607) 255-9979 Executive Assistant to the Provost Elizabeth A. Hays (607) 255-2364 © 2022 Cornell University Our Leadership Leadership Board of Trustees Office of the President Provost for Medical Affairs Senior Administration More Information University Organization University Statements If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.