Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Office of the Provost People Committees Policies Faculty Resources Research Academic Priorities Budget Transformative Investments in the School of Engineering & Applied Science and the Faculty of Arts and Sciences We are excited to announce a new investment in the School of Engineering & Applied Science (SEAS) and the Faculty of Arts and Sciences (FAS) that will accelerate our educational and research missions. Read More The Future of the Yale School of Public Health Yale University will transition the Yale School of Public Health (YSPH) into a self-supporting, independent school and pledge $150 million of endowment toward YSPH’s teaching, research, and practice. Read More University Budget Update 2021-22 Yale finished the fiscal year ending June 30, 2021 (FY21) with strong financial results, which put it in an excellent financial position to accelerate investments in the academic mission of the university and its people. Read More Building(s) for the Future of Yale President Peter Salovey and Provost Scott Strobel highlight many new and improved spaces around the Yale campus. Read More Yale’s New Commitments to Mitigating Climate Change Yale announces commitments—to research and teaching, to the campus’s use of carbon, and to how it invests its endowment—that will allow the university to address the challenge of climate change. Read More Previous Next Welcome News and Announcements Town Hall on the Advanced Instrumentation Development Center (AIDC) in the Physical Science and Engineering Building May 19, 2022 We write to invite you to an in-person town hall on May 27, 2022 at 2 pm in the YSB Marsh Lecture Hall for an update on the planning for the Advanced Instrumentation... Important Updates on Masking and Gathering Policies March 10, 2022 Dear Members of the Yale Community, Based on public health conditions and new guidance from the Centers for Disease Control (CDC), we write today to announce that we will... The Future of the Yale School of Public Health February 25, 2022 Dear Members of the Yale School of Public Health Community, We write to share plans for the Yale School of Public Health (YSPH), based on your input over the past several... Investing in the Future Leaders of Medicine, Nursing, and Public Health February 24, 2022 Dear Members of the Yale Community, We write to announce that Yale is creating endowment funds totaling $250 million to support the development of future leaders in medicine... More news... Provost Scott A. Strobel Scott Strobel is the Henry Ford II Professor of Molecular Biophysics & Biochemistry (MB&B) and was appointed as provost of Yale University in January 2020. Read more about Provost Strobel and the role of the University Provost. Contact the provost Welcome to the Office of the Provost The provost is Yale’s chief educational and administrative officer. The Office of the Provost oversees academic policies and activities university-wide. The provost is an ex-officio member of every faculty and governing board and of all committees concerned with educational policy or faculty appointments. They have direct oversight of all academic support units, hold institutional responsibility for the allocation of resources, and chair the University Budget Committee. In collaboration with the vice president for finance, the provost presents the university’s annual operating and capital budgets to the president and to the Yale Corporation. The vice, associate, and assistant provosts, together with the provost’s administrative and operations staff, support the provost in carrying out these responsibilities. Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Office of the Provost | P.O. Box 208333, New Haven, CT 06520-8365 | Contact Us Facebook Twitter iTunes YouTube Sina Weibo Tumblr