Skip to main content Utility Links University of Pennsylvania Office of the Provost Group Created with Sketch. Group Created with Sketch. search Group Created with Sketch. full menu Primary Nav Penn Provost About Education Faculty Research Global Policies Contact Drawer Menu Penn Provost About Explore Back to main menu About the Interim Provost Vice Provosts Provost's Councils Explore Back to main menu Academic Planning and Budget Council of Deans Council of Graduate Deans Council of Professional Master's Degree Deans Council of Undergraduate Deans Graduate Council of the Faculties Provost Council on Research Provost's Staff Conference Centers & Institutes Explore Back to main menu Environmental Innovations Initiative Explore Back to main menu Our Team Research Arts at Penn Explore Back to main menu Annenberg Center Arthur Ross Gallery Institute of Contemporary Art Kelly Writers House Penn Museum Platt Student Performing Arts House Sachs Program for Arts Innovation Campaign for Community Explore Back to main menu Grants Contact Us Provost Administrative Affairs Explore Back to main menu Return to Campus Finance Explore Back to main menu Toolbox Financial Policies Work From Home Equipment Tracking (PennKey Required) Payroll Purchasing Services Payments and Reimbursements Gifts and Endowments Funding Opportunities Strategic Planning Human Resources Explore Back to main menu Human Resources Policies Position (New and Reclass) and Compensation Requests (PennKey Required) Hiring a Staff Member Hiring a Student Worker Hiring a Temporary Staff Member Background Checks Onboarding and I-9 Process Leave Administration (FML, STD, PPL) Individual Service Providers Performance Appraisals and Merit Increases Academic Technology & Planning Planning, Design, & Construction Workday@Penn Contact Provost Administrative Affairs Explore Back to main menu Departments/Centers Reporting to Provost Education Explore Back to main menu COVID-19 ACADEMIC INFORMATION AND RESOURCES Explore Back to main menu Summer 2022 COVID-19 FAQs for Instructors Summer 2022 COVID-19 FAQs for Students Undergraduate Education Graduate and Professional Education Explore Back to main menu Graduate Admissions Graduate Degrees Explore Back to main menu Graduation Information Explore Back to main menu Graduate Degree Calendar Graduate Groups Graduation FAQs Dissertation and Thesis Deposit Explore Back to main menu Dissertation Copyright Dissertation Embargo Guidelines Dissertation Templates ETD Administrator Formatting FAQs Sample Dissertation Title Page Resources for PhD Students Graduate Student Center Family Resource Center Fontaine Society Teaching at Penn Explore Back to main menu Teaching Awards TCPW Award Penn TA Prize Faculty Council Brief Center for Teaching and Learning Resources for Administrators Wellness Ambassadors Accreditation About the Vice Provost Contact Faculty Explore Back to main menu Faculty Handbook Research Global Policies Contact Search Group Created with Sketch. Hiring a Staff Member Basic Page Sidebar Menu Penn Provost About Explore Back to main menu About the Interim Provost Vice Provosts Provost's Councils Explore Back to main menu Academic Planning and Budget Council of Deans Council of Graduate Deans Council of Professional Master's Degree Deans Council of Undergraduate Deans Graduate Council of the Faculties Provost Council on Research Provost's Staff Conference Centers & Institutes Explore Back to main menu Environmental Innovations Initiative Explore Back to main menu Our Team Research Arts at Penn Explore Back to main menu Annenberg Center Arthur Ross Gallery Institute of Contemporary Art Kelly Writers House Penn Museum Platt Student Performing Arts House Sachs Program for Arts Innovation Campaign for Community Explore Back to main menu Grants Contact Us Provost Administrative Affairs Explore Back to main menu Return to Campus Finance Explore Back to main menu Toolbox Financial Policies Work From Home Equipment Tracking (PennKey Required) Payroll Purchasing Services Payments and Reimbursements Gifts and Endowments Funding Opportunities Strategic Planning Human Resources Explore Back to main menu Human Resources Policies Position (New and Reclass) and Compensation Requests (PennKey Required) Hiring a Staff Member Hiring a Student Worker Hiring a Temporary Staff Member Background Checks Onboarding and I-9 Process Leave Administration (FML, STD, PPL) Individual Service Providers Performance Appraisals and Merit Increases Academic Technology & Planning Planning, Design, & Construction Workday@Penn Contact Provost Administrative Affairs Explore Back to main menu Departments/Centers Reporting to Provost Education Explore Back to main menu COVID-19 ACADEMIC INFORMATION AND RESOURCES Explore Back to main menu Summer 2022 COVID-19 FAQs for Instructors Summer 2022 COVID-19 FAQs for Students Undergraduate Education Graduate and Professional Education Explore Back to main menu Graduate Admissions Graduate Degrees Explore Back to main menu Graduation Information Explore Back to main menu Graduate Degree Calendar Graduate Groups Graduation FAQs Dissertation and Thesis Deposit Explore Back to main menu Dissertation Copyright Dissertation Embargo Guidelines Dissertation Templates ETD Administrator Formatting FAQs Sample Dissertation Title Page Resources for PhD Students Graduate Student Center Family Resource Center Fontaine Society Teaching at Penn Explore Back to main menu Teaching Awards TCPW Award Penn TA Prize Faculty Council Brief Center for Teaching and Learning Resources for Administrators Wellness Ambassadors Accreditation About the Vice Provost Contact Faculty Explore Back to main menu Faculty Handbook Research Global Policies Contact The Provost Administrative Affairs Human Resources (PAA HR) office can guide you through the hiring process for vacancies, replacements, and/or reorganizations, reclassifications, etc. Utilizing our services will protect both you and the university; ensuring that all university and federal guidelines are being followed. The most up-to-date information regarding hiring can be found in the Hiring Officer’s Handbook (PennKey required). This handbook will assist you with posting a position, selecting and interviewing potential candidates, checking references, offering a position, and finalizing the hiring process. If you have any questions, please contact your Human Resources Director or the Talent Acquisition team. General information regarding hiring can be found below. New Position Requests If a department would like to add a new permanent position (full-time or part-time that is not filling an established position) the request must be submitted through the New Position or Additional Pay Request Process. Please visit our Position (New and Reclass) and Compensation Requests page (PennKey Required) for details and to submit your request. Posting an Open Position The Handbook section Creating and Posting a Job covers job posting requirements, differences between new and reclassified positions, and waiver of posting request. The Tip Sheet here provides checklists for information you will need to include for your Job Requisition and PIQ, as well as the steps you will need to take to complete the process. For Recruiting Coordinators, review this tip sheet for posting a staff job, closing a job requisition, freezing a job requisition, and reassigning responsibilities for managing candidates in the application process. The Hiring Officer Handbook also includes information on developing a viable applicant pool, and managing job requisitions. Exemption Requests from PAA Talent Acquisition Process To fill any Full Time or Part Time Regular Staff positions outside of the Office of Provost Administrative Affairs Talent Acquisition Process, you must complete this form. Please ensure you provide responses to all of the questions to support the exemption request. Your request will be routed for review, and an email will be sent to the person submitting the request when review is complete. Selecting a Candidate For information on reviewing applicants and moving candidates forward in the process, please see the Hiring Handbooks' Screening Applicant Pools page. Please also review Avoiding Bias in the Hiring Process as you select and interview candidates. This tip sheet provides step-by-step guidance for phases of the Job Application process, including: Review Candidate, Interview, Initiate and Extend Offer, Background Check, Ready for Hire and Undo Move. All applicants (internal and external) must apply for positions via Workday@Penn. If you are directly contacted by candidates, please ask them to apply online. Interviewing a Candidate The PAA HR team is available if you have questions or need assistance with the interviewing process. Additional information regarding interviewing is available in the Hiring Officer’s Handbook, including different interview formats, interview techniques and questions, and questions you may not ask a candidate before hiring. Please contact your Human Resources Director for a list of pre-employment dos and don'ts. Interviewing the candidate is required before conducting a reference check or initiating an offer. Initiate and Extend an Offer (including Background Checks) Please DO NOT make any offers, verbal or otherwise, before PAA HR has approved the hire and reviewed the details of the offer. Refer to the Hiring Officer Handbook for more information on the offer process, including generating the offer letter in Workday and conducting a background check. Ready for Hire This tip sheet, Hiring a Staff Candidate provides the step-by-step instructions for an HR Analyst or HR Partner to hire a Staff candidate in Workday, including assigning costing allocations, assigning organization, and onboarding set-up. Click here for the tip-sheet on Onboarding Setup in Workday. If you have any questions about the hiring process, please contact the Talent Acquisition team before you begin to complete this step. For more information on completing the in-person portion of Onboarding for new hires, see Onboarding and I-9 Process. After the Candidate is Hired Review expectations and goals with the staff member. Meet with him/her at regular intervals to review progress. At the end of the four-month introductory period for external candidates, complete an Introductory Period Performance Plan through the Online Performance Appraisal System, and review with the staff member. Miscellaneous Information The Hiring Officer Handbook also includes information on the following: Hiring Foreign Nationals Communicating with Candidates Not Selected for Hire Relocation Services 122 College Hall University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA 19104 215-898-5000 provost@upenn.edu ©2022 University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104 Footer Menu University of Pennsylvania Penn Directory Site Credits