Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of the Provost Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Offices Resources Announcements Provost Mary C. Boyce Vice Provosts Past Provosts About the Office Advisory Committees University Leadership Vice Provost Offices Academic Programs Communications and Engagement Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Senior Vice Provost Faculty Advancement Faculty Affairs Fourth Purpose and Strategic Impact Teaching, Learning, and Innovation University Libraries Other Reporting Units Educational Programs Educational Agreements Educational Programs Approval Policies and Appointments Faculty Handbook Selected Faculty Policies University Policy Library Faculty Life Housing Parenting Well-Being New Faculty Awards, Fellowships, and RFPs For Faculty For Graduate Students Research at Columbia Teaching Resources Library Tools Academic Calendar CourseWorks Registrar CUIT Services for Faculty SSOL Office of the Provost You are here: Home Vice Provost Offices and Other Reporting Units Vice Provost Offices and Other Reporting Units To find a member of the Office of the Provost by name, visit the directory. Expand all Collapse all Vice Provost Offices Academic Programs The Office of the Vice Provost for Academic Programs is responsible for overseeing University academic programs, monitoring educational partnerships with U.S. and foreign universities and organizations, managing University accreditation, advancing interdisciplinary programs within schools and departments, administering Presidential Teaching Awards for faculty and graduate students, and facilitating inter-school fellowships for graduate students. Communications and Engagement The Office of the Vice Provost for Communications and Engagement offers strategic and editorial support to a wide variety of provostial communications. The Vice Provost also manages the executive support team for the Provost. Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action EOAA develops and implements the University's nondiscrimination and affirmative action policies, procedures, and programs; investigates complaints of discrimination and harassment; and publishes the University's Affirmative Action Plan. Faculty Advancement The Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty Advancement works in close collaboration with the University's academic and administrative units to attract, advance, and retain a diverse faculty. The office facilitates faculty development, diversity, and planning initiatives with an emphasis on creating a welcoming and inclusive climate at the University. Faculty Affairs The Office of Vice Provost for Faculty Affairs ensures the continued excellence of Columbia's faculty and academic community by administering University policies governing academic appointments, tenure review, and faculty service, and to identifying and exploring issues of importance to the University. Senior Vice Provost The Office of the Senior Vice Provost supports the Office of the Provost’s mission to recruit and retain the most outstanding faculty members by supporting the administration and operation of many aspects of the University: space planning, faculty housing, travel planning and emergency protocols, child care and K-12 schooling, human resources, and financial management, among other areas. Teaching, Learning, and Innovation The Office of the Vice Provost for Teaching, Learning, and Innovation promotes and advances teaching, learning, and innovation at the University. The office is responsible for administering the Provost’s initiatives in teaching and learning, leading efforts in online education, providing support for schools to offer new and extending existing courses and programs to audiences around the world, reviewing new and existing online and hybrid degree and non-degree programs, and proposing, reviewing and disseminating policies on teaching and online education. University Libraries Reporting to the Vice Provost and University Librarian, the University Libraries supports research and teaching through its 23 libraries and extensive print and electronic collections. University Libraries also houses the Center for Teaching and Learning, the Center for Digital Research and Scholarship, and the Copyright Advisory Office. In addition to the Offices of the Vice Provosts, the other units report to the Provost. Expand all Collapse all Other Reporting Units Alliance Program Created in 2002, Alliance is an innovative academic joint-venture between Columbia University and three major French institutions: École Polytechnique, Sciences Po, and Paris 1 Panthéon-Sorbonne University. Columbia University Press Columbia University Press seeks to enhance Columbia’s educational and research mission by publishing outstanding original works by scholars and other intellectuals that contribute to an understanding of global human concerns. The Press also reflects the importance of its location in New York City in its publishing programs. Through book, reference, electronic publishing, and distribution services, it broadens the University’s international reputation. The Earth Institute Faculty Retirement The Office of Faculty Retirement supports Columbia faculty by providing information about retirement planning, transitioning to retirement, and a meaningful and productive post-retirement experience. International Students and Scholars Office The International Students and Scholars Office assists international students and scholars with visas and other immigration questions and with making the transition to the University's academic and cultural environment. Italian Academy for Advanced Studies in America The Italian Academy promotes research in Italian history and society, exhibits Italian culture and art, and fosters exchange between Italy and the United States. Office of Planning and Institutional Research The Office of Planning and Institutional Research provides information for managing the University and making decisions about its policies and goals. Office of Work/Life The Office of Work/Life promotes the development and utilization of Columbia's family-supportive benefits, policies, services, and programs. Work/Life is part of the Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty Advancement. The School at Columbia The School offers a rigorous education from kindergarten through eighth grade for children of Columbia families and the nearby community. Tompkins Hall Nursery & Childcare Center Founded by Columbia professors in the 1930s, Tompkins Hall supports children's growth starting at 3 months of age until 5 years of age. University Chaplain The Office of the University Chaplain ministers to the individual faith of the members of the University community while promoting inter-religious understanding. University Seminars The University Seminars at Columbia University brings together professors and other experts, from Columbia and elsewhere, who gather on an ongoing basis to consider issues of practical and theoretical importance that cross the boundaries of academic departments. Contact Us Academic Programs [email protected] Communications and Engagement [email protected] Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action [email protected] Faculty Advancement [email protected] [email protected] Faculty Affairs and Academic Appointments [email protected] [email protected] Senior Vice Provost [email protected] Teaching, Learning, and Innovation [email protected] University Libraries [email protected] General Inquiries: [email protected] [email protected] Office of the Provost535 W. 116th Street, 205 Low Memorial Library, Mail Code 4313 · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2403 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close