Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of the Provost Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Offices Resources Announcements Provost Mary C. Boyce Vice Provosts Past Provosts About the Office Advisory Committees University Leadership Vice Provost Offices Academic Programs Communications and Engagement Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Senior Vice Provost Faculty Advancement Faculty Affairs Fourth Purpose and Strategic Impact Teaching, Learning, and Innovation University Libraries Other Reporting Units Educational Programs Educational Agreements Educational Programs Approval Policies and Appointments Faculty Handbook Selected Faculty Policies University Policy Library Faculty Life Housing Parenting Well-Being New Faculty Awards, Fellowships, and RFPs For Faculty For Graduate Students Research at Columbia Teaching Resources Library Tools Academic Calendar CourseWorks Registrar CUIT Services for Faculty SSOL Office of the Provost You are here: Home Directory Sheanine Allen Sheanine Allen Sheanine Allen, EdD, joined the Office of the Provost in November 2018 as Assistant Director of Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action and was promoted to Senior Associate Director of Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action in January 2020. She is responsible for ensuring compliance with the University's policies, and federal, state, and local laws regarding equal opportunity, affirmative action, and non-discrimination. This includes assisting in the preparation of the University's Affirmative Action Plans, facilitating data collection for the Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs audits, and adhering to the Affirmative Action Policies and Procedures as they pertain to the recruitment and promotion of faculty and staff of the University. She also manages the day-to-day operations and maintenance of the Recruitment of Academic Personnel System (RAPS). In collaboration with CUHR, Sheanine also monitors the University's employment and compensation systems to evaluate their impact on women, minorities, veterans and individuals with disabilities. Before joining the Office of the Provost, Sheanine was the Alumni Relations Coordinator for the Columbia University School of Professional Studies, an Adjunct Assistant Professor in Curriculum and Instruction at a local university, and a Project Coordinator for the DOE grant-funded initiative College Access for All. Sheanine received her BA in English and Religion from Wake Forest University and MA in English from North Carolina Central University. She was a doctoral research fellow in the Department of Administrative and Instructional Leadership at St. John’s University School of Education where she completed her EdD in Instructional Leadership. Senior Associate Director, Office of Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Contact Info 103 Low Library 535 West 116th Street New York NY 10027, United States [email protected] Office of the Provost535 W. 116th Street, 205 Low Memorial Library, Mail Code 4313 · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2403 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close