Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of the Provost Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Offices Resources Announcements Provost Mary C. Boyce Vice Provosts Past Provosts About the Office Advisory Committees University Leadership Vice Provost Offices Academic Programs Communications and Engagement Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Senior Vice Provost Faculty Advancement Faculty Affairs Fourth Purpose and Strategic Impact Teaching, Learning, and Innovation University Libraries Other Reporting Units Educational Programs Educational Agreements Educational Programs Approval Policies and Appointments Faculty Handbook Selected Faculty Policies University Policy Library Faculty Life Housing Parenting Well-Being New Faculty Awards, Fellowships, and RFPs For Faculty For Graduate Students Research at Columbia Teaching Resources Library Tools Academic Calendar CourseWorks Registrar CUIT Services for Faculty SSOL Office of the Provost You are here: Home Directory Jeri Henry Jeri Henry Jeri Henry was appointed Vice Provost for Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action in September 2019. In this role, she manages the development and implementation of all University employee policies and procedures on discrimination, harassment, and sexual assault. She also serves as the University’s compliance officer for equal opportunity, nondiscrimination, and affirmative action laws. Before joining the Office of the Provost, she was Columbia’s Associate Vice President for Student Conduct and Community Standards. In that position, she led the team responsible for investigating and adjudicating Title IX cases and oversaw the Dean’s Discipline hearing process for student academic and behavioral issues. Henry has also served in residential life and housing roles at Barnard College, Tulane University, and Stony Brook University, where she worked on crisis management, operations, and student conduct issues. In addition to her Title IX expertise, she has extensive training in restorative practices and is a certified mediator. She is a graduate of Rutgers School of Law-Camden and served as a legal intern and clerk within the Federal and New Jersey state court systems. Vice Provost for Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Contact Info [email protected] Office of the Provost535 W. 116th Street, 205 Low Memorial Library, Mail Code 4313 · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2403 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close