Skip to main content Utility Links University of Pennsylvania Office of the Provost Group Created with Sketch. Group Created with Sketch. search Group Created with Sketch. full menu Primary Nav Penn Provost About Education Faculty Research Global Policies Contact Drawer Menu Penn Provost About Explore Back to main menu About the Interim Provost Vice Provosts Provost's Councils Explore Back to main menu Academic Planning and Budget Council of Deans Council of Graduate Deans Council of Professional Master's Degree Deans Council of Undergraduate Deans Graduate Council of the Faculties Provost Council on Research Provost's Staff Conference Centers & Institutes Explore Back to main menu Environmental Innovations Initiative Explore Back to main menu Our Team Research Arts at Penn Explore Back to main menu Annenberg Center Arthur Ross Gallery Institute of Contemporary Art Kelly Writers House Penn Museum Platt Student Performing Arts House Sachs Program for Arts Innovation Campaign for Community Explore Back to main menu Grants Contact Us Provost Administrative Affairs Explore Back to main menu Return to Campus Finance Explore Back to main menu Toolbox Financial Policies Work From Home Equipment Tracking (PennKey Required) Payroll Purchasing Services Payments and Reimbursements Gifts and Endowments Funding Opportunities Strategic Planning Human Resources Explore Back to main menu Human Resources Policies Position (New and Reclass) and Compensation Requests (PennKey Required) Hiring a Staff Member Hiring a Student Worker Hiring a Temporary Staff Member Background Checks Onboarding and I-9 Process Leave Administration (FML, STD, PPL) Individual Service Providers Performance Appraisals and Merit Increases Academic Technology & Planning Planning, Design, & Construction Workday@Penn Contact Provost Administrative Affairs Explore Back to main menu Departments/Centers Reporting to Provost Education Explore Back to main menu COVID-19 ACADEMIC INFORMATION AND RESOURCES Explore Back to main menu Summer 2022 COVID-19 FAQs for Instructors Summer 2022 COVID-19 FAQs for Students Undergraduate Education Graduate and Professional Education Explore Back to main menu Graduate Admissions Graduate Degrees Explore Back to main menu Graduation Information Explore Back to main menu Graduate Degree Calendar Graduate Groups Graduation FAQs Dissertation and Thesis Deposit Explore Back to main menu Dissertation Copyright Dissertation Embargo Guidelines Dissertation Templates ETD Administrator Formatting FAQs Sample Dissertation Title Page Resources for PhD Students Graduate Student Center Family Resource Center Fontaine Society Teaching at Penn Explore Back to main menu Teaching Awards TCPW Award Penn TA Prize Faculty Council Brief Center for Teaching and Learning Resources for Administrators Wellness Ambassadors Accreditation About the Vice Provost Contact Faculty Explore Back to main menu Faculty Handbook Research Global Policies Contact Search Group Created with Sketch. ETD Administrator Basic Page Sidebar Menu Penn Provost About Explore Back to main menu About the Interim Provost Vice Provosts Provost's Councils Explore Back to main menu Academic Planning and Budget Council of Deans Council of Graduate Deans Council of Professional Master's Degree Deans Council of Undergraduate Deans Graduate Council of the Faculties Provost Council on Research Provost's Staff Conference Centers & Institutes Explore Back to main menu Environmental Innovations Initiative Explore Back to main menu Our Team Research Arts at Penn Explore Back to main menu Annenberg Center Arthur Ross Gallery Institute of Contemporary Art Kelly Writers House Penn Museum Platt Student Performing Arts House Sachs Program for Arts Innovation Campaign for Community Explore Back to main menu Grants Contact Us Provost Administrative Affairs Explore Back to main menu Return to Campus Finance Explore Back to main menu Toolbox Financial Policies Work From Home Equipment Tracking (PennKey Required) Payroll Purchasing Services Payments and Reimbursements Gifts and Endowments Funding Opportunities Strategic Planning Human Resources Explore Back to main menu Human Resources Policies Position (New and Reclass) and Compensation Requests (PennKey Required) Hiring a Staff Member Hiring a Student Worker Hiring a Temporary Staff Member Background Checks Onboarding and I-9 Process Leave Administration (FML, STD, PPL) Individual Service Providers Performance Appraisals and Merit Increases Academic Technology & Planning Planning, Design, & Construction Workday@Penn Contact Provost Administrative Affairs Explore Back to main menu Departments/Centers Reporting to Provost Education Explore Back to main menu COVID-19 ACADEMIC INFORMATION AND RESOURCES Explore Back to main menu Summer 2022 COVID-19 FAQs for Instructors Summer 2022 COVID-19 FAQs for Students Undergraduate Education Graduate and Professional Education Explore Back to main menu Graduate Admissions Graduate Degrees Explore Back to main menu Graduation Information Explore Back to main menu Graduate Degree Calendar Graduate Groups Graduation FAQs Dissertation and Thesis Deposit Explore Back to main menu Dissertation Copyright Dissertation Embargo Guidelines Dissertation Templates ETD Administrator Formatting FAQs Sample Dissertation Title Page Resources for PhD Students Graduate Student Center Family Resource Center Fontaine Society Teaching at Penn Explore Back to main menu Teaching Awards TCPW Award Penn TA Prize Faculty Council Brief Center for Teaching and Learning Resources for Administrators Wellness Ambassadors Accreditation About the Vice Provost Contact Faculty Explore Back to main menu Faculty Handbook Research Global Policies Contact Online Submission with ProQuest ETD Administrator PhD candidates are required to use ETD Administrator at www.etdadmin.com to submit a PDF version of their dissertation prior to their appointment. The following is an easy-to-follow guide for submission and making selections regarding publication method and copyright. Create Account/Log-In Log in to ETD Administrator. If you have not created an account in ETD Administrator, you must do so at this time. Select University of Pennsylvania as your institution After logging in, select Submit ETD from the My ETDs Tab. Items to Have on Hand A PDF copy of your dissertation/thesis. This must be a single file. If your manuscript is in Word or RTF format, ETD can convert it into a PDF. Abstract Optional supplementary files (images, data, etc.) that are an integral part of the dissertation/thesis, but not part of the full text. Advisor and other Committee Members' names Subject categories - 1 - 3 that best describe your dissertation/thesis' subject area. (Subject Category list) PQ Publishing Options This section is required. The PQ Publishing Options tab in ETD Administrator requires you to indicate your selections for ProQuest publishing. You must choose whether you wish to publish on ProQuest immediately or delay the publication of your dissertation for 6 months, 1 year, or 2 years. IR Publishing Options This section is required. The IR Publishing Options tab in ETD Administrator requires you to indicate your selections for publishing in ScholarlyCommons, Penn's institutional repository. You must choose whether you wish to publish in ScholarlyCommons immediately or delay the publication of your dissertation for 3 years. Contact Information This section is required. Please enter all starred fields accurately, especially your school email address. This must be your Pennkey@upenn.edu. Dissertation Details This section is required. Please enter all metadata accurately so that your dissertation will be searchable and so your abstract can be viewed in ProQuest databases. Make sure your committee names are entered accurately. PDF Format This section is required. You are required to submit your dissertation in PDF format. To meet the file formatting and size requirements, use the PDF Conversion Tool available from ETD Administrator. When the conversion is complete, you will receive an email notification with a link to retrieve your PDF. You may also retrieve converted PDF files by logging into your ETD Administrator account directly. Your PDF files will only be saved for 2 weeks. Be certain to download and save converted PDFs for your records. These can be retrieved by selecting the PDF Conversion tab, then the Conversion History tab. Supplemental Files This section is optional. If you have digital files, such as audio files or spreadsheets as part of your dissertation, you can upload them here. These files will be made available in ProQuest, so you must hold the rights to these files. Do not upload files if someone else holds the rights. Copyright Permission Letter If someone other than you owns the copyright in content in your manuscript, including appendices, images, or supplementary files, and if your use of that content is not a fair use of the content, ProQuest requires submission of a Permission Letter as a Supplemental File in ETD Administrator. Name the file or files "Permission Letter - Do Not Publish" Administrative Documents This section is required. 1. Survey of Earned Doctorates Completion of this survey is a University degree requirement. Instructions for completing the survey will be shared with degree candidates by the Degree Coordinator. Upon completion of the Survey of Earned Doctorates, you will receive a certificate of completion on the confirmation page. Please save that certificate as a PDF and upload it in ProQuest ETD Administrator under Administrative Documents at least 48 hours before your deposit appointment. 2. PHD Exit Survey Instructions for completing the survey will be shared with degree candidates by the Degree Coordinator. Upon completion of the PHD Exit Survey, you will receive a confirmation email. Please save that email as a PDF and upload it in ProQuest ETD Administrator under Administrative Documents at least 48 hours before your deposit appointment. Registering Copyright This section is optional. You are entitled to basic copyright protections whether or not you register your copyright. Read more information about Copyright and Dissertations [LINK TO NEW PAGE] before you complete this section. TBD: There are, however, some legal advantages to federal copyright registration. http://www.copyright.gov/circs/circ01.pdf For $45 you may submit your own copyright registration application to the U.S. Office of Copyright at http://www.copyright.gov In some cases, you may be able to ask ProQuest to submit a copyright registration application to the U.S. Office of Copyright on your behalf. We see no advantage to using ProQuest’s copyright service. Order Copies This section is optional. You may choose to buy a bound manuscript from ProQuest or decline the option. Completing Submission After making your selections to order optional copies of your dissertation, it is ready for final submission. If you save, but do not submit, the reviewer will not be able to register a decision. Once you submit, you must schedule a dissertation deposit appointment, if you have not done so already. If there are any steps left to complete, you will see a list of Steps to complete instead of the Submit button. Once all Steps to Complete have been completed, you will see a Submission Summary and a Submit Dissertation/Thesis button. Please verify all details and click the Submit button. 122 College Hall University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA 19104 215-898-5000 provost@upenn.edu ©2022 University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104 Footer Menu University of Pennsylvania Penn Directory Site Credits