Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of the Provost Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Offices Resources Announcements Provost Mary C. Boyce Vice Provosts Past Provosts About the Office Advisory Committees University Leadership Vice Provost Offices Academic Programs Communications and Engagement Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Senior Vice Provost Faculty Advancement Faculty Affairs Fourth Purpose and Strategic Impact Teaching, Learning, and Innovation University Libraries Other Reporting Units Educational Programs Educational Agreements Educational Programs Approval Policies and Appointments Faculty Handbook Selected Faculty Policies University Policy Library Faculty Life Housing Parenting Well-Being New Faculty Awards, Fellowships, and RFPs For Faculty For Graduate Students Research at Columbia Teaching Resources Library Tools Academic Calendar CourseWorks Registrar CUIT Services for Faculty SSOL Office of the Provost You are here: Home 2022 Faculty Service Awardees 2022 Faculty Service Awardees The Faculty Service Award recognizes full-time faculty whose extraordinary and creative voluntary service has contributed significantly to the University’s diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) efforts. Recognized activities may include substantial service on a university-wide or school-wide diversity/equity committee and/or development/implementation of DEI programming that impacts Columbia and its neighbors (i.e. anti-racist initiatives, pipeline programs, community service programs). 2022 Faculty Service Awards The recipients of the 2022 Faculty Service Award are: Courtney D. Cogburn Associate Professor Social Work School of Social Work "I led the development of the Decolonizing Social Work (Power Racism Oppression and Privilege) Foundations course at the School of Social Work. This course is the required first semester course for MSW students that provides a framework for understanding and addressing the micro- and macro-level issues the social work profession is committed to addressing." Jeanine D'Armiento Professor of Medicine (in Anesthesiology and in Physiology and Cellular Biophysics) Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons "As I entered the world of medicine, I immediately recognized the lack of representation of women and people of color and early on in my career took an interest in addressing this inequity.” Christine P. Hendon Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering Columbia Engineering "I truly believe as engineers we will develop more creative technologies and we will tackle broader problems with a diverse team. I feel privileged and honored to provide service to the university and to use all of my experiences to provide different perspectives within the various communities and committees on campus." Marisa Spann Herbert Irving Associate Professor of Medical Psychology Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons "I have been active in creating a peer/near-peer mentorship program that...will be available to not only faculty and trainees, but also staff. I believe these groups will provide opportunity for dialogue across entities, divisions, and positions in the department." The Faculty Service Award is a project of Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty Advancement. Office of the Provost535 W. 116th Street, 205 Low Memorial Library, Mail Code 4313 · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2403 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close