Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown and Providence Schools Search Menu Site Navigation Home Progress In the Schools Engaging with Elementary and Middle Schools Engaging with High Schools Teacher Prep Programs College Day at Brown K-12 Research The Fund Timeline Public Education Committee FAQ Voices of Impact News and Updates Search Brown and Providence Schools Brown and Providence Schools Brown has a longstanding commitment to providing impactful experiences for students in Providence schools, influencing their educational outcomes and enhancing their access to a high-quality college education and career exploration opportunities. Brown and Providence Schools Brown has a longstanding commitment to providing impactful experiences for students in Providence schools, influencing their educational outcomes and enhancing their access to a high-quality college education and career exploration opportunities. We believe that every student in Providence deserves access to a high-quality education. For decades, Brown has worked closely with school leaders in Providence to support K-12 education through teaching, training and mentoring, research, volunteer efforts and financial investments aligned with the schools’ priorities. Brown’s engagement helps enrich students’ classroom learning, transform physical spaces, innovate teaching practices and inform local education policy. Brown’s ever-growing partnership with Providence schools builds on a tradition of engagement by generations of University students, alumni, faculty and staff devoted to supporting the children in the city that is the University’s home. Student volunteer hours logged in Providence Public schools every year Brown students working and volunteering in PPSD schools every year Given directly to PPSD every year The Fund for the Education of the Children of Providence Through its Fund for the Education of the Children of Providence, the University provides sustained financial support to the Providence public schools. A Public Education Committee made up of campus and community stakeholders is charged with recommending use of payouts from the endowed fund in ways that can most benefit Providence students. Members also play a key role in guiding the direction of K-12 education initiatives at Brown and ensuring we are optimizing resources to support Providence Public School District (PPSD) in the most effective ways possible. With education at the core of our mission, the University is committed to bringing the best of Brown — our people, tools and resources — to partner with our local community to advance student learning and improve outcomes. A strong education builds a foundation for a child’s lifelong success. Individuals who graduate and have access to quality education throughout primary and secondary school are more likely to find gainful employment, have stable families and be active and productive citizens. In the Schools Every year, hundreds of Brown community members engage with students in Providence schools through teaching, tutoring, after-school enrichment and more. Fund for the Education of the Children of Providence The Fund for the Education of the Children of Providence provides sustainable financial support from Brown for initiatives that promote academic excellence and success for K-12 students in Providence. K-12 Research Brown researchers are working to understand and confront the most pressing challenges facing Providence schools, from English and reading proficiency to teacher retention. Progress For more than a half century, Brown University students, faculty and staff have engaged in programs and initiatives dedicated to making a positive, long-term impact on school children and teachers in Providence schools. News and Updates This listing of latest news reflects Brown’s ongoing engagement with Providence schools. Get Involved Interested in helping to advance K-12 education in Providence? A database created by the Annenberg Institute for School Reform allows members of the Brown and Providence communities to browse University-led initiatives by subject and school grade level to find opportunities to make an impact. Get Involved Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Progress In the Schools Engaging with Elementary and Middle Schools Engaging with High Schools Teacher Prep Programs College Day at Brown K-12 Research The Fund Timeline Public Education Committee FAQ Voices of Impact News and Updates This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Brown and Providence Schools Open details for Brown and Providence Schools Bookmark this Page