Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Executive Vice Chancellor and Provost About About Dr. Warwick Arden What’s a Provost People News and Updates Publications and Presentations Who to Contact Awards For Excellence – Provost’s Unit Provost’s Faculty Fellows Program Academic Leadership Academic Programs Academic Department Heads Administrator Searches Leadership Reviews Governance Strategic Initiatives Strategic Plan Engineering Expansion Faculty Clusters University Faculty Scholars Student Success Equity Research Symposium Faculty Resources Reappointment, Promotion and Tenure Annual and Post-Tenure Review Faculty Evaluation and COVID-19 Statements of Faculty Responsibilities Awards and Honors Keep Teaching Office for Faculty Excellence Faculty Central Administrator Resources Personnel Resources Budget and Finance Standard Operating Procedures Academic Program Planning Department Head Toolkit Forms Institutional Quality Assessment Accreditation About Office of Assessment and Accreditation University Interdisciplinary Programs Academies Biotechnology Program Coastal Resilience and Sustainability Initiative Entrepreneurship Faculty Clusters Integrative Sciences Initiative and Building Shelton Leadership Center About Academic Leadership Strategic Initiatives Faculty Resources Administrator Resources Institutional Quality University Interdisciplinary Programs Full Site Navigation About About Dr. Warwick Arden What’s a Provost Our Colleges Our Units Our Centers, Institutes and Programs People Provost Office Staff Deans Unit Vice Provosts Organizational Chart News and Updates Publications and Presentations Who to Contact Awards For Excellence – Provost’s Unit Provost’s Faculty Fellows Program About the Program 2022-23 Fellows 2020-21 Fellows 2018-19 Fellows Academic Leadership Academic Programs Academic Department Heads Administrator Searches Leadership Reviews Governance Strategic Initiatives Strategic Plan Engineering Expansion Faculty Clusters University Faculty Scholars Prior Years Selection Process University Faculty Scholar Honorees Student Success Equity Research Symposium Faculty Resources Reappointment, Promotion and Tenure 2022-2023 Process, Schedule and Reminders Building Your Dossier Roles and Responsibilities First Term Assistant Professor being considered for reappointment to second term Assistant Professor Faculty Member being promoted from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor with tenure Faculty Member being promoted from Associate to full Professor Untenured Associate Professor being awarded permanent tenure Professorially ranked Professional Faculty member being promoted Departmental Voting Faculty member Department Head College Reappointment, Promotion and Tenure Committees College RPT Committee member Department or college RPT liaison Dean Policies, Rules and Regulations Mandatory Review Dates Frequently Asked Questions Annual and Post-Tenure Review Policies, Rules and Regulations Annual Review and Post-Tenure Review FAQs Post-Tenure Review Roles and Responsibilities Faculty member undergoing 5-year Post-Tenure Review Faculty member on a Performance Development Plan Department Post-Tenure Review Committee member Department Head College Post-Tenure Review Committee member Dean Department or college PTR liaison Post-Tenure Review Templates Performance Development Plans Faculty Evaluation and COVID-19 COVID Impact Statements Frequently Asked Questions Additional Resources Statements of Faculty Responsibilities SFR Regulation SFR Online SFR Frequently Asked Questions Awards and Honors Internal Awards External Awards Awards Support and Resources Celebrating Faculty Excellence Keep Teaching Get Started Strategies Create a Plan Tools and Resources Training Getting Your Course Online Quickly FAQs Office for Faculty Excellence Faculty Central Administrator Resources Personnel Resources Budget and Finance Standard Operating Procedures Academic Program Planning Department Head Toolkit Department Head List Department Head Advisory Committee Helpful Contacts for Department Heads Department Head Resources Department Head Events Forms Institutional Quality Assessment Undergraduate Education Graduate Education Academic Program Reviews NILOA Framework Academic Assessment Council Learning Outcomes Administrative Units Administrative Assessment Council Resources and Support Accreditation Substantive Change Types of Substantive Change Substantive Change Checklist Off-campus Instructional Sites Substantive Change Review Team Specialized Program Accreditation NC State CIP Codes Learning Outcomes Quality Enhancement Plan Student Success at NC State QEP Planning Timeline QEP Workshops and FAQ QEP Committees and Teams QEP Pre-Proposal Guidelines QEP Pre-Proposal Submission Form Student Achievement Metrics Resources About Office of Assessment and Accreditation University Interdisciplinary Programs Academies Biotechnology Program Coastal Resilience and Sustainability Initiative Entrepreneurship Faculty Clusters Integrative Sciences Initiative and Building Shelton Leadership Center Equity Research Symposium NC State’s inaugural Equity Research Symposium brought together faculty, staff and students from across NC State to explore what equity means in research. The Inaugural Equity Research Symposium Partners from across NC State are coming together in 2022 to share and catalyze new cutting-edge, equity-focused and equity-relevant research. The university’s first Equity Research Symposium will contemplate the question: “what does equity mean to me?” throughout the day. The event will feature panel presentations, lightning sessions, poster presentations, round table discussions and a keynote lecture by Raj Chetty. The symposium is a true collaboration across the university and is sponsored by the deans of all 10 colleges as well as the Graduate School and the Division of Academic and Student Affairs in collaboration with the university’s Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity, the Office of Research and Innovation and the Research Leadership Academy. Date and Time Tuesday, Feb. 8, 2022, from 8:30 a.m. – 6 p.m. Location Talley Student Union and streamed online Videos Equity Research Symposium Virtual Sessions Seventeen sessions were streamed virtually and recorded during the inaugural symposium. This included a keynote speech by Raj Chetty, William A. Ackman Professor of Economics at Harvard University and Director of Opportunity Insights, on improving equality of opportunity in America. Watch now Symposium Schedule Program View Full Program Quick Links Lightning Session Presentations Poster Presentations Virtual Attendee Program Keynote Lecture Raj Chetty, William A. Ackman Professor of Economics at Harvard University and Director of Opportunity Insights, whose work focuses on equity, race and mobility in the United States, will deliver the event’s keynote lecture. Dr. Chetty’s talk is supported in part by the Harrelson Fund. Watch Keynote Video Improving Equality of Opportunity in America: New Insights from Big Data Children’s chances of earning more than their parents have fallen from 90% to 50% over the past half-century in America. How can we restore the American Dream of upward mobility for our children? In this talk, Raj Chetty will discuss recent work that he and his colleagues at Opportunity Insights have done to study this question. Among other topics, the talk will show how children’s chances of climbing the income ladder vary across neighborhoods, analyze the sources of racial disparities in intergenerational mobility, and discuss the role of higher education in creating greater income mobility. The talk will conclude by discussing how local policymakers can harness big data to increase opportunity in their own communities and institutions. About Raj Chetty Raj Chetty is the William A. Ackman Professor of Economics at Harvard University and Director of Opportunity Insights. Chetty’s research combines empirical evidence and economic theory to help design more effective government policies. His work on tax policy, unemployment insurance, and education has been widely cited in media outlets and Congressional testimony. His current research focuses on equality of opportunity: how can we give children from disadvantaged backgrounds better chances of succeeding? Chetty is a recipient of a MacArthur “Genius” Fellowship and the 2013 John Bates Clark medal, given by the American Economic Association to the best American economist under age 40. He received his Ph.D. from Harvard University in 2003 at the age of 23 and was a professor at the University of California at Berkeley until 2009 when he returned to Harvard as one of the youngest tenured professors in Harvard’s history. Chetty was a faculty member at Stanford from 2015 – 2018. In summer 2018, he returned to Harvard where he rejoined the Economic Department and launched Opportunity Insights. Contact Us Dr. Juliana Makuchi Nfah-Abbenyi and Dr. Karen Hollebrands are the symposium coordinators. Please contact Dr. Nfah-Abbenyi at jmphd@ncsu.edu or Dr. Hollebrands at kfholleb@ncsu.edu with any questions about the event. Office of the Executive Vice Chancellor and Provost 20 Watauga Club Dr. Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.7624 About Provost Arden Staff and Units Committees Strategic Plan Faculty Clusters News Contact Policies Copyright Diversity Campus Map © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.