Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Office of the Provost People Committees Policies Faculty Resources Research Academic Priorities Budget Home > Policies > Faculty Handbook Yale Faculty Handbook Download the October 1, 2021 Faculty Handbook Recent Updates to the Handbook (Archive of prior versions of the Handbook available at EliScholar.) October 1, 2021 * Throughout Handbook: updated Office for Equal Opportunity Programs to Office of Institutional Equity and Accessibility; updated School of Drama to David Geffen School of Drama; Updated School of Forestry & Environmental Studies to School of the Environment. * Section III (Faculty Ranks, Appointments, and Policies: University-wide): clarified criteria for less than full-time appointments; clarified policies related to extension of time in rank; clarified procedures for review of complaints about violations of Faculty Standards of Conduct. * Section IV (Faculty of Arts and Sciences): updated department and program listing; clarified voting policies; updated composition of Yale College faculty meetings; clarified FASTAP 2007 and 2016 policies for appointments on term and Associate Professor with Tenure. * Section IX (School of the Environment): added Senior Lecturer II rank. * Section XI (School of Management): clarified procedures for term appointments. * Section XII (School of Medicine): clarified voting right and policies; clarified appointment and promotion procedures; updated notice requirements for non-reappointment to certain ranks; added Visiting Research Scientist rank; Added Clinician-Scientist track to replace Clinician-Scholar track. * Section XIV (School of Nursing): clarified process for requesting transfer of track; added Assistant Professor to Clinical and Traditional tracks. * Section XVII (Leaves of Absence and Teaching Relief: University-wide): clarified policies on teaching relief for non-ladder instructional faculty. * Section XVIII (Faculty Compensation, Benefits, and Services): updated descriptions of benefits available to faculty to make consistent with descriptions in other University communications. * Section XIX (Retirement): clarified policies related to the Phased Retirement Plan. * Section XXI (Other University Policies Affecting Faculty): updated Resource Office on Disabilities to Student Accessibility Services. August 22, 2019 * Section III (Faculty Ranks, Appointments, and Policies: University-wide): clarified the procedures for the appointment of fully joint and secondary appointments. * Section IV (Faculty of Arts and Sciences): added provisions regarding secondary appointments consistent with the procedures in Section III. * Section V (School of Architecture): clarified the procedures for faculty appointment and promotions to make consistent with FASTAP 2007. * Section VI (School of Art): added description for the ranks of Senior Critic, Critic, and Lecturer; and clarified the School’s leave policy. * Section VII (Divinity School and Institute of Sacred Music): revised School-specific policies for faculty ranks and leaves. * Section IX (School of Forestry and Environmental Studies): clarified the School’s leave policy. * Section X (School of Law): clarified description for the ranks of Clinical Associate Professor of Law and Tutor in Legal Studies. * Section XI (School of Management): updated description for Appointments, Curriculum, and Strategy Committee; and clarified procedures for term appointments. * Section XII (School of Medicine): clarified the procedures for appointments and promotions for School of Public Health faculty and clarified the descriptions of the adjunct faculty ranks. * Section XIV (School of Nursing): clarified the procedures for appointments and promotion. * Section XV (Research Appointments: University-wide): clarified procedures for the appointment of postdoctoral appointees. * Section XVII (Leaves of Absence & Teaching Relief: University-wide): clarified the policies regarding teaching relief for child rearing. October 17, 2018 * Updates to Sections III and XVII to clarify the policies related to parental benefits. * Updates to Section XXI to clarify policies related to short- and long-term medical disability. Additional NavigationClose Faculty Handbook Academic Integrity Access to University Laboratories and Research Facilities Appropriate Use of University Research Funds Conflict of Interest Policy Establishing a Named Academic Entity Faculty Standards of Conduct and related procedures Information Concerning Activism and Advocacy Minors Participating in Research or Clinical Activities Political Campaign Activity policy Provost's Procedure for Student Complaints Research Data Review of Human Embryonic Stem Cell Research at Yale Salary from Grant Funds (9-over-9 Plan) University Policy on Environmental Health & Safety Visiting Undergraduates Participating in Research or Clinical Activities Yale Carbon Charge Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Office of the Provost | P.O. Box 208333, New Haven, CT 06520-8365 | Contact Us Facebook Twitter iTunes YouTube Sina Weibo Tumblr