Skip to main content Utility Links University of Pennsylvania Office of the Provost Group Created with Sketch. Group Created with Sketch. search Group Created with Sketch. full menu Primary Nav Penn Provost About Education Faculty Research Global Policies Contact Drawer Menu Penn Provost About Explore Back to main menu About the Interim Provost Vice Provosts Provost's Councils Explore Back to main menu Academic Planning and Budget Council of Deans Council of Graduate Deans Council of Professional Master's Degree Deans Council of Undergraduate Deans Graduate Council of the Faculties Provost Council on Research Provost's Staff Conference Centers & Institutes Explore Back to main menu Environmental Innovations Initiative Explore Back to main menu Our Team Research Arts at Penn Explore Back to main menu Annenberg Center Arthur Ross Gallery Institute of Contemporary Art Kelly Writers House Penn Museum Platt Student Performing Arts House Sachs Program for Arts Innovation Campaign for Community Explore Back to main menu Grants Contact Us Provost Administrative Affairs Explore Back to main menu Return to Campus Finance Explore Back to main menu Toolbox Financial Policies Work From Home Equipment Tracking (PennKey Required) Payroll Purchasing Services Payments and Reimbursements Gifts and Endowments Funding Opportunities Strategic Planning Human Resources Explore Back to main menu Human Resources Policies Position (New and Reclass) and Compensation Requests (PennKey Required) Hiring a Staff Member Hiring a Student Worker Hiring a Temporary Staff Member Background Checks Onboarding and I-9 Process Leave Administration (FML, STD, PPL) Individual Service Providers Performance Appraisals and Merit Increases Academic Technology & Planning Planning, Design, & Construction Workday@Penn Contact Provost Administrative Affairs Explore Back to main menu Departments/Centers Reporting to Provost Education Explore Back to main menu COVID-19 ACADEMIC INFORMATION AND RESOURCES Explore Back to main menu Summer 2022 COVID-19 FAQs for Instructors Summer 2022 COVID-19 FAQs for Students Undergraduate Education Graduate and Professional Education Explore Back to main menu Graduate Admissions Graduate Degrees Explore Back to main menu Graduation Information Explore Back to main menu Graduate Degree Calendar Graduate Groups Graduation FAQs Dissertation and Thesis Deposit Explore Back to main menu Dissertation Copyright Dissertation Embargo Guidelines Dissertation Templates ETD Administrator Formatting FAQs Sample Dissertation Title Page Resources for PhD Students Graduate Student Center Family Resource Center Fontaine Society Teaching at Penn Explore Back to main menu Teaching Awards TCPW Award Penn TA Prize Faculty Council Brief Center for Teaching and Learning Resources for Administrators Wellness Ambassadors Accreditation About the Vice Provost Contact Faculty Explore Back to main menu Faculty Handbook Research Global Policies Contact Search Group Created with Sketch. Teaching Awards Basic Page Sidebar Menu Penn Provost About Explore Back to main menu About the Interim Provost Vice Provosts Provost's Councils Explore Back to main menu Academic Planning and Budget Council of Deans Council of Graduate Deans Council of Professional Master's Degree Deans Council of Undergraduate Deans Graduate Council of the Faculties Provost Council on Research Provost's Staff Conference Centers & Institutes Explore Back to main menu Environmental Innovations Initiative Explore Back to main menu Our Team Research Arts at Penn Explore Back to main menu Annenberg Center Arthur Ross Gallery Institute of Contemporary Art Kelly Writers House Penn Museum Platt Student Performing Arts House Sachs Program for Arts Innovation Campaign for Community Explore Back to main menu Grants Contact Us Provost Administrative Affairs Explore Back to main menu Return to Campus Finance Explore Back to main menu Toolbox Financial Policies Work From Home Equipment Tracking (PennKey Required) Payroll Purchasing Services Payments and Reimbursements Gifts and Endowments Funding Opportunities Strategic Planning Human Resources Explore Back to main menu Human Resources Policies Position (New and Reclass) and Compensation Requests (PennKey Required) Hiring a Staff Member Hiring a Student Worker Hiring a Temporary Staff Member Background Checks Onboarding and I-9 Process Leave Administration (FML, STD, PPL) Individual Service Providers Performance Appraisals and Merit Increases Academic Technology & Planning Planning, Design, & Construction Workday@Penn Contact Provost Administrative Affairs Explore Back to main menu Departments/Centers Reporting to Provost Education Explore Back to main menu COVID-19 ACADEMIC INFORMATION AND RESOURCES Explore Back to main menu Summer 2022 COVID-19 FAQs for Instructors Summer 2022 COVID-19 FAQs for Students Undergraduate Education Graduate and Professional Education Explore Back to main menu Graduate Admissions Graduate Degrees Explore Back to main menu Graduation Information Explore Back to main menu Graduate Degree Calendar Graduate Groups Graduation FAQs Dissertation and Thesis Deposit Explore Back to main menu Dissertation Copyright Dissertation Embargo Guidelines Dissertation Templates ETD Administrator Formatting FAQs Sample Dissertation Title Page Resources for PhD Students Graduate Student Center Family Resource Center Fontaine Society Teaching at Penn Explore Back to main menu Teaching Awards TCPW Award Penn TA Prize Faculty Council Brief Center for Teaching and Learning Resources for Administrators Wellness Ambassadors Accreditation About the Vice Provost Contact Faculty Explore Back to main menu Faculty Handbook Research Global Policies Contact The Provost’s Office sponsors three university-wide teaching awards: Lindback Award for Distinguished Teaching Provost’s Award for Distinguished PhD Teaching and Mentoring Provost’s Award for Teaching Excellence by Non-Standing Faculty Any member of the University community, past or present, may nominate a teacher for these awards. Nominations and Deadlines Nominations are due no later than 5pm on the first Friday in December. Online Nomination Form Dossiers are due no later than 5pm on the first Friday in February. Online Dossier Submission Form Eligibility Lindback Award for Distinguished Teaching Awarded to up to eight members of the Standing Faculty each year: up to four in the non-health schools (Annenberg, Design, Engineering and Applied Science, GSE, Law, SAS, Social Policy & Practice, Wharton) and up to four in the health schools (Dental Medicine, Medicine, Nursing, Veterinary Medicine). Provost’s Award for Distinguished PhD Teaching and Mentoring Awarded to two members of the Standing or Associated Faculty for distinguished teaching and mentoring of PhD students. Members of the Standing and Associated Faculty in any school offering the PhD are eligible for the award. Provost’s Award for Teaching Excellence by Non-Standing Faculty Awarded to two members of the Associated Faculty or academic support staff who teach at Penn, one in the non-health schools (Annenberg, Design, Engineering and Applied Science, GSE, Law, SAS, Social Policy & Practice, Wharton) and one in the health schools (Dental Medicine, Medicine, Nursing, Veterinary Medicine). There is a reception each spring honoring all the teaching award winners. For more information, e-mail provost-ed@upenn.edu or call 215.898.7225. Learn more about previous winners of the Lindback Awards and the Provost's Awards. Guidelines 1. The Lindback and Provost’s Awards are given in recognition of distinguished teaching. “Distinguished teaching” is teaching that is intellectually demanding, unusually coherent, and permanent in its effect. The distinguished teacher has the capability of changing the way in which students view the subject they are studying. The distinguished teacher provides the basis for students to look with critical and informed perception at the fundamentals of a discipline and relates that discipline to other disciplines and to the worldview of the student. The distinguished teacher is accessible to students and open to new ideas but also expresses their own views with articulate and informed understanding of an academic field. The distinguished teacher is fair, free from prejudice, and single-minded in the pursuit of truth. 2. Skillful direction of dissertation students, effective supervision of student researchers, ability to organize a large course of many sections, skill in leading seminars, special talent with large classes, ability to handle discussions or structure lectures—these are all attributes of distinguished teaching, although it is unlikely that anyone will excel in all of them. At the same time, distinguished teaching means different things in different fields. While distinguished teachers should be versatile, as much at home in large groups as in small, in beginning classes as in advanced, they may have skills of special importance in areas of specialization. The primary criteria for the Provost’s Award for Distinguished PhD Teaching and Mentoring are a record of successful doctoral student mentoring and placement, success in collaborating on doctoral committees and graduate groups, and distinguished research. 3. Since distinguished teaching is recognized and recorded in different ways, evaluation must also take several forms. It is not enough to look solely at letters of recommendation from students or to consider “objective” evaluations of particular classes in tabulated form. A faculty member’s influence extends beyond the classroom and individual classes. Nor is it enough to look only at a candidate’s most recent semester or opinions expressed immediately after a course is over; the influence of the best teachers lasts, while that of others may be great at first but lessen over time. It is not enough merely to gauge student adulation, for its basis is superficial; but neither should such feelings be discounted as unworthy of investigation. Rather, all of these factors and more should enter into the identification and assessment of distinguished teaching. 4. The Lindback and Provost’s Awards have a symbolic importance that transcends the recognition of individual merit. They should be used to advance effective teaching by serving as reminders to the University community of the expectations for the quality of its mission. 5. Distinguished teaching occurs in all parts of the University. Therefore, faculty members from all schools are eligible for consideration. An excellent teacher who does not receive an award in a given year may be re-nominated in some future year and receive the award then. 6. The Lindback and Provost’s Awards may recognize faculty members with many years of distinguished service or many years of service remaining. The teaching activities for which the awards are granted must be components of the degree programs of the University of Pennsylvania. 7. A faculty member may not be considered for a teaching award in a terminal year or the year of being considered for tenure. 122 College Hall University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA 19104 215-898-5000 provost@upenn.edu ©2022 University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104 Footer Menu University of Pennsylvania Penn Directory Site Credits