Skip to main content Office of the Provost About Academic Leadership Academic Initiatives Faculty Resources Open Searches Academic Leadership Deans Lynden A. Archer Joseph Silbert Dean of the College of Engineering Kavita Bala Dean of the Ann S. Bowers College of Computing and Information Science Colleen L. Barry Dean of the Jeb E. Brooks School of Public Policy Kathryn J. Boor Dean of the Graduate School and Vice Provost for Graduate Education Alexander J. Colvin Kenneth F. Kahn Dean of the School of Industrial and Labor Relations Eve De Rosa Dean of Faculty Rachel E. Dunifon Rebecca Q. and James C. Morgan Dean of the College of Human Ecology Benjamin Z. Houlton Ronald P. Lynch Dean of the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Ray Jayawardhana Harold Tanner Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences Charles W. Jermy Interim Dean of the School of Continuing Education and Summer Sessions Andrew Karolyi Charles Field Knight Dean of the Cornell SC Johnson College of Business J. Gregory Morrisett Jack and Rilla Neafsey Dean and Vice Provost of Cornell Tech Mark W. Nelson Anne and Elmer Lindseth Dean of the Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management Jens D. Ohlin Allan R. Tessler Dean of the Law School Kate M. Walsh Dean of the Peter and Stephanie Nolan School of Hotel Administration and E. M. Statler Professor of Hotel Administration Lorin D. Warnick Austin O. Hooey Dean of the College of Veterinary Medicine J. Meejin Yoon Gale and Ira Drukier Dean of the College of Architecture, Art, and Planning Jinhua Zhao Dean of the Charles H. Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management Vice Provosts Avery August Vice Provost for Academic Affairs Kathryn J. Boor Dean of the Graduate School and Vice Provost for Graduate Education Jonathan R. Burdick Vice Provost for Enrollment Emmanuel P. Giannelis Vice President for Research and Innovation Gary A. Koretzky Vice Provost for Academic Integration Paul Krause Vice Provost for External Education Katherine A. McComas Vice Provost for Engagement and Land-Grant Affairs J. Gregory Morrisett Jack and Rilla Neafsey Dean and Vice Provost of Cornell Tech Lisa H. Nishii Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education John A. Siliciano Deputy Provost Julia Thom-Levy Vice Provost for Academic Innovation Wendy W. Wolford Vice Provost for International Affairs Senior Leadership within the Provost's Office Gerald R. Beasley Carl A. Kroch University Librarian Emmanuel P. Giannelis Vice President for Research and Innovation David A. Lifka Vice President for Information Technology and Chief Information Officer Laura E. Syer Vice President for Budget and Planning Office of the Provost Michael I. Kotlikoff 300 Day Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 (607) 255-2364 (607) 255-9924 provost@cornell.edu Chief Administrator Patty Ard (607) 255-9979 Executive Assistant to the Provost Elizabeth A. Hays (607) 255-2364 © 2022 Cornell University Our Leadership Leadership Board of Trustees Office of the President Provost for Medical Affairs Senior Administration More Information University Organization University Statements If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.