Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Office of the Provost Search HOME Initiatives Implementation Committee for Student Mental Health and Wellness Allston Cross-School Initiatives HarvardX Planning for Reopening Research Facilities University Discrimination and Harassment Policy Review Offices Funding Policies People Student Unionization About Contact Reports and Statements HOME / PEOPLE / Alan M. Garber Alan M. Garber Provost Provost Alan M. Garber serves as Harvard University’s chief academic officer. He is also the Mallinckrodt Professor of Health Care Policy at Harvard Medical School, a Professor of Economics in the Harvard Faculty of Arts and Sciences, Professor of Public Policy in the Harvard Kennedy School of Government, and Professor in the Department of Health Policy and Management in the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. An economist and physician, he studies methods for improving health care productivity and health care financing. As Provost, Dr. Garber oversees academic activities throughout the university, with direct responsibility for inter-school initiatives, faculty development, research policy, international affairs, and advances in learning. The Harvard Art Museums, the Harvard Library, Harvard University Health Services, HarvardX, the American Repertory Theater, and the Arnold Arboretum are among the organizations reporting to the Provost. Before becoming Provost at Harvard in 2011, Dr. Garber was the Henry J. Kaiser Jr. Professor and a Professor of Medicine, as well as a Professor of Economics, Health Research and Policy, and Economics in the Graduate School of Business (by courtesy) at Stanford University. At Stanford, he founded and directed the Center for Health Policy and the Center for Primary Care and Outcomes Research, and served as a Staff Physician at the Department of Veterans Affairs Palo Alto Health Care System. Dr. Garber is an Elected Member of the Association of American Physicians, the National Academy of Medicine, and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. He is also an Elected Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the American College of Physicians and the Royal College of Physicians. A summa cum laude graduate of Harvard College, Dr. Garber received a PhD in Economics from Harvard and an MD with research honors from Stanford. Assisted by: Lyn Ferguson, 617.496.5100, lyn_ferguson@harvard.edu Contact Information alan_garber@harvard.edu p: 617.496.5100 Role/Department Leadership Team Filter by Advances in Learning Arts and Culture Climate and Sustainability Communications Faculty Development and Diversity Finance and Administration Harvard Library Institutional Research International Affairs Leadership Team Office for Dispute Resolution Office for Gender Equity Office of Technology Development Project Management Research Student Affairs Support Staff Trademark Program provost_logo_blk.png Harvard University Massachusetts Hall Cambridge, MA 02138 USA Related Links Office of the President Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement