Skip to content utexas.edu Faculty Careers Areas of Study Provost's Office Search Search The Office Initiatives Diversity, Equity & Inclusion News Resources Faculty & Academic Resources Academic Personnel Services provides guidance and support on a number of topics, such as hiring, leave, and promotion and tenure. Keep Reading Finance, Reporting & Compliance Information on official university polices as related to compliance, academic budgeting, finance, required business processes, and related resources. Keep Reading Directory Search our directory for the staff and offices of the Executive Vice President and Provost. Keep Reading Home ▸ New members announced for the Provost’s Distinguished Service Academy New members announced for the Provost’s Distinguished Service Academy Five UT Austin faculty members have been appointed to the Provost’s Distinguished Service Academy (DSA) for their excellence in service and mentorship. The goal of the Provost’s Distinguished Service Academy is to provide an avenue for exemplary faculty members to help fellow faculty, staff, and students learn how to balance contributions across research, teaching, and service. During their service appointment, DSA members host at least one workshop per semester and a series of faculty mentoring sessions throughout the year. “Each new member has demonstrated mastery across scholarship, teaching, leadership, and service,” said Sharon Wood, executive vice president and provost. “We want to both recognize their accomplishments and provide an opportunity for them to give back in the form of mentorship to others.” New Provost’s Distinguished Service Academy Members: Diane Ginsburg, Clinical Professor, College of Pharmacy Lori Holleran-Steiker, Professor, School of Social Work Peniel Joseph, Professor, School of Public Affairs Brad Love, Associate Professor, College of Communication Pauline Strong, Professor, Anthropology, College of Liberal Arts Each nominee was selected by a committee of peers, and new members will be appointed each year. The appointment is for a period of five years and members receive a one-time honorarium of $25,000. date May 4, 2022 Type News Tags Faculty Awards Share Email Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Contact Us Phone 512-471-4363 Fax 512-475-7385 Email provost.office@utexas.edu 110 Inner Campus Dr. STOP G1000 Austin, TX 78712-1701 Related Public Access to Course Information (HB2504) Faculty & Academic Resources Quicklinks The Office Initiatives Diversity, Equity & Inclusion News UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022