Skip to Content Center for Teaching and Learning Excellence Open Close primary navigation Search Search Home Services Resources Events ContactExpand Collapse section Assistance Request Form Search Search Center for Teaching and Learning Excellence The Center for Teaching and Learning Excellence (CTLE) is committed to support and develop Syracuse University faculty through collaboration. By offering a variety of services, the CTLE promotes effective, inclusive, innovative teaching. The CTLE grounds its services in evidence-based practices. These include, but are not limited to the following: individual consultations; classroom observations and feedback sessions; syllabus reviews; the development of college, school, and department-specific workshops; assistance in reviewing and responding to student feedback; and knowledge co-creation related to general and specific teaching questions. Course (re)Design Institute with Dr. Mary-Ann Winkelmes Link June 13-16, 2022 9:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. EST each day Join colleagues, student consultants, and Dr. Mary-Ann Winkelmes (Director, TILT Higher Ed) in this highly interactive, hands-on opportunity. Each morning, we’ll consider a practical, evidence-based design strategy to make courses more accessible, relevant, and motivating for students. After discussing an example of what that strategy looks like in practice, you’ll apply it to revising an existing course and syllabus, or designing a new one. We’ll adopt a collegial and supportive facilitated process that incorporates individual work and real-time peer feedback in pairs and small groups. You’ll leave the institute with a course and syllabus that are (re)designed to support students’ learning, incorporate shared competencies, and to advance your own teaching success. Monday: Transparent, Equitable Instruction Tuesday: Scaffolding Skill Development in Your Course Wednesday: Raising Students’ Metacognitive Awareness of Skill Development Thursday: Representation and Diversity in your Discipline and in Your Syllabus; Accessibility of Materials The first 30 to register and attend all four sessions will receive a $1000 stipend. Reserve your spot and add this to your calendars now! Peer Reviewer Development series Link June 7, 8, and 9 9:30-11:00 a.m. EST Zoom Teaching observations benefit instructors: a peer observer can help faculty achieve their teaching goals by illuminating how particular teaching and learning practices are working and guiding peers to consider next steps in continuous improvement. Also teaching observation reports are often part of award and promotion processes. Observing someone’s teaching is like other skills we have—it takes dedicated practice and time. This workshop series develops those skills in peer review of teaching, and captioning is provided. The first 15 participants who participate in the workshop (3 sessions) and agree to work with the CTLE as peer reviewers for faculty who seek peer review assessments for a Meredith Professorship nomination packet are eligible for a $1,000 stipend. (Note that the application for the Meredith Professorship does require a peer review of teaching from someone who has worked with the CTLE on developing their peer review skills). Sign up below for this three-part series. Register here. Teaching Resources Link These teaching resources are available 24/7. The Syracuse University Answers portal offers practical resources on teaching via an extensive searchable database. Check out this example: Align Your Course for Adaptability. The CTLE Resources Page provides links to both internal and external resources. Partnership for Inclusive Education (PIE) Link The Partnership for Inclusive Education (PIE) pairs faculty and students for a semester-long exchange of perspectives on teaching and learning in a particular course. Faculty reflect on their teaching goals and strategies in conversation with a student not enrolled in their course. We welcome new and returning faculty partners and student consultants each semester. We are now recruiting partners for fall 2022. For more information visit the CTLE services page. Writing Groups Link Do you need structure to maintain steady progress on a writing project? Do you benefit from having regular interactions with colleagues about your writing? Does thinking aloud with a colleague help you write? Are you motivated by setting specific goals, writing them down, and reporting on your progress? Are you likely to write more if you plan times in your calendar for writing, use a timer, and minimize distractions? If you answered yes to any of these questions, check out our writing group options. Miss any of these recent sessions? Check out the recordings linked below. Link View the recording of Learning Technologies Re-imagined View the recording of Finding Focus: Reclaiming Your Writing in Age of Distractions with James Lang View the recording of Learning and Relationships in (and Beyond) Our Courses with Peter Felten View the recording of Discussion on Stress-Aware/Trauma-Informed Teaching Also of Interest Services Supporting Syracuse University instructors Resources Tools and support for success in the classroom and beyond Events Higher education workshops, training, and guided discussions Previous slide Next slide 550 Bird Library, 222 Waverly Ave., Syracuse, NY 13244 © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy