Penn Computing School Computing Annenberg Arts & Sciences Dental Medicine Design Education Engineering Law Medicine Nursing Social Policy & Practice Veterinary Medicine Wharton Computing Help Faculty & Staff Student IT Staff Labs, Classrooms, Facilities Many technology-equipped facilities are available on campus for instructional and other uses (check the campus map for building locations). Individual Schools and departments may have additional facilities that are not listed here. Public Computer Labs Comprehensive List of Public Labs - Valid Penn ID required. Central Pool Classrooms These centrally operated classrooms are equipped with state-of-the-art projection and computing equipment. Classroom Finder - Searchable database for locating spaces that match size, equipment, and other requirements. Support Information - Support, training, and operating information for central pool classrooms. Reservations for Central Pool Classrooms Reservations for Academic Events. Reservations for Non-Academic Events. Other Campus Computing Facilities Numerous organizations provide technology-equipped facilities and related services. ISC Technology Training Services - PC Labs for rental by University and external organizations. Multi-Media and Educational Technology Services (SAS MMETS) - Audio/visual support systems, services, and facilities, with priority given to SAS affiliates. Computing & Educational Technology Services (SAS CETS) - Computer labs and multimedia classroom services for the SEAS community. PennDesign Labs - Digital media labs and other facilities for Design School use. Instructional Technology (Wharton) - Technology-enhanced classrooms for the Wharton community. University Life - Conference rooms, exhibit areas, meeting and performance spaces available to University and external groups. Topics on this Page Public Computer Labs Central Pool Classrooms Other Campus Computing Facilities Information Systems and Computing University of Pennsylvania Comments & Questions Information Systems and Computing, University of Pennsylvania