Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of the Provost Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Offices Resources Announcements Provost Mary C. Boyce Vice Provosts Past Provosts About the Office Advisory Committees University Leadership Vice Provost Offices Academic Programs Communications and Engagement Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Senior Vice Provost Faculty Advancement Faculty Affairs Fourth Purpose and Strategic Impact Teaching, Learning, and Innovation University Libraries Other Reporting Units Educational Programs Educational Agreements Educational Programs Approval Policies and Appointments Faculty Handbook Selected Faculty Policies University Policy Library Faculty Life Housing Parenting Well-Being New Faculty Awards, Fellowships, and RFPs For Faculty For Graduate Students Research at Columbia Teaching Resources Library Tools Academic Calendar CourseWorks Registrar CUIT Services for Faculty SSOL Office of the Provost You are here: Home Offices Vice Provost Offices Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty Affairs Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty Affairs Vice Provost Faculty Handbook Staff What we do The Office of Faculty Affairs manages the University's system of tenure reviews and implements policies and processes for academic personnel (officers of instruction, officers of research, officers of the libraries and student officers). users icon Academic Appointments The Division of Academic Appointments of the Office of Faculty Affairs approves appointments and salaries of academic officers and administers the policies relating to them. institution icon Appointments to Tenure Our goal is to assist faculty, departments, schools, committees and the University and make the academic personnel process as seamless and efficient as possible. file-text icon Retirement The University provides full-time academic personnel with the support needed to navigate the retirement process. file-text icon Leaves of Absence The University offers a variety of leave options for Officers of Instruction and Officers of Research for academic enrichment and personal/family reasons. pie-chart icon Data Reporting and Analysis The office is responsible for collection and analysis of data to assess policies relating to academic personnel and to evaluate and explore issues of importance to the University's senior administration. Announcements May 02, 2022 2022-23 Salary Guidelines for Officers of Research These ranges should be used in determining the salaries for officers of research throughout the University for the 2022-2023 academic year. Tags Faculty Affairs March 24, 2022 Updated COVID Language for Offer/Reappointment Letters for Academic Personnel With the recent updating of the University’s COVID-19 protocols, we have revised the relevant paragraphs in the offer/reappointment letters for faculty, officers of research, and officers of the libraries. Please start using these versions immediately in all your letters. Tags Faculty Affairs December 21, 2021 New Email Automated Service for Officers of Research Tags Faculty Affairs More News Quick Facts Faculty Affairs 310 Low Library 535 W. 116 St., MC 4326 New York, NY 10027 (212) 854-2255 Academic Appointments 408 Low Library 535 W. 116 St., MC 4336 New York, NY 10027 (212) 854-3814 Email Us Google Map Location Office of the Provost535 W. 116th Street, 205 Low Memorial Library, Mail Code 4313 · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2403 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close