Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of the Provost Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Offices Resources Announcements Provost Mary C. Boyce Vice Provosts Past Provosts About the Office Advisory Committees University Leadership Vice Provost Offices Academic Programs Communications and Engagement Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Senior Vice Provost Faculty Advancement Faculty Affairs Fourth Purpose and Strategic Impact Teaching, Learning, and Innovation University Libraries Other Reporting Units Educational Programs Educational Agreements Educational Programs Approval Policies and Appointments Faculty Handbook Selected Faculty Policies University Policy Library Faculty Life Housing Parenting Well-Being New Faculty Awards, Fellowships, and RFPs For Faculty For Graduate Students Research at Columbia Teaching Resources Library Tools Academic Calendar CourseWorks Registrar CUIT Services for Faculty SSOL Office of the Provost You are here: Home Resources Faculty Life Faculty Resources Faculty Resources Enroll in New Faculty Orientation Have a question? Contact us. Whether you're new to New York City or just new to our campus, find essential information here. Quick Links address-card icon Faculty Orientation calendar icon Academic Calendar address-book icon Campus Directory map icon Campus Map bookmark icon Course Directory child icon HR/Benefits cog icon CUIT building icon Facilities bus icon Campus Shuttle dollar icon Discounts & Perks Getting Around Campus Registering your bike is free and allows Public Safety and the New York Police Department (NYPD) a better chance at recovering it if it’s stolen or lost. Commuter parking bicycle enclosures provide security and weather protection, and they also house bike tire pumps and basic repair tools. Campus safety escorts are available through the Public Safety office. A valid Columbia ID card is required. Fitness & Wellness Get fit at the Dodge Fitness Center on the Morningside campus or the Bard Athletic Center on the Medical Center campus Take a few moments to relax with audio links from the Mindfulness Training for Stress Reduction series. The recordings offer 15- or 30-minute guided meditation sessions. Get moving with some mid-day steps, deep stretches and more at Work/Life's bi-weekly, instructor-led Walk to Wellness walks. New to NYC? Here are some neighborhood essentials. Post Office - located at 534 West 112th Street (between Broadway and Amsterdam) New York Public Library, Morningside branch - located at 2900 Broadway at 113th Street Banks Bank of America - 2770 Broadway - 107th St. Chase - 2824-26 Broadway - 109th St. Chase - ATMs on corner of 113th and Broadway by McBain Hall Citibank - 2861 Broadway - 111th St. Citibank - 1310 Amsterdam Ave - Between LaSalle and 123rd Streets Citibank - ATMs on Campus (Lerner Hall, IAB, Barnard Hall) Parking near campus Need a break? Visit one of these cafes. Morningside Nous Espresso Bar in the Philosophy Building, Room 301 Joe Coffee in Pulitzer Hall, School of Journalism Brownie’s Cafe in Avery Hall, Columbia GSAPP Joe Coffee in the NW Corner Science Building Manhattanville Dear Mama Coffee in the Jerome L. Greene Science Center Medical Center Hilltop Perk, 83 Haven Avenue and in Black building 1st Floor Barnes & Noble Cafe in the Hammer Health Sciences building Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty Advancement The Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty Advancement promotes and nurtures a vibrant climate of inclusive excellence through creative collaboration with University partners. Our primary focus is on fostering faculty development, diversity, planning and community-building initiatives that will allow faculty to thrive. Center for Teaching and Learning The Center for Teaching and Learning (CTL) partners with faculty, students, and colleagues across the University to support excellence and innovation in teaching and learning. The CTL is committed to advancing the culture of teaching and learning at Columbia through all of its programs, services, and resources. Office of Work/Life The Office of Work/Life promotes the University's commitment to a working and learning environment supportive of its faculty, researchers, administrators, staff and students in their pursuit of productive and fulfilling professional and personal lives. Columbia University Libraries The Libraries build, sustain, and make discoverable collections that transcend traditional boundaries of format and domain, keeping pace with a dynamic and rapidly evolving information environment and creating unique opportunities for users to encounter global thought. Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action (EOAA) Columbia University's goal is a workforce and student body that reflects the diversity and talent of New York City, the larger metropolitan area, and the nation. In furtherance of this goal, Columbia has implemented policies and programs which seek to ensure that its employment and educational decisions are based on individual merit and not on bias or stereotypes. Office of University Life Columbia is intensely diverse and robustly pluralistic -- with 16 schools and students, faculty and staff from myriad disciplines, backgrounds and experiences. Yet we share a collective commitment to advancing learning and knowledge at the highest level, and to sharing these efforts throughout the world. The Office of University Life is your hub for University-wide student life information and initiatives. Events Jun9Thu NCFDD Webinar: Moving from Resistance to Writing Online 2:00 PM - 3:30 PM America/New_York Jun21Tue NCFDD Webinar: Rising Above Burnout Online 2:00 PM - 3:00 PM America/New_York Jul1Thu Office of the Provost Faculty Orientation Online Event More Events Contact Us Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty Advancement 305 Low Library 535 West 116th Street, MC 4339 New York, NY 10027 (212) 854-0350 [email protected] [email protected] Tag your posts #ColumbiaFaculty #ColumbiaFacultyDiversity facebook icon twitter icon youtube-play icon Tweets by columbiafaculty Office of the Provost535 W. 116th Street, 205 Low Memorial Library, Mail Code 4313 · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2403 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close