Skip to content utexas.edu Faculty Careers Areas of Study Provost's Office Search Search The Office Initiatives Diversity, Equity & Inclusion News Resources Faculty & Academic Resources Academic Personnel Services provides guidance and support on a number of topics, such as hiring, leave, and promotion and tenure. Keep Reading Finance, Reporting & Compliance Information on official university polices as related to compliance, academic budgeting, finance, required business processes, and related resources. Keep Reading Directory Search our directory for the staff and offices of the Executive Vice President and Provost. Keep Reading Home ▸ The Office ▸ Academic Affairs ▸ Extended Education Ventures Extended Education Ventures The core mission of Extended Education Ventures (EEV) is to enable the development, delivery, and promotion of continuing and professional education programs across the University, bringing proven experience, a service orientation, and a collaborative mindset to campus partnerships that translate university expertise into meaningful career-focused education and training opportunities. With over 100 years’ experience delivering programs for nontraditional students and a scalable staffing model, we have the expertise and resources to help you. EEV works with academic units in a variety of ways to develop and deliver both credit-bearing and non-credit programs, providing opportunities for faculty and university affiliates to engage with non-traditional students from a variety of backgrounds. Teaching in these programs helps faculty place their expertise in context, enhancing their teaching, research, and service. Services and Resources for You EEV supports continuing and professional education programs across campus through: New Program Development EEV will take on a role of helping to develop new programs in partnership with other units. These services are provided for a fee. You can take advantage of all of them, or use just a few of our services to fill in gaps in your program development due to time and staffing constraints. Services include: Market research and evaluation for new programs. This includes assessing the size of the potential market, benchmark review of comparison programs, and an analysis of fees that can be charged for programs. Development of a business model for the program including goals, budget, metrics, and benchmarks. Collaboration in the development of programs. Help with any approvals needed for a program such as university or THECB approvals for degree programs and transcriptable certificates or industry-specific approvals for continuing education programs. Development of a marketing strategy and plan. As appropriate, and in coordination with the School, definition of recruitment and admissions processes; set up registration or application tools and processes. Setting up a customer resource management system. Setting up payment and financial aid options and processes. Development of program websites. Course scheduling support. Canvas setup. Creation of processes and policies for student support; including training frontline student support staff. Coordination with LAITS or other units for production of online classes. This type of program development support is a service that has not been made available before at UT, and it is designed to reduce the barriers to entry for new programs in continuing and professional education. In addition, EEV may provide some startup funds for programs that do not have sufficient initial resources to launch. Repayment schedules for services and funds will be developed in conjunction with units. Delivering Your Programs Whether you develop your programs independently or with support from EEV, we can provide ongoing support to run open enrollment programs. Support options include: Budgeting and accounting. Marketing implementation including campaign planning, ad buying, tracking, and reporting. Recruitment support including individualized responses to inquiries. Enrollment support for prospective and current students, including registration, payment processing, management of external funding sources, and admissions flow management. First tier non-academic support for prospective and current students. IT support for customer relationship management (CRM) via Salesforce. Support for required and requested university reporting. Ongoing collaboration with unit for continuous improvement. Policy support and non-academic support for enrolled students (e.g., requests for refunds, extensions, medical, or ADA accommodations; student grievances). Event planning. Event space. EEV will charge a per student cost or a proportion of the revenues, to be determined through an agreement with the College, School or Unit (CSU). The goal is for CSUs to keep the majority of revenues, with EEV covering costs. Customized Programs For corporate, government, military, and nonprofit clients who would like to utilize professional development programs from the university, the EEV business development unit can serve as the coordinating point for custom program arrangements, which will expand the opportunities available for programming. Entities with specific interests will continue to work with CSUs directly. A finder’s fee arrangement will be used to cover costs and encourage collaboration that best meets the holistic needs of clients. For more information, contact Liliya Spinazzola, Sr. Director of Professional Education & Strategic Initiatives, at lspinazzola@austin.utexas.edu. Shared Resources EEV provides some shared resources for all continuing and professional education (CPE) programs on campus. A modest fee is levied to cover the costs of these services. Services available include: Development and maintenance of the Extended Campus website that funnels prospective students to sites for individual programs. Oversight of policies, processes, contracts, and maintenance associated with digital badges used as credentials. Development and maintenance of a registration system that will be available for all units (though not required to be used by all units) and integrated Canvas resources. Development and maintenance of a system for creating a universal learner record for students. Hosting Option III information fairs that include all interested programs. Financial Principles As a service organization, our usual financial model is based on a revenue share arrangement in which EEV collects payments from tuition until EEV costs are covered. This means EEV will provide services up front without requiring payment until the program launches. EEV may also provide some startup funding, but CSUs are expected to contribute to startup costs. Most models provide for EEV startup costs to be repaid within three years. EEV’s financial goals are to: recoup direct costs as close to payment as possible, cover costs for our services with minimal overhead, and turn as much revenue over to CSUs as possible, as soon as feasible. Leadership Team: Art Markman Vice Provost for Continuing and Professional Education and New Education Ventures Toni Wegner Chief Operating Officer Sunshine Barber Director of Marketing and Communications Erin Harris Director of Course Programming Aaron Sinkar Senior Financial and Administrative Officer Karen Smid Director of Operations and Student Services Liliya Spinazzola Senior Director of Professional Education Business Development and Strategic Initiatives Contact us eev@austin.utexas.edu Location UT Administration Building (UTA) 1616 Guadalupe Street, Suite 2.408 Campus Mail Code: G3850 Units Center for Professional Education Extended Campus Osher Lifelong Learning Institute (OLLI) Testing and Evaluation Services Thompson Conference Center University Extension Contact Us Phone 512-471-4363 Fax 512-475-7385 Email provost.office@utexas.edu 110 Inner Campus Dr. STOP G1000 Austin, TX 78712-1701 Related Public Access to Course Information (HB2504) Faculty & Academic Resources Quicklinks The Office Initiatives Diversity, Equity & Inclusion News UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022