Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of the Provost Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Offices Resources Announcements Provost Mary C. Boyce Vice Provosts Past Provosts About the Office Advisory Committees University Leadership Vice Provost Offices Academic Programs Communications and Engagement Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Senior Vice Provost Faculty Advancement Faculty Affairs Fourth Purpose and Strategic Impact Teaching, Learning, and Innovation University Libraries Other Reporting Units Educational Programs Educational Agreements Educational Programs Approval Policies and Appointments Faculty Handbook Selected Faculty Policies University Policy Library Faculty Life Housing Parenting Well-Being New Faculty Awards, Fellowships, and RFPs For Faculty For Graduate Students Research at Columbia Teaching Resources Library Tools Academic Calendar CourseWorks Registrar CUIT Services for Faculty SSOL Office of the Provost You are here: Home LGBTQ+ Healthcare Resources LGBTQ+ Healthcare Resources Resources at Columbia Columbia University Human Resources (for faculty and staff): Benefits Enhancements for Employees Columbia is proud to announce recent enhancements to Human Resources benefits that impact LGBTQ+ employees. For the most updated information, please visit the Columbia University Human Resources website. Columbia Health (for students): Columbia Health provides extensive virtual and on-campus healthcare programs and services for students on the Morningside campus* and the organization is committed to providing inclusive support for LGBTQ+ students. Columbia Health comprises Alice! Health Promotion and the Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP), Counseling and Psychological Services (CPS), Disability Services, Medical Services, Sexual Violence Response (SVR), and the Student Health Insurance Office. In particular, GHAP welcomes students of all gender identities and orientations, is especially committed to LGBTQ students, and offers virtual and in-person services including: HIV test counseling and treatment management, PrEP and PEP consultations, STI testing information, birth control education, and individual and group support by peers and professional staff. In addition, the Transgender and Gender Expansive Team (TGET) at Columbia Health, an interdisciplinary group of clinicians and health professionals at Columbia Health, is committed to working collaboratively with and providing gender-affirming resources, services, and support to Columbia’s transgender and gender expansive students. Find information on transgender and gender-expansive healthcare services such as sexual and gender identity concerns specialists, hormone therapy, LGBTQ support and sexual health peer counseling, gender-affirming surgery consultation, and more on their website. Students on the Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan can work with the Student Health Insurance Office to navigate coverage for gender affirming care, understanding the school insurance plan, and obtaining coverage for medications. *Disability Services provides services for the CUIMC campus and Sexual Violence Response is available for all Columbia community members. The Program for the Study of LGBT Health The Program for the Study of LGBT Health promotes the health and wellness of lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender people and communities through the key areas of research, clinical practice, education, and innovative policy development. Resources at Columbia University Irving Medical Center Student Health on Haven Counseling Center Resources at Barnard College Health Services Furman Counseling Center External Organizations Gay Men’s Health Crisis (GMHC) The Gay Men’s Health Crisis ﬁghts to end the AIDS epidemic and uplift the lives of all affected. Callen Lorde Callen-Lorde Community Health Center provides sensitive, quality health care and related services targeted to New York’s lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender communities — in all their diversity — regardless of ability to pay. National Queer and Trans Therapists of Color Network National Queer and Trans Therapists of Color Network is an interactive digital directory. The Anti-Violence Project AVP empowers lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, and HIV-affected communities and allies to end all forms of violence through organizing and education, and supports survivors through counseling and advocacy. The Columbia University LGBTQ+ Guide and companion website are a project of the Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty Advancement. Office of the Provost535 W. 116th Street, 205 Low Memorial Library, Mail Code 4313 · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2403 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close