Skip to main content Utility Links University of Pennsylvania Office of the Provost Group Created with Sketch. Group Created with Sketch. search Group Created with Sketch. full menu Primary Nav Penn Provost About Education Faculty Research Global Policies Contact Drawer Menu Penn Provost About Explore Back to main menu About the Interim Provost Vice Provosts Provost's Councils Explore Back to main menu Academic Planning and Budget Council of Deans Council of Graduate Deans Council of Professional Master's Degree Deans Council of Undergraduate Deans Graduate Council of the Faculties Provost Council on Research Provost's Staff Conference Centers & Institutes Explore Back to main menu Environmental Innovations Initiative Explore Back to main menu Our Team Research Arts at Penn Explore Back to main menu Annenberg Center Arthur Ross Gallery Institute of Contemporary Art Kelly Writers House Penn Museum Platt Student Performing Arts House Sachs Program for Arts Innovation Campaign for Community Explore Back to main menu Grants Contact Us Provost Administrative Affairs Explore Back to main menu Return to Campus Finance Explore Back to main menu Toolbox Financial Policies Work From Home Equipment Tracking (PennKey Required) Payroll Purchasing Services Payments and Reimbursements Gifts and Endowments Funding Opportunities Strategic Planning Human Resources Explore Back to main menu Human Resources Policies Position (New and Reclass) and Compensation Requests (PennKey Required) Hiring a Staff Member Hiring a Student Worker Hiring a Temporary Staff Member Background Checks Onboarding and I-9 Process Leave Administration (FML, STD, PPL) Individual Service Providers Performance Appraisals and Merit Increases Academic Technology & Planning Planning, Design, & Construction Workday@Penn Contact Provost Administrative Affairs Explore Back to main menu Departments/Centers Reporting to Provost Education Explore Back to main menu COVID-19 ACADEMIC INFORMATION AND RESOURCES Explore Back to main menu Summer 2022 COVID-19 FAQs for Instructors Summer 2022 COVID-19 FAQs for Students Undergraduate Education Graduate and Professional Education Explore Back to main menu Graduate Admissions Graduate Degrees Explore Back to main menu Graduation Information Explore Back to main menu Graduate Degree Calendar Graduate Groups Graduation FAQs Dissertation and Thesis Deposit Explore Back to main menu Dissertation Copyright Dissertation Embargo Guidelines Dissertation Templates ETD Administrator Formatting FAQs Sample Dissertation Title Page Resources for PhD Students Graduate Student Center Family Resource Center Fontaine Society Teaching at Penn Explore Back to main menu Teaching Awards TCPW Award Penn TA Prize Faculty Council Brief Center for Teaching and Learning Resources for Administrators Wellness Ambassadors Accreditation About the Vice Provost Contact Faculty Explore Back to main menu Faculty Handbook Research Global Policies Contact Search Group Created with Sketch. Summer 2022 COVID FAQs for Instructors Basic Page Sidebar Menu Penn Provost About Explore Back to main menu About the Interim Provost Vice Provosts Provost's Councils Explore Back to main menu Academic Planning and Budget Council of Deans Council of Graduate Deans Council of Professional Master's Degree Deans Council of Undergraduate Deans Graduate Council of the Faculties Provost Council on Research Provost's Staff Conference Centers & Institutes Explore Back to main menu Environmental Innovations Initiative Explore Back to main menu Our Team Research Arts at Penn Explore Back to main menu Annenberg Center Arthur Ross Gallery Institute of Contemporary Art Kelly Writers House Penn Museum Platt Student Performing Arts House Sachs Program for Arts Innovation Campaign for Community Explore Back to main menu Grants Contact Us Provost Administrative Affairs Explore Back to main menu Return to Campus Finance Explore Back to main menu Toolbox Financial Policies Work From Home Equipment Tracking (PennKey Required) Payroll Purchasing Services Payments and Reimbursements Gifts and Endowments Funding Opportunities Strategic Planning Human Resources Explore Back to main menu Human Resources Policies Position (New and Reclass) and Compensation Requests (PennKey Required) Hiring a Staff Member Hiring a Student Worker Hiring a Temporary Staff Member Background Checks Onboarding and I-9 Process Leave Administration (FML, STD, PPL) Individual Service Providers Performance Appraisals and Merit Increases Academic Technology & Planning Planning, Design, & Construction Workday@Penn Contact Provost Administrative Affairs Explore Back to main menu Departments/Centers Reporting to Provost Education Explore Back to main menu COVID-19 ACADEMIC INFORMATION AND RESOURCES Explore Back to main menu Summer 2022 COVID-19 FAQs for Instructors Summer 2022 COVID-19 FAQs for Students Undergraduate Education Graduate and Professional Education Explore Back to main menu Graduate Admissions Graduate Degrees Explore Back to main menu Graduation Information Explore Back to main menu Graduate Degree Calendar Graduate Groups Graduation FAQs Dissertation and Thesis Deposit Explore Back to main menu Dissertation Copyright Dissertation Embargo Guidelines Dissertation Templates ETD Administrator Formatting FAQs Sample Dissertation Title Page Resources for PhD Students Graduate Student Center Family Resource Center Fontaine Society Teaching at Penn Explore Back to main menu Teaching Awards TCPW Award Penn TA Prize Faculty Council Brief Center for Teaching and Learning Resources for Administrators Wellness Ambassadors Accreditation About the Vice Provost Contact Faculty Explore Back to main menu Faculty Handbook Research Global Policies Contact This page provides information about academic issues and resources for instructors related to the COVID-19 pandemic for the Summer 2022 semester. For the latest public health guidance and more information, visit coronavirus.upenn.edu. The University continues to monitor the evolving public health situation and this guidance will be updated as needed. Last updated: May 31, 2022 Masks Are masks required in classrooms? As of May 18, 2022, masks are strongly recommended in all indoor spaces including the classroom. Masking is always an option for anyone who chooses to mask for any reason. Individual instructors may decide to require students to wear masks in their classroom and those who do should make that clear on their syllabus and to their students in the classroom. See the latest Public Health Guidance for more information. Does the University provide guidance on what kind of mask individuals should wear? Individuals should use a high-quality, well-fitting mask. The Penn community should wear a surgical mask, KN95/KF94, N95, or EHRS-recommended Aries mask as opposed to a single layer cloth mask. What should an instructor do if a student in a class is not wearing a mask? Instructors who choose to require students to wear masks should enforce this requirement as they enforce other classroom behavioral expectations (e.g., no laptops). Often a simple reminder to mask can be an effective way to address this situation. What if a student comes to class without a mask? Instructors should make it clear to their students if they are requiring masking in the classroom and the steps to take if students forget to mask. Students should be reminded if this is an expectation and directed to procure a mask before returning to class as per the instructor’s guidelines. Classrooms and Attendance What happens if an instructor gets sick and cannot teach? Faculty should not come to campus if they are ill or experiencing symptoms (including flu and other illnesses). Faculty are expected to follow all the guidelines set out by HR for working safely on campus and the current Public Health Guidance, such as complying with the vaccine and booster requirement, using PennOpen Pass, and all other public health guidance. Policies and procedures to support faculty who become ill or unable to teach during the semester remain in effect. Faculty should discuss their individual circumstances with their Dean or Department Chair. In certain cases, faculty may be given an exception to teach remotely for a limited period of time if necessary. What happens if there is a positive case in the classroom? Refer to the Classroom Exposure FAQ for more information about contact tracing and the risk of exposure in classrooms. How do I support students who may need to quarantine or isolate and miss consecutive days of class? The Center for Teaching and Learning has developed guidelines for how to support students who may need to quarantine or isolate and combining structure and flexibility in courses. Can I ask students their vaccination status? The University is requiring all students, faculty, staff, postdocs, and other campus partners to be fully vaccinated and boosted against COVID-19. See more information at coronavirus.upenn.edu. Instructors are not allowed to ask students about medical information. The University maintains all such information securely, with access limited to those individuals engaged in health and safety functions for Penn on a need-to-know basis. Can faculty ask or require students to show their PennOpen Pass at the start of the class? It is up to the discretion of the instructor if they will check the status of PennOpen Pass for their class. However, if instructors decide to check students’ PennOpen Pass status, they should check all students and not single out a particular student. What if a student shows a Red Pass in class? Individuals can receive a Red Pass for a variety of reasons as described in the PennOpen Pass FAQ. Individuals who receive a Red Pass will be provided instructions on what they need to do next. Instructors should direct students to follow up with the directions they are given on the pass and return to class when their pass is Green. Instructors should also provide information for the student on how they can make up any material they miss. The Center for Teaching and Learning has developed guidelines for how to support students who must miss class. What if a student is visibly ill in class? Individuals should not come to work or class in-person if they are sick or feel unwell, even if they have a Green Pass. Students should contact their health care provider for further guidance and complete PennOpen Pass. The Center for Teaching and Learning has developed guidelines for how to support students who must miss class. Instructors who are concerned about a possible exposure risk but have not been contacted by our contact tracing team may identify this exposure through PennOpen Pass or schedule a COVID test through the Penn Cares testing site. Is the University enforcing distancing in the classroom? Current public health guidelines do not require distancing in the classroom. In person classes are operating at 100% capacity in their assigned rooms for the Summer 2022 semester. Information on what we are doing to keep our facilities safe can be found in the Facilities Resumption FAQ. The University continues to monitor the evolving public health situation. Can I teach my class outside? Instructors are permitted to hold class meetings outdoors at their discretion. However, please note that tent spaces are not able to be reserved and are intended for informal use by the Penn community. Are instructors required to record classes? No, the University is not mandating that classes be recorded. Check with your department or school for additional information. Is the University supporting dual-delivery of courses (that is, the simultaneous delivery of in-person courses online)? The University does not recommend dual-delivery of in-person courses from a pedagogical standpoint. CTL has developed guidance on how to support students who may need to miss class due to quarantine or isolation and combining structure and flexibility in courses. Is the University providing microphones for instructors? Technology needs and capabilities vary across classrooms. For more information about technology options, talk to your local IT support provider. Instructional technology support can work with instructors to address individual concerns about amplification depending on the classroom. Please also note that the Center for Teaching and Learning has developed guidance on teaching with a mask which includes non-technological solutions. What is the University doing to ensure its classrooms and facilities are safe? Each building at Penn has specific heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) systems. Facilities and Real Estate Services and Environmental Health and Radiation Safety have conducted building-by-building HVAC systems condition and performance reviews. All occupied on-campus buildings are in compliance with the prevailing International Building Code and American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers standards for ventilation. More information on your HVAC systems and other facilities resources can be found on the Facilities and Real Estate Services website. The University continues to monitor the evolving public health situation. Academic Life What support is available for instructors? The Center for Teaching and Learning offers a wide variety of support and resources for instructors, including workshops. If you need help using technology in the classroom, contact instructional technology support for your school. How is the University accommodating students with academic accommodations? Students wishing to request an accommodation should contact Student Disability Services. Other How can I schedule a COVID-19 test? Information about the University testing program and instructions for scheduling a test are available on our Penn Cares Testing Program page. All University community members must schedule their Penn Cares test online here: covidscheduling.upenn.edu/. How can faculty seek medical accommodations? Faculty seeking a medical accommodation should contact the Office of Affirmative Action (OAA) and Equal Opportunity Programs either by calling 215-898-6993 or emailing oaaeop@pobox.upenn.edu. Once received by OAA, the medical information provided is treated as sensitive and confidential and only shared as necessary with those who have a need to know in order to review the request for the accommodation. OAA serves as the facilitator between the faculty member and their department/school to determine if the accommodation can be granted. Any accommodation must be aligned with the University’s commitment to in-person undergraduate teaching. Of note, a request for accommodations under the ADA requires reviewing medical information so it is best to centralize the intake. What if faculty have a concern that cannot be addressed via a medical accommodation? Faculty should discuss other concerns and questions about their individual circumstances with their dean or department chair. What are the University's travel guidelines and procedures? For Penn-affiliated travel, Penn Global provides COVID-19 travel guidelines and procedures for both domestic and international travel. What resources are available to support the health and wellness of faculty and staff? Penn has a comprehensive website on wellness and work-life with programs, resources, and information for faculty and staff. For information about COVID-19 related resources, courses, events, and more available to faculty and staff, visit the Well-being Resources for Times of Transition page. Penn’s Employee Assistance Program (EAP) provides eligible faculty and staff and their families access to free, confidential, 24/7 counseling and referral services for personal and professional life issues from any location. 122 College Hall University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA 19104 215-898-5000 provost@upenn.edu ©2022 University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104 Footer Menu University of Pennsylvania Penn Directory Site Credits