Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of the Provost Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Offices Resources Announcements Provost Mary C. Boyce Vice Provosts Past Provosts About the Office Advisory Committees University Leadership Vice Provost Offices Academic Programs Communications and Engagement Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Senior Vice Provost Faculty Advancement Faculty Affairs Fourth Purpose and Strategic Impact Teaching, Learning, and Innovation University Libraries Other Reporting Units Educational Programs Educational Agreements Educational Programs Approval Policies and Appointments Faculty Handbook Selected Faculty Policies University Policy Library Faculty Life Housing Parenting Well-Being New Faculty Awards, Fellowships, and RFPs For Faculty For Graduate Students Research at Columbia Teaching Resources Library Tools Academic Calendar CourseWorks Registrar CUIT Services for Faculty SSOL Office of the Provost You are here: Home Resources Policies and Appointments Faculty Policies Faculty Policies A selection of important policies applicable to faculty. Expand all Collapse all Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Policies and procedures that address discrimination, harassment, gender-based misconduct, in accordance with applicable federal, state, and local anti-discrimination laws. Read the policies. Faculty Handbook The Faculty Handbook is a guide developed to present general information about the University and important policies and practices. Read the handbook. Faculty Housing Policies and Programs A collection of faculty housing policies, programs, and announcements, maintained by the Office of the Executive Vice Provost. Review the collection. International Travel Planning Policy This policy establishes a set of guidelines and requirements for planning international travel and covers international Columbia Travel. Read the policy. Recruitment Policies and Procedures Policies and Procedures for the Appointment of Officers of Instruction, Research, and the Libraries. Review the policies. Research Policies and Handbooks The Office of the Executive Vice President for Research offers numerous guides and resources to staying compliant while conducting research. Read more. Travel and Expense Policies Review policies that govern travel and expense at Columbia University. Read more. University Policy Library A growing collection of Columbia University policies. Read more. Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty Advancement Learn about other Faculty Career Development sessions Return to the Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty Advancement homepage (212) 854-0350 [email protected] Office of the Provost535 W. 116th Street, 205 Low Memorial Library, Mail Code 4313 · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2403 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close