Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Open Mobile Navigation Office of the Provost About Office Directory Academic Affairs Organizational Chart Academic Calendar Academic Units Deadlines Academic Search Index News Faculty Prospective Faculty Current Faculty Baylor Commencement Departmental Resources: Tenure & Promotion Faculty Awards Faculty Development Faculty Meetings Faculty Retirement Planning Program Faculty Updates and New Information Recommended Syllabus Statements Past Faculty Emeritus Faculty Recent Retirees Retiree Benefits Retiree Resources Faculty Handbook Faculty Handbook History Faculty Classifications Faculty Responsibilities Evaluation, Tenure, Promotion, and Compensation Policies and Procedures Related to Employment at Baylor Faculty Benefits Faculty Senate Faculty Ombudsperson University Libraries Information Technology Services University Committees Policy Revisions Policies & Guidelines Administrative Resources Event Planning Guidelines for Establishing a New Department Hiring Faculty Legal Issues Resources & Budgets Staff Technology Working with Faculty Curriculum Management Assessment of Student Learning Outcomes Course Actions, Revisions and New Proposals Course Data Template Course Lookup Curriculum and Assessment Electronic Course Action System FAQs Regarding Curriculum Changes Scheduling Classes Undergraduate Curriculum Forms Export Compliance GDPR Privacy Notice International Travel Office of Institutional Research Policy Revisions BUPP 702 Promotion BUPP 705 Faculty Dismissal BUPP 706 Faculty Workload and Merit Evaluation BUPP 708 Faculty Development BUPP 710 Meetings Revision History BUPP 711 Faculty Senate BUPP 714 Summer Sabbaticals BUPP 715 Research Leaves BUPP 716 Lecturers and Senior Lecturers BUPP 717 Academic Credentials for Faculty and Graduate Teaching BUPP 721 Intellectual Property University Policy Library Initiatives COACHE Survey Faculty Diversity & Belonging Readers Meet the Author Readers Meet the Author Archive ACE Internationalization Lab Other Initiatives Baylor/Xavier University Exchange Program Big 12 Faculty Fellowship Program Discipline-Specific Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, & Belonging Training and Education Proposals New Faculty Mentoring Program Target of Excellence Hiring Program Illuminate Research at Baylor Office of the Provost About News Dr. Stephen Reid appointed Vice Provost for Faculty Diversity & Belonging Dr. Stephen Reid appointed Vice Provost for Faculty Diversity & Belonging May 5, 2022 Dear Faculty and Staff: I am pleased to share with you that Stephen B. Reid, Ph.D., Professor of Christian Scriptures with Baylor’s George W. Truett Theological Seminary, has been selected to serve in a new position as the University’s Vice Provost for Faculty Diversity & Belonging. In collaboration with academic deans and other senior leaders, Dr. Reid will help articulate how Baylor’s commitment to diversity emanates from our Christian mission while also being solutions-oriented. Among his responsibilities will be developing resources, strategies and infrastructure to enhance the diversity of candidate pools and hires for departmental faculty searches and increasing retention of underrepresented faculty (racial, ethnic and gender) by ensuring networks of support and belonging across the array of diverse Christian identities at the University. Dr. Reid also will work with individual departments in developing educational and curricular programming for faculty that addresses discipline-specific concerns regarding diversity and our Christian heritage. He will be a liaison for various faculty-focused diversity initiatives, such as the Black Faculty and Staff Association, the Latinx Faculty Staff Association, the Faculty of Color Alliance, Women’s Colloquium, and Women in Science and Engineering, conduct scholarly work in diversity as an academic discipline and collaborate with Student Life, the President’s Office and other diversity leaders across campus. In addition, Dr. Reid will create and maintain web content on the Provost’s Office website about our commitment to diversity. Dr. Reid earned his Bachelor of Science in religion from Manchester University, an M.Div. in theology from Bethany Theological Seminary and his Ph.D. in theology from Emory University. He joined the Truett Seminary faculty in fall 2008 from Bethany, where he served as Academic Dean and Professor of Old Testament. In 1990, he joined the Austin Presbyterian Theological Seminary faculty, after serving nearly 10 years as associate professor of Hebrew Scriptures and Biblical Theology at Pacific School of Religion. Reid began his teaching career at the Interdenominational Theological Center in Atlanta, Georgia. Dr. Reid is a member of the Society of Biblical Literature and the Catholic Biblical Association and serves on the editorial board of the National Association of Baptist Professors of Religion. He is the author or editor of several books and has written numerous journal articles and other publications. His current research focuses on the ways African Americans shared the Bible on the path to emancipation. Using technologies to enhance research in the digital humanities, he is developing an open-source Jupyter Notebook that will permit fuzzy matching from various African American primary sources to books in the King James Version (KJV) Bible. At Baylor, he is faculty advisor for the Truett Black Seminarian Association and serves on numerous committees, including the Academy of Teaching and Learning Advisory Council, Academic Council for Diversity and Belonging, Black Faculty & Staff Association, Baylor University Faculty of Color Alliance, Pruitt Symposium Planning Committee and University Tenure Committee. In the community, he serves on the boards of Transformation Waco and KWBU-FM and is involved with Today's Action Tomorrow's Leaders and the Community Race Relations Coalition, where he is vice chair. Dr. Reid is ordained in the Church of the Brethren. He has served as interim pastor at both the Fremont Church of the Brethren in Fremont, California, and Saint Paul Cumberland Presbyterian Church in south Austin. I want to thank the members of the search committee for their selfless service as we worked together on this important appointment for the University: Dean Jeffry Archer (chair), Todd Buras, Kristina Campos-Davis, Tisha Emerson, Ron Johnson, Coretta Pittman, Rishi Sriram and Pat Wilson. Also, I want to extend my personal appreciation to Lori Baker, current Vice Provost for Faculty Development and Diversity, for her tireless efforts in supporting our faculty and providing a foundation for this new position. Please join me in congratulating Dr. Reid on his new August 1, 2022, appointment as we work more effectively with faculty from disciplines across the University and with people who come to Baylor with many different backgrounds and experiences. Sincerely, Nancy Brickhouse, Ph.D. Provost Office of the Provost Pat Neff Hall, Suite 109 1329 S. 7th Street Waco, Texas One Bear Place #97014 Waco, Texas 76798 (254) 710-3601 Office of the Provost About News Dr. Stephen Reid appointed Vice Provost for Faculty Diversity & Belonging About Back Office Directory Academic Affairs Organizational Chart Academic Calendar Academic Units Deadlines Academic Search Index News Faculty Back Prospective Faculty Current Faculty Back Baylor Commencement Departmental Resources: Tenure & Promotion Faculty Awards Back Outstanding Faculty Research Leave Awards Teaching Awards Faculty Development Faculty Meetings Faculty Retirement Planning Program Faculty Updates and New Information Recommended Syllabus Statements Past Faculty Back Emeritus Faculty Recent Retirees Retiree Benefits Retiree Resources Faculty Handbook Back Faculty Handbook History Faculty Classifications Back Academic Professionals Clinical Faculty Lecturer Faculty Retired Faculty Back Emeritus Faculty Tenure-track/Tenured Faculty Faculty Responsibilities Back Academic Freedom Community Life Personal Conduct Research Responsibilities Teaching and Related Responsibilities Back Academic Appeals Academic Support for Students Accommodating Students with Disabilities Add/Drop a Course Attendance Policy Classroom Conduct Career Counseling Class Roll Instructions Delayed Examinations FERPA/Handling Student Records Final Exam Policy Grading Policies Harm to Self or Others Honor Code Honor Code Reporting Form Library Questions Mental Health Counseling Resources Office Hours Office of Spiritual Life Paul L. Foster Success Center Reporting Deficiencies Student Course Evaluations Evaluation, Tenure, Promotion, and Compensation Back Annual Faculty Performance Review Assessment of Part-Time Faculty Faculty Compensation Faculty Promotions Pre-Tenure/Tenure Review Policies and Procedures Related to Employment at Baylor Faculty Benefits Faculty Senate Faculty Ombudsperson University Libraries Information Technology Services University Committees Policy Revisions Policies & Guidelines Back Administrative Resources Back Event Planning Guidelines for Establishing a New Department Hiring Faculty Back Hiring Process for Faculty Hiring Forms for Faculty Faculty Interviews & Contract Initiation New Faculty Checklist New Faculty Mentoring Program Legal Issues Resources & Budgets Staff Back HR Resources for Managers & Academic Leaders Staff Compensation Staff Evaluations Staff Position Requests Technology Working with Faculty Curriculum Management Back Assessment of Student Learning Outcomes Course Actions, Revisions and New Proposals Course Data Template Course Lookup Curriculum and Assessment Electronic Course Action System Back Electronic Course Action System (ECAS) User's Guide FAQs Regarding Curriculum Changes Back Individual Course Proposals & Revisions Scheduling Classes Undergraduate Curriculum Forms Export Compliance GDPR Privacy Notice International Travel Office of Institutional Research Policy Revisions Back BUPP 702 Promotion BUPP 705 Faculty Dismissal BUPP 706 Faculty Workload and Merit Evaluation BUPP 708 Faculty Development BUPP 710 Meetings Revision History BUPP 711 Faculty Senate BUPP 714 Summer Sabbaticals BUPP 715 Research Leaves BUPP 716 Lecturers and Senior Lecturers BUPP 717 Academic Credentials for Faculty and Graduate Teaching BUPP 721 Intellectual Property University Policy Library Initiatives Back COACHE Survey Faculty Diversity & Belonging Readers Meet the Author Back Readers Meet the Author Archive ACE Internationalization Lab Other Initiatives Back Baylor/Xavier University Exchange Program Big 12 Faculty Fellowship Program Discipline-Specific Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, & Belonging Training and Education Proposals New Faculty Mentoring Program Target of Excellence Hiring Program Illuminate Research at Baylor General Information Academics & Research Administration Admissions Gateways for ... About Baylor Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate News Pro Futuris Search Social Media Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Accessibility Anonymous Reporting Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Digital Privacy Legal Disclosures Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678