Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of the Provost Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Offices Resources Announcements Provost Mary C. Boyce Vice Provosts Past Provosts About the Office Advisory Committees University Leadership Vice Provost Offices Academic Programs Communications and Engagement Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Senior Vice Provost Faculty Advancement Faculty Affairs Fourth Purpose and Strategic Impact Teaching, Learning, and Innovation University Libraries Other Reporting Units Educational Programs Educational Agreements Educational Programs Approval Policies and Appointments Faculty Handbook Selected Faculty Policies University Policy Library Faculty Life Housing Parenting Well-Being New Faculty Awards, Fellowships, and RFPs For Faculty For Graduate Students Research at Columbia Teaching Resources Library Tools Academic Calendar CourseWorks Registrar CUIT Services for Faculty SSOL Office of the Provost You are here: Home About Provost Mary C. Boyce Vice Provosts Vice Provosts Vice Provosts The Office of the Provost directs the development and implementation of University academic plans and policies, and supervises the work of faculties, departments, institutes, and research centers principally through the work of the offices of these vice provosts. Zeid Sitnica Vina Tran Vina joined the Office of the Provost in September 2021, and is currently the Assistant Provost for Faculty Advancement. She is responsible for faculty development programming and initiatives, development and analysis of the faculty diversity data dashboard, and management of special events and communications. Prior to this role, Vina was the chief of staff at the Social Science Research Council where she spearheaded the Inequality Initiative, a series of programs and projects that bring innovative social science analysis to bear on our understanding of the roots and consequences of unequal participation in political, economic, and social systems across the globe; organized workshops to advance diversity, equity, and inclusion; and fostered a pipeline internship program for historically underrepresented students. She has over a decade of experience working in higher education. At Columbia, she was the executive director for decanal affairs in the Division of Social Science in Arts and Sciences and worked on gender equity programs through the Women Creating Change initiative at the Center for the Study of Social Difference; the Institute for Research on Women, Gender, and Sexuality; and the Center for Gender and Sexuality Law. She is an advisory board member of the Collaborative to Advance Equity through Research on women and girls of color at Columbia and the NSF funded project PROGRESS or Peer Review Objectives and Guidelines for Equity and Representation in the Social Sciences at SSRC. She holds master’s degrees in public administration from Columbia and in gender, sexuality, and cultural studies from the University of Manchester. Vanessa Melendez Tshaye Meaza Soulaymane Kachani Sonia Gugga Sheanine Allen Sheanine Allen, EdD, joined the Office of the Provost in November 2018 as Assistant Director of Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action and was promoted to Senior Associate Director of Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action in January 2020. She is responsible for ensuring compliance with the University's policies, and federal, state, and local laws regarding equal opportunity, affirmative action, and non-discrimination. This includes assisting in the preparation of the University's Affirmative Action Plans, facilitating data collection for the Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs audits, and adhering to the Affirmative Action Policies and Procedures as they pertain to the recruitment and promotion of faculty and staff of the University. She also manages the day-to-day operations and maintenance of the Recruitment of Academic Personnel System (RAPS). In collaboration with CUHR, Sheanine also monitors the University's employment and compensation systems to evaluate their impact on women, minorities, veterans and individuals with disabilities. Before joining the Office of the Provost, Sheanine was the Alumni Relations Coordinator for the Columbia University School of Professional Studies, an Adjunct Assistant Professor in Curriculum and Instruction at a local university, and a Project Coordinator for the DOE grant-funded initiative College Access for All. Sheanine received her BA in English and Religion from Wake Forest University and MA in English from North Carolina Central University. She was a doctoral research fellow in the Department of Administrative and Instructional Leadership at St. John’s University School of Education where she completed her EdD in Instructional Leadership. Seth M. Marnin Seth M. Marnin is a leader and advocate in higher education and the law who serves as Director of Training and Education for the Office of Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. In this role, Seth directs the development and implementation of EOAA policies, procedures, training, and education efforts. He manages the office’s programs, materials, and initiatives to prevent and respond to discrimination, harassment, and gender-based misconduct. He began his career in student affairs and residential life at the University at Albany; he later joined the University of Connecticut as the Director of Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Transgender Resources. Seth moved from higher education to practicing employment law at Outten & Golden LLP. He subsequently served as the Vice President for Civil Rights at the Anti-Defamation League (ADL) where he oversaw ADL’s domestic civil rights agenda. Before joining Columbia University’s Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Office, Seth founded Workplace Strategies, a consulting firm advising non-profits on a range of legal issues related to nondiscrimination, sexual harassment, equal opportunity, and affirmative action. Seth has spoken nationally and internationally on LGBTQ issues, hate crime laws, discrimination, civil rights, religious liberty, the First Amendment and academic freedom. He co-authored friend-of-the-court briefs in numerous cases before the U.S. Supreme Court and appellate courts around the country. Seth earned his BA in Women’s Studies and Sociology and his MA in Liberal Studies from the University at Albany, SUNY and his JD from the University of Connecticut School of Law. Sarah Walton Kinney Sarah M. Jubinski Sarah joined the Office of the Provost in 2010. As Assistant Provost for Administration and Planning, she works on many aspects of academic management, including overseeing a portfolio of interschool endowments, supporting space planning and capital projects on the Morningside campus, and a variety of special projects. Prior to holding this role, Sarah was a founding member of the Office of the Vice Provost for Academic Planning (now Faculty Advancement), where she helped to build faculty diversity programs across the institution. Earlier in her career, she worked in the Office of the Dean, at the Mailman School of Public Health, and as a management consultant. She holds an MPH from the Mailman School of Public Health, and a bachelor’s degree from the University of Chicago. She is currently enrolled in the EMBA program at Columbia Business School. Sandesh M. Tuladhar Samuel K. Sia Sabrina Small Ryan C. Brown Ryan Brownjoined the Office of the Provost in January 2018 as a Research Analyst. He is responsible for a wide range of reporting and data visualization projects including the school data profiles and the Office of Planning and Institutional Research's (OPIR) submissions to the Association of American Universities Data Exchange. He also manages the OPIR reporting database as well as annual updates to the OPIR Statistical Abstract. Before joining the Office of the Provost, Ryan held a number of administrative positions at Teachers College, Columbia’s School of Professional Studies, the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine, and the University of Washington. Ryan received hisbachelor’s degree from the U.S. Air Force Academy and master’s degrees from Harvard and Stanford. Rebecca Balkin Rebecca Balkin joined the Office of Work/Life in 2009. As the assistant director for the Office, Rebecca performs a variety of duties and is responsible for financial management and event and program support. She also manages the Breastfeeding Support Program and Backup Care Program. Before coming to Columbia, Rebecca spent three years working in the Department of Economics at Harvard University. Rebecca is an active member of the College and University Work Family Association (CUWFA), currently serving as Vice President. Rebecca earned a M.S. in Non-Profit Management from Columbia University's School of Professional Studies and has a B.A. in Sociology from Tufts University. She also recently moved back to the suburbs of New Jersey with her husband and toddler age son, after living in Manhattan and Brooklyn for nine years. She is happily adjusting to life outside of the city by spending time gardening, hiking, and making many trips to the nearby zoo. Raquel Muñoz Pearl Spiro Niurka Campusano Nancy K. Johnson Michelle Baggan-Bacchus Merrell Norden Melissa L. Reynolds Mary C. Boyce Marianna Pecoraro Marianna joined the Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty Advancement as a Program Manager in April 2022. Prior to this role, Marianna worked at the Institute for Religion, Culture and Public Life at Columbia, where she was responsible for a full calendar of events, six fellowship and award programs, and the Institute’s communications efforts. Before that, she was a Program Assistant at the Center for Palestine Studies and the Middle East Institute. Marianna received her bachelor’s degree in Middle Eastern Languages and Cultures from Ca’ Foscari University of Venice, Italy. She moved to New York after receiving a scholarship to study at NYU, where she graduated with a master’s degree in Middle Eastern Studies with a concentration in Museum Studies. During her time at NYU, Marianna interned at a number of cultural institutions, including the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum and the Studio Museum in Harlem. Marcia Roesch Marcia Roesch joined the Office of Work/Life in July 2015. As the Director of the School and Child Care Search Service, Marcia develops and leads the long-term vision and strategy for programs and services offered to the Columbia parent community as they identify and apply to preschool and K-12 schools for their children. Marcia guides families who are searching for elementary, middle, and high schools by consulting individually with parents as well as presenting workshops. Before joining Columbia University’s Office of Work/Life, Marcia spent many years in independent school admissions. She began her career as a Director of Admissions for grades nursery through high school, first at Trevor Day School and most recently at Bank Street School for Children. She has been an active member of the Independent Schools Admissions Association of Greater New York (ISAAGNY), serves on the board of Early Steps, and is an Associate Member of the Independent Educational Consultants Association (IECA). Marcia earned a bachelor’s degree in History and Education from Case Western Reserve University and a master’s degree in Educational Psychology/Learning Disabilities from Teachers College. She grew up in the suburbs of New York, but has lived most of her adult life in New York City. Marcia raised a daughter and a son in the city and now feels lucky to have two grandsons who are living here as well. She loves New York and enjoys early morning walks in Central Park on the weekends with her husband. Luisanne Liz Lucy Drotning Lucy Drotning joined the Office of the Provost in 1998 as Senior Research Analyst. In her current role as Associate Provost, she oversees the Office of Planning and Institutional Research (OPIR) staff and projects, and leads collaborative efforts within the Provost’s Office and across other offices around the University to provide data and analyses for planning and decision making. Before joining the Office of the Provost, Lucy was a Senior Research Analyst in the Office of Budget and Planning at the University of Michigan-Ann Arbor. Lucy received her bachelor's degree from McGill University and doctoral degree in Political Science from the University of Rochester. Linda J. Sheridan-Dasilva Latha Venkataraman Kristin Carnahan Kristin Carnahan joined the Office of the Provost in August 2013. As Program Manager, she provides administrative and programmatic support throughout the Office of Work/Life and contributes to a variety of Work/Life communications efforts, including management of the School and Child Care Search Service’s Pre-K and Kindergarten NYC Newsletter and RE-NYC, the Housing Information & Referral Service’s monthly housing newsletter. Prior to joining the Work/Life team, Kristin maintained a private acupuncture practice and coordinated communications for a Manhattan wellness center. Previously she served as Associate Director of Communications & Public Affairs at the College Board, focusing on the SAT. Kristin earned her bachelor's degree from Oberlin College and her master's degree in Acupuncture from the Swedish Institute College of Health Sciences. Kristen Barnes In July 2019, Kristen Barnes, MA, joined the Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty Advancement. She focuses on programs and initiatives to recruit and retain faculty from historically underrepresented groups. She co-leads the office’s finance and grants management and supports key data analysis projects. Prior to this role, Kristen worked in faculty development at Columbia, at both Teachers College and later in Columbia’s Office of the Executive Vice President for Arts and Sciences. Most recently, Kristen served as the Assistant Director of Faculty Development & Diversity in the Office of the EVP for Arts & Sciences. Kristen has a longstanding interest in increasing marginalized groups’ access to higher education. She has experience in fundraising and community activism through her work at the Children’s Defense Fund of New York, National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), and George Washington University. Kristen received her bachelor's degree in English and Comparative Literature and Political Science from George Washington University, and her master's degree in Politics and Education from Teachers College. She is currently enrolled in the Social Organizational Psychology graduate program at Teachers College. Karen Fife Karen Fife joined the Office of the Provost in April 2016 as Director of the Metro New York & Southern Connecticut Higher Education Recruitment Consortium (MNYSC HERC). She is responsible for maintaining and expanding the MNYSC HERC and providing significant project leadership to the more than 30 member institutions of the regional HERC. The MNYSC HERC is one of 19 region affiliates of HERC, a non-profit coalition of colleges, universities, hospitals, research labs, government agencies, and related non- and for-profit organizations, committed to diversifying the pipeline of faculty, staff, and executives in academia. HERC supports our member institutions in recruiting and retaining outstanding and diverse employees. Our regional consortium of colleges and universities work together to facilitate up-to-date information resources, technologies, and a professional network to help each other with recruitment and retention issues. Of particular interest to HERC is creating tools for dual-career spouses and partners and diversifying faculty and staff applicant pools of member institutions. HERC maintains one of the only regionally based higher education job site in the Metro New York Southern Connecticut area and offers members access to HERConnect, our virtual member portal, which houses HERC’s webinars and toolkits and discussion platforms. Before joining MNYSC HERC/EOAA in the Office of the Provost, Ms. Fife worked for over 20 years in corporate human resources in strategic staffing, compensation and budget planning, and performance and talent management. Justin Pearlman Julie Kornfeld Judith Joseph Jenkins Jinah Helen Paek Jewelnel Davis Jewelnel Davis is the University Chaplain, Associate Provost, and Director of the Kraft Global Fellows Program at Columbia University. Additionally, Chaplain Davis served as Director of the Earl Hall Center from July 1996 through January 2019. As the Director of the Earl Hall Center, she reestablished the Office of the University Chaplain after a nearly 30-year hiatus. She developed the Religious Life Advisors Program, oversaw the Kraft Family Multifaith and Intercultural co-sponsorship Fund programs, and Office of the University Chaplain co-sponsorship programs. Chaplain Davis developed with students the Common Meal, Chaplain’s Tea, initiated Music at St. Paul’s, Arts at Earl Sacred Music Programs, and redesigned the University Baccalaureate ceremony. Chaplain Davis had oversight of Earl Hall and St. Paul Chapels building operations and administration and of Community Impact, and the Student Governing Board (SGB) during her tenure as Director of the Earl Hall Center. As the University Chaplain, she works collaboratively with both University and Religious Life, to foster learning spaces for political, ethical, religious, spiritual dialogue and raising intercultural awareness. With Columbia’s faculty, deans, administrative teams and students, Davis helps address issues of campus life in a diverse community of various religious backgrounds, beliefs, cultures, identities, and values. The Office of the University Chaplain designs and sponsors a variety of programs on matters of justice, faith, and spirituality. The Kraft Global Fellowship program is an initiative directed by the Office of the University Chaplain with the goal to invite students of diverse backgrounds to travel to one of the Columbia Global Centers (CGC) to study and conduct research that focuses on intercultural and interfaith dialogue. Chaplain Davis offers individual, couples, family and group pastoral care and counseling to faculty, staff, students, and alumni. Chaplain Davis’ focus is to serve the greater Columbia Community with passion and excellence Jeri Henry Jennifer Leach Jen Leach, MS, MA joined the Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty Advancement in 2019. She focuses on the planning and implementation of faculty development and community-building programs, including the campus-wide New Faculty Orientation. She co-leads the team’s communications strategy, which aims to highlight faculty news, events, and accomplishments on our website and on social media. Jen was a member of the working group that developed the 2021 Columbia University LGBTQ+ Guide: Resources to Foster an Affirming Community for LGBTQ+ Faculty, Students, and Staff. Jen’s commitment to diversity in education spans decades; she was a secondary English teacher for ten years, and was a founding faculty member of the Bronx Center for Science and Mathematics, a small public high school. She is also part of the volunteer collective at Word Up, a multilingual community bookshop in Washington Heights, New York City. Understanding disability as a dimension of diversity helps drive Jen’s work. Her recent graduate study focused on the connection between illness, identity, and work, and how a narrative approach to career coaching could benefit those living with chronic health conditions. She is also an artist and mental health advocate who uses graphic medicine (creating comics in a medical context), to help patients reclaim once-silenced narratives. Jen received her bachelor’s degree in individualized study from NYU’s Gallatin School and masters degrees in English education from Teachers College and in Narrative Medicine from Columbia University. Jennifer Crewe Jazmin Taylor Jazmin Taylorjoined the Office of the Provost in September 2015 as the Director of Investigations and Deputy Title IX Coordinator for Faculty and Staff Concerns in the Office of Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. She leads the investigative team that facilitates informal resolutions and conducts formal investigations into allegations of discrimination, harassment, and sexual misconduct made against faculty, staff, and third-party affiliates of the University. Before joining the Office of the Provost, Jazmin served as the Interim Director of the Office of Equity and Diversity Services at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee where she led campus compliance efforts with respect to equal opportunity and affirmative action. In this role, Jazmin served as the campus Title IX Coordinator and Affirmative Action Officer. She was responsible for investigating discrimination and sexual misconduct complaints, conducting training, maintaining the annual affirmative action plan, and assisting with recruitment and retention efforts designed to achieve diversity in faculty and staff. Jazmin received her bachelor’s degree in Political Science from Spelman College and her Juris Doctor from the University of Wisconsin Law School. Iessa J. Sutton Iessa joined the Office of the Provost in August 2021, and is currently the Assistant Provost for Faculty Diversity and Inclusion. She is responsible for facilitating all aspects of office planning, development, and implementation necessary to successfully administer the university’s Faculty Diversity Initiative portfolio. Prior to this role, Iessa worked in higher education as the Campus Operating Officer, at Berkeley College in New York and New Jersey, overseeing day-to-day operations, including finances, student enrollment and engagement, and community partnerships. She was among the first team of administrators at Berkeley to use predictive analytics to gain insights into developing pathways to degree completion for the College’s diverse student body. Additionally, Iessa was responsible for monitoring faculty and staff professional development and training programs. In her role as Campus Operating Officer, Iessa established cross-functional partnerships with deans, faculty, campus academic liaisons, student development, administration, and campus operations to regularly assess and address students’ challenges and resource needs. Iessa’s collaborative approach resulted in high levels of faculty engagement in student initiatives, along with increases in student retention and degree completion among minority and underrepresented students. As a committee member of Berkeley College’s Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Task Force, Iessa led discussions on identifying essential resources to support students, staff, and faculty of color, and building awareness on ways to navigate inequities and misconceptions personally and professionally. Iessa brings extensive experience in the Performing Arts, having held management positions at The Harlem School of the Arts and The Juilliard School. She also served on the Board of Directors at the Theatre of Dance Movement Cultural Arts Academy. Iessa earned a bachelor’s degree in psychology from Clark Atlanta University, and a master’s degree in organizational management from the University of Phoenix, where she is a doctoral candidate in higher education administration, Her research focuses on the experiences of African American women who hold senior leadership positions at ivy league schools, with a focus on resiliency and equity. Emmanuel Kattan Emily Luongo Emily Luongo joined the Office of the Provost in February 2015 to support the University’s re-accreditation efforts. As Assistant Director, her current responsibilities include tracking and monitoring changes to existing and applications for new educational program throughout the university’s internal review and approval process, as well as preparing submissions to the New York State Education Department (NYSED). She also coordinates the review process for a number of fellowships and award programs for faculty and students. Before joining the Office of the Provost, Emily worked at the Mailman School of Public Health during the launch of curriculum renewal for the MPH program. She supported students and faculty during the Core semester and also facilitated the work of the integrative practicum experience office. Emily received her bachelor’s degree in Human Development and her master’s degree in Student Affairs Administration from Binghamton University. She later earned a master’s degree from Teachers College in Psychology in Education. Dror Levy Diana Dumitru Dennis A. Mitchell David Austell David B. Austell is the Associate Provost and Director of the International Students and Scholars Office at Columbia University in New York City. David A. Freedberg David A. Freedberg is Director of the Italian Academy and the Pierre Matisse Professor of the History of Art. He is best known for his work on psychological responses to art, and particularly for his studies on iconoclasm and censorship (see, inter alia, Iconoclasts and their Motives, 1984, and The Power of Images: Studies in the History and Theory of Response, 1989). His more traditional art historical writing centered on the fields of Dutch and Flemish art. In recent years he has turned his attention to seventeenth century Roman art and to the paintings of Nicolas Poussin. He has been involved in several exhibitions of contemporary art (eg. Joseph Kosuth: "The Play of the Unmentionable" (1992)). Following a series of important discoveries in Windsor Castle, the Institut de France and the archives of the Accademia dei Lincei in Rome, he co-authored a number of catalogs of the natural history drawings in the Royal Collections and turned his attention to the intersection of art and science in the age of Galileo. His chief publication in this area is The Eye of the Lynx: Galileo, his Friends, and the Beginnings of Modern Natural History (2002). Although Freedberg continues to teach in the fields of Dutch, Flemish, French, and Italian art of the fifteenth through seventeenth centuries, as well as in historiographical and theoretical areas, his research now concentrates on the relations between art, history, and neuroscience. He is currently engaged in writing two books: 1) Dance, the Body and Emotion; 2) Art and the Brain, with particular reference to emotion and movement. He continues to hope that he will be able to return to his longstanding project on the cultural history of the architecture and dance of the Pueblo peoples. Freedberg leads the campaign to save Liberty Hall in Machiasport, Maine, a major historical building overlooking the site of the first sea battle of the American Revolution. Professor Freedberg is a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the American Philosophical Society, the Accademia Nazionale di Agricoltura and the Istituto Veneto. More information can be found on his CV or at his department webpage. Daniela Elazari Dana March Palmer Senior Associate Provost for Academic Programs and Assistant Professor of Epidemiology at the Mailman School of Public Health Cintia Maio-Matos Cintia Maio-Matos joined Columbia University in April 8, 2019, as the Administrative Manager of Investigations for the Office for Equal Opportunities and Affirmative Action. Amongst other duties, she serves as the first contact for students, staff, faculty, and other individuals requesting information, filing a report or seeking follow up as it relates to investigations and matters implicating policies and procedures administered by the Office of Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action (EOAA). Prior to joining the Office of Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action, Cintia was an Anti-Human Trafficking Case Manager where she focused on providing direct services and advocacy for survivors of human trafficking and unaccompanied migrant children. During that time she also conducted trauma-informed trainings and awareness programs throughout the state of Connecticut. She received her Bachelor’s Degree from the University of Bridgeport and is currently working on her Master’s Degree in Public Administration at Columbia’s School of International and Public Affairs. Christine Venezia Catherine E. Ross Carrie Marlin Carolyn Sachs Singer Caroline Stern Caroline Stern joined the Office of the Provost in 2007 as Executive Assistant to the Provost. She is responsible for supporting the University Provost, as well as other members of the senior team of the Office of the Provost. Before joining Columbia, Ms. Stern held roles in executive support for the director of the Bard Graduate Center, the executive director of the Jewish Community Services Association and the director of a fine arts consulting business. Ms. Stern received her bachelor's degree in Art History from Barnard College, a master's of Library Service from Columbia University, and a master's of Education from Mercy College. Carmen DeLeon Anna Spinner Anna Spinner joined the Office of the Provost in September 2019 as Assistant Provost for Strategic Communications. In this role, Anna is responsible for communications planning and execution as well as contributing to a range of communications including web content, internal announcements, briefings, and more. Anna joined the Office of the Provost after extensive communications experience across Columbia University, including at the Columbia University Irving Medical Center, Public Affairs, the Office of the President, and most recently at the College of Dental Medicine, where she was Senior Director for Communications and Marketing. Anna received her bachelor’s degree in English literature from Brown University and a master’s degree in journalism from Columbia Journalism School. Anna Makkar Ann D. Thornton Anitra Das Anitra Das, who joined the Office of the Provost in May 2015, is Associate Director of Investigations. She is responsible for conducting internal investigations on behalf of the University in the areas of discrimination, harassment, and sexual misconduct, as well as performing compliance work, including trainings and briefings throughout campus. Before joining the Office of the Provost, Anitra was in litigation at a law firm, where she represented various colleges and universities. She also has prior experience working in litigation at a Magic Circle law firm, a term for a small group of prestigious UK-based international firms. Anitra received her bachelor’s degree from Yale University and her Juris Doctor from Cornell Law School. Angela N. Garcia Angela Garcia is Executive Assistant to the Executive Vice President for University Life and Senior Vice Provost for Faculty Advancement. Angela took on this role in October 2021 after serving as Administrative Manager for Faculty Advancement. In this role, Angela manages the calendar and supports the daily work of Dennis Mitchell, Executive Vice President for University Life and Senior Vice Provost for Faculty Advancement. Angela arrived at Columbia University in September 2015, joining the Office of the Provost as Administrative Coordinator for the Vice Provosts for Academic Programs and Faculty Diversity and Inclusion (now Faculty Advancement). Prior to Columbia, Angela worked at Herbert H. Lehman College in the City University of New York (CUNY) for eleven years. She held the position of Office Manager for Lehman’s Teaching and Learning Commons from 2010 to 2015 and earned a CUNY Managers Certificate during this time. Her service included coordination of two Title V grant-funded initiatives, with direct supervision of a program created to support the transition and retention of transfer students. Angela graduated summa cum laude with a bachelor’s degree in psychology from Herbert H. Lehman College in 2005. She aspires to continue her studies in organizational psychology. Angel Flesher Andra L. Turner Andra Turner joined the Office of Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action as a Training and Education Associate in December 2021. In this position, Andra plays a key role in EOAA’s prevention efforts by managing communications regarding the work of the EOAA Office for a variety of audiences. She works with the Director of Training and Education to manage EOAA educational programs, compliance reporting, and resolutions to routine data inquiries. In collaboration with the Operations Manager, she is responsible for the daily operations of the office. Prior to joining the Columbia community, Andra worked at a mathematics and personal finance education non-profit in downtown Manhattan serving high school students and educators around the country as part of a fellowship program through Princeton University, where she earned her Bachelor’s degree in Politics. Amy P. Rabinowitz Amy Rabinowitz joined the Office of the Provost in Septembe, 2017, as an Associate Provost and the Director of the Office of Work/Life. She oversees all Work/Life programs and experienced specialists who foster the well-being of the Columbia community and its people in their pursuit of meaningful and productive academic, personal and work lives. The Office of Work/Life offers an array of services to support faculty recruitment, current faculty, and the Columbia community including the School and Child Care Search Service, Housing Information and Referral Service, Well-Being program, Faculty Spouse/Partner Dual Career Service, Back-up Child and Adult Care and Breastfeeding Support Program. Before joining the Office of the Provost, Amy had over 25 years of Work/Life program design, management and research experience, most recently serving as the Manager of Work/Life and Recognition at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in New York City where she conceived, designed and implemented quality-of –life programs and policies. She is a leader in her field, having served on the Work/Life Advisory Board of WorldatWork, a global nonprofit human resources association and frequently speaking at national Work/Life conferences. She previously worked in foundations as a grantmaker concentrating on women’s, children’s and NYC issues. Amy received her bachelor's degree in psychology focusing on child development from Wesleyan University and her doctoral degree in education from Teachers College, specializing in family policy. A lifelong New Yorker, she is the mother of a teenage daughter being educated in the NYC public schools. Amani L. Reed Prior to joining Columbia, Mr. Reed was the Middle School Principal at the University of Chicago Laboratory Schools. He also served as Middle School Assistant Director at the Lakeside School in Seattle for five years, and held directorial positions at Sewickley Academy in Pennsylvania, including as Assistant Director of Summerbridge Pittsburgh, an academic enrichment program for middle school students facing limited opportunities. He has served with the National Association of Independent Schools (NAIS) in a variety of roles, including Faculty Member for NAIS Fellowship for Aspiring School Heads, Faculty Member for NAIS Summer Diversity Institute, Member of the Call To Action, Lead Facilitator Diversity Track at NAIS Annual Conference and, Member of the NAIS Summit on Equity. He has also served on the Independent Schools Association of the Central States (ISACS) Board Committee for Administrative Services, the New York State Association of Independent Schools (NYSAIS) board, and The Guild of Independent Schools. He holds a master’s degree in educational leadership from Columbia University Teachers College, and a B.S. in secondary education from the University of Portland in Oregon. Alice M. Lesman Adina Berrios Brooks Adam S. Brown Sort Office Group Function Expertise Keyword filter: Filter Filter Filter Filter AllLetter Profiles, showing - Clear filtersFilterFilterFilterFilter no photo photo of edit edit Office of the Provost535 W. 116th Street, 205 Low Memorial Library, Mail Code 4313 · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2403 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close