Skip to content utexas.edu Faculty Careers Areas of Study Provost's Office Search Search The Office Initiatives Diversity, Equity & Inclusion News Resources Faculty & Academic Resources Academic Personnel Services provides guidance and support on a number of topics, such as hiring, leave, and promotion and tenure. Keep Reading Finance, Reporting & Compliance Information on official university polices as related to compliance, academic budgeting, finance, required business processes, and related resources. Keep Reading Directory Search our directory for the staff and offices of the Executive Vice President and Provost. Keep Reading Faculty Affairs Building an Exceptional Team of Scholars We help teams across the campus recruit and retain world-class scholars by championing diversity and equity efforts and providing opportunities for faculty development. View open positions Faculty Affairs Building an Exceptional Team of Scholars We help teams across the campus recruit and retain world-class scholars by championing diversity and equity efforts and providing opportunities for faculty development. View open positions What we do As one of the leading public flagship research universities in the world, the mission of the Faculty Affairs team is to recruit, retain and support an extraordinary faculty community. We help colleges and schools across campus find incredible thinkers, educators and researchers and support every part of their professional journey at this university. Faculty are innovating and creating new knowledge while preparing our students to be tomorrow’s problem solvers and leaders. Hiring and retaining researchers and educators of the highest distinction is critical to the university’s mission and a top priority for our team. We do this by building resources and programs that support career development, enhance instruction abilities, promote scholarship and research, and provide opportunities for mentorship and collaboration. Equity is at the heart of everything we do. We are committed to recruiting faculty members from diverse populations and strive for an inclusive climate of advancement and growth for all faculty.We also manage work and life policies, promotion and tenure, and spearhead an anonymous campus wide faculty job satisfaction survey to capture data that helps develop and revise policies and programs as needed. Faculty Resources & Academic Personnel Services (APS) For information on hiring, faculty policies, and more, check out our resource page. Cluster and Interdisciplinary Hiring Initiative This initiative extends collaborative research and scholarship by authorizing new faculty hires whose interdisciplinary areas of knowledge cross the boundaries of existing academic departments. Learn More Provost’s Faculty Leadership Fellows The inaugural cohort of this program will collaborate with members of the Provost’s team to lead specific, essential campus-wide projects. Learn More Mailing Address Executive Vice President and Provost The University of Texas at Austin 110 Inner Campus Dr. STOP G1000 Austin, Texas 78712-1701 Resources Diversity Faculty & Instructional COVID-19 Resources Faculty Innovation Center Faculty Awards Faculty Evaluation Faculty Travel Grants Retirement Child & Dependent Care options for Faculty Latest news Announcement 2022 - 2023 Promotion & Tenure The promotion and tenure process provides a thorough and objective review of the substance and merits of each faculty member’s case following customary methods. More Information Message Faculty Affairs Update - Apr. 22 Faculty updates related to the spring semester. Read More Initiative Faculty Affairs Update - Apr. 8 Faculty updates related to the spring semester. Read More Faculty Affairs & Academic Personnel Services Team Directory – Provost Staff Leadership and staff Led by senior vice provost Tasha Beretvas, the faculty affairs team provides an extensive portfolio of resources and services to ensure the advancement and growth of faculty. This office also houses Academic Personnel Services, which provides members of the university community guidance and support on a number of academic staff and faculty-related topics, such as hiring, leave, and promotion and tenure. Tasha Beretvas Senior Vice Provost for Faculty Affairs Janet Dukerich Vice Provost for Advocacy and Dispute Resolution Carmen Shockley Assistant Vice President Alison Preston Vice Provost for Faculty Development Del Watson Director Michelle George Assistant Director for Faculty Affairs Tinley Hald Director of Academic Personnel Services Catherine Ngo Assistant Director of Academic Personnel Services Heather Kelly Academic Personnel Consultant Robin Jarman Academic Benefits Specialist Dorothy Harris Academic Personnel Consultant Erin Negron Academic Personnel Coordinator Allison Freshwaters Administrative Associate Contact Us Phone 512-471-4363 Fax 512-475-7385 Email provost.office@utexas.edu 110 Inner Campus Dr. STOP G1000 Austin, TX 78712-1701 Related Public Access to Course Information (HB2504) Faculty & Academic Resources Quicklinks The Office Initiatives Diversity, Equity & Inclusion News UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022