Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of the Provost Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Offices Resources Announcements Provost Mary C. Boyce Vice Provosts Past Provosts About the Office Advisory Committees University Leadership Vice Provost Offices Academic Programs Communications and Engagement Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Senior Vice Provost Faculty Advancement Faculty Affairs Fourth Purpose and Strategic Impact Teaching, Learning, and Innovation University Libraries Other Reporting Units Educational Programs Educational Agreements Educational Programs Approval Policies and Appointments Faculty Handbook Selected Faculty Policies University Policy Library Faculty Life Housing Parenting Well-Being New Faculty Awards, Fellowships, and RFPs For Faculty For Graduate Students Research at Columbia Teaching Resources Library Tools Academic Calendar CourseWorks Registrar CUIT Services for Faculty SSOL Office of the Provost You are here: Home News and Announcements Soulaymane Kachani Appointed Senior Vice Provost Soulaymane Kachani Appointed Senior Vice Provost February 21, 2022 Dear Colleagues, I am pleased to announce that I have appointed Soulaymane Kachani to the position of Senior Vice Provost. Since joining Columbia in 2003, Professor Kachani has distinguished himself as an outstanding educator, innovator, and administrator. Professor Kachani joined the Office of the Provost in January 2014 and has been serving as Vice Provost for Teaching, Learning, and Innovation. Under the guidance of Provost John Coatsworth, he led the establishment of the Center for Teaching and Learning (CTL) in 2015. The CTL played a key role in the University’s transition to online and HyFlex teaching during the pandemic, and is now an essential resource for faculty and graduate instructors across Columbia. The Provost’s Teaching and Learning Grants program has enabled faculty from all schools to fold new educational methods and technologies into their classrooms and learning environments, and the Science of Learning Research (SOLER) Initiative has developed a vibrant hub for cross-disciplinary research that advances the scholarship of teaching and learning. As Senior Vice Provost, Professor Kachani will increase the scope of this portfolio and spearhead a new initiative that will enable the University to accelerate the expansion of its innovation in online and hybrid offerings. He will also focus on the role of the Office of the Provost in propelling our excellence as a global university, working to enhance existing international academic partnerships and develop new ones, and to make our campuses ever more welcoming to students and scholars from around the world. He will take on an expanded administrative role as well, including assisting with budget and administrative planning across the units of the Office of the Provost, and coordinating efforts to enable excellence in all we do for student employees at the University. Within the School of Engineering and Applied Science, Professor Kachani has been serving as Senior Vice Dean and a faculty member in the Department of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research. For the past 11 years, at the school level, he has coordinated and helped further advance the many academic programs across Columbia Engineering. During this time, the School has established dual degree collaborations with leading international universities, and developed flagship Master of Science degree programs in partnership with Columbia Business School and the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. He has also led Columbia Video Network, the online learning division of Columbia Engineering, propelling online engineering programs at Columbia to be ranked first in the nation for the past five years. As he expands his duties in the Office of the Provost, Professor Kachani will retain his faculty appointment and reduce his responsibilities within Columbia Engineering. Please join me in congratulating Professor Kachani on his new role and his growing contributions to Columbia. Sincerely, Mary C. Boyce Provost Professor of Mechanical Engineering Tags Announcements News May 12, 2022 2022 Faculty Mentoring, Service, and Diversity Awards Announced May 09, 2022 Working Group Submits Anti-Bullying Recommendations May 02, 2022 2022-23 Salary Guidelines for Officers of Research April 26, 2022 Enhancements to Undergraduate Financial Aid for 2022-2023 Academic Year March 24, 2022 Updated COVID Language for Offer/Reappointment Letters for Academic Personnel Office of the Provost535 W. 116th Street, 205 Low Memorial Library, Mail Code 4313 · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2403 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close