Skip to Content Syracuse University | Office of Academic Affairs Open Close primary navigation Home AboutExpand Collapse section Meet the ProvostExpand Collapse section Provost Welcome Reception Academic Deans Academic Administration Provost Faculty Fellows Provost’s Advisory Committee on Promotion and TenureExpand Collapse section Advisory Committee Structure and Members Elections 2021 Notice of Election Faculty AffairsExpand Collapse section DiversityEdu Important Deadlines Meet the Faculty Awards and Recognition Professional ResourcesExpand Collapse section Teaching and Mentoring Research and Scholarship National Center for Faculty Development and Diversity Mentoring Resources Work/Life and Wellness Governance and PolicyExpand Collapse section Faculty Manual Tenure and Promotion Leaves Procedures Faculty Portfolios Information for…Expand Collapse section Prospective FacultyExpand Collapse section Dual Career Network New FacultyExpand Collapse section New Faculty Orientation Part-time Faculty/Adjuncts Emeriti Faculty Resources and Forms Contact Student Resources and SupportExpand Collapse section Center for Learning and Student Success First-Year SeminarExpand Collapse section How Do I Enroll? What to Expect Home College Experience Lead Instructors Peer Leaders Staff Learning Communities Office of the Registrar Health and Wellness Shaw Center for Public and Community Service First Year Experience Student-Athlete Support Services Center for Disability Resources News Quick linksExpand Collapse section Academic Agreement Submittal Academic calendar Academic Strategic Plan Accreditation Cluster Hires Course Catalogue Faculty Manual Important Syllabus Reminders Institutional Effectiveness and Assessment ContactExpand Collapse section Office staff Search Search People Search Home About Academic Administration Academic Administration Academic Affairs Chris Johnson is associate provost for academic affairs. In this capacity, he partners with other academic affairs leaders to support key academic initiatives and advance Syracuse University’s vision and mission as outlined in the Academic Strategic Plan. A professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, he also served as interim director of the Renee Crown University Honors Program from July 2016 to June 2018. Johnson began his career at Syracuse in 1989 as a postdoctoral research associate and joined the civil and environmental engineering faculty the following year. He chaired the department from 2010 to 2014 after serving one year as interim chair. Johnson teaches courses in environmental chemistry, soil chemistry, data analysis and surveying. In the Honors Program, he teaches “Water for Gotham,” a course on the New York City water supply system, and “The Aqueducts of Ancient Rome.” Johnson has served as a visiting faculty member at Charles University in Prague and Griffith University in Brisbane, Australia. He is involved in a number of research projects in the broad area of environmental chemistry, including work on the fate of trace metals in forest soils and landscapes, the effects of clear-cut logging on soils and drainage waters, and the changing acid-base chemistry of soils historically affected by acid rain. Johnson earned a B.S. in civil engineering, a M.S. in statistics, and a Ph.D. in geology, all from the University of Pennsylvania. He is a member of Phi Beta Kappa and Tau Beta Pi, and he was a Fulbright Scholar in the Czech Republic in 1994. He can be reached at cejohns@syr.edu or 315.443.1899. Academic Operations Steven Bennett is senior vice president for international programs and academic operations and chief of staff, Academic Affairs. He plays a critical role as chief of staff in the Office of Academic Affairs, overseeing academic operations for administrative units that report to the Office of the Provost, including Information Technology, Syracuse Abroad, and satellite facilities around the U.S. and the globe. He also works closely with the provost and their leadership team on planning and budgetary matters. Bennett comes to Syracuse University from The Brookings Institution, where he served as Vice President and Chief Operating Officer. In this position, he supervised the interactions among the institution’s research programs, and between the research and non-research sides of Brookings, promoting collaboration and interdisciplinary work. He also helped develop and operationalize the institution’s strategic plan and institution wide program objectives. Prior to his career at Brookings, Bennett served as Executive Director for several nongovernmental organizations focusing on the intersection of trade and development. He was co-founder and executive director of the Global Fairness Initiative (GFI), an international leadership initiative to advance innovative models of economic engagement in impoverished countries. He also has served as Executive Director of Witness for Peace, an international human rights/economic justice advocacy organization, and as interim executive director and program director for National Neighbors, promoting growth and opportunity for urban neighborhoods. Bennett, who grew up in Syracuse, earned a BA from Colgate University and a master’s in public policy from Georgetown University. He returned to Syracuse for post-graduate study at the Institute for Creative Conflict Resolution in 1995. He can be reached at bennetts@syr.edu or 315.443.5725. Enrollment Services Ryan Williams is the University’s vice president for enrollment services. In this role, he oversees the Office of Admissions, the Office of Financial Aid and Scholarship Programs, the Enrollment Processing Center, the Office of Institutional Research and the Student Employment Office. Prior to being named vice president in 2018, Williams held several positions at the University beginning in March of 2012, including Senior Associate Vice President, Interim Senior Associate Vice President and Associate Vice President. Before coming to Syracuse, Williams had most recently served as Vice President for Enrollment Programs and Services at the College Board in Reston, VA. For a period, he was also the Acting Senior Vice President, reporting directly to the Chief Operating Officer. Before joining the College Board in 2007, he was the Director of University Financial Services at Harvard University, in Cambridge, MA. He can be reached at cwill05@syr.edu or or 315.443.1039. Faculty Affairs Jamie Winders serves as associate provost for faculty affairs. In this capacity, Winders partners with Vice Chancellor, Provost and Chief Academic Officer Gretchen Ritter and other academic affairs leaders to support key faculty initiatives and advance the University’s vision and mission as outlined in the Academic Strategic Plan. A professor in the Department of Geography and the Environment, Winders was also the founding director of the Autonomous Systems Policy Institute. Winders began her career at Syracuse University in 2004. She has served as chair and director of undergraduate studies in the Department of Geography and the Environment. Her University service includes serving as the faculty representative to the Board of Trustees from 2019-21. She has also chaired both the Arts and Sciences and Maxwell faculty councils. She currently serves on the Faculty Oversight Committee for the Athletics Department and previously served as chair of the research committee for the University Senate. As a scholar, Winders is best known for her interdisciplinary engagement with timely issues, from international migration to emerging technologies. She is editor-in-chief of the International Migration Review and associate editor of Cultural Geographies. Winders was a pioneer in the study of new immigrant destinations in a domestic and an international context, and her research on international migration sits at the intersection of academic engagement and policy analysis. Her teaching and scholarship have been recognized with numerous awards, including the Meredith Teaching Recognition Award, and her research has been funded by the National Science Foundation and Russell Sage, among other sources. Winders holds a Ph.D. and a B.A. from the University of Kentucky and a master of arts from the University of British Columbia. She can be reached at jwinders@syr.edu or 315.443.5525. Graduate School Peter Vanable was appointed associate provost for graduate studies and dean of the Graduate School on January 6, 2017. He served as interim vice president of research from January 1, 2016 to August 31, 2017. Vanable is a professor of psychology and adjunct professor of medicine at SUNY Upstate Medical University. Vanable served as chair of psychology for six years, an appointment that began in August of 2009. Vanable has published more than 100 peer-reviewed papers and book chapters on topics related to HIV risk reduction, coping with chronic illness, and substance abuse. He has been principal investigator or co-investigator on more than $8 million in research grants from the NIH, including funding for Project iMPPACS, a four-city health promotion intervention for at-risk adolescents. Vanable is a regular reviewer for the NIH and is currently an Associate Editor at the journal AIDS and Behavior. Vanable is the past recipient of an excellence in Graduate Education Faculty Recognition Award (2013) and was elected to Fellow status by the Society of Behavioral Medicine in 2012. Vanable served on Syracuse University’s Institutional Review Board for seven years and was appointed to serve as chair in 2014. Vanable is a past member of Syracuse University’s Senate Budget Committee and was recently appointed to serve on the Chancellor’s Steering Committee for oversight of the University’s Fast Forward Syracuse initiative, designed to improve operational efficiencies and leverage funds to enhance investment in high impact research. He can be reached at pvanable@syr.edu or 315.443.2543. Information Technology Services Samuel Scozzafava is the chief information officer and vice president for Information Technology Services (ITS). Sam provides day-to-day leadership and administration of the ITS department, and develops and implements strategies to ensure that ITS is providing central technology support across both the academic and administrative operations of the University. As CIO, Sam provides leadership and acts as a catalyst for unifying the various information technology visions across campus into one, and is the main consensus builder in coordinating technology acquisition and deployment at Syracuse University. He can be reached at sjscozza@syr.edu or 315.443.3814. Research Ramesh Raina was appointed interim vice president for research, effective January 7, 2020. He is a professor of biology. Before his appointment, Raina served as Chair of Biology for more than eight years, starting July 1, 2011. He has also been a core faculty member of the Renée Crown University Honors Program since 2009. Raina has extensively published in top tier international peer-reviewed journals in the area of plant-pathogen interactions, plant molecular biology and epigenetics. Over the years, he has received more than $9 million in research grants as principle investigator or co-principle investigator from federal agencies such as NSF, NIH, DARPA, EPA, and from the industry. Raina has served as panel member and reviewer for several federal, state and international funding agencies and private foundations including NSF, NIH, USDA, California Department of Food and Agriculture, Kentucky Science and Engineering Foundation, French Ministry of Research for Plant Genome Research-Trilateral proposals (France-Germany-Spain), Dutch Research Council, Netherlands Organization for Scientific Research and Beckman Foundation. He regularly serves as reviewer for several international scientific journals. Raina has mentored many Honors undergraduate students, graduate students and postdoctoral associates. He is past recipient of William Wasserstrom Prize for Graduate Teaching (2016). Raina has served in several university-wide leadership roles including, member of the Faculty Council of College of Arts and Sciences (2013-17, Council Chair 2013-14); University Senator (2013-present, Agenda Committee Chair 2017-19) and many others. He can be reached at raraina@syr.edu or 315.443.2492. Strategic Initiatives Marcelle Haddix serves as associate provost for strategic initiatives. In this capacity, she partners with Vice Chancellor, Provost and Chief Academic Officer Gretchen Ritter and others to connect Academic Affairs with the campus and surrounding community. She is the primary liaison to the University Senate and oversees the First Year Seminar and University-wide arts and humanities affiliates and programs. Haddix is a Dean’s Professor of Literacy, Race and Justice. Her scholarly interests focus on the experiences of students of color in literacy and English teaching and teacher education and the importance of centering Blackness in educational practices and spaces. She was an inaugural co-director of the Lender Center for Social Justice and facilitates literacy programs for adolescent and adult communities in Syracuse, including the Writing Our Lives project for urban youth writers, for which she was recognized with the 2020 Orange Circle Award. She can be reached at mhaddix@syr.edu or 315.443.1728. Strategic Planning and Budget Roberta “Bobbi” Jones is the assistant provost for strategic planning and budget. Her primary responsibility is to serve as chief budget officer for Academic Affairs and to serve as advisor to the Vice Chancellor and Provost on strategic planning and initiatives. She can be reached at rsjones@uc.syr.edu or 315.443.2055. Syracuse Abroad Erika Wilkens is assistant provost and executive director of Syracuse University’s Syracuse Abroad program, overseeing all aspects of the day-to-day operations of Syracuse Abroad, including academic programming, personnel, compliance, budget and real estate. Wilkens plays a key role in developing a long-term strategic plan and advancing the University’s vision and commitment to internationalization. Working with faculty, administrators, and other stakeholders and partners on campus and abroad, Wilkens will work to further expand opportunities for students to pursue global study, research, and internships. In 2010, Wilkens was appointed the founding director of the University’s new study abroad center in Istanbul. Upon her return from Turkey, she became special assistant to the associate provost for international education and engagement and then, special assistant for global engagement. Prior to joining Syracuse University, Wilkens served as an assistant professor at Okan University in Istanbul and as an instructor at Sabanci University, Istanbul, and New School University’s Graduate Program in International Affairs in New York City. Wilkens earned a Ph.D. in political science from Syracuse University; a master’s degree in international development from University of Calgary, Canada; a master’s degree in international relations from Lancaster University, United Kingdom; and a bachelor of commerce degree from University of Calgary. She can be reached at ewilkens@syr.edu or 315.443.9423. University Libraries David Seaman is dean of libraries and university librarian at Syracuse University. He leads a talented library staff to deliver the services and collections necessary to drive 21st-century research, teaching, and learning, and to provide innovative spaces for study, collaboration, and innovation. David comes to Syracuse after library leadership positions at Dartmouth College, The Digital Library Federation, and the University of Virginia. He has lectured and published extensively in the fields of humanities computing and digital libraries, and for many years has taught at the University of Virginia’s Rare Book School. He can be reached at dseaman@syr.edu or 315.443.5533. © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy