Skip to content utexas.edu Faculty Careers Areas of Study Provost's Office Search Search The Office Initiatives Diversity, Equity & Inclusion News Resources Faculty & Academic Resources Academic Personnel Services provides guidance and support on a number of topics, such as hiring, leave, and promotion and tenure. Keep Reading Finance, Reporting & Compliance Information on official university polices as related to compliance, academic budgeting, finance, required business processes, and related resources. Keep Reading Directory Search our directory for the staff and offices of the Executive Vice President and Provost. Keep Reading The Office Roles and Areas of Responsibility The executive vice president and provost is the chief academic officer of the university. Working closely with the campus leadership and stakeholders, we support a broad portfolio of units that deliver a world-class educational experience and produce high-impact research and scholarship. The Office Roles and Areas of Responsibility The executive vice president and provost is the chief academic officer of the university. Working closely with the campus leadership and stakeholders, we support a broad portfolio of units that deliver a world-class educational experience and produce high-impact research and scholarship. Provost's Portfolio The Provost’s office is organized into seven portfolios. In addition, the office oversees the management of many other units, including The University of Texas Libraries, Blanton Museum, Harry Ransom Center, Briscoe Center for American History, and the UT Press among others. Reporting Units Directory – Provost Staff Colleges & Schools Deans & Departments Provost's Office Org. Chart Academic Affairs Supports the campus in teaching and learning excellence, new educational ventures, and strategic initiatives that broaden the effectiveness and extend the impact of our academic mission. Diversity The Diversity office is dedicated to recruiting, employing, retaining, and supporting highly-qualified faculty members with a wide range of backgrounds, ideas, and viewpoints. Faculty Affairs Faculty Affairs is responsible for recruitment and retention, promotion and tenure, faculty development, appointments, academic searches, and faculty advancement. Global Engagement Texas Global takes UT’s academic mission worldwide by leading efforts to grow and strengthen UT Austin's international programs, initiatives, and partnerships. Graduate School The Graduate School enrolls nearly 8,200 graduate and 2,000 professional students in more than 100 fields of study, and awards about 900 doctoral and 3,000 master's degrees each year. Resource Planning & Management Responsibilities for Resource Planning & Management include academic budgeting, space allocations for academic purposes, renovations and capital projects, compliance, and more. Vice President of Research Oversees all aspects of grants and contracts including pre-award, post-award, grant accounting, research compliance and reporting. School of Undergraduate Studies The School of Undergraduate Studies promotes and supports university-wide efforts to advance educational innovation, enrollment, and student success in order to enhance the academic experience for all students. Admissions Welcome Center A meaningful visit experience helps prospective students and their families imagine their lives on the Forty Acres and sets the stage for their long-term success. Close to 70,000 people visit campus every year, consisting largely of prospective students and their family and friends. Leadership team Guided by an experienced team of academic leaders and administrators, the Provost's Office provides a broad range of support to campus. All Provost Staff Sharon L. Wood Executive Vice President and Provost - Sharon Wood began her appointment as executive vice president and provost on July 19. Previously, she served as the dean of Cockrell School of Engineering. Meet the provost Tasha Beretvas Senior Vice Provost for Faculty Affairs Professor, Educational Psychology Tasha Beretvas ensures the integrity, quality, and transparency of policies and procedures related to faculty. Her portfolio manages faculty issues including promotion and tenure, advancement, professional development, family matters, and equity. Bio · Faculty Affairs Sonia Feigenbaum Senior Vice Provost for Global Engagement Chief International Officer Sonia Feigenbaum provides institutional leadership for advancing international strategy and global engagement that advance the profile, reputation, and mission of UT Austin. She leads strategic partnerships, collaborations, and oversees global services supporting students and faculty. Bio · Texas Global Larry Singell Senior Vice Provost for Resource Management Professor, LBJ School of Public Affairs Larry Singell oversees development of academic budgets, strategic planning, academic facility and space utilization, renovations, and support for all capital projects. He is responsible for accreditation, enrollment analytics, assessment, and the Office of Institutional Reporting, Research, and Information Systems. Bio · Resource Planning & Management Mark J. T. Smith Senior Vice Provost for Academic Affairs & Dean of Graduate Studies Professor, Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering As the senior vice provost for academic affairs, Mark J. T. Smith develops and implements strategic policies and practices that will allow the university to define and pursue future academic priorities. He also serves as dean of the Graduate School. Bio · Graduate School Brent Iverson Senior Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education & Dean of the School of Undergraduate Studies Brent Iverson leads the transition of Undergraduate Studies to its new organizational structure and function, while ensuring continuation of services to UGS students during the transition year. Bio · School of Undergraduate Studies Janet Dukerich Vice Provost for Advocacy and Dispute Resolution Professor in the Department of Management Janet Dukerich helps support faculty through advocacy and conflict resolution. Her research and teaching interests include organizational identification, reputation management, issue interpretation, and ethical decision making. Bio · Faculty Affairs Edmund T. Gordon Vice Provost for Diversity & Executive Director for Contextualization and Commemoration Associate Professor, African and African Diaspora Studies and Anthropology Edmund Gordon promotes diversity, equity and inclusion among faculty, and coordinates the implementation and evaluation of initiatives related to the University Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan. He also works closely with Enrollment Management to support university efforts at enhancing student diversity. Bio · Diversity Art Markman Vice Provost for Continuing and Professional Education and New Education Ventures As the inaugural vice provost for continuing and professional education and new education ventures, Art Markman leads the coordination of UT Austin’s credit-bearing programs and non-credit open-enrollment, certificate, and custom programs aimed at non-traditional students Bio · Academic Affairs Alison Preston Vice Provost for Faculty Development Alison Preston is the inaugural Vice Provost for Faculty Development. As Vice Provost, Dr. Preston oversees strategy and development of initiatives, programs, and resources to support the successful careers and visibility of UT faculty of all ranks. She works together with key stakeholders to create a culture of effective faculty mentorship and leadership development at the university. Bio · Faculty Affairs Catherine A. Stacy Chief of Staff Senior Director of Operations and Assistant Professor of Instruction Cathy's academic career has involved leading the development of large academic programs that integrate multiple domains. She has taught at UT for over twenty years and will support key initiatives to advance the academic priorities of the university. Contact Mayda Perez Assistant to the Executive Vice President and Provost Mayda Perez is the assistant to the executive vice president and provost, providing executive-level administrative support in the day-to-day management of the provost. She also provides support to the university’s Hispanic Serving Institution (HSI) Transition Campus Engagement Committee. Bio Other reporting units View all Centers, Offices & Units The Provost’s Office also oversees a wide variety of other units, including various administrative offices addressing student needs, as well as the Libraries, University of Texas Press, the Blanton Museum of Art and the Harry Ransom Center. Don E. Carleton, Executive Director Dolph Briscoe Center for American History Simone Wicha, Director Blanton Museum of Art Stephen Ennis, Director Harry Ransom Center Lorraine Haricombe, Vice Provost & Director UT Libraries Robert Devens, Director UT Press Contact Us Phone 512-471-4363 Fax 512-475-7385 Email provost.office@utexas.edu 110 Inner Campus Dr. STOP G1000 Austin, TX 78712-1701 Related Public Access to Course Information (HB2504) Faculty & Academic Resources Quicklinks The Office Initiatives Diversity, Equity & Inclusion News UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022