Skip to main content Office of the Provost About Academic Leadership Academic Initiatives Faculty Resources Open Searches Office of the Provost Faculty Diversity Radical Collaboration Global Cornell Teaching Innovation We are fostering an environment that attracts faculty from all backgrounds, ethnicities and perspectives, seeks out scholars of diverse viewpoints and encourages them to pursue their careers at Cornell for the long term. Explore Academic Initiatives Cornell continues to lower barriers to collaboration, supporting researchers reaching across disciplines in unconventional and unexpected ways. Due to the immense depth and breadth of our research, faculty are pursuing collaborative opportunities that don’t exist anywhere else. Explore Academic Initiatives From our founding as New York’s land-grant university to the present, Cornell’s mission has always included bringing knowledge to bear for public benefit, and to meet the world’s major challenges by applying facts, research and education. Explore Academic Initiatives Our faculty bring tremendous creativity and skill to the classroom and are central to building the educational verve that defines Cornell. We are providing the space for faculty to experiment, find expertise and guidance and make progress on curriculum innovation. Explore Academic Initiatives About Provost Kotlikoff It is my honor to serve as Cornell’s 16th provost, where I act as the university’s chief academic officer and chief operations officer. In consultation with President Pollack, the vice provosts, university deans and other senior leadership, my office oversees Cornell’s teaching, research and outreach, ensuring that we advance these cornerstones of the university mission. Learn more Latest News Elaine Westbrooks named Carl A. Kroch University Librarian Collaboration is a good fit for wearable sensor startup Tint of life: Color catalog built to find frozen worlds The faculty is the university. They do the discovery, they apply those discoveries, and they teach and inspire our students. It’s really impossible to overestimate the role of the faculty at Cornell – they really are what is permanent and fundamental about our academic institution. Office of the Provost Michael I. Kotlikoff 300 Day Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 (607) 255-2364 (607) 255-9924 provost@cornell.edu Chief Administrator Patty Ard (607) 255-9979 Executive Assistant to the Provost Elizabeth A. Hays (607) 255-2364 © 2022 Cornell University Our Leadership Leadership Board of Trustees Office of the President Provost for Medical Affairs Senior Administration More Information University Organization University Statements If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.