Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of the Provost Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Offices Resources Announcements Provost Mary C. Boyce Vice Provosts Past Provosts About the Office Advisory Committees University Leadership Vice Provost Offices Academic Programs Communications and Engagement Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Senior Vice Provost Faculty Advancement Faculty Affairs Fourth Purpose and Strategic Impact Teaching, Learning, and Innovation University Libraries Other Reporting Units Educational Programs Educational Agreements Educational Programs Approval Policies and Appointments Faculty Handbook Selected Faculty Policies University Policy Library Faculty Life Housing Parenting Well-Being New Faculty Awards, Fellowships, and RFPs For Faculty For Graduate Students Research at Columbia Teaching Resources Library Tools Academic Calendar CourseWorks Registrar CUIT Services for Faculty SSOL Office of the Provost You are here: Home Presidential Awards for Outstanding Teaching Presidential Awards for Outstanding Teaching The Presidential Awards for Outstanding Teaching were established in 1996 as a way to honor the University’s best teachers. They are conferred based on the original criteria for the awards for faculty and graduate student instructors. To receive this award is a great honor, as it demonstrates commitment to excellent and often innovative teaching as recognized by the entire Columbia community. We are pleased to announce the recipients of the 2022 Presidential Award for Outstanding Teaching. View the Selection Committee members for both the Faculty and Graduate Student Instructor awards. If you have questions about the Presidential Awards for Outstanding Teaching, please contact the Office of the Vice Provost for Academic Programs (OVPAP) at [email protected] Expand all Collapse all Faculty Awards Five faculty recipients are recognized each year during University Commencement in May. Faculty winners receive a certificate signed by President Bollinger, a formal citation written by their department, and an honorarium of $20,000. Additionally, the winners may also be recognized in University-wide and departmental publications. Selection Process The selection process begins with an open nominations period when anyone in the Columbia community (anyone with an active Columbia UNI) can nominate an eligible faculty member. The nomination period is currently open. The Selection Committee reviews all nominations, requests dossiers for a pool of finalists they wish to consider for the award, and ultimately chooses 5 winners to recommend to President Bollinger. The Selection Committee is comprised of 6-10 faculty members, including prior winners of the Presidential Awards for Outstanding Teaching. There is representation from both the Morningside and Medical Center campuses, as well as across disciplines. Eligibility requirements While Columbia is fortunate to have a relationship with both Barnard and Teacher’s College that permits students to experience a wide range of teaching excellence, faculty at Barnard and Teacher’s College are not eligible for the Presidential Awards for Outstanding Teaching. Faculty members with an official academic appointment are eligible to be nominated. This includes full-time, part-time and adjunct faculty in any department. Tenure status does not factor into eligibility for the awards. Visiting faculty are not eligible for this award. Student officers of instruction may not be nominated for a faculty teaching award. If eligible, they may be nominated for a graduate student instructor teaching award. This award is bestowed as a once in a lifetime achievement. Past winners are not eligible to receive a second award. Graduate Student Instructor (TA) Awards Three graduate student instructor (teaching assistant) recipients are recognized each year during the Graduate School of Arts & Sciences Convocation ceremony in May. Winners receive a certificate signed by President Bollinger, a formal citation written by their department, and an honorarium of $8,000. Additionally, the winners may also be recognized in University-wide and departmental publications. Selection Process The selection process begins with an open nominations period when anyone in the Columbia community (anyone with an active Columbia UNI) can nominate an eligible graduate student instructor (teaching assistant). The nomination period is currently open. The Selection Committee reviews all nominations, requests dossiers for a pool of finalists they wish to consider for the award, and ultimately selects 3 winners to recommend to President Bollinger. The Selection Committee is comprised of 5-8 faculty and student members, including prior winners of the Presidential Awards for Outstanding Teaching. There is representation from both the Morningside and Medical Center campuses, as well as across disciplines. Eligibility requirements While Columbia is fortunate to have a relationship with both Barnard and Teacher’s College that permits students to experience a wide range of teaching excellence, graduate student instructors (teaching assistants) at Barnard and Teacher’s College are not eligible for the Presidential Awards for Outstanding Teaching. To be eligible for this award, graduate student instructors (teaching assistants) must be appointed in an instructional* role, and currently enrolled in a degree program at the University. They do not, however, need to be teaching in the year in which they are nominated. This award is bestowed as once in a lifetime achievement. Past winners are not eligible to receive a second award. *Instructional roles include: teaching assistants, preceptors, readers, graders, and teaching fellows. Students appointed in a casual, administrative, or other non-instructional role are not eligible to be nominated for or receive a teaching award, even if they engage in teaching-related activities. Prior Award Winners Prior Faculty Award Winners Prior Graduate Student Instructor Winners Office of the Provost535 W. 116th Street, 205 Low Memorial Library, Mail Code 4313 · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2403 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close