Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown and Providence Schools Search Menu Site Navigation Home Progress In the Schools Engaging with Elementary and Middle Schools Engaging with High Schools Teacher Prep Programs College Day at Brown K-12 Research The Fund Timeline Public Education Committee FAQ Voices of Impact News and Updates Search Brown and Providence Schools In the Schools Every year, hundreds of Brown community members engage with students in Providence schools through teaching, tutoring, after-school enrichment and more. Sub Navigation In This Section Engaging with Elementary and Middle Schools Engaging with High Schools Teacher Prep Programs College Day at Brown In the Schools Every year, hundreds of Brown community members engage with students in Providence schools through teaching, tutoring, after-school enrichment and more. Every month, in every corner of Providence, members of the Brown community are making meaningful connections with students in Providence schools. Every month, in every corner of Providence, members of the Brown community are making meaningful connections with students in Providence schools. Vartan Gregorian Elementary School students in grades 2-5 receive lessons in Earth science from Brown undergraduates, graduate students, postdoctoral researchers and faculty. William D’Abate Elementary School students sharpen their critical thinking and creative skills with after-school chess games, group projects and reading exercises developed by Brown student volunteers. Students at 10 public schools throughout Rhode Island learn the basics of robotics with a curriculum designed by Brown students and faculty in computer science and engineering. Brown’s myriad classroom programs and initiatives have a mutually beneficial positive impact. K-12 students strengthen their academic performance, become more engaged in school and improve career and college readiness; simultaneously, undergraduate and graduate students at Brown gain new insights on everything from lesson planning to becoming more directly embedded in the Providence community to previously untapped passions for public service. Engaging with Elementary and Middle Schools Brown partnerships aim to instill a love of learning in Providence schoolchildren, paving the way for students to find success and fulfillment throughout their educational journey. Engaging with High Schools Brown’s diverse programs and initiatives equip high school students with the academic and problem-solving skills they need to prepare for careers and college. Teacher Prep Programs Brown’s teacher education programs serve Providence’s schools directly and prepare teachers to address the most pressing needs of urban secondary schools. College Day at Brown This immersive one-day program brings Providence public school students to the Brown University campus to experience a college setting and learn about their opportunities in higher education. Brown in the Schools News News from Brown Brown professor brings drone-based robotics class to area high schools August 20, 2020 Computer science professor Stefanie Tellex is helping schools across Rhode Island implement a new curriculum in which students learn basic robotics by building their own autonomous drones. Read Article Open details for Brown professor brings drone-based robotics class to area high schools News from Brown Brown celebrates a thriving set of partnerships with Providence schools April 17, 2018 The Fund for the Education of the Children of Providence marks its five-year anniversary this spring — but it’s just one illustration of the many ways in which Brown and the city’s schools work together to enrich educational opportunities. Read Article Open details for Brown celebrates a thriving set of partnerships with Providence schools News from Brown Teachers and students: Everybody learns July 30, 2015 Brown University’s SummerPrep program and 47th Summer High School drew nearly 325 local students to July sessions designed to brush up and expand knowledge in an enjoyable way. Their teachers are also learning ... Read Article Open details for Teachers and students: Everybody learns Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Progress In the Schools Engaging with Elementary and Middle Schools Engaging with High Schools Teacher Prep Programs College Day at Brown K-12 Research The Fund Timeline Public Education Committee FAQ Voices of Impact News and Updates This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search In the Schools Open details for In the Schools Bookmark this Page