Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of the Provost Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Offices Resources Announcements Provost Mary C. Boyce Vice Provosts Past Provosts About the Office Advisory Committees University Leadership Vice Provost Offices Academic Programs Communications and Engagement Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Senior Vice Provost Faculty Advancement Faculty Affairs Fourth Purpose and Strategic Impact Teaching, Learning, and Innovation University Libraries Other Reporting Units Educational Programs Educational Agreements Educational Programs Approval Policies and Appointments Faculty Handbook Selected Faculty Policies University Policy Library Faculty Life Housing Parenting Well-Being New Faculty Awards, Fellowships, and RFPs For Faculty For Graduate Students Research at Columbia Teaching Resources Library Tools Academic Calendar CourseWorks Registrar CUIT Services for Faculty SSOL Office of the Provost You are here: Home Directory Luisanne Liz Luisanne Liz Luisanne Liz joined the Office of Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action in September 2021 as an Associate Director. Luisanne is primarily responsible for investigating allegations of discrimination, harassment, and sexual misconduct reported against staff, faculty, and third-party affiliates of Columbia University. Prior to joining the Office of the Provost, Luisanne was an agency attorney at the New York City Commission on Human Rights. At the commission, Luisanne was tasked with investigating and prosecuting discrimination cases against employers, housing providers, and places of public accommodation under New York City human rights law. While working at the commission, Luisanne was selected for the Public Rights Project’s national Affirmative Leaders Fellowship. Luisanne’s experience also includes working at a private law firm and nonprofit organization, where she represented unaccompanied minors and adults in federal immigration and state family courts, and also negotiated agreements on behalf of a global audio entertainment company. Luisanne earned a bachelor’s degree from Fordham University and a Juris Doctor from Cornell Law School. As a law student, Luisanne served as an editor of the Cornell International Law Journal, interned at the Civil Rights Division of the U.S. Department of Justice, and externed at the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. Luisanne Liz, Associate Director, Office of Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Contact Info Office of Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action, Rm, Rm 103 Low Library, Mail Code: 4333 NY, United States [email protected] Office of the Provost535 W. 116th Street, 205 Low Memorial Library, Mail Code 4313 · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2403 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close