Skip to main content Office of the Provost About Academic Leadership Academic Initiatives Faculty Resources Open Searches Gary A. Koretzky Leadership Vp Academic Integration Vice Provost for Academic Integration Gary Koretzky is the Vice Provost for Academic Integration at Cornell University, a Professor in the Department of Medicine at Weill Cornell Medicine, and an Adjunct Professor in the Department of Microbiology and Immunology at the College of Veterinary Medicine at Cornell University. Prior to his current position, Koretzky served as the Vice Dean for Research at Weill Cornell Medical College and as the Dean of Weill Graduate School. In 2017, he was appointed as Vice Dean at Weill Cornell Medicine and charged with developing academic programs between the Ithaca campus and the medical campus in New York City. As the Vice Provost for Academic Integration, Koretzky will continue to strengthen the critical connections between the Cornell campuses in Ithaca and New York City through initiatives that will further facilitate and nurture research collaborations and integrate academic units. The broadening of collaborative research that encourages extramurally funded grant programs will also be a priority. Koretzky received his AB from Cornell University (‘78) and obtained his MD and PhD (Immunology) degrees at the University of Pennsylvania (‘84). Following a residency in internal medicine and a fellowship in rheumatology, he examined the molecular events associated with T cell activation as a postdoctoral fellow at the University of California, San Francisco. He continued his research when he joined the faculty at the University of Iowa with a focus on the biochemistry and molecular biology of signal transduction in hematopoietic cells. Koretzky then moved to the University of Pennsylvania where he was the founding Director of the Signal Transduction Program of the Abramson Family Cancer Research Institute and subsequently served as the Vice Chair for Research in the Department of Medicine. Koretzky’s research focus expanded to include investigation into all immune cell lineages, the unique developmental program of the lymphatic vasculature, and the implications of these findings for immune-mediated diseases and for cancer therapeutics. Koretzky served as the Editor-in-Chief of Immunological Reviews from 2002-2012 and is currently a member of the Council of the American Association of Immunologists. He served as the President of the American Society of Clinical Investigation (2000) and Councilor of the Association of American Physicians (2008-2012), is a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, a member of the National Academy of Medicine, and a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts & Sciences. Office of the Provost Michael I. Kotlikoff 300 Day Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 (607) 255-2364 (607) 255-9924 provost@cornell.edu Chief Administrator Patty Ard (607) 255-9979 Executive Assistant to the Provost Elizabeth A. Hays (607) 255-2364 © 2022 Cornell University Our Leadership Leadership Board of Trustees Office of the President Provost for Medical Affairs Senior Administration More Information University Organization University Statements If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.