University of Illinois Search for: Office of the Provost Office of the Provost Search Menu Office of the Provost About About About the Provost Blog Committees Employment Opportunities Initiatives Leadership Team News & Updates Provost’s Staff Directory Reporting Units Assessment Assessment Academic Program Review Institutional Accreditation Learning Outcomes Assessment Surveys Awards Awards Campus Awards & Honors Events National & International Awards Opportunities Resources & Tools Budget Budget Budget Overview Budget Reform Business & Financial Policies Capital Planning Planning & Reporting Who to Ask? Online Resources Education Education Advising Resources Courses & Programs Education Abroad Enrollment Management General Education Student Success Initiative Teaching Advancement Teaching Resources Who to Ask? Advising Support Information Faculty Affairs Faculty Affairs Faculty Development & Mentoring Faculty Resources Leadership Development Programs Seminars & Workshops Unit Executive Officer Resources Work-Life Balance & Family-Friendly Programs Policies Policies Policies Provost’s Communications Communications Illinois COVID-19 Home Page Central location for the most up-to-date information about the impact of the COVID-19 virus on our university Temporary Modifications to Targets of Opportunity Program Temporary Modifications to Targets of Opportunity Program Tenure Rollback Policy for COVID-19 Process for applying for a rollback due to COVID-19 COVID-19 Classroom Management Information Information for instructors regarding classroom management for all face-to-face classes. View All Celebrating our accomplished and award-winning faculty See Faculty Honors Get to know the Office of the Provost The Office of the Provost oversees a broad cross-section of academic and administrative units. In collaboration with the Chancellor, the Deans, the other Vice Chancellors, and the Academic Senate, the Office stewards the university’s strategic plan, manages the university’s budget, sets academic policies, and recognizes and celebrates the accomplishments of the faculty. Organization More than three dozen colleges, schools and administrative units, as well as the University Library, report to the Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs and Provost. Learn more about units reporting to the Provost. Shared Governance The university’s shared governance system—a model of active collaboration and consultation among administrators, the Academic Senate and the faculty—ensures the establishment and pursuit of academic priorities that are both promising and consistent with the university’s values and aspirations. Learn more about the Provost’s Council of Deans and other committees established to provide guidance to the Provost and Chancellor. Learn more about our committees. Special Initiatives At Illinois, we have a long history of transforming the world. Current campus-wide initiatives are harnessing the multi-disciplinary and cross-college assets of the university to develop new strengths in health, design, environmental sustainability and informatics. Learn more about current special initiatives. Office of the Provost Office of the Provost Contact Contact Swanlund Administration Building 601 E John Street, MC 304 Champaign, IL 61820 (217) 333-6677 provost@illinois.edu Website update or broken link? Please email provostwebupdates@illinois.edu Resources Resources Illinois Human Resources Academic Senate Strategic Plan Inclusive Illinois Consumer Information Accreditation © University of Illinois Board of Trustees