Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of the Provost Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Offices Resources Announcements Provost Mary C. Boyce Vice Provosts Past Provosts About the Office Advisory Committees University Leadership Vice Provost Offices Academic Programs Communications and Engagement Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Senior Vice Provost Faculty Advancement Faculty Affairs Fourth Purpose and Strategic Impact Teaching, Learning, and Innovation University Libraries Other Reporting Units Educational Programs Educational Agreements Educational Programs Approval Policies and Appointments Faculty Handbook Selected Faculty Policies University Policy Library Faculty Life Housing Parenting Well-Being New Faculty Awards, Fellowships, and RFPs For Faculty For Graduate Students Research at Columbia Teaching Resources Library Tools Academic Calendar CourseWorks Registrar CUIT Services for Faculty SSOL Office of the Provost You are here: Home LGBTQ+ Resources LGBTQ+ Resources Image Carousel with 2 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1 Slide 2 LGBTQ+ at Columbia Introducing the Columbia University LGBTQ+ Resource Guide Read the Guide Previous Next Columbia is home to the first gay student organization in the country, and our faculty, staff, and students continue to build upon this rich legacy of scholarship and activism. The Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty Advancement has compiled the LGBTQ+ Guide, along with this website, to serve as a clearinghouse of information for members of the LGBTQ+ community and those who aspire to be better allies. Though our primary audience is our faculty, this list offers a wide range resources for the entire Columbia community. We encourage students to visit the Office of University Life's website, Resources for Promoting LGBTQ+ Inclusion. Quick Links address-book icon Read the LGBTQ+ Guide print icon Print a Columbia LGBTQ+ poster id-card icon Student Resources from University Life transgender-alt icon Pronoun Use map icon Find Gender Neutral Bathrooms medkit icon Access Healthcare building icon Campus Resources Resources Below are LGBTQ+ resources at Columbia and beyond. If you have a link to be listed on this site, please click here. The Columbia University LGBTQ+ Guide and companion website are a project of the Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty Advancement. Office of the Provost535 W. 116th Street, 205 Low Memorial Library, Mail Code 4313 · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2403 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close