Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of the Provost Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Offices Resources Announcements Provost Mary C. Boyce Vice Provosts Past Provosts About the Office Advisory Committees University Leadership Vice Provost Offices Academic Programs Communications and Engagement Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Senior Vice Provost Faculty Advancement Faculty Affairs Fourth Purpose and Strategic Impact Teaching, Learning, and Innovation University Libraries Other Reporting Units Educational Programs Educational Agreements Educational Programs Approval Policies and Appointments Faculty Handbook Selected Faculty Policies University Policy Library Faculty Life Housing Parenting Well-Being New Faculty Awards, Fellowships, and RFPs For Faculty For Graduate Students Research at Columbia Teaching Resources Library Tools Academic Calendar CourseWorks Registrar CUIT Services for Faculty SSOL Office of the Provost You are here: Home Offices Vice Provost Offices Faculty Advancement Faculty Diversity Faculty Diversity FACULTY DIVERSITY Faculty headcounts as of the fall semester for each year; primary position only. FACULTY STATUS Tenured Professors and Associate Professors with Tenure. Not Tenured, But Eligible for Tenure Professorial rank faculties, who are not tenured but are eligible for tenure. Not Eligible for Tenure Includes all special instructional faculty and professorial faculty who are not eligible for tenure. RACE AND ETHNICITY DEFINITIONS Underrepresented Minority (URM) US citizens and permanent residents who have self-identified as at least one of the following: Hispanic or Latino, American Indian or Alaska Native, Black or African American, or Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander. Other Minority US citizens and permanent residents who have self-identified as Asian Origin or as Asian and White. International Faculty who are not US citizens or Permanent Residents. The following categories are determined by the federal government. Definitions, as provided by the U.S. Department of Education, are as follows: Hispanic or Latino A person of Cuban, Mexican, Puerto Rican, South or Central American, or other Spanish culture or origin, regardless of race. American Indian or Alaska Native A person having origins in any of the original people of North and South America (including Central America) who maintains cultural identification through tribal affiliation or community attachment. Asian A person having origins in any of the original people of the Far East, Southeast Asia, or the Indian Subcontinent, including, for example, Cambodia, China, India, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Pakistan, the Philippine Islands, Thailand, and Vietnam. Black or African American A person having origins in any of the black racial groups of Africa. Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander A person having origins in any of the original people of Hawaii, Guam, Samoa, or other Pacific Islands. White A person having origins in any of the original people of Europe, the Middle East, or North Africa. Please visit the Office of Planning and Institutional Research for more information. Office of the Provost535 W. 116th Street, 205 Low Memorial Library, Mail Code 4313 · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2403 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close