Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of the Provost Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Offices Resources Announcements Provost Mary C. Boyce Vice Provosts Past Provosts About the Office Advisory Committees University Leadership Vice Provost Offices Academic Programs Communications and Engagement Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Senior Vice Provost Faculty Advancement Faculty Affairs Fourth Purpose and Strategic Impact Teaching, Learning, and Innovation University Libraries Other Reporting Units Educational Programs Educational Agreements Educational Programs Approval Policies and Appointments Faculty Handbook Selected Faculty Policies University Policy Library Faculty Life Housing Parenting Well-Being New Faculty Awards, Fellowships, and RFPs For Faculty For Graduate Students Research at Columbia Teaching Resources Library Tools Academic Calendar CourseWorks Registrar CUIT Services for Faculty SSOL Office of the Provost Homepage 2021 Image Carousel with 2 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1 Slide 2 Meet the 2022 Faculty Service and Faculty Mentoring Awardees Faculty Mentoring Award Faculty Service Award Congratulations, Class of 2022! Previous Next Mary C. Boyce, Provost Welcome to the Office of the Provost The Provost is Columbia University's chief academic officer. In consultation with a team of Vice Provosts, the Provost directs the development and implementation of Columbia's academic plans and policies, and supervises the work of its faculties, departments, institutes, and research centers. Meet Provost Mary C. Boyce. By Eileen Barroso 2022 Faculty Mentoring, Service, and Diversity Awards Announced We are pleased to recognize faculty whose work embodies Columbia’s commitment to inclusive excellence, a commitment the Office of the Provost strives to realize through a range of initiatives. More Announcements Our Portfolio Faculty Tenure, Appointments, and Promotions Educational Innovation Faculty Advancement and Diversity Faculty Housing, Schooling, and Space Planning Educational Partnerships All Reporting Offices News Highlights Photo: Shahar Azran Keren Yarhi-Milo Appointed Dean of SIPA Jelani Cobb Appointed Journalism Dean Photo: Jorg Meyer Shih-Fu Change Named Engineering Dean Genetic History of Betta Fish Human Organs Cloned on Chip Popular Resources Tenure Review Guidelines Academic Appointments Awards, Fellowships, and RFPs New Faculty Resources Research Grants and Funding Work/Life Resources Faculty Diversity Data University Policy Library Latest Announcements May 12, 2022 2022 Faculty Mentoring, Service, and Diversity Awards Announced We are pleased to recognize faculty whose work embodies Columbia’s commitment to inclusive excellence, a commitment the Office of the Provost strives to realize through a range of initiatives. Tags AnnouncementsDiversityFaculty Advancement May 09, 2022 Working Group Submits Anti-Bullying Recommendations The report proposes a definition of bullying and other abusive behavior, a remedial framework, and changes in culture and climate to help prevent such behavior. Tags AnnouncementsReportAnti-Bullying Working Group February 21, 2022 Soulaymane Kachani Appointed Senior Vice Provost As Senior Vice Provost, Professor Kachani will increase the scope of this portfolio and spearhead a new initiative that will enable the University to accelerate the expansion of its innovation in online and hybrid offerings. Tags Announcements More News Office of the Provost535 W. 116th Street, 205 Low Memorial Library, Mail Code 4313 · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2403 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close