Skip to main content Utility Links University of Pennsylvania Office of the Provost Group Created with Sketch. Group Created with Sketch. search Group Created with Sketch. full menu Primary Nav Penn Provost About Education Faculty Research Global Policies Contact Drawer Menu Penn Provost About Explore Back to main menu About the Interim Provost Vice Provosts Provost's Councils Explore Back to main menu Academic Planning and Budget Council of Deans Council of Graduate Deans Council of Professional Master's Degree Deans Council of Undergraduate Deans Graduate Council of the Faculties Provost Council on Research Provost's Staff Conference Centers & Institutes Explore Back to main menu Environmental Innovations Initiative Explore Back to main menu Our Team Research Arts at Penn Explore Back to main menu Annenberg Center Arthur Ross Gallery Institute of Contemporary Art Kelly Writers House Penn Museum Platt Student Performing Arts House Sachs Program for Arts Innovation Campaign for Community Explore Back to main menu Grants Contact Us Provost Administrative Affairs Explore Back to main menu Return to Campus Finance Explore Back to main menu Toolbox Financial Policies Work From Home Equipment Tracking (PennKey Required) Payroll Purchasing Services Payments and Reimbursements Gifts and Endowments Funding Opportunities Strategic Planning Human Resources Explore Back to main menu Human Resources Policies Position (New and Reclass) and Compensation Requests (PennKey Required) Hiring a Staff Member Hiring a Student Worker Hiring a Temporary Staff Member Background Checks Onboarding and I-9 Process Leave Administration (FML, STD, PPL) Individual Service Providers Performance Appraisals and Merit Increases Academic Technology & Planning Planning, Design, & Construction Workday@Penn Contact Provost Administrative Affairs Explore Back to main menu Departments/Centers Reporting to Provost Education Explore Back to main menu COVID-19 ACADEMIC INFORMATION AND RESOURCES Explore Back to main menu Summer 2022 COVID-19 FAQs for Instructors Summer 2022 COVID-19 FAQs for Students Undergraduate Education Graduate and Professional Education Explore Back to main menu Graduate Admissions Graduate Degrees Explore Back to main menu Graduation Information Explore Back to main menu Graduate Degree Calendar Graduate Groups Graduation FAQs Dissertation and Thesis Deposit Explore Back to main menu Dissertation Copyright Dissertation Embargo Guidelines Dissertation Templates ETD Administrator Formatting FAQs Sample Dissertation Title Page Resources for PhD Students Graduate Student Center Family Resource Center Fontaine Society Teaching at Penn Explore Back to main menu Teaching Awards TCPW Award Penn TA Prize Faculty Council Brief Center for Teaching and Learning Resources for Administrators Wellness Ambassadors Accreditation About the Vice Provost Contact Faculty Explore Back to main menu Faculty Handbook Research Global Policies Contact Search Group Created with Sketch. Who we are and job opportunities Our Team Basic Page Sidebar Menu Penn Provost About Explore Back to main menu About the Interim Provost Vice Provosts Provost's Councils Explore Back to main menu Academic Planning and Budget Council of Deans Council of Graduate Deans Council of Professional Master's Degree Deans Council of Undergraduate Deans Graduate Council of the Faculties Provost Council on Research Provost's Staff Conference Centers & Institutes Explore Back to main menu Environmental Innovations Initiative Explore Back to main menu Our Team Research Arts at Penn Explore Back to main menu Annenberg Center Arthur Ross Gallery Institute of Contemporary Art Kelly Writers House Penn Museum Platt Student Performing Arts House Sachs Program for Arts Innovation Campaign for Community Explore Back to main menu Grants Contact Us Provost Administrative Affairs Explore Back to main menu Return to Campus Finance Explore Back to main menu Toolbox Financial Policies Work From Home Equipment Tracking (PennKey Required) Payroll Purchasing Services Payments and Reimbursements Gifts and Endowments Funding Opportunities Strategic Planning Human Resources Explore Back to main menu Human Resources Policies Position (New and Reclass) and Compensation Requests (PennKey Required) Hiring a Staff Member Hiring a Student Worker Hiring a Temporary Staff Member Background Checks Onboarding and I-9 Process Leave Administration (FML, STD, PPL) Individual Service Providers Performance Appraisals and Merit Increases Academic Technology & Planning Planning, Design, & Construction Workday@Penn Contact Provost Administrative Affairs Explore Back to main menu Departments/Centers Reporting to Provost Education Explore Back to main menu COVID-19 ACADEMIC INFORMATION AND RESOURCES Explore Back to main menu Summer 2022 COVID-19 FAQs for Instructors Summer 2022 COVID-19 FAQs for Students Undergraduate Education Graduate and Professional Education Explore Back to main menu Graduate Admissions Graduate Degrees Explore Back to main menu Graduation Information Explore Back to main menu Graduate Degree Calendar Graduate Groups Graduation FAQs Dissertation and Thesis Deposit Explore Back to main menu Dissertation Copyright Dissertation Embargo Guidelines Dissertation Templates ETD Administrator Formatting FAQs Sample Dissertation Title Page Resources for PhD Students Graduate Student Center Family Resource Center Fontaine Society Teaching at Penn Explore Back to main menu Teaching Awards TCPW Award Penn TA Prize Faculty Council Brief Center for Teaching and Learning Resources for Administrators Wellness Ambassadors Accreditation About the Vice Provost Contact Faculty Explore Back to main menu Faculty Handbook Research Global Policies Contact Leadership Kathleen D. Morrison, Faculty Co-Lead Kathleen Morrison is the Chair of the Department of Anthropology and the Sally and Alvin V. Shoemaker Professor of Anthropology. Her research is focused on governing regimes, agricultural change, and their environmental impacts in the Deccan Plateau of South India. Her books include Daroji Valley: Landscape History, Place, and the Making of a Dryland Reservoir System, The Vijayanagara Metropolitan Survey, and Fields of Victory: Vijayanagara and the Course of Intensification. Prof. Morrison earned her Ph.D. in Anthropology from the University of California, Berkeley in 1992, her M.A. from the University of the New Mexico in 1987, and her B.A. From the University of Notre Dame 1984. (Learn more) Joseph S. Francisco, Faculty Co-Lead Joseph S. Francisco is the President’s Distinguished Professor of Earth and Environmental Science, and Professor of Chemistry at the University of Pennsylvania. He was the president of the American Chemical Society from 2009-2010. He is currently a Fellow of the American Physical Society and the American Association for the Advancement of Science, and in 2010 he was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. In his research, Prof. Francisco has applied new tools from theoretical chemistry to atmospheric chemical problems to enhance our understanding of chemistry in the atmosphere at the molecular level. He earned his Ph.D. in Chemical Physics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1983, and a B.S. in Chemistry from the University of Texas at Austin in 1977. (Learn more) Melissa Brown Goodall, Senior Director Melissa Brown Goodall joined the Environmental Innovations Initiative in 2021 as its inaugural Senior Director. In this role, she is developing a strategic vision to leverage Penn’s academic strengths and foster collaboration across disciplines to address the most pressing global environmental challenges of our time. Before coming to Penn, Melissa was at Yale University – first with the School of the Environment, then with the Center for Environmental Law and Policy, and finally with the Office of Sustainability. Melissa is the Director of the Global University Climate Forum and a Strategic Advisor to the Center for Governance and Sustainability at the University of Massachusetts Boston. She earned her Ph.D. in Environmental Studies in 2015 and a joint degree in Resource Management and Administration in 1998 from Antioch University and her B.F.A. in Acting from New York University in 1992. Kelley Widerman, Associate Director for Outreach Before joining the Environmental Innovations Initiative in 2021, Kelley worked on campus for The Penn Fund team serving in both fundraising and marketing roles. In this position, she will employ her strengths in these areas to bring visibility to the Initiative while building connections to advance its mission. Kelley is also pursuing a Master of Environmental Studies at the University with a focus in environmental policy. Her capstone work will focus on communicating the effectiveness of nature-based solutions for coastal flooding as an alternative to traditional approaches. She earned her B.A. in Politics and Government from Ohio Wesleyan University. 122 College Hall University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA 19104 215-898-5000 provost@upenn.edu ©2022 University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104 Footer Menu University of Pennsylvania Penn Directory Site Credits