Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Office of the Provost Main navigation About the Office About the Office of the Provost Leadership Staff Organizational Chart (PDF) About Provost McLaughlin Reporting Units Reporting Units Academic Effectiveness Center for 21st Century Universities (C21U) International Initiatives Colleges Conflict Resolution & Ombuds Enrollment Management Faculty Affairs Georgia Tech Library Graduate & Postdoctoral Education Professional Education Undergraduate Education Initiatives Academic Advising Task Force Arts@Tech Classroom and Academic Scheduling Taskforce Commission on Creating the Next in Education Educational Innovation Ecosystem Emerging Leaders Program Office of the Provost Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Council Technology Fee Working Group Communications Academic and Research Updates Monthly E-Newsletter Operational Memos Awards Resources & Links Resources & Links Covid-19 Resources Academic FAQs Research Ramp Up FAQs Endowed Chairs and Professorships Guide for Responsible International Activities List of Faculty Titles User account menu Contact the Provost Open Search Search Search Task Force on Classroom and Academic Scheduling Breadcrumb Home Following the Academic Calendar Task Force, which completed its work and recommendations in Spring 2015, the Classroom and Academic Scheduling Task Force was commissioned in October 2015 by Rafael Bras, provost and executive vice president for Academic Affairs and Steve Swant, executive vice president for Administration and Finance. The task force was charged to conduct a comprehensive review of Georgia Tech's classroom and academic processes, procedures, and protocols to determine a path forward that balances the needs of our students and faculty with our existing campus resources. This path will address the institution's growing enrollment and geographically expanding campus. The complete task force recommendations will assist students in planning their academic careers, better utilize campus resources, and increase coordination of the classroom-scheduling function among academic and administrative units. About the Task Force Task Force Charge Memo Leadership and Membership Town Hall Presentation Slideshow Watch the Webinar (WebEx) Download Full Report (.pdf) (A GT 365 login required to download report and appendices. Please email Susie Ivy if you do not have a GT 365 account and wish to access the report.) Related Links Registrar's Office New Steam Whistle Schedule News: Classroom and Academic Scheduling Changes Underway News: Task Force Recommends Changes to Classroom and Academic Scheduling Processes Recommendation #1 - New Daily Scheduling Template - Implemented Fall 2017 Adopt a new daily classroom scheduling template and associated policies that define allowable times for scheduling of individual courses at Georgia Tech, incorporating 15-minutes breaks between classes. Establish a standard scheduling parameters for Standard 3-Lecture-Hour Time Blocks, Other Lecture-Only Courses, Friday Flexible Block, Laboratory Course Scheduling, and Policy Guidelines for Exceptions. Read more on the Registrar Office's page. Increase the percentage of two-day standard time blocks. Note: The steam whistle schedule will be adjusted to fit into the new template, as follows: Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 8:50 a.m. 9:55 a.m. 11:00 a.m. 12:05 p.m. 1:10 p.m. 2:45 p.m. 4:15 pm. 5:45 p.m. 9:15 a.m. 10:45 a.m. 1:15 p.m. 2:45 p.m. 4:15 p.m. 5:45 p.m. 8:50 a.m. 9:55 a.m. 11:00 a.m. 12:05 p.m. 1:10 p.m. 2:45 p.m. 4:15 p.m. 5:45 p.m. 9:15 a.m. 10:45 a.m. 1:15 p.m. 2:45 p.m. 4:15 p.m. 5:45 p.m. 8:50 a.m. 9:55 a.m. 11:00 a.m. 12:05 p.m. 1:10 p.m. 2:45 p.m. Recommendation #2 - Policies, Procedures, and Best Practices Develop policies, procedures, and best practices strategy that includes the establishment of “anchor classes” that will have priority for scheduling and room assignment, to be followed by subsequent scheduling by academic units on a term-by-term basis. Establish best practices uses for Banner. Standardize processes in scheduling and registration among the academic units for consistency in expectations regarding wait lists, permits, overloads, and other special permissions. Develop a registration preview in Banner before the start of registration. Establish a central portal to projected schedules, registration instructions, and related information. Improve the quality (completeness and accuracy) of unit-level project schedules and class offerings. Recommendation #3 - Instructional and Class Scheduling Subcommittee of the IUCC & IGCC Establish a permanent, joint subcommittee of the Institute Graduate Curriculum Committee (IGCC) and the Institute Undergraduate Curriculum Committee (IUCC) to act on matters related to class and instructional scheduling; provide an oversight and coordination role in these processes; and develop policies, procedures, and recommendations for both short- and long-term academic class scheduling and planning. Recommendation #4 - Organizational Realignment - Implemented January 2017 Combine the academic class scheduling functions performed by the Registrar’s office with the classroom scheduling function done by Capital Planning & Space Management (CPSM) and place that merged class scheduling function in the Registrar’s office. Recommendation #5 - Resources and Technology - IMPLEMENTED JANUARY 2017 Conduct a technology audit and review and make a strategic investment in technology that supports class scheduling, registration, and related analytics. Maximize the utility of DegreeWorks and Banner. Further explore the relationship between Banner and Event Management System (EMS). Office of the Provost Georgia Institute of Technology Carnegie Building 225 North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332-0325 (404) 385-2700 Office of the Provost Map Campus Map GT official links: general (required) General Directory Employment Emergency Information GT official links: legal (required) Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN GT official links: column 1 (optional) Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum GT official links: column 2 (optional) Colleges, Instructional Sites and Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Art Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research GT official links: column 3 (optional) Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid GT official links: column 4 (optional) Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education