Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Office of the Provost Main navigation About the Office About the Office of the Provost Leadership Staff Organizational Chart (PDF) About Provost McLaughlin Reporting Units Reporting Units Academic Effectiveness Center for 21st Century Universities (C21U) International Initiatives Colleges Conflict Resolution & Ombuds Enrollment Management Faculty Affairs Georgia Tech Library Graduate & Postdoctoral Education Professional Education Undergraduate Education Initiatives Academic Advising Task Force Arts@Tech Classroom and Academic Scheduling Taskforce Commission on Creating the Next in Education Educational Innovation Ecosystem Emerging Leaders Program Office of the Provost Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Council Technology Fee Working Group Communications Academic and Research Updates Monthly E-Newsletter Operational Memos Awards Resources & Links Resources & Links Covid-19 Resources Academic FAQs Research Ramp Up FAQs Endowed Chairs and Professorships Guide for Responsible International Activities List of Faculty Titles User account menu Contact the Provost Open Search Search Search Office of the Provost The Office of the Provost furthers Georgia Tech's academic mission — learning through teaching and research — by providing the leadership, support, and services that enable the personal and intellectual growth of our students, faculty, staff, and the academic community. Breadcrumb Home About the Office of the Provost About the Office of the Provost About the Provost Leadership Staff Organizational Chart (PDF) Leadership Bernard Kippelen Vice Provost for International Initiatives Steven A. Denning Chair for Global Engagement and Professor, School of Electrical and Computer Engineering Bernard Kippelen is the Vice Provost for International Initiatives and the Steven A. Denning Chair for Global Engagement. He is a professor in the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering.… Read More kippelen@gatech.edu (404) 894-7482 Bonnie Ferri Vice Provost for Graduate and Postdoctoral Education Professor, Electrical and Computer Engineering Bonnie Ferri is the vice provost for Graduate and Postdoctoral Education at Georgia Tech, and she is a professor in the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering. Dr. Ferri previously was the associate chair for Undergraduate Affairs in ECE and the associate chair for… Read More bonnie.ferri@gatech.edu (404) 385-3685 Steve Harmon Interim Executive Director, Center for 21st Century Universities (C21U) Associate Dean of Research, Georgia Tech Professional Education Professor, College of Design Stephen Harmon serves as the interim executive director of the Center for 21st Century Universities (C21U), associate dean of research at Georgia Tech Professional Education (GTPE), and a professor at the… Read More swharmon@gatech.edu Jennifer Herazy Associate Vice President for Strategy and Administration Jennifer Herazy has been with Georgia Tech since 1997, serving most recently in the Office of the Provost as the chief administrative officer for Academics and Research. In October 2021, she assumed the role of associate vice president for Strategy and Administration. Reporting jointly to the provost and the executive vice president for… Read More jennifer.herazy@carnegie.gatech.edu (404) 385-3037 Paul Kohn Vice Provost for Enrollment Management Dr. Paul Kohn joined the Georgia Institute of Technology in August 2010, coming from the University of Arizona, where he was Dean of Admissions and Vice President for Enrollment Management. Under his leadership, Arizona set records for five consecutive years for the number of new freshmen, as well as the most ethnically and geographically… Read More paul.kohn@ssc.gatech.edu (404) 385-3708 Loraine Phillips Associate Provost for Academic Effectiveness As Associate Provost for Academic Effectiveness at Georgia Tech, Dr. Phillips works with faculty and staff to lead institutional effectiveness and accountability efforts. She interprets policies and influences practices for the Institute to various constituents, including accreditors, the state, and the University System of Georgia. She… Read More loraine.phillips@gatech.edu (404) 385-2229 Steven Girardot Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education Steven P. Girardot (he/him/his) is the vice provost for undergraduate education at Georgia Tech. He has over twenty years of higher education experience and is a proud Tech alumnus, having earned both a B.S. in Chemical Engineering and an M.S. in Chemistry from Georgia Tech. He completed his doctorate… Read More steven.girardot@gatech.edu (404) 894-5054 Kyla Turpin Ross Assistant Vice Provost for Advocacy and Conflict Resolution Kyla Ross is the Assistant Vice Provost for Advocacy and Conflict Resolution and oversees the interpretation and enforcement of Georgia Tech policies and rules, as well as the grievances, complaints, and inquiries by administrators, faculty, staff, and students. She monitors trends in conflicts across the Institute and provides training… Read More kyla.ross@gatech.edu (404) 894-2863 Office of the Provost Georgia Institute of Technology Carnegie Building 225 North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332-0325 (404) 385-2700 Office of the Provost Map Campus Map GT official links: general (required) General Directory Employment Emergency Information GT official links: legal (required) Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN GT official links: column 1 (optional) Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum GT official links: column 2 (optional) Colleges, Instructional Sites and Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Art Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research GT official links: column 3 (optional) Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid GT official links: column 4 (optional) Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education