Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of the Provost Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Offices Resources Announcements Provost Mary C. Boyce Vice Provosts Past Provosts About the Office Advisory Committees University Leadership Vice Provost Offices Academic Programs Communications and Engagement Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Senior Vice Provost Faculty Advancement Faculty Affairs Fourth Purpose and Strategic Impact Teaching, Learning, and Innovation University Libraries Other Reporting Units Educational Programs Educational Agreements Educational Programs Approval Policies and Appointments Faculty Handbook Selected Faculty Policies University Policy Library Faculty Life Housing Parenting Well-Being New Faculty Awards, Fellowships, and RFPs For Faculty For Graduate Students Research at Columbia Teaching Resources Library Tools Academic Calendar CourseWorks Registrar CUIT Services for Faculty SSOL Office of the Provost You are here: Home Faculty Mentoring Award Faculty Mentoring Award The Faculty Mentoring Award recognizes senior faculty who have demonstrated an exceptional commitment to faculty mentoring through their work with tenure-track and mid-career faculty in developing their careers. Exceptional mentoring can include offering advice, feedback and guidance on research activities, coaching on work-life balance issues, providing professional opportunities for mentees, and/or assisting in development of teaching skills. The Faculty Mentoring Award honors the incredible mentoring legacy of Columbia Business School Professor Katherine W. Phillips. Meet the 2022 recipients of the Faculty Mentoring Award Selection Process The selection process begins with an open nominations period when any member of the Columbia University faculty can nominate an eligible faculty member. The Selection Committee reviews all nominations, requests dossiers for a pool of finalists they wish to consider for the award, and ultimately chooses up to two winners to recommend to the Provost. Eligibility requirements Senior, full-time faculty members with an official academic appointment are eligible to be nominated. Faculty with a primary appointment at CUIMC are not eligible for this Faculty Mentoring Award, but are eligible for the Mentor of the Year Award, which was established in 2012. Barnard and Teachers College faculty, visiting faculty and campus-level administrators (e.g., in the offices of the President and Provost, deans or department chairs) are not eligible for this award. Nominees should have served as a faculty mentor, in a formal or informal capacity, to several junior and/or mid-career faculty over a continuous period and have had demonstrated success in the areas they mentor (e.g., research, teaching). This award is bestowed as a once in a lifetime achievement. Past winners are not eligible to receive a second award. Selection Criteria A demonstrated commitment to fostering the intellectual, creative, scholarly, and professional growth of her/his mentees so that they may function effectively and with measurable success at Columbia and at the national/international level Evidence of sustained commitment to a professional mentoring relationship that results in career growth or personal development of mentees An overall track record of mentoring and service to the faculty If you have questions about the Faculty Mentoring Award, please contact the Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty Advancement at [email protected]. Meet Past Award Recipients 2021 Faculty Mentoring Award Recipients 2020 Faculty Mentoring Award Recipients Office of the Provost535 W. 116th Street, 205 Low Memorial Library, Mail Code 4313 · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2403 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close