Skip to main content Utility Links University of Pennsylvania Office of the Provost Group Created with Sketch. Group Created with Sketch. search Group Created with Sketch. full menu Primary Nav Penn Provost About Education Faculty Research Global Policies Contact Drawer Menu Penn Provost About Explore Back to main menu About the Interim Provost Vice Provosts Provost's Councils Explore Back to main menu Academic Planning and Budget Council of Deans Council of Graduate Deans Council of Professional Master's Degree Deans Council of Undergraduate Deans Graduate Council of the Faculties Provost Council on Research Provost's Staff Conference Centers & Institutes Explore Back to main menu Environmental Innovations Initiative Explore Back to main menu Our Team Research Arts at Penn Explore Back to main menu Annenberg Center Arthur Ross Gallery Institute of Contemporary Art Kelly Writers House Penn Museum Platt Student Performing Arts House Sachs Program for Arts Innovation Campaign for Community Explore Back to main menu Grants Contact Us Provost Administrative Affairs Explore Back to main menu Return to Campus Finance Explore Back to main menu Toolbox Financial Policies Work From Home Equipment Tracking (PennKey Required) Payroll Purchasing Services Payments and Reimbursements Gifts and Endowments Funding Opportunities Strategic Planning Human Resources Explore Back to main menu Human Resources Policies Position (New and Reclass) and Compensation Requests (PennKey Required) Hiring a Staff Member Hiring a Student Worker Hiring a Temporary Staff Member Background Checks Onboarding and I-9 Process Leave Administration (FML, STD, PPL) Individual Service Providers Performance Appraisals and Merit Increases Academic Technology & Planning Planning, Design, & Construction Workday@Penn Contact Provost Administrative Affairs Explore Back to main menu Departments/Centers Reporting to Provost Education Explore Back to main menu COVID-19 ACADEMIC INFORMATION AND RESOURCES Explore Back to main menu Summer 2022 COVID-19 FAQs for Instructors Summer 2022 COVID-19 FAQs for Students Undergraduate Education Graduate and Professional Education Explore Back to main menu Graduate Admissions Graduate Degrees Explore Back to main menu Graduation Information Explore Back to main menu Graduate Degree Calendar Graduate Groups Graduation FAQs Dissertation and Thesis Deposit Explore Back to main menu Dissertation Copyright Dissertation Embargo Guidelines Dissertation Templates ETD Administrator Formatting FAQs Sample Dissertation Title Page Resources for PhD Students Graduate Student Center Family Resource Center Fontaine Society Teaching at Penn Explore Back to main menu Teaching Awards TCPW Award Penn TA Prize Faculty Council Brief Center for Teaching and Learning Resources for Administrators Wellness Ambassadors Accreditation About the Vice Provost Contact Faculty Explore Back to main menu Faculty Handbook Research Global Policies Contact Search Group Created with Sketch. Payments and Reimbursements Basic Page Sidebar Menu Penn Provost About Explore Back to main menu About the Interim Provost Vice Provosts Provost's Councils Explore Back to main menu Academic Planning and Budget Council of Deans Council of Graduate Deans Council of Professional Master's Degree Deans Council of Undergraduate Deans Graduate Council of the Faculties Provost Council on Research Provost's Staff Conference Centers & Institutes Explore Back to main menu Environmental Innovations Initiative Explore Back to main menu Our Team Research Arts at Penn Explore Back to main menu Annenberg Center Arthur Ross Gallery Institute of Contemporary Art Kelly Writers House Penn Museum Platt Student Performing Arts House Sachs Program for Arts Innovation Campaign for Community Explore Back to main menu Grants Contact Us Provost Administrative Affairs Explore Back to main menu Return to Campus Finance Explore Back to main menu Toolbox Financial Policies Work From Home Equipment Tracking (PennKey Required) Payroll Purchasing Services Payments and Reimbursements Gifts and Endowments Funding Opportunities Strategic Planning Human Resources Explore Back to main menu Human Resources Policies Position (New and Reclass) and Compensation Requests (PennKey Required) Hiring a Staff Member Hiring a Student Worker Hiring a Temporary Staff Member Background Checks Onboarding and I-9 Process Leave Administration (FML, STD, PPL) Individual Service Providers Performance Appraisals and Merit Increases Academic Technology & Planning Planning, Design, & Construction Workday@Penn Contact Provost Administrative Affairs Explore Back to main menu Departments/Centers Reporting to Provost Education Explore Back to main menu COVID-19 ACADEMIC INFORMATION AND RESOURCES Explore Back to main menu Summer 2022 COVID-19 FAQs for Instructors Summer 2022 COVID-19 FAQs for Students Undergraduate Education Graduate and Professional Education Explore Back to main menu Graduate Admissions Graduate Degrees Explore Back to main menu Graduation Information Explore Back to main menu Graduate Degree Calendar Graduate Groups Graduation FAQs Dissertation and Thesis Deposit Explore Back to main menu Dissertation Copyright Dissertation Embargo Guidelines Dissertation Templates ETD Administrator Formatting FAQs Sample Dissertation Title Page Resources for PhD Students Graduate Student Center Family Resource Center Fontaine Society Teaching at Penn Explore Back to main menu Teaching Awards TCPW Award Penn TA Prize Faculty Council Brief Center for Teaching and Learning Resources for Administrators Wellness Ambassadors Accreditation About the Vice Provost Contact Faculty Explore Back to main menu Faculty Handbook Research Global Policies Contact The information here will help you determine the appropriate procedures for payments and reimbursements. If you have further questions, please contact your Business Administrator. Reimbursement Requests Western Union Business Solutions (WUBS) processes business expense reimbursements for all faculty, staff, and students. If you have not yet migrated, Concur Expense users will be asked to take two important steps so that their expense reimbursements may continue uninterrupted. Concur Expense users must authorize WUBS to direct deposit their expense reimbursements into their bank account. After the migration to WUBS, users will be prompted to make this one-time authorization before submitting their first expense report. Concur Expense users will be required to include their personal postal address, if it is not already available in the system, when entering or updating their USD bank information within the Expense Settings of their Concur profile. Once these steps have been taken, Concur Expenses users will be able to successfully submit their expense report. Effective November 2021, the Provost Office is allowing meal per diem reimbursement for employees traving on University business with an overnight stay. Please see this memo for full policy details. The Guest Travel Reimbursement (GTR) is used to support travel expense reimbursement for Penn guests (governed by Penn’s accountable plan/policy) and must be attached to the Non-PO Payment Request form on the Penn Marketplace. Individuals without vendor numbers need to include a W-9 Form. For payments that need to be made in foreign currency to Foreign Corporate Suppliers, Foreign Individuals, or Foreign Non-Corporate Entities, use Form PDA-FC. Independent Contractor Determination and Certification is used to determine whether an individual (without a Taxpayer Identification No) providing services to Penn is an independent contractor under IRS guidelines. Form must be submitted with a W-9 and Contract for services rendered. W-9 is for requesting Taxpayer Identification Number and Certification. Must be included for individuals/corporations that do not have a vendor number. Where do I submit my forms? Accounts Payable is responsible for processing invoices and issuing payments for Companies and Individuals. This includes payments to Foreign Nationals, students, faculty, staff, and independent contractors. Any paper forms should be submitted to their offices. WUBS is used to process all faculty, staff, and student requests for payment/reimbursement for travel, meals, and entertainment expenses online. What is a Vendor Number and where do I find it? A vendor/supplier number is a unique identifier for University qualified contractors. Click here for the Approved Supplier List and vendor numbers. How long does it take a supplier to receive payment? Suppliers should receive payment within 4-6 weeks after the invoice and forms have been submitted to Accounts Payable. To expedite payment, submit invoices and PDA Forms to your business office as soon as possible. How long does it take to receive a reimbursement? It usually takes 4-6 weeks for a non-affiliate vendor/supplier to receive reimbursement from Accounts Payable. Affiliates of the university should receive reimbursement within a weeks of final approval via WUBS. 122 College Hall University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA 19104 215-898-5000 provost@upenn.edu ©2022 University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104 Footer Menu University of Pennsylvania Penn Directory Site Credits