Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of the Provost Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Offices Resources Announcements Provost Mary C. Boyce Vice Provosts Past Provosts About the Office Advisory Committees University Leadership Vice Provost Offices Academic Programs Communications and Engagement Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Senior Vice Provost Faculty Advancement Faculty Affairs Fourth Purpose and Strategic Impact Teaching, Learning, and Innovation University Libraries Other Reporting Units Educational Programs Educational Agreements Educational Programs Approval Policies and Appointments Faculty Handbook Selected Faculty Policies University Policy Library Faculty Life Housing Parenting Well-Being New Faculty Awards, Fellowships, and RFPs For Faculty For Graduate Students Research at Columbia Teaching Resources Library Tools Academic Calendar CourseWorks Registrar CUIT Services for Faculty SSOL Office of the Provost You are here: Home Offices Vice Provost Offices Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty Advancement Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty Advancement Image Carousel with 7 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1 Slide 2 Slide 3 Slide 4 Slide 5 Slide 6 Slide 7 2022 Faculty Service and Faculty Mentoring Awards Announced Faculty Service Award Faculty Mentoring Award We are proud to announce updates to the Faculty Diversity Initiative. Learn More Introducing the updated Columbia LGBTQ+ Resource Guide and Resources Website Read the guide Visit the LGBTQ+ site Learn more FACULTY SNAPSHOTS: See our faculty through a new lens Learn more Faculty Profiles: Get an in-depth look at our faculty Learn more Catch up on our past events Learn more Previous Next The Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty Advancement collaborates with University partners to promote a climate of inclusive excellence. We offer faculty development, diversity, planning and community-building initiatives that help current and future faculty thrive. Faculty Diversity and Inclusion Faculty Advancement Inclusive Faculty Pathways Office of Work/Life What We Do trophy icon Supporting and Celebrating Inclusive Excellence handshake icon Building Collaborative Partnerships calendar-check icon Events and Announcements Faculty Diversity and Inclusion bar-chart icon Faculty Diversity Data Supporting data-driven efforts in recruitment, development, and retention. user icon Faculty Recruitment Supporting diversity plans for recruitment of a diverse faculty of outstanding scholars. trophy icon Faculty Awards Recognizing excellence among our junior and mid-career faculty. pagelines icon Faculty Seed Grant Initiative Providing funding for collaboration and action towards racial equity. Faculty Advancement users icon Faculty Career Development Offering Faculty Development sessions at Columbia and beyond. map icon New Faculty Resources Providing essential information for new faculty. commenting icon Community Building Connecting faculty to us and to each other. bank icon Provost Leadership Fellows Developing leadership skills for outstanding mid-career and senior faculty. Inclusive Faculty Pathways handshake icon An Exciting New Initiative Serving as a bridge for candidates from historically underrepresented groups to faculty positions. chain icon Building Pathways Efforts Collaborating with existing and emerging programs that serve historically underrepresented students globe icon Expanding Opportunities Launching the Provost's Postdoctoral Research Scientist and Scholar Program Office of Work/Life building icon Housing and Relocation Providing individual consultations on housing within commuting distance of Columbia. child icon Child Care and Schooling Providing expertise and guidance as faculty explore Pre-K - 12 and child care options. briefcase icon Spouse/Partner Dual Career Service Assisting faculty accompanying partners with non-academic job searches. bed icon Back-Up Care Providing care for adults/elders, children, or faculty when required for faculty to perform academic or work responsibilities. Publications To see all of our publications, click here. News and Announcements November 10, 2021 Panel and Reception Welcomes New Provost Diversity Fellows November 04, 2021 Provost's Postdoctoral Research Scientist and Scholar Program October 29, 2021 Fall 2021 Updates to the Faculty Diversity Initiative More News Events Jun9Thu NCFDD Webinar: Moving from Resistance to Writing Online 2:00 PM - 3:30 PM America/New_York Jun21Tue NCFDD Webinar: Rising Above Burnout Online 2:00 PM - 3:00 PM America/New_York Jul1Thu Office of the Provost Faculty Orientation Online Event More Events Our Team Tweets by ColumbiaFaculty Contact Us 305 Low Library 535 West 116th Street, MC 4339 New York, NY 10027 (212) 854-0350 [email protected] [email protected] Tag your posts #ColumbiaFaculty facebook icon twitter icon youtube-play icon envelope icon Join our email list Join our email list to get the latest updates from the Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty Advancement. Office of the Provost535 W. 116th Street, 205 Low Memorial Library, Mail Code 4313 · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2403 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close