Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Office of the Provost Main navigation About the Office About the Office of the Provost Leadership Staff Organizational Chart (PDF) About Provost McLaughlin Reporting Units Reporting Units Academic Effectiveness Center for 21st Century Universities (C21U) International Initiatives Colleges Conflict Resolution & Ombuds Enrollment Management Faculty Affairs Georgia Tech Library Graduate & Postdoctoral Education Professional Education Undergraduate Education Initiatives Academic Advising Task Force Arts@Tech Classroom and Academic Scheduling Taskforce Commission on Creating the Next in Education Educational Innovation Ecosystem Emerging Leaders Program Office of the Provost Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Council Technology Fee Working Group Communications Academic and Research Updates Monthly E-Newsletter Operational Memos Awards Resources & Links Resources & Links Covid-19 Resources Academic FAQs Research Ramp Up FAQs Endowed Chairs and Professorships Guide for Responsible International Activities List of Faculty Titles User account menu Contact the Provost Open Search Search Search Breadcrumb Home Endowed Chairs and Professorships Dean's Chair Holder Title College Maryam Alavi Stephen P. Zelnak, Jr. Dean's Chair Ernest Scheller Jr. College of Business Raheem Beyah Southern Company Dean's Chair College of Engineering Ellen Bassett John Portman Dean's Chair College of Design Kaye Husbands Fealing Ivan Allen, Jr. Dean's Chair Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Charles Isbell John P. Imlay, Jr. Dean's Chair College of Computing Susan Lozier Betsy Middleton and John Clark Sutherland Dean's Chair College of Sciences John Stein Brandt-Fritz Chair of the Dean of Students Dean of Students Director's Chair Holder Title College Bernard Kippelen Steven A. Denning Chair in Global Engagement Institute Level Andres Garcia Parker H. Petit Director's Chair in Bioengineering and Bioscience College of Engineering Institute Chair Holder Title College Rafael L. Bras K. Harrison Brown Family Chair Institute Level Joel Cowan Cowan-Turner Chair of Servant Leadership Institute Level M.G. Finn James A. Carlos Family Chair for Pediatric Technology Institute Level Rosario Gerhardt The Goizueta Foundation Family Chair Institute Level Scott Hollister Patsy and Alan Dorris Chair in Pediatric Technology Institute Level Nicholas Hud Julius Brown Chair in Chemistry and Biochemistry Institute Level Bernard Kippelen Steven A. Denning Chair in Global Engagement Institute Level C. P. Wong Charles A. Smithgall, Jr. Institute Chair Institute Level Gleb Yushin B. Mifflin Hood Chair in Ceramic Engineering Institute Level School Chair Holder Title College Mark Costello Williams R. T. Oakes Professor and Chair of the Guggenheim School of Aerospace Engineering College of Engineering Susan Margulies Wallace H. Coulter Department Chair College of Engineering Devesh Ranjan Eugene C. Gwaltney, Jr. School Chair College of Engineering Arijit Raychowdhury Steve W. Chaddick School Chair College of Engineering H. Edwin Romejin H. Milton and Carolyn J. Stewart School Chair in the School of Industrial and Systems Engineering College of Engineering David Sholl John F. Brock III School Chair College of Engineering Adam Stulberg Sam Nunn Chair in International Affairs Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Donald Webster John and Karen Huff School Chair in Civil and Environmental Engineering College of Engineering Faculty Chair Holder Title College Gregory Abowd J.Z. Liang Chair in Computing College of Computing Ali Adibi Joseph M. Pettit Chair in Microelectronics I College of Engineering Ghassan AlRegib John and Marilu McCarty Chair of Electrical Engineering College of Engineering Turgay Ayer Virginia C. and Joseph C. Mello Chair I College of Engineering Nazanin Bassiri-Gharb Harris Saunders Jr. Chair College of Engineering Terry Blum Tedd Munchak Entrepreneurship Chair Ernest Scheller, Jr. College of Business Jay Bolter James and Mary Wesley Chair in Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Sudheer Chava Alton M. Costley Chair in Sales and Management Ernest Scheller, Jr. College of Business Kim Cobb Georgia Power Chair and ADVANCE Professor College of Sciences John Cressler Schlumberger Chair in Microelectronics College of Engineering Predrag Cvitanovic Glen Robinson Chair in Nonlinear Sciences College of Sciences Suman Das Morris M. Bryan, Jr. Chair in Mechanical Engineering for Advanced Manufacturing Systems College of Engineering Levent Degertekin George W. Woodruff Chair in Mechanical Engineering (Mechanical Systems) College of Engineering Richard DeMillo Charlotte B. and Roger C. Warren Chair in the College of Computing College of Computing Robert Dickson Vasser Woolley Endowed Chair in the School of Chemistry College of Sciences Jeff Donnell Frank K. Webb Academic Professional Chair in Communication Skills College of Engineering Andrei Fedorov Rae S. and Frank H. Neely Chair in the Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering I College of Engineering Facundo M. Fernandez Vasser Woolley Foundation Chair in Bioanalytical Chemistry College of Sciences Cheryl Gaimon Esther R. and Edward J. Brown Chair in the Scheller College of Business Ernest Scheller, Jr. College of Business Zvi Galil Fredrick G. Storey Chair in Computing I College of Computing Srinivas Garimella Hightower Chair in the College of Engineering II College of Engineering Thomas K. Gaylord Julius Brown Chair in Electrical and Computer Engineering College of Engineering Ari Glezer George W. Woodruff Chair in Mechanical Engineering (Thermal Systems) College of Engineering Mark Hay Teasley Chair in Environmental Biology College of Sciences Ching-Hua Huang Turnipseed Family Chair College of Engineering Seth Hutchinson KUKA Chair in Robotics College of Computing Omer Inan Linda J. and Mark C. Smith Chair College of Engineering Clinton Joiner Shary and Matt Price Chair for Pediatric Research at Children's Healthcare of Atlanta and Georgia Tech College of Engineering Christopher Jones William R. McLain Chair College of Engineering Roshan Joseph A. Russell Chandler III Chair I in Industrial and Systems Engineering College of Engineering Yogendra K. Joshi John M. McKenney and Warren D. Shiver Distinguished Chair in Building Mechanical Systems College of Engineering Surya Kalidindi Rae S. and Frank H. Neely Chair in the Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering II College of Engineering Ilya Kaminsky Margaret T. and Henry C. Bourne, Jr. Chair in Poetry Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Pinar Keskinocak William W. George Chair in Health Systems College of Engineering Paul Kohl Thomas L. Gossage Chair College of Engineering Ajay Kohli Gary T. and Elizabeth R. Jones Chair in the Scheller College of Business Ernest Scheller, Jr. College of Business David Ku Lawrence P. Huang Chair in Engineering Entrepreneurship Ernest Scheller, Jr. College of Business Thomas Kurfess Agustin A. Ramirez/HUSCO International Distinguished Chair in Fluid Power Systems College of Engineering Kimberly Kurtis Raymond Allen Jones Chair in the School of Civil and Environmental Engineering College of Engineering Uzi Landman Fuller E. Callaway Chair in Computational Materials Science College of Sciences Wenke Lee John P. Imlay Jr. Chair in Software II College of Computing Jing Li Virginia C. and Joseph C. Mello Chair II College of Engineering Raquel Lieberman Kelly Sepcic Pfeil, Ph.D. Chair College of Sciences Timothy Lieuwen David S. Lewis Chair College of Engineering Meilin Liu Hightower Chair in Materials Science Engineering College of Engineering Scott Marble William H. Harrison. Jr. Chair in the School of Design College of Design Mary McDonald Homer C. Rice Chair in Sports and Society Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts David McDowell Carter N. Paden, Jr. Distinguished Chair in Metals Processing College of Engineering Debora Mesa Thomas W. Ventulett, III Distinguished Chair College of Design Benoit Montreuil Coca-Cola Chair of Material Handling and Distribution College of Engineering Arkadi S. Nemirovski John P. Hunter, Jr. Chair in Industrial and Systems Engineering College of Engineering Srinivas Peeta Frederick R. Dickerson Chair College of Engineering Mark Prausnitz J. Erskine Love, Jr. Chair in Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering College of Engineering Calton Pu John P. Imlay, Jr. Chair in Software I College of Computing Stephen Ralph Glen P. Robinson Chair in Electro-Optics GTRI Devesh Ranjan Ring Family Chair College of Engineering Catherine L. Ross Harry West Chair for Quality Growth and Regional Development College of Design Frank Rothaermel Russell and Nancy McDonough Chair in Business Ernest Scheller, Jr. College of Business Krishnendu Roy Robert A. Milton Chair in the Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering College of Engineering Armistead "Ted" Russell Howard T. Tellepsen Chair in the School of Civil and Environmental Engineering College of Engineering Paul Russo Hightower Chair in Biopolymers College of Engineering Nikolaos Sahinidis Butler Family Chair College of Engineering Steve Salbu Cecil B. Day Chair in Business Ethics Ernest Scheller, Jr. College of Business Martin Savelsbergh James C. Edenfield Chair in the Stewart School of Industrial and Systems Engineering College of Engineering Christina Shalley Sharon M. and Matthew R. Price Chair Ernest Scheller, Jr. College of Business Alexander Shapiro A. Russell Chandler III Chair III in Industrial and Systems Engineering College of Engineering Jianjun Shi Carolyn J. Stewart Chair in the Stewart School of Industrial and Systems Engineering College of Engineering Vinod Singhal Charles W. Brady Chair in the Scheller College of Business Ernest Scheller, Jr. College of Business Ragupathy Sivakumar Wayne J. Holman Chair of Electrical and Computer Engineering College of Engineering Garrett Stanley McCamish Foundation Distinguished Chair College of Engineering Madhavan Swaminathan John E. Pippin Chair in Electromagnetics College of Engineering Peter Swire Elizabeth D. and Thomas M. Holder Chair Ernest Scheller, Jr. College of Business Valerie Thomas Anderson Interface Chair in Natural Systems College of Engineering Peter Thompson Hal and John Smith Chair of Small Business & Entrepreneurship Ernest Scheller, Jr. College of Business Beril Toktay Brady Family Chair in Management Ernest Scheller, Jr. College of Business Panagiotis Tsiotras David S. and Andrew F. Lewis Chair for Space Technology College of Engineering Pascal Van Hentenryek A. Russell Chandler III Chair II in Industrial and Systems Engineering College of Engineering Santosh Vempala Fredrick G. Storey Chair in Computing II College of Computing Hsu-Pin (Ben) Wang Eugene C. Gwaltney, Jr. Chair in Manufacturing Systems College of Engineering ZL Wang Hightower Chair in Materials Science and Engineering College of Engineering Chelsea C. White III Schneider National Chair in Transportation and Logistics College of Engineering D.J. Wu Ernest Scheller, Jr. Chair in Innovation, Entrepreneurship and Commercialization Ernest Scheller, Jr. College of Business Jeff Wu Coca-Cola Chair in Engineering Statistics College of Engineering Vigor Yang Ralph Read Chair College of Engineering Anthony Yezzi Hightower Chair in the College of Engineering I College of Engineering Alasdair Young Neal Family Chair in the Nunn School of International Affairs Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Ellen Zegura Stephen Fleming Chair in the College of Computing College of Computing Cheng Zhu J. Erskine Love, Jr. Chair in the College of Engineering College of Engineering GRA Chair Holder Title College Gee-Kung Chang GRA Eminent Scholar / Kenneth G. Byers, Jr. Chair in Optical Networking College of Engineering Edward J. Coyle GRA Eminent Scholar / John B. Peatman Distinguished Chair in Distributed Engineering Education College of Engineering John Crittenden GRA Eminent Scholar / Hightower Chair in Environmental Techniques Institute Level Deepak Divan GRA Eminent Scholar / John E. Pippin Chair in Wireless Communications College of Engineering Russell Dupuis GRA Eminent Scholar / Steve W. Chaddick Chair in Electro-Optics College of Engineering Stanislav Emelianov GRA Eminent Scholar / Joseph M. Pettit Chair in Microelectronics II College of Engineering C. Ross Ethier GRA Eminent Scholar / Lawrence L. Gellerstedt, Jr. Chair in Bioengineering College of Engineering Larry Heck GRA Eminent Scholar / Rhesa Screven Farmer, Jr. Chair Embedded Systems College of Engineering Felix Herrmann GRA Eminent Scholar / Georgia Power Chair in Energy Technology Institute Level Fred Juang GRA Eminent Scholar / Motorola Foundation Chair in Advanced Communications College of Engineering Ravindra Kane GRA Eminent Scholar / Garry Betty/V Foundation Chair in Cancer Nanotechnology Institute Level Angelos Keromytis GRA Eminent Scholar / John Weitnauer Technology Transfer Chair College of Engineering William Koros GRA Eminent Scholar / Roberto C. Goizueta Chair for Excellence in Chemical Engineering College of Engineering Ramamurthy Ramprasad GRA Eminent Scholar / Michael E. Tennenbaum Family Chair in Energy Sustainability Institute Level Ajeet Rohatgi GRA Eminent Scholar / John H. Weitnauer Chair in Engineering College of Engineering Vivek Sarkar GRA Eminent Scholar / Stephen Fleming Chair in Telecommunications Institute Level Jeffrey Skolnick GRA Eminent Scholar / Mary & Maisie Gibson Chair in Computational Systems Biology Institute Level Shuici Takayama GRA Eminent Scholar / Price Gilbert, Jr. Chair in Tissue Engineering College of Engineering Rick Trebino GRA Eminent Scholar in High-Speed Optical Physics College of Sciences Eberhard Voit GRA Eminent Scholar / David D. Flanagan Chair in Biological Systems College of Engineering Marvin Whiteley GRA Eminent Scholar / Bennie H. and Nelson D. Abell Chair in Molecular and Cellular Biology College of Sciences Younan Xia GRA Eminent Scholar / Brock Family Chair in Nanomedicine Institute Level Professorships Holder Title College S. I. Abdel-Khalik Southern Nuclear Company Distinguished Professor College of Engineering Farrokh Ayazi Kenneth G. Byers Professorship in Electrical and Computer Engineering College of Engineering Muhannad Bakir Daniel Curtis Fielder Professorship of Discrete Aspects College of Engineering Tibor Besedes Mary S. and Richard B. Inman Professorship Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Barrington H. Branch Robert H. Ledbetter, Sr. Professor of the Practice of Real Estate Development Ernest Scheller, Jr. College of Business Berdinus Bras Brook Byers Professorship in Energy and Environmental Systems Institute Level Marilyn Brown Brook Byers Professorship in Sustainable Manufacturing Institute Level Susan Burns Georgia Power Distinguished Professorship in Civil and Environmental Engineering College of Engineering Marco Ceccagnoli Brady Family Professorship in the Scheller College of Business Ernest Scheller, Jr. College of Business Jaydev Desai G.P. "Bud" Peterson and Valerie H. Peterson Professorship College of Engineering Santanu Dey A. Russell Chandler III Professorship College of Engineering Lucien Dhooge Sue and John Staton Professor of Law Ernest Scheller, Jr. College of Business Alan Doolittle Joseph M. Pettit Professorship College of Engineering Anna Erickson Woodruff Professorship II College of Engineering Alper Ertuck Woodruff Professorship I College of Engineering J. David Frost Higginbotham Professorship College of Engineering Soumen Ghosh Nancy J. and Lawrence P. Huang Professorship Ernest Scheller, Jr. College of Business Daniel Goldman Dunn Family Professorship II Institute Level David Goldsman Coca Cola Foundation Professorship College of Engineering Santiago Grijalva Georgia Power Distinguished Professorship in Electrical and Computer Engineering II College of Engineering Wassim Haddad David Sloan Lewis Professorship I College of Engineering Jeffrey (Yu) Hu Sharon A. and David B. Pearce Professorship I Ernest Scheller, Jr. College of Business Xiaoming Huo A. Russell Chandler III Professorship College of Engineering Melissa Ianetta Class of 1958 Professor in Communication Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Narayan Jayaraman Thomas R. Williams - Wells Fargo Professor in Finance Ernest Scheller, Jr. College of Business Kryriaki Kalaitzidou Rae S. and Frank H. Neely Professorship College of Engineering Melissa Lambeth Kemp Carol Ann and David D. Flanagan Professorship I College of Engineering Guanghui Lan A. Russell Chandler III Professorship College of Engineering Bernard Kippelen Joseph M. Pettit Professorship in Microelectronics College of Engineering Kostas Konstantinidis Richard C. Tucker Professorship College of Engineering John Krige Melvin Kranzberg Professorship in the History of Technology Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Wayne Li James L. Oliver II Professor of the Practice in Interdisciplinary Design College of Design Steven Y. Liang Morris M. Bryan, Jr. Professorship in Mechanical Engineering I College of Engineering Glenn Lightsey David Sloan Lewis Professorship II College of Engineering Dong Liu Gregory J. Owens Professorship Ernest Scheller, Jr. College of Business Hang Lu Love Family Professorship in the School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering II College of Engineering Dmitri Mavris Boeing Professorship of Advanced Aerospace Systems Analysis College of Engineering A. P. Sakis Meliopoulos Georgia Power Distinguished Professorship in Electrical and Computer Engineering I College of Engineering Shreyes Melkote Morris M. Bryan, Jr. Professorship in Mechanical Engineering II College of Engineering Suresh Menon Hightower Professorship in Engineering College of Engineering Patricia Mokhtarian Clifford and William J. Greene, Jr. Professorship College of Engineering Renato Monteiro Coca Cola Foundation Professorship College of Engineering Saibal Mukhopadhyay Joseph M. Pettit Professorship in Digital Signal Processing College of Engineering Sridhar Narasimhan Gregory J. Owens Professorship Ernest Scheller Jr. College of Business Eric Overby Catherine W. and Edwin A. Wahlen, Jr. Professorship in the Scheller College of Business Ernest Scheller Jr. College of Business W. Ennis Parker G. Niles Bolton Professor of Practice in the College of Design College of Design Farzad Rahnema Georgia Power Distinguished Professorship in the Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering College of Engineering Julian Rimoli Pratt & Whitney Professorship College of Engineering Jonathan Rogers Lockheed Martin Professorship in Avionics Integration College of Engineering Justin Romberg Schlumberger Professorship College of Engineering Christopher Saldana Ring Family Professorship II College of Engineering Lakshmi Sankar Sikorsky, A Lockheed Martin Company, Professorship College of Engineering Waymond Scott Joseph M. Pettit Professorship in Electronics College of Engineering Suresh Sitaraman Morris M. Bryan, Jr. Professorship in Mechanical Engineering III College of Engineering Johnny Smith Julius "Bud" Shaw Professorship in Sports History Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Gordon L. Stuber Joseph M. Pettit Professorship in Communications College of Engineering Andy Sun David M. McKenney Family Professorship College of Engineering John Taylor Frederick Law Olmsted Professor in the School of Civil and Environmental Engineering College of Engineering Johnna Temenoff Carol Ann and David D. Flanagan Professorship II College of Engineering Emmanouil Tentzeris Kenneth G. Byers Professorship in Electrical and Computer Engineering (Signal Processing) College of Engineering Susan Thomas Woodruff Professorship III College of Engineering Steve Usselman H. Bruce McEver Professorship in Engineering and Liberal Arts Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Eric Vogel Hightower Professorship in Materials Science Engineering College of Engineering Marc Weissburg Brook Byers Professorship Institute Minami Yoda Ring Family Professorship I College of Engineering Alenka Zajic Kenneth G. Byers Professorship in Telecommunications College of Engineering Chuck Zhang Harold E. Smalley Professorship College of Engineering Han Zhang Steven A. Denning Professorship of Technology and Management Ernest Scheller, Jr. College of Business Ting Zhu Woodruff Professorship IV College of Engineering Term Professorships Holder Title College Annie Anton ADVANCE Professorship in the College of Computing College of Computing James Prabhu Arulraj Barry Dickman Term Professorship College of Computing Turgay Ayer George Family Early Career Term Professor of Predictive Health College of Engineering Natashia Boland Fouts Family Term Professorship College of Engineering Kim Cobb ADVANCE Professor and Georgia Power Chair College of Sciences Ahmet Coskun Bernie Marcus Early Career Term Professorship in Therapeutic Cell Characterization and Manufacturing II College of Engineering Rachel Cummings Thuesen Early Career Term Professorship College of Engineering Lakshmi (Prasad) Dasi Rozelle Vanda Wesley Term Professorship College of Engineering Alan Erera UPS Term Professor of Logistics College of Engineering Nagi Gabraeel Georgia Power Term Professorship College of Engineering Matthew Gombolay Alan and Anne Taetle Term Professorship II College of Computing Lukas Graber Sutterfield Early Career Term Professorship College of Engineering Martha Grover ADVANCE Professorship in the College of Engineering College of Engineering Sundaresan Jayaraman Kolon Term Professorship in the School of Materials Science and Engineering College of Engineering Nancey Green Leigh ADVANCE Professorship in the College of Design College of Design Mary McDonald ADVANCE Professorship in Ivan Allen College Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Mark Reidl Alan and Anne Taetle Term Professorship I College of Computing Aniruddh Sarkar Bernie Marcus Early Career Term Professorship in Therapeutic Cell Characterization and Manufacturing I College of Engineering Nicoleta Serban Virginia C. and Joseph C. Mello Term Professorship College of Engineering Beril Toktay ADVANCE Professorship in the College of Management Ernest Scheller, Jr. College of Business Early Career/Junior Professorships Holder Title College Joseph Brown Carlton S. Wilder Early Career Professorship in Environmental Engineering I College of Engineering Samuel Coogan Demetrius T. Paris Junior Faculty Professorship College of Engineering Juan-Pablo Correa-Baena The Goizuieta Foundation Early Career Rotating Professorship Institute Level James Dahlman McCamish Foundation Early Career Professorship II College of Engineering Emily Grubert Frederick Law Olmsted Junior Professor II College of Engineering Swati Gupta Fouts Family Early Career Professorship I College of Engineering Callie Hao Sutterfield Early Career Term Professorship College of Engineering Taesoo Kim Catherine M. and James E. Allchin Early Career Professorship College of Computing Tushar Krishna ON Semiconductor Junior Professorship in Analog Integrated Circuit Design College of Engineering Siva Theja Maguluri Fouts Family Early Career Professorship III College of Engineering Robbie Moon Hubert Harris Jr. Family Early Career Professorship Ernest Scheller, Jr. College of Business Kamran Paynabar Fouts Family Early Career Professorship II College of Engineering Annabelle Singer McCamish Foundation Early Career Professorship I College of Engineering Simon Sponberg Dunn Family early Career Professorship College of Sciences Phanish Suryanarayana Clifford and William J. Greene, Jr. Early Career Professorship College of Engineering Lauren Stewart Williams Family Early Career Professorship I College of Engineering Iris Tien Williams Family Early Career Professorship II College of Engineering He Wang Colonel John B. Day Early Career Professorship College of Engineering Kari Watkins Frederick Law Olmsted Junior Professor I College of Engineering Xing Xie Carlton S. Wilder Early Career Professorship in Environmental Engineering II College of Engineering Yao Xie Harold R. and Mary Anne Nash Junior Faculty Professorship College of Engineering Zhuomin Zhang J. Erskine Love, Jr. Early Career Professorship College of Engineering Office of the Provost Georgia Institute of Technology Carnegie Building 225 North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332-0325 (404) 385-2700 Office of the Provost Map Campus Map GT official links: general (required) General Directory Employment Emergency Information GT official links: legal (required) Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN GT official links: column 1 (optional) Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum GT official links: column 2 (optional) Colleges, Instructional Sites and Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Art Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research GT official links: column 3 (optional) Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid GT official links: column 4 (optional) Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education