Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of the Provost Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Offices Resources Announcements Provost Mary C. Boyce Vice Provosts Past Provosts About the Office Advisory Committees University Leadership Vice Provost Offices Academic Programs Communications and Engagement Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Senior Vice Provost Faculty Advancement Faculty Affairs Fourth Purpose and Strategic Impact Teaching, Learning, and Innovation University Libraries Other Reporting Units Educational Programs Educational Agreements Educational Programs Approval Policies and Appointments Faculty Handbook Selected Faculty Policies University Policy Library Faculty Life Housing Parenting Well-Being New Faculty Awards, Fellowships, and RFPs For Faculty For Graduate Students Research at Columbia Teaching Resources Library Tools Academic Calendar CourseWorks Registrar CUIT Services for Faculty SSOL Office of the Provost You are here: Home Directory Mary C. Boyce Mary C. Boyce Mary C. Boyce is the Provost of Columbia University. From 2013 to 2021, she was dean of The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science and Morris A. and Alma Schapiro Professor. In that role, she led the education and research mission of Columbia Engineering with more than 230 faculty, 1,700 undergraduate students and 3,000 graduate students. A strong advocate for interdisciplinary research and innovation, Boyce significantly increased the faculty in cross-cutting fields, expanded funding for faculty and student research together with design and entrepreneurship programming, and strengthened outreach efforts to attract diverse talent to Engineering. During her tenure, she also oversaw a robust program of renovations, build-outs, and expansions to spaces, including research laboratories, shared facilities, undergraduate teaching laboratories, gathering spaces, and creation of the Columbia Makerspace. In 2016, she launched an inspiring new vision for the school, Columbia Engineering for Humanity. Boyce’s own research focuses on nonlinear mechanics of soft materials; she has been widely recognized for her scholarly achievements, including election as a fellow of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and the National Academy of Engineering. Most recently, Boyce was recognized with the ASME 2020 Timoshenko Medal, considered the highest scholarly recognition in the field of applied mechanics. She earned her BS degree in engineering science and mechanics from Virginia Tech, and her MS and PhD degrees in mechanical engineering from MIT. Mary C. Boyce, Provost, Columbia University in the City of New York Executive Assistant Caroline Stern [email protected] (212)854-2404 Contact Info 205 Low Memorial Library, MC 4313 535 West 116th Street, New York, NY 10027 (212) 854-2404 [email protected] Office of the Provost535 W. 116th Street, 205 Low Memorial Library, Mail Code 4313 · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2403 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close