Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Open Mobile Navigation Office of the Provost About Office Directory Academic Affairs Organizational Chart Academic Calendar Academic Units Deadlines Academic Search Index News Faculty Prospective Faculty Current Faculty Baylor Commencement Departmental Resources: Tenure & Promotion Faculty Awards Faculty Development Faculty Meetings Faculty Retirement Planning Program Faculty Updates and New Information Recommended Syllabus Statements Past Faculty Emeritus Faculty Recent Retirees Retiree Benefits Retiree Resources Faculty Handbook Faculty Handbook History Faculty Classifications Faculty Responsibilities Evaluation, Tenure, Promotion, and Compensation Policies and Procedures Related to Employment at Baylor Faculty Benefits Faculty Senate Faculty Ombudsperson University Libraries Information Technology Services University Committees Policy Revisions Policies & Guidelines Administrative Resources Event Planning Guidelines for Establishing a New Department Hiring Faculty Legal Issues Resources & Budgets Staff Technology Working with Faculty Curriculum Management Assessment of Student Learning Outcomes Course Actions, Revisions and New Proposals Course Data Template Course Lookup Curriculum and Assessment Electronic Course Action System FAQs Regarding Curriculum Changes Scheduling Classes Undergraduate Curriculum Forms Export Compliance GDPR Privacy Notice International Travel Office of Institutional Research Policy Revisions BUPP 702 Promotion BUPP 705 Faculty Dismissal BUPP 706 Faculty Workload and Merit Evaluation BUPP 708 Faculty Development BUPP 710 Meetings Revision History BUPP 711 Faculty Senate BUPP 714 Summer Sabbaticals BUPP 715 Research Leaves BUPP 716 Lecturers and Senior Lecturers BUPP 717 Academic Credentials for Faculty and Graduate Teaching BUPP 721 Intellectual Property University Policy Library Initiatives COACHE Survey Faculty Diversity & Belonging Readers Meet the Author Readers Meet the Author Archive ACE Internationalization Lab Other Initiatives Baylor/Xavier University Exchange Program Big 12 Faculty Fellowship Program Discipline-Specific Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, & Belonging Training and Education Proposals New Faculty Mentoring Program Target of Excellence Hiring Program Illuminate Research at Baylor Office of the Provost Faculty Current Faculty Faculty Awards Teaching Awards Prospective Faculty Current Faculty Baylor Commencement Departmental Resources: Tenure & Promotion Faculty Awards Outstanding Faculty Research Leave Awards Teaching Awards Faculty Development Faculty Meetings Faculty Retirement Planning Program Faculty Updates and New Information Recommended Syllabus Statements Past Faculty Faculty Handbook Teaching Awards Baylor Centennial Professor Award 2022 Winners: Dr. Jay Yoo, Associate Professor of Apparel Merchandising in the Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences Dr. Byron Newberry, Professor of Mechanical Engineering in the School of Engineering and Computer Science About the Award: The Centennial Professors Award was created by the Baylor Class of 1945. The award provides two tenured faculty members with $5,000 for projects proposed as part of the application process. Eligible projects are those that would facilitate the development of a faculty member's ability to function as a university professor and contribute to academic life, and which would, therefore, be of benefit to the individual and the University. Such projects might include foreign or domestic travel for study or research, the development of innovative teaching materials, or other professional development activities. Robert Foster Cherry Award for Great Teaching 2022 Winner: Dr. Hollylynne S. Lee, Distinguished Professor of Mathematics and Statistics Education at North Carolina State University About the Award: The Robert Foster Cherry Award program is designed to honor great teachers, to stimulate discussion in the academy about the value of teaching, and to encourage departments and institutions to value their own great teachers. The winner of the Cherry Award will receive a prize of $250,000 and will teach in residence at Baylor University during one of the two subsequent semesters; travel expenses and a furnished apartment will be provided. To further Baylor University's commitment to great teaching, the winner's home department will receive $25,000. Collins Outstanding Professor Award 2022 Winner: Dr. Mojgan Parizi-Robinson, Senior Lecturer of Biology About the Award: The Collins Outstanding Professor Award is generously provided by the Carr P. Collins Foundation in order to recognize and honor outstanding teachers at Baylor University. Baylor's current Senior Class elects the Collins Outstanding Professor for each school year. Cornelia Marschall Smith Professor of the Year Award 2022 Winner: Dr. Kenneth Van Treuren, Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Associate Dean of Research and Faculty Development in the School of Engineering and Computer Science About the Award: The annual Cornelia Marschall Smith Award is presented to a Baylor faculty member who makes a superlative contribution to the learning environment at Baylor. The Cornelia Marschall Smith Professor of the Year award is based on: Teaching, which is judged to be of the highest order of intellectual acumen and pedagogical effectiveness, Research, which is recognized as outstanding by the national and international, as well as local, community of scholars, and Service, which is regarded as exemplary in building the character of intellectual community at Baylor. Graduate Student Teaching Award The Graduate Student Teaching Award, granted twice per year by the Baylor University Graduate School, honors graduate student Teachers of Record who were able to balance their own studies and responsibilities while demonstrating excellence as classroom instructors. Recipients are given the opportunity to attend teaching conferences, as well as a plaque commemorating their achievement. Award recipients are recognized on the Graduate School website. Master Teachers The Master Teacher Award is the highest honor bestowed by the university for teaching. The designation is a testimony to a record of "sustained excellence" reflecting "proven knowledge and use of effective teaching methods, plus active advocacy for teaching and learning." Master Teachers represent: Knowledge and use of effective and engaging pedagogy Advocacy for teaching and learning, as reflected by characteristics such as: Passion for teaching and learning Engagement of students - mentoring undergraduates and/or graduates in research, active learning classes, group work, service-learning, and/or community-based learning Impact beyond nominee’s own courses - e.g., curricular development, mentoring of other faculty colleagues, publications, presentations, or web resources Sustained (minimum 10 years at Baylor University) commitment to teaching excellence. Master Teacher designations are awarded occasionally at the discretion of the Office of the President with recommendations via committee (BU-PP 703). All job titles and appointments are at the time of the award. 1982 Robert L. Reid, Professor of History Ann V. Miller, Professor of English 1990 Emerson O. Henke, Professor of Accounting Angus S. McSwain Jr., Professor of Law Robert G. Packard, Professor of Physics James W. Parsons, Professor of Accounting 1993 Robert M. Baird, Professor of Philosophy Jochem F. Burckhardt, Professor of German Tommye Lou Davis, Associate Professor of Classics David W. Guinn, Professor of Law Roger E. Kirk, Distinguished Professor of Psychology and Statistics Harold W. Osborne, Professor of Sociology David E. Pennington, Professor of Chemistry James W. Vardaman, Professor of History 2003 F. Ray Wilson II, Professor of Biology Helen H. Ligon, Professor of Information Systems 2004 Rachel Moore, Senior Lecturer of English J. William Petty, Professor of Finance Alden Smith, Professor of Classics, associate dean of the Honors College, and director of the University Scholars Program William Thomas, Professor of Accounting Bill Underwood, Professor of Law 2005 D. Thomas Hanks Jr., Professor of English Gerald R. Powell, Professor of Law 2016 Corey P. Carbonara, Professor of Film and Digital Media T. Laine Scales, Professor of Higher Education; Associate Dean of Graduate Studies and Professional Development Gaynor Yancey, Professor of Social Work 2020 Robert Darden, Professor of Journalism, Public Relations and New Media and founder/director of the Black Gospel Music Restoration Project Anne-Marie Schultz, Professor of Philosophy and director of the Baylor Interdisciplinary Core Charles A. Weaver, Professor and Chair of Psychology & Neuroscience Office of the Provost Pat Neff Hall, Suite 109 1329 S. 7th Street Waco, Texas One Bear Place #97014 Waco, Texas 76798 (254) 710-3601 Office of the Provost Faculty Current Faculty Faculty Awards Teaching Awards About Back Office Directory Academic Affairs Organizational Chart Academic Calendar Academic Units Deadlines Academic Search Index News Faculty Back Prospective Faculty Current Faculty Back Baylor Commencement Departmental Resources: Tenure & Promotion Faculty Awards Back Outstanding Faculty Research Leave Awards Teaching Awards Faculty Development Faculty Meetings Faculty Retirement Planning Program Faculty Updates and New Information Recommended Syllabus Statements Past Faculty Back Emeritus Faculty Recent Retirees Retiree Benefits Retiree Resources Faculty Handbook Back Faculty Handbook History Faculty Classifications Back Academic Professionals Clinical Faculty Lecturer Faculty Retired Faculty Back Emeritus Faculty Tenure-track/Tenured Faculty Faculty Responsibilities Back Academic Freedom Community Life Personal Conduct Research Responsibilities Teaching and Related Responsibilities Back Academic Appeals Academic Support for Students Accommodating Students with Disabilities Add/Drop a Course Attendance Policy Classroom Conduct Career Counseling Class Roll Instructions Delayed Examinations FERPA/Handling Student Records Final Exam Policy Grading Policies Harm to Self or Others Honor Code Honor Code Reporting Form Library Questions Mental Health Counseling Resources Office Hours Office of Spiritual Life Paul L. Foster Success Center Reporting Deficiencies Student Course Evaluations Evaluation, Tenure, Promotion, and Compensation Back Annual Faculty Performance Review Assessment of Part-Time Faculty Faculty Compensation Faculty Promotions Pre-Tenure/Tenure Review Policies and Procedures Related to Employment at Baylor Faculty Benefits Faculty Senate Faculty Ombudsperson University Libraries Information Technology Services University Committees Policy Revisions Policies & Guidelines Back Administrative Resources Back Event Planning Guidelines for Establishing a New Department Hiring Faculty Back Hiring Process for Faculty Hiring Forms for Faculty Faculty Interviews & Contract Initiation New Faculty Checklist New Faculty Mentoring Program Legal Issues Resources & Budgets Staff Back HR Resources for Managers & Academic Leaders Staff Compensation Staff Evaluations Staff Position Requests Technology Working with Faculty Curriculum Management Back Assessment of Student Learning Outcomes Course Actions, Revisions and New Proposals Course Data Template Course Lookup Curriculum and Assessment Electronic Course Action System Back Electronic Course Action System (ECAS) User's Guide FAQs Regarding Curriculum Changes Back Individual Course Proposals & Revisions Scheduling Classes Undergraduate Curriculum Forms Export Compliance GDPR Privacy Notice International Travel Office of Institutional Research Policy Revisions Back BUPP 702 Promotion BUPP 705 Faculty Dismissal BUPP 706 Faculty Workload and Merit Evaluation BUPP 708 Faculty Development BUPP 710 Meetings Revision History BUPP 711 Faculty Senate BUPP 714 Summer Sabbaticals BUPP 715 Research Leaves BUPP 716 Lecturers and Senior Lecturers BUPP 717 Academic Credentials for Faculty and Graduate Teaching BUPP 721 Intellectual Property University Policy Library Initiatives Back COACHE Survey Faculty Diversity & Belonging Readers Meet the Author Back Readers Meet the Author Archive ACE Internationalization Lab Other Initiatives Back Baylor/Xavier University Exchange Program Big 12 Faculty Fellowship Program Discipline-Specific Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, & Belonging Training and Education Proposals New Faculty Mentoring Program Target of Excellence Hiring Program Illuminate Research at Baylor General Information Academics & Research Administration Admissions Gateways for ... About Baylor Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate News Pro Futuris Search Social Media Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Accessibility Anonymous Reporting Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Digital Privacy Legal Disclosures Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678