Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of the Provost Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Offices Resources Announcements Provost Mary C. Boyce Vice Provosts Past Provosts About the Office Advisory Committees University Leadership Vice Provost Offices Academic Programs Communications and Engagement Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Senior Vice Provost Faculty Advancement Faculty Affairs Fourth Purpose and Strategic Impact Teaching, Learning, and Innovation University Libraries Other Reporting Units Educational Programs Educational Agreements Educational Programs Approval Policies and Appointments Faculty Handbook Selected Faculty Policies University Policy Library Faculty Life Housing Parenting Well-Being New Faculty Awards, Fellowships, and RFPs For Faculty For Graduate Students Research at Columbia Teaching Resources Library Tools Academic Calendar CourseWorks Registrar CUIT Services for Faculty SSOL Office of the Provost You are here: Home Initiatives Diversity Mission Statement Diversity Mission Statement Columbia is dedicated to increasing diversity in its workforce, its student body, and its educational programs. Achieving continued academic excellence and creating a vibrant university community require nothing less. Both to prepare our students for citizenship in a pluralistic world and to keep Columbia at the forefront of knowledge, the University seeks to recognize and draw upon the talents of a diverse range of outstanding faculty, research officers, staff, and students and to foster the free exploration and expression of differing ideas, beliefs, and perspectives through scholarly inquiry and civil discourse. In developing its academic programs, Columbia furthers the thoughtful examination of cultural distinctions by developing curricula that prepare students to be responsible members of diverse societies. In fulfilling its mission to advance diversity at the University, Columbia seeks to hire, retain, and promote exceptionally talented women and men from different racial, cultural, economic and ethnic backgrounds regardless of their sexual orientation or disability status. Through effective and fully compliant affirmative action and equal opportunity policies, Columbia strives to recruit members of groups traditionally underrepresented in American higher education and to increase the number of minority and women candidates in its graduate and professional programs. Building a diverse university community is not the work of a moment. It requires sustained commitment, concerted effort, and the attention of us all. I reaffirm Columbia University's commitment to this mission and to the realization of our core values of inclusion and excellence. Lee C. Bollinger Columbia University President Contact the Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty Advancement 305 Low Library 535 W. 116 St., MC 4339 New York, NY 10027 facultydiversity.columbia.edu [email protected] (212) 854-7161 Staff Dennis A. Mitchell, MPH, DDS Vice Provost for Faculty Advancement [email protected] (212) 854-7161 Shana L. Lassiter, EdD Assistant Provost for Faculty Diversity and Inclusion [email protected] (212) 851-2709 Adina Berrios Brooks, MA Assistant Provost for Faculty Advancement [email protected] (212) 854-7285 Kristen Barnes, MA Assistant Director for Faculty Diversity and Inclusion [email protected] (212) 854-0336 Jennifer Leach, MS, MA Assistant Director for Faculty Advancement [email protected] (212) 854-0434 Angela N. Garcia Administrative Coordinator [email protected] (212) 854-7165 Office of the Provost535 W. 116th Street, 205 Low Memorial Library, Mail Code 4313 · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2403 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close