Skip to main content Utility Links University of Pennsylvania Office of the Provost Group Created with Sketch. Group Created with Sketch. search Group Created with Sketch. full menu Primary Nav Penn Provost About Education Faculty Research Global Policies Contact Drawer Menu Penn Provost About Explore Back to main menu About the Interim Provost Vice Provosts Provost's Councils Explore Back to main menu Academic Planning and Budget Council of Deans Council of Graduate Deans Council of Professional Master's Degree Deans Council of Undergraduate Deans Graduate Council of the Faculties Provost Council on Research Provost's Staff Conference Centers & Institutes Explore Back to main menu Environmental Innovations Initiative Explore Back to main menu Our Team Research Arts at Penn Explore Back to main menu Annenberg Center Arthur Ross Gallery Institute of Contemporary Art Kelly Writers House Penn Museum Platt Student Performing Arts House Sachs Program for Arts Innovation Campaign for Community Explore Back to main menu Grants Contact Us Provost Administrative Affairs Explore Back to main menu Return to Campus Finance Explore Back to main menu Toolbox Financial Policies Work From Home Equipment Tracking (PennKey Required) Payroll Purchasing Services Payments and Reimbursements Gifts and Endowments Funding Opportunities Strategic Planning Human Resources Explore Back to main menu Human Resources Policies Position (New and Reclass) and Compensation Requests (PennKey Required) Hiring a Staff Member Hiring a Student Worker Hiring a Temporary Staff Member Background Checks Onboarding and I-9 Process Leave Administration (FML, STD, PPL) Individual Service Providers Performance Appraisals and Merit Increases Academic Technology & Planning Planning, Design, & Construction Workday@Penn Contact Provost Administrative Affairs Explore Back to main menu Departments/Centers Reporting to Provost Education Explore Back to main menu COVID-19 ACADEMIC INFORMATION AND RESOURCES Explore Back to main menu Summer 2022 COVID-19 FAQs for Instructors Summer 2022 COVID-19 FAQs for Students Undergraduate Education Graduate and Professional Education Explore Back to main menu Graduate Admissions Graduate Degrees Explore Back to main menu Graduation Information Explore Back to main menu Graduate Degree Calendar Graduate Groups Graduation FAQs Dissertation and Thesis Deposit Explore Back to main menu Dissertation Copyright Dissertation Embargo Guidelines Dissertation Templates ETD Administrator Formatting FAQs Sample Dissertation Title Page Resources for PhD Students Graduate Student Center Family Resource Center Fontaine Society Teaching at Penn Explore Back to main menu Teaching Awards TCPW Award Penn TA Prize Faculty Council Brief Center for Teaching and Learning Resources for Administrators Wellness Ambassadors Accreditation About the Vice Provost Contact Faculty Explore Back to main menu Faculty Handbook Research Global Policies Contact Search Group Created with Sketch. Faculty Council Brief Basic Page Sidebar Menu Penn Provost About Explore Back to main menu About the Interim Provost Vice Provosts Provost's Councils Explore Back to main menu Academic Planning and Budget Council of Deans Council of Graduate Deans Council of Professional Master's Degree Deans Council of Undergraduate Deans Graduate Council of the Faculties Provost Council on Research Provost's Staff Conference Centers & Institutes Explore Back to main menu Environmental Innovations Initiative Explore Back to main menu Our Team Research Arts at Penn Explore Back to main menu Annenberg Center Arthur Ross Gallery Institute of Contemporary Art Kelly Writers House Penn Museum Platt Student Performing Arts House Sachs Program for Arts Innovation Campaign for Community Explore Back to main menu Grants Contact Us Provost Administrative Affairs Explore Back to main menu Return to Campus Finance Explore Back to main menu Toolbox Financial Policies Work From Home Equipment Tracking (PennKey Required) Payroll Purchasing Services Payments and Reimbursements Gifts and Endowments Funding Opportunities Strategic Planning Human Resources Explore Back to main menu Human Resources Policies Position (New and Reclass) and Compensation Requests (PennKey Required) Hiring a Staff Member Hiring a Student Worker Hiring a Temporary Staff Member Background Checks Onboarding and I-9 Process Leave Administration (FML, STD, PPL) Individual Service Providers Performance Appraisals and Merit Increases Academic Technology & Planning Planning, Design, & Construction Workday@Penn Contact Provost Administrative Affairs Explore Back to main menu Departments/Centers Reporting to Provost Education Explore Back to main menu COVID-19 ACADEMIC INFORMATION AND RESOURCES Explore Back to main menu Summer 2022 COVID-19 FAQs for Instructors Summer 2022 COVID-19 FAQs for Students Undergraduate Education Graduate and Professional Education Explore Back to main menu Graduate Admissions Graduate Degrees Explore Back to main menu Graduation Information Explore Back to main menu Graduate Degree Calendar Graduate Groups Graduation FAQs Dissertation and Thesis Deposit Explore Back to main menu Dissertation Copyright Dissertation Embargo Guidelines Dissertation Templates ETD Administrator Formatting FAQs Sample Dissertation Title Page Resources for PhD Students Graduate Student Center Family Resource Center Fontaine Society Teaching at Penn Explore Back to main menu Teaching Awards TCPW Award Penn TA Prize Faculty Council Brief Center for Teaching and Learning Resources for Administrators Wellness Ambassadors Accreditation About the Vice Provost Contact Faculty Explore Back to main menu Faculty Handbook Research Global Policies Contact How Faculty Can Help Students Thrive as Scholars: Five Suggestions from the Faculty Council on Access and Academic Support Although Penn students are very talented, they can also struggle academically and personally. In this brief, the Faculty Council on Access and Academic Support, a council that advises the Provost under the leadership of the Vice Provost for Education, offers five things to keep in mind to help our students thrive, including some key resources to assist students in doing so. 1. Recognize that students’ performance in our classes depends, in part, on factors unrelated to their academic abilities or inclinations. Some of those factors stem from things outside of the Penn classroom: a student’s health, family, economic situation, preparation, or extracurricular activities, for instance. Some of those factors, though, are related to what may go on in the classroom, e.g.: Stereotype threat: If unaddressed, students’ concerns about stereotypes that exist in society can weaken their own performance in a variety of fields. Click here or here to learn more. Unconscious bias: The biases we have – and do not know we have – can influence how we assess the work of others. Click here to learn more. 2. Help students to see that struggle is normal. Some Penn students may interpret struggling in a class as a sign that something is wrong with them or that they cannot succeed in a field or at Penn. Help students to understand that struggle and confusion are normal parts of learning. Click here to learn more. 3. Communicate regularly with students about their progress. * Provide frequent assessments and feedback. Be sure to give students substantive feedback before the drop deadline. TAs can play an important role here. * Course Problem Notices are an effective way to let struggling students know how they are doing in your course. CPNs allow faculty (or their TAs) to reach out to students, with a copy of the message sent to the student’s advising office so the office can detect any patterns. * Reach out also to students who are doing well. The connection with a faculty member can help build a student’s sense that he or she can excel in the field. 4. Take advantage of available resources to support students. For students who are struggling, either inside or outside the classroom, Penn offers a network of resources. These resources are generally available for both undergraduates and graduate students. Faculty Guide to Support for Your Students 5. Contact academic advisors if a student is having difficulties. If undergraduate students are struggling or in crisis, for whatever reason, faculty seeking a single contact point can contact or refer those students to their academic advising offices. Advising offices will, as needed, connect students to other sources of support. For SAS students: col-casenet@groups.sas.upenn.edu or 215-898-6341 For SEAS students: sgwak@seas.upenn.edu or 215-573-8369 For SON students: advisor@nursing.upenn.edu or 215-898-6687 For Wharton students: advising@wharton.upenn.edu or 215-898-7608 If you have a student in crisis after hours, contact Public Safety (215-573-3333 or 511 on campus) and ask the Student Intervention Services team to reach out. Faculty may be more comfortable recognizing signs of academic struggles than other difficulties. Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) suggests some signs to consider. Related Studies On stereotype threat: Shapiro, J. R., and Williams, A. M. "The Role of Stereotype Threats in Undermining Girls' and Women's Performance and Interest in STEM Fields." Sex Roles. 66, 3-4. 175-183. 2011. Aronson, J. "Stereotypes: Some Effects on Academic Performance and Evaluation." University of Pennsylvania, Department of Computer and Information Science Colloquium, January 2014. On unconscious bias: Moss-Racusin, C. A., Dovido, J. F., Brescoll, V. L., Graham, M. J., and Handelsman, J. "Science Faculty's Subtle Gender Biases Favor Male Students." PNAS 109 (41) 16474-16479. 2012. On normalizing struggle: Cutts, Q. I., Cutts, E., Draper, S., O'Donnell, P., and Saffrey, P. "Manipulating Mindset to Positively Influence Introductory Programming Performance." Proc. 41st ACM Tech. Symp. on Computer science education, Milwaukee, WI. March, 2010. 122 College Hall University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA 19104 215-898-5000 provost@upenn.edu ©2022 University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104 Footer Menu University of Pennsylvania Penn Directory Site Credits