Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of the Provost Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Offices Resources Announcements Provost Mary C. Boyce Vice Provosts Past Provosts About the Office Advisory Committees University Leadership Vice Provost Offices Academic Programs Communications and Engagement Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Senior Vice Provost Faculty Advancement Faculty Affairs Fourth Purpose and Strategic Impact Teaching, Learning, and Innovation University Libraries Other Reporting Units Educational Programs Educational Agreements Educational Programs Approval Policies and Appointments Faculty Handbook Selected Faculty Policies University Policy Library Faculty Life Housing Parenting Well-Being New Faculty Awards, Fellowships, and RFPs For Faculty For Graduate Students Research at Columbia Teaching Resources Library Tools Academic Calendar CourseWorks Registrar CUIT Services for Faculty SSOL Office of the Provost You are here: Home Offices Vice Provost Offices Faculty Affairs Appointments to Tenure Appointments to Tenure Columbia employs a standing committee system to conduct a final University-wide evaluation whenever a school or department, including Barnard College but excepting the Faculty of Law and Teachers College, recommends a candidate for tenure. This evaluation is the culmination of a process of review involving multiple considerations of the nomination within the departments/divisions and schools. The purpose of the final review is to confirm that the earlier reviews were rigorous and substantive and that all candidates meet the same high standards, regardless of the school or department originating the nomination. By examining both the process by which candidates are nominated and their qualifications, the Provost’s Tenure Review Advisory Committee (TRAC), a standing committee, seeks to ensure a University-wide consistency in the evaluation of nominations to tenure and thereby to promote the appointment of faculty of exceptional quality and distinction throughout the institution. The standing committee serves in an advisory capacity to the Provost who determines whether the candidate should be recommended to the President and Trustees for tenure. The University’s standing committee system of tenure review is administered on behalf of the Provost by the Vice Provost for Faculty Affairs. The Principles and Customs Governing University-wide Tenure Reviews policy governs TRAC’s review of all tenure nominations with the exception of those originating in Barnard College. The procedures followed in evaluating candidates from Barnard College differ in some respects, as provided for in the inter-institutional agreement between the College and the University. Therefore, the process by which Barnard nominations are reviewed is described in a separate document, the Principles and Customs Governing University-wide Tenure Reviews for Barnard College. Expand all Collapse all Tenure Nominations Annual Deadlines December 15th All internal candidate nominations are due in the OVPFA for review in the current academic year. February 1st All external candidate nominations are due in the OVPFA for review in the current academic year. April 1st List of potential candidates from each School who will be reviewed for tenure in the next academic year, along with the candidate’s CVs and field descriptions, are due in the OVPFA. May 15th Confirmations that referees were solicited for each candidate to be reviewed in the next academic year by the Schools, along with the list of top institutions, list of referees and list of comparable scholars are due in the OVPFA. May 15th If a tenure review of an external candidate, under review for tenure in the current academic year, cannot be held by May 15th, the nominating Dean or Executive Vice President will have to obtain a waiver of the AAUP’s deadline from candidate’s institution before the review can occur. May 31st Notices of nonrenewal for nontenured officers of instruction in their seventh or tenth counted year of service are due. Tenure Review Advisory Committee 2021-22 TRAC members Suzanne Bakken (Chair) Alumni Professor of the School of Nursing and Professor of Biomedical Informatics Gil Eyal Professor of Sociology Pierre Force Professor of French and of History John Huber Professor of Political Science Kathleen McKeown Henry and Gertrude Rothschild Professor of Computer Science Cathy Lee Mendelsohn Michael and Stella Chernow Professor of Urological Sciences (in Urology) and Pathology and Cell Biology and Genetics and Development (in the Institute of Human Nutrition) Abhay Narayan Pasupathy Professor of Physics Molly Przeworski Professor of Biological Sciences and Systems Biology John Santelli Professor of Population and Family Health and Pediatrics Joanna Stalnaker Professor of French and Romance Philology; Paul Brooke Chair for Literature and Humanities Olivier Toubia Glaubinger Professor of Business Timothy Wang Dorothy L. and Daniel H. Silberberg Professor of Medicine David Weiman Professor of Economics, Barnard College Tenure Review Advisory Committee Statistics Response to Report of the Review Committee on the Tenure Review Advisory Committee (TRAC) For more information please contact Angel Flesher, Assistant Provost for Faculty Affairs, at [email protected]. Office of the Provost535 W. 116th Street, 205 Low Memorial Library, Mail Code 4313 · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2403 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close