Skip to main content Stanford University Stanford Office of the Provost Search this site Submit Search Menu Home News & Updates About the Provost About the Office Past Provosts Contact Search this site Submit Search Persis Drell Stanford University's thirteenth provost Latest Updates Message to staff from the President and Provost about the IDEAL Learning Journey March 14, 2022 The IDEAL Learning Journey for Stanford staff is one of several initiatives to move us toward fulfilling our goal of creating an inclusive culture. Read more about Message to staff from the President and Provost about the IDEAL Learning Journey Update on revised masking guidelines March 1, 2022 Provost Drell, Dean Lloyd Minor and Associate Vice Provost provide an update on campus masking guidelines following the issuance of updated state and county policies. Read more about Update on revised masking guidelines Testing and other COVID-19 updates February 17, 2022 Provost Drell, Dean Lloyd Minor and Associate Vice Provost Russell Furr provide an update on Stanford's COVID-19 testing program and a preview of plans for students returning to campus from travel during the upcoming spring break. Read more about Testing and other COVID-19 updates Update to International Travel Policy February 11, 2022 In a letter to the Stanford community, the provost provides an update to the international travel polity. Read more about Update to International Travel Policy Affordability enhancements at Stanford January 19, 2022 A message to the university community announces new steps Stanford is taking to enhance affordability for staff, faculty, graduate students and postdoctoral scholars. Read more about Affordability enhancements at Stanford Additional Support for Eligible Untenured Faculty January 19, 2022 In a letter to eligible pre-tenure faculty members, the provost announces some new support measures in light of the pandemic. Read more about Additional Support for Eligible Untenured Faculty See all news & updates About Persis Drell is Stanford's thirteenth provost. As the chief academic and chief budgetary officer of the university, the provost is responsible for administering the academic program, including both instruction and research, and for the alignment of the administrative and support functions of the university with its academic purposes. More about Provost Drell IDEAL We have developed a vision to guide our shared journey over the next decade and beyond. Part of that vision is the IDEAL (Inclusion, Diversity, Equity & Access in a Learning Community) initiative. Learn more at IDEAL. Office Hours Currently registered Stanford students are invited to attend office hours with Provost Drell. More info Other Important Topics 2019 AAU Survey on Sexual Assault and Harassment Results of the Association of American Universities' 2019 Campus Climate Survey on Sexual Assault and Misconduct. Immigration Issues & Resources As events continue to unfold regarding federal immigration policy, this page provides resources for members of the Stanford community. Provost's Statement on Diversity & Inclusion We believe that Stanford’s future preeminence requires that we enthusiastically embrace our diverse future now. Stanford University Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.