Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of the Provost Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Offices Resources Announcements Provost Mary C. Boyce Vice Provosts Past Provosts About the Office Advisory Committees University Leadership Vice Provost Offices Academic Programs Communications and Engagement Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Senior Vice Provost Faculty Advancement Faculty Affairs Fourth Purpose and Strategic Impact Teaching, Learning, and Innovation University Libraries Other Reporting Units Educational Programs Educational Agreements Educational Programs Approval Policies and Appointments Faculty Handbook Selected Faculty Policies University Policy Library Faculty Life Housing Parenting Well-Being New Faculty Awards, Fellowships, and RFPs For Faculty For Graduate Students Research at Columbia Teaching Resources Library Tools Academic Calendar CourseWorks Registrar CUIT Services for Faculty SSOL Office of the Provost You are here: Home About Provost Mary C. Boyce About Us About Us Ensuring programs and faculty of the highest quality by developing and implementing academic policies and supervising faculty, departments, institutes, and research centers As Columbia's chief academic officer, the provost has the broad responsibility for ensuring that University programs and faculty are of the highest quality. The provost directs the development and implementation of its academic plans and policies, and supervises the work of its faculties, departments, institutes, and research centers. With respect to academic personnel, the most important provostial responsibility is to decide, with the assistance of the Tenure Review Advisory Committee, who should be recommended to the president and trustees for tenure. The provost also authorizes, directly or through a representative, all academic appointments, salaries, and leaves, and reviews faculty grievances. In cooperation with other senior administrative officers, the provost develops the University annual budget and long-term financial plans and oversees the creation of strong administrative services to support University academic activities. The provost also serves as the University's chief affirmative action officer. Reporting Offices Academic Programs Oversees academic programs, monitors educational partnerships with other universities and organizations, advances interdisciplinary programs, and manages University accreditation Teaching, Learning, and Innovation Promote excellence in teaching and learning at Columbia and advance a culture of educational innovation. Faculty Affairs The Office of Faculty Affairs manages the processes and policies for faculty appointments, promotions, and tenure. Faculty Advancement Facilitates faculty development, diversity, and planning initiatives with an emphasis on creating a welcoming and inclusive climate at the University Administration and Planning Supports the administration and operation of many aspects of the University, including space planning, faculty housing, travel planning and emergency protocols, K-12 schooling, human resources, and financial management. Planning and Institutional Research Provides the provost and other senior administrators with data-driven information that is used in managing the University and making decisions about its policies and goals. See All Academic Units Schools and Colleges List of undergraduate, graduate, and professional schools. Barnard College, Jewish Theological Seminary, Teachers College, and Union Theological seminary are independent affiliate institutions with their own boards of trustees, governance structures, policies, and academic processes. Departments View a list of Columbia's nearly 100 academic departments and degree-granting programs. Centers and Institutes Columbia has more than 200 research centers and institutes, covering a wide range of interdisciplinary work and representing broad and ongoing investment in new and renovated facilities for research, teaching, and campus life. Office of the Provost535 W. 116th Street, 205 Low Memorial Library, Mail Code 4313 · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2403 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close