Skip to main content Utility Links University of Pennsylvania Office of the Provost Group Created with Sketch. Group Created with Sketch. search Group Created with Sketch. full menu Primary Nav Penn Provost About Education Faculty Research Global Policies Contact Drawer Menu Penn Provost About Explore Back to main menu About the Interim Provost Vice Provosts Provost's Councils Explore Back to main menu Academic Planning and Budget Council of Deans Council of Graduate Deans Council of Professional Master's Degree Deans Council of Undergraduate Deans Graduate Council of the Faculties Provost Council on Research Provost's Staff Conference Centers & Institutes Explore Back to main menu Environmental Innovations Initiative Explore Back to main menu Our Team Research Arts at Penn Explore Back to main menu Annenberg Center Arthur Ross Gallery Institute of Contemporary Art Kelly Writers House Penn Museum Platt Student Performing Arts House Sachs Program for Arts Innovation Campaign for Community Explore Back to main menu Grants Contact Us Provost Administrative Affairs Explore Back to main menu Return to Campus Finance Explore Back to main menu Toolbox Financial Policies Work From Home Equipment Tracking (PennKey Required) Payroll Purchasing Services Payments and Reimbursements Gifts and Endowments Funding Opportunities Strategic Planning Human Resources Explore Back to main menu Human Resources Policies Position (New and Reclass) and Compensation Requests (PennKey Required) Hiring a Staff Member Hiring a Student Worker Hiring a Temporary Staff Member Background Checks Onboarding and I-9 Process Leave Administration (FML, STD, PPL) Individual Service Providers Performance Appraisals and Merit Increases Academic Technology & Planning Planning, Design, & Construction Workday@Penn Contact Provost Administrative Affairs Explore Back to main menu Departments/Centers Reporting to Provost Education Explore Back to main menu COVID-19 ACADEMIC INFORMATION AND RESOURCES Explore Back to main menu Summer 2022 COVID-19 FAQs for Instructors Summer 2022 COVID-19 FAQs for Students Undergraduate Education Graduate and Professional Education Explore Back to main menu Graduate Admissions Graduate Degrees Explore Back to main menu Graduation Information Explore Back to main menu Graduate Degree Calendar Graduate Groups Graduation FAQs Dissertation and Thesis Deposit Explore Back to main menu Dissertation Copyright Dissertation Embargo Guidelines Dissertation Templates ETD Administrator Formatting FAQs Sample Dissertation Title Page Resources for PhD Students Graduate Student Center Family Resource Center Fontaine Society Teaching at Penn Explore Back to main menu Teaching Awards TCPW Award Penn TA Prize Faculty Council Brief Center for Teaching and Learning Resources for Administrators Wellness Ambassadors Accreditation About the Vice Provost Contact Faculty Explore Back to main menu Faculty Handbook Research Global Policies Contact Search Group Created with Sketch. Resources for PhD Students Basic Page Sidebar Menu Penn Provost About Explore Back to main menu About the Interim Provost Vice Provosts Provost's Councils Explore Back to main menu Academic Planning and Budget Council of Deans Council of Graduate Deans Council of Professional Master's Degree Deans Council of Undergraduate Deans Graduate Council of the Faculties Provost Council on Research Provost's Staff Conference Centers & Institutes Explore Back to main menu Environmental Innovations Initiative Explore Back to main menu Our Team Research Arts at Penn Explore Back to main menu Annenberg Center Arthur Ross Gallery Institute of Contemporary Art Kelly Writers House Penn Museum Platt Student Performing Arts House Sachs Program for Arts Innovation Campaign for Community Explore Back to main menu Grants Contact Us Provost Administrative Affairs Explore Back to main menu Return to Campus Finance Explore Back to main menu Toolbox Financial Policies Work From Home Equipment Tracking (PennKey Required) Payroll Purchasing Services Payments and Reimbursements Gifts and Endowments Funding Opportunities Strategic Planning Human Resources Explore Back to main menu Human Resources Policies Position (New and Reclass) and Compensation Requests (PennKey Required) Hiring a Staff Member Hiring a Student Worker Hiring a Temporary Staff Member Background Checks Onboarding and I-9 Process Leave Administration (FML, STD, PPL) Individual Service Providers Performance Appraisals and Merit Increases Academic Technology & Planning Planning, Design, & Construction Workday@Penn Contact Provost Administrative Affairs Explore Back to main menu Departments/Centers Reporting to Provost Education Explore Back to main menu COVID-19 ACADEMIC INFORMATION AND RESOURCES Explore Back to main menu Summer 2022 COVID-19 FAQs for Instructors Summer 2022 COVID-19 FAQs for Students Undergraduate Education Graduate and Professional Education Explore Back to main menu Graduate Admissions Graduate Degrees Explore Back to main menu Graduation Information Explore Back to main menu Graduate Degree Calendar Graduate Groups Graduation FAQs Dissertation and Thesis Deposit Explore Back to main menu Dissertation Copyright Dissertation Embargo Guidelines Dissertation Templates ETD Administrator Formatting FAQs Sample Dissertation Title Page Resources for PhD Students Graduate Student Center Family Resource Center Fontaine Society Teaching at Penn Explore Back to main menu Teaching Awards TCPW Award Penn TA Prize Faculty Council Brief Center for Teaching and Learning Resources for Administrators Wellness Ambassadors Accreditation About the Vice Provost Contact Faculty Explore Back to main menu Faculty Handbook Research Global Policies Contact Resources for PhD Students Advising & Mentoring PhD Students Navigating the Academy programs Thesis and Dissertation Support Programs for TAs Support for finding grants and fellowships Insurance Subsidies and Grants Family Grants and Dependent Health Insurance Grants Other benefits for PhD students with children Graduate Group Review Student Feedback Form New Parent Accommodation and Family Leave PhD Leave of Absence Policy, Procedures, and FAQs PhD Leave of Absence Policy, Procedures, and Frequently Asked Questions The PhD Leave of Absence Policy Leave of Absence Checklist for Students FAQs for PhD students thinking about taking a leave of absence How does a PhD student request a leave? How does a PhD student request a return from leave? How long can a leave be for a PhD Student? I still have questions about the PhD Leave of Absence policy. Who should I ask? How does a PhD student request a leave? Students wishing to take a Family Leave should fill out this form. Students wishing to take other types of leave – military, medical, or personal -- should fill out of PhD Leave of Absence Request form available in each school: Annenberg School Biomedical Graduate Studies Graduate School of Education School of Arts and Sciences School of Engineering & Applied Science School of Nursing School of Social Policy & Practice Weitzman School of Design Wharton School How does a PhD student request a return from leave? Students should fill out the PhD Request to Return from Leave of Absence form available in each school. Requests to return from leave should be made at least 30 days in advance of the term beginning that a student wishes to return. How long can a leave be for a PhD student? Leave is typically for one or two semesters. In order to ensure successful completion of the PhD, a student’s leave(s) should generally not exceed two years over the course of the doctoral program. If, however, it is determined in an individual case that extension of the leave period(s) beyond two years is appropriate, students may need to repeat coursework or other requirements, as determined by the Graduate Group Chair. Original funding limits remain in place for students who must repeat requirements. I still have questions about the PhD Leave of Absence policy. Who should I ask? Contact the student affairs staff in your school or provost-ed@upenn.edu with questions about the policy. Leave of Absence Checklist for Students Student Bills/Financial Aid: Check your student account; any outstanding balance will result in late fees and your account will be placed on hold. Students who have borrowed from the Federal Loan Program must complete the online exit loan counseling session. Please note that depending on the length of the leave, students may be required to begin repayment of federal loans before returning to Penn. Tuition: If the leave is requested before the end of Add/Drop students will receive a full refund of tuition and fees. If the leave occurs after Add/Drop, partial refunds may apply. Leaves processed after the 6th week of classes are not eligible for any tuition refund. Consult your school for tuition refund information. Penn Student Insurance Plan: Consult your Graduate Dean’s Office about continuation of PSIP. On-campus housing (Sansom): If the leave occurs within the semester, complete Request for Early Termination. For more information see here. International students: Immigration status is dependent upon full-time enrollment and students are required to depart from the U.S. within 15 days of a posted leave, except in certain cases requiring medical care in the U.S. International students must communicate their intention to take a leave of absence with their ISSS advisor. See here for details. You may need to obtain new immigration documents for re-entry. Medical Documentation: If medical documentation is requested, please ask your healthcare provider to fax documentation to Student Health Service (attention: Request Leave of Absence at 215-746-1032) and/or CAPS (attention: Request Leave of Absence at 215-573-8966). Do not provide medical documentation to faculty or staff in your Graduate Group. SHS and/or CAPS will alert the Associate Vice Provost for Graduate Education that medical documentation has been received, and the Associate Vice Provost for Graduate Education will alert the appropriate School and Graduate Group. Students with an approved leave of absence will receive a letter from their Graduate Group Chair outlining the terms of the approved leave and any conditions for return. 122 College Hall University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA 19104 215-898-5000 provost@upenn.edu ©2022 University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104 Footer Menu University of Pennsylvania Penn Directory Site Credits