Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of the Provost Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Offices Resources Announcements Provost Mary C. Boyce Vice Provosts Past Provosts About the Office Advisory Committees University Leadership Vice Provost Offices Academic Programs Communications and Engagement Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Senior Vice Provost Faculty Advancement Faculty Affairs Fourth Purpose and Strategic Impact Teaching, Learning, and Innovation University Libraries Other Reporting Units Educational Programs Educational Agreements Educational Programs Approval Policies and Appointments Faculty Handbook Selected Faculty Policies University Policy Library Faculty Life Housing Parenting Well-Being New Faculty Awards, Fellowships, and RFPs For Faculty For Graduate Students Research at Columbia Teaching Resources Library Tools Academic Calendar CourseWorks Registrar CUIT Services for Faculty SSOL Office of the Provost You are here: Home Resources Awards, Fellowships, and RFPs Awards, Fellowships, and RFPs The Office of the Provost administers a range of funding opportunities, many of which are collected on this page. Opportunities for Faculty Opportunities for Graduate Students Expand all Collapse all For Faculty Provost SOLER Seed Grant This program, administered by the Columbia Science of Learning Research Initiative, aims to facilitate and support Discipline-Based Education Research (DBER) efforts at Columbia--that is, to better understand and improve teaching and learning by developing, implementing, and empirically testing the impact of pedagogical innovations in Columbia courses. Learn more. Provost Leadership Fellows This program aims to develop leadership skills for some of Columbia’s outstanding mid-career and senior faculty. Learn more. Provost's Academic Leadership Institute (PALI) The Provost’s Academic Leadership Institute was created to help Morningside department chairs, vice deans, division and institute directors, and heads of other academic units develop and strengthen skill sets needed to lead academic units. Several sessions are held for the group each academic year. Presidential Awards for Outstanding Teaching The Presidential Awards for Outstanding Teaching are a way to honor the University’s best teachers, among both faculty and graduate students. This award is a great honor, as it demonstrates commitment to excellent and often innovative teaching as recognized by the entire Columbia community. Learn more. Interdisciplinary Teaching Awards The Provost’s Interdisciplinary Teaching Awards Program is designed to encourage and support faculty interested in creating new courses, or redesigning existing ones, that cut across the boundaries of departments and schools. Learn more. Junior Faculty Grants This small-grants program is designed to support Schools’ diversity plans, by advancing the career success of outstanding junior faculty who contribute to the diversity goals of the University by their research, teaching, and mentoring activities. Request for proposals occur twice a year and the maximum award is $25,000. Find out more. Mid-Career Faculty Grants This small-grants program is designed to support Schools’ diversity plans, by advancing the career success of outstanding mid-career faculty who have received tenure for the first time in the previous seven years, have made a recent, significant contribution to their field, and who contribute to the diversity goals of the University by their research, teaching, and mentoring activities. Requests for proposals occur once a year and the maximum award is $37,500 total over three years. Learn more. Faculty Mentoring Award The Faculty Mentoring Award recognizes senior faculty who have demonstrated an exceptional commitment to faculty mentoring through their work with tenure-track and mid-career faculty. Learn more. Expand all Collapse all For Graduate Students Shardashish Interschool Fellowship This fellowship is available to students in certain master's programs. Awardees demonstrate established commitment to India and its future and demonstrated financial need. Preference is given to residents of India. Learn more. Presidential Awards for Outstanding Teaching The Presidential Awards for Outstanding Teaching are a way to honor the University’s best teachers, among both faculty and graduate students. This award is a great honor, as it demonstrates commitment to excellent and often innovative teaching as recognized by the entire Columbia community. Learn more. Lemann Foundation Inter This program aims to contribute to accelerating positive social change in Brazil through providing financial assistance to master’s students with a commitment to addressing crucial development challenges facing Brazil. Learn more. Liebmann Fellowship The purpose of the fund is to attract and support promising graduate students with outstanding character in their chosen fields of study. Learn more. Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty Advancement Learn about other Faculty Career Development sessions Return to the Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty Advancement homepage (212) 854-0350 [email protected] Office of the Provost535 W. 116th Street, 205 Low Memorial Library, Mail Code 4313 · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2403 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close