Skip to main content Utility Links University of Pennsylvania Office of the Provost Group Created with Sketch. Group Created with Sketch. search Group Created with Sketch. full menu Primary Nav Penn Provost About Education Faculty Research Global Policies Contact Drawer Menu Penn Provost About Explore Back to main menu About the Interim Provost Vice Provosts Provost's Councils Explore Back to main menu Academic Planning and Budget Council of Deans Council of Graduate Deans Council of Professional Master's Degree Deans Council of Undergraduate Deans Graduate Council of the Faculties Provost Council on Research Provost's Staff Conference Centers & Institutes Explore Back to main menu Environmental Innovations Initiative Explore Back to main menu Our Team Research Arts at Penn Explore Back to main menu Annenberg Center Arthur Ross Gallery Institute of Contemporary Art Kelly Writers House Penn Museum Platt Student Performing Arts House Sachs Program for Arts Innovation Campaign for Community Explore Back to main menu Grants Contact Us Provost Administrative Affairs Explore Back to main menu Return to Campus Finance Explore Back to main menu Toolbox Financial Policies Work From Home Equipment Tracking (PennKey Required) Payroll Purchasing Services Payments and Reimbursements Gifts and Endowments Funding Opportunities Strategic Planning Human Resources Explore Back to main menu Human Resources Policies Position (New and Reclass) and Compensation Requests (PennKey Required) Hiring a Staff Member Hiring a Student Worker Hiring a Temporary Staff Member Background Checks Onboarding and I-9 Process Leave Administration (FML, STD, PPL) Individual Service Providers Performance Appraisals and Merit Increases Academic Technology & Planning Planning, Design, & Construction Workday@Penn Contact Provost Administrative Affairs Explore Back to main menu Departments/Centers Reporting to Provost Education Explore Back to main menu COVID-19 ACADEMIC INFORMATION AND RESOURCES Explore Back to main menu Summer 2022 COVID-19 FAQs for Instructors Summer 2022 COVID-19 FAQs for Students Undergraduate Education Graduate and Professional Education Explore Back to main menu Graduate Admissions Graduate Degrees Explore Back to main menu Graduation Information Explore Back to main menu Graduate Degree Calendar Graduate Groups Graduation FAQs Dissertation and Thesis Deposit Explore Back to main menu Dissertation Copyright Dissertation Embargo Guidelines Dissertation Templates ETD Administrator Formatting FAQs Sample Dissertation Title Page Resources for PhD Students Graduate Student Center Family Resource Center Fontaine Society Teaching at Penn Explore Back to main menu Teaching Awards TCPW Award Penn TA Prize Faculty Council Brief Center for Teaching and Learning Resources for Administrators Wellness Ambassadors Accreditation About the Vice Provost Contact Faculty Explore Back to main menu Faculty Handbook Research Global Policies Contact Search Group Created with Sketch. Environmental Innovations Initiative Basic Page Sidebar Menu Penn Provost About Explore Back to main menu About the Interim Provost Vice Provosts Provost's Councils Explore Back to main menu Academic Planning and Budget Council of Deans Council of Graduate Deans Council of Professional Master's Degree Deans Council of Undergraduate Deans Graduate Council of the Faculties Provost Council on Research Provost's Staff Conference Centers & Institutes Explore Back to main menu Environmental Innovations Initiative Explore Back to main menu Our Team Research Arts at Penn Explore Back to main menu Annenberg Center Arthur Ross Gallery Institute of Contemporary Art Kelly Writers House Penn Museum Platt Student Performing Arts House Sachs Program for Arts Innovation Campaign for Community Explore Back to main menu Grants Contact Us Provost Administrative Affairs Explore Back to main menu Return to Campus Finance Explore Back to main menu Toolbox Financial Policies Work From Home Equipment Tracking (PennKey Required) Payroll Purchasing Services Payments and Reimbursements Gifts and Endowments Funding Opportunities Strategic Planning Human Resources Explore Back to main menu Human Resources Policies Position (New and Reclass) and Compensation Requests (PennKey Required) Hiring a Staff Member Hiring a Student Worker Hiring a Temporary Staff Member Background Checks Onboarding and I-9 Process Leave Administration (FML, STD, PPL) Individual Service Providers Performance Appraisals and Merit Increases Academic Technology & Planning Planning, Design, & Construction Workday@Penn Contact Provost Administrative Affairs Explore Back to main menu Departments/Centers Reporting to Provost Education Explore Back to main menu COVID-19 ACADEMIC INFORMATION AND RESOURCES Explore Back to main menu Summer 2022 COVID-19 FAQs for Instructors Summer 2022 COVID-19 FAQs for Students Undergraduate Education Graduate and Professional Education Explore Back to main menu Graduate Admissions Graduate Degrees Explore Back to main menu Graduation Information Explore Back to main menu Graduate Degree Calendar Graduate Groups Graduation FAQs Dissertation and Thesis Deposit Explore Back to main menu Dissertation Copyright Dissertation Embargo Guidelines Dissertation Templates ETD Administrator Formatting FAQs Sample Dissertation Title Page Resources for PhD Students Graduate Student Center Family Resource Center Fontaine Society Teaching at Penn Explore Back to main menu Teaching Awards TCPW Award Penn TA Prize Faculty Council Brief Center for Teaching and Learning Resources for Administrators Wellness Ambassadors Accreditation About the Vice Provost Contact Faculty Explore Back to main menu Faculty Handbook Research Global Policies Contact We are undeniably at a pivotal moment in history. As we emerge from the social and economic devastation of the pandemic, there is a triple imperative to fix the systems that are causing the climate and biodiversity crises as well as institutionalized inequalities. The Environmental Innovations Initiative will bring together researchers, scholars, and students to develop new ideas and innovative solutions for our global environment. It is designed to maximize Penn’s distinctive interdisciplinary strengths, building collaborations across disciplines and creating a catalyst to spur new areas of inquiry across such areas as climate change, sustainability, and environmental equity, among others. What are the vision and mission of the Environmental Innovations Initiative? Our Vison for the Environmental Innovations Initiative is to meaningfully impact the critical environmental challenges of our time, particularly climate change, biodiversity loss, and human vulnerability. To accomplish this, the Initiative will bring together scholars, leaders, practitioners, students, community members, and partners around themes of climate action, stewardship of nature, and societal resilience – including equity and inclusion. The Mission of the Environmental Innovations Initiative is to catalyze solutions to significant real-world environmental challenges. This will be done through fostering collaboration across disciplines, leading inclusive and dynamic programming on- and off-campus, forming strategic alliances with external partners, and elevating the visibility of Penn’s assets. What are the goals of the Initiative? The Initiative is charged to: Facilitate innovative research that maximizes Penn’s distinctive interdisciplinary strengths, within and between schools, centers, graduate groups, and departments Recruit outstanding faculty members whose new perspectives advance the university’s work across such areas as climate change, sustainability, and environmental justice Develop formal and informal educational programs, as well as public events and communications, that further the impact of Penn research and bring new solutions to our campus and a wider global community What impact will the Initiative seek to have? The Initiative will seek to make a tangible impact on solutions for our global climate emergency by advancing research and education and bringing those new ideas to a wider global audience. In so doing, it will also help bring together the work of Penn scholars and researchers across multiple disciplines, programs, and areas of the university, while furthering the university’s strong commitment to innovation and to making an impact on significant real-world challenges. Who are the leaders of the Initiative? The faculty co-directors of the Initiative are Kathleen D. Morrison, Sally and Alvin V. Shoemaker Professor and Chair of Anthropology, and Joseph S. Francisco, President’s Distinguished Professor of Earth and Environmental Sciences. Melissa Brown Goodall joined the team in March 2021 as the Initiative’s inaugural Senior Director. How does the Initiative relate to existing initiatives and programs at Penn? Not a center or an institute, the Initiative is instead a meeting place for new research communities and efforts that cross campus and extend out to the community and the world. It is an interdisciplinary hub that will help catalyze collaboration, support new research, and maximize and make visible Penn’s distinctive interdisciplinary strengths. It will work within and between all existing schools, centers, institutes, programs, graduate groups, and departments. How does the Initiative relate to the university’s Climate and Sustainability Action Plan? The first goal of the Climate and Sustainability Action Plan 3.0, which reaffirms the university’s commitment to address environmental challenges, is to “expand the scope of sustainability research.” The Initiative will play a central role in achieving this goal, by advancing research on campus, supporting and recruiting faculty members, and bringing Penn research to a wider public audience. The EII will work closely with the Office of Sustainability, and the Director of Sustainability will be a member of the Initiative’s faculty council. How does the Initiative connect to the Penn Office of Sustainability? Walking the talk is a critical part of developing solutions to the most pressing environmental challenges of our time. While the Initiative is advancing innovation and collaboration in the Penn research community, the Office of Sustainability offers actionable ways for all students, faculty, and staff to make a difference on campus, in Philadelphia, and in the world. Based on their complementary priorities, the Initiative and Penn Sustainability will collaborate strategically on events, programming, and applied research. How will the Initiative involve faculty? Support – financial, intellectual, and logistical – for innovative and interdisciplinary faculty research will be a priority of the Initiative. The Initiative will strive to showcase thought-leadership and innovation, advance applied research, and facilitate the creation of new research communities – transdisciplinary groups working on defined topics or problems. It will also develop conferences, public forums, and other events and help to recruit new faculty members who advance environmental research across the university. Finally, in its role as a coordinating entity, the Initiative will strive to support a unified University of Pennsylvania presence in local, national, and global fora. How will the Initiative involve students? At the outset, students will be engaged in the Initiative's major public events and in its support for the interdisciplinary research of Penn professors. As research communities are formed, students will play a central role. As the priorities and programming of the Initiative are further refined, the leadership of the Initiative will actively consult with undergraduate and graduate student groups to define additional opportunities. How will the Initiative engage the wider scholarly and policy communities? A central priority of the Initiative’s charge from the university is to organize public events and conferences that bring together the work being done across numerous parts of the university and present it to a wider audience. The Initiative will also coordinate a unified and cohesive UPenn presence at significant national and global gatherings. These activities are essential to the Initiative’s goal of making a tangible impact on policy and research related to the global climate emergency, the looming biodiversity crisis, and the urgent need to bolster natural and societal resilience. How do I get involved? Please sign up for our email list by clicking here. As we get started, we plan a phase of active information gathering and consultation with students, faculty, and staff from across the campus. We hope you will participate in the EII dialogues and will continue to work with us. 122 College Hall University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA 19104 215-898-5000 provost@upenn.edu ©2022 University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104 Footer Menu University of Pennsylvania Penn Directory Site Credits