Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown and Providence Schools Search Menu Site Navigation Home Progress In the Schools Engaging with Elementary and Middle Schools Engaging with High Schools Teacher Prep Programs College Day at Brown K-12 Research The Fund Timeline Public Education Committee FAQ Voices of Impact News and Updates Search Brown and Providence Schools College Day at Brown This immersive one-day program brings Providence public school students to the Brown University campus to experience a college setting and learn about their opportunities in higher education. Sub Navigation In This Section Engaging with Elementary and Middle Schools Engaging with High Schools Teacher Prep Programs College Day at Brown College Day at Brown This immersive one-day program brings Providence public school students to the Brown University campus to experience a college setting and learn about their opportunities in higher education. Brown has a longstanding commitment to providing impactful experiences for students in Providence schools — influencing their educational outcomes and enhancing their access to a high-quality college education and career exploration opportunities. In keeping with this commitment, the University decided to launch College Day at Brown, an immersive day-long experience for Providence Public School District high school students. The programming is designed to introduce or further expose students to the world of higher education by facilitating pathways and creating familiarity and excitement about the pursuit of post-secondary education at Brown, as well as other colleges and universities. Throughout the course of the day, students have the opportunity to experience what it’s like to be in a college classroom and explore a variety of disciplines — expanding their understanding of the possibilities of higher education. They meet with college advisors and talk directly with Brown students, providing a window into student life on a college campus. Educators and other adults chaperoning the school groups are invited to attend sessions on professional development. This programming seeks to further strengthen the partnership between the University and Providence public schools. Schedule for 2022 The day’s schedule includes presentations and sessions led by Brown University administrators, faculty and staff as well as opportunities to interact with current college students and peers. College Day at Brown Schedule Questions? Have questions or suggestions about a College Day at Brown? Contact Soljane Martinez at soljane_martinez@brown.edu or Joshua Corria at joshua_corria@brown.edu. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Progress In the Schools Engaging with Elementary and Middle Schools Engaging with High Schools Teacher Prep Programs College Day at Brown K-12 Research The Fund Timeline Public Education Committee FAQ Voices of Impact News and Updates This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search College Day at Brown Open details for College Day at Brown Bookmark this Page