Skip to content utexas.edu Faculty Careers Areas of Study Provost's Office Search Search The Office Initiatives Diversity, Equity & Inclusion News Resources Faculty & Academic Resources Academic Personnel Services provides guidance and support on a number of topics, such as hiring, leave, and promotion and tenure. Keep Reading Finance, Reporting & Compliance Information on official university polices as related to compliance, academic budgeting, finance, required business processes, and related resources. Keep Reading Directory Search our directory for the staff and offices of the Executive Vice President and Provost. Keep Reading The Provost’s Office Academic Excellence Through Education, Research & Service We partner with the campus to ensure all students succeed and thrive, faculty and staff are supported in their research and scholarship and the campus community has the support it needs as a world-class public research university. Meet the provost Our Mission Ranked among the biggest and best research universities in the country, UT Austin is home to more than 51,000 students and 3,000 teaching faculty. Together we are working to change the world through groundbreaking research and cutting-edge teaching and learning techniques. We aim to challenge and inspire our students with a world-class education and the tools they need to be changemakers at UT and beyond. 156 Undergrad Degree Programs 237 Graduate Degree Programs $797m Research Funding COVID-19 Resources COVID-19 related resources to help faculty, staff & students navigate the academic year. Learn More Protect Texas Together UT COVID-19 Dashboard COVID Professional Impact Statements Probationary Period Extensions for Tenure-Track Faculty News Roger Bonnecaze Appointed Dean of the Cockrell School of Engineering An internationally recognized expert in rheology and modeling and simulation for nanotechnology, Dr. Bonnecaze has served on the UT faculty for nearly 30 years. He has also served as interim dean of the Cockrell School since July. News Bobby Chesney Appointed Dean of the School of Law Professor Chesney, who currently holds the James A. Baker III Chair in the Rule of Law and World Affairs and has served as the school’s Associate Dean for Academic Affairs since 2011, will begin his new appointment on July 1. New Course Instructor Survey Platform In preparation for a campus-wide rollout in fall 2022, the university will launch a pilot of the new course survey system with several departments this summer. The pilot will include a test of new survey questions, as well as a limited rollout of some of the platform’s key features. Learn More Hispanic Serving Institution (HSI) Presidential Steering Committee A new Presidential Steering Committee to implement the recommendations in the HSI Transition Plan and to assure that our work in this area continues to advance. It is important to recognize that the plan links directly with the university’s new strategic direction and our emphasis on impact, while focusing on people, place, and pursuits. Learn More I am enormously impressed by the dedication and excellence of the UT community, and this feeling has only gotten stronger with time. As one of the world’s great public research universities, UT drives societal progress while educating — and launching — the leaders of tomorrow. Through world-class research and scholarship, exceptional teaching and instruction, and an unwavering commitment to our students’ success, we will continue to advance our academic mission together. Sharon L. Wood The University of Texas at Austin Executive Vice President and Provost Resources Below are several resource pages to help you find information related to faculty, academic personnel services, compliance, facility management, and more. Faculty & Academic Resources Faculty resources and Academic Personnel Services (APS) guidance on hiring, leave, promotion and tenure, and other academic staff and faculty-related topics. More information Resource Management & Compliance Guidance on academic budgeting, space allocations for academic purposes, renovations and capital projects, compliance and other resource and compliance related projects. More information Contact Us Phone 512-471-4363 Fax 512-475-7385 Email provost.office@utexas.edu 110 Inner Campus Dr. STOP G1000 Austin, TX 78712-1701 Related Public Access to Course Information (HB2504) Faculty & Academic Resources Quicklinks The Office Initiatives Diversity, Equity & Inclusion News UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022