Directory Calendar Campus Map Weather Quicklinks University Home About OSU Academics Faculty/Staff Student Life Future Students University Links Department of Psychology Main Menu Home Contact Us People Faculty Graduate Students Staff Job Openings News Latest News & Newsletter Upcoming Colloquia Clinic Diversity Diversity Day 2020 Institutional Diversity Resources Lunch & Learn The Association of Black Psychologists American Indians Into Psychology Psychology Diversified Students Program Current Students in PDSP Department of Psychology Diversity Scholarships Diversity Statement Department of Psychology Diversity Committee Student Diversity Committee Practice ARC Podcast Programs Undergraduate Clubs and Organizations ABPsi OSU Student Circle Chapter Psychology Club Psi Chi How to apply to Grad School Undergraduate Handbook Library Guide Graduate Overview and Admissions Clinical Psychology Program Experimental Psychology Cognitive Psychology Comparative - Neurobiological Psychology Developmental Psychology Social - Personality Psychology PGSA Special Programs Travel Courses Resources Admissions and Application Psychology Services Research Participation/Sona Alumni Psychology Museum Sustainability in the Psychology Department Scholarships Support Us OSU Giving - Psychology ONTOP PSC Side Menu Overview Services Appointments FAQ HIPAA Privacy Statement Community & Online Resources Current Clinicians PSC Resources Psychological Services Center For the safety of our clients and clinicians, the clinic is currently conducting only teletherapy sessions via Zoom or phone. We are accepting new therapy clients - please call (405) 744-5975 to express your interest and get more information about our services. Intakes will take place via Zoom or phone. ____________ The Psychological Services Center (PSC) was established in 1971 as a facility for training, service, and research at Oklahoma State University. Within the PSC is the Marriage and Family Clinic (MFC), which specializes in treatment of marital, premarital, and family problems. These clinics are operated by the Department of Psychology through the College of Arts and Science. The PSC is located in 118 Psychology Building on the OSU campus and also is accessible to individuals with a physical disability. Services The PSC provides services to children, adolescents, and adults. Services are available to residents of Stillwater and the surrounding community, as well as to OSU students, faculty, and staff. The PSC offers a variety of psychological services, including but not limited to: Adult and Child Individual Therapy for Adjustment Problems, Depression, Anxiety, and Post-traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) Couples and Family Therapy Assessments for Learning Disabilities, Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD), Emotional/Behavioral problems, and other Developmental Disabilities; the PSC Assessment Clinic does not conduct forensic evaluations, custody evaluations, and/or court-ordered evaluations. Group Therapy (e.g., Meditation and Stress Reduction, Emotion Regulation, and Healthy Relationships) Please follow this link for information on your rights as a client of the PSC and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA). Fees Initial, required intake appointments are $10, and therapy session fees are calculated according to a sliding scale based upon level of income, with fees starting at $5 per session. Fees for assessments are also based on a sliding scale and range from $150-$1000 (OSU students pay a standard assessment fee of $250). Staff The PSC's staff includes doctoral students in the clinical psychology training program. Student therapists are supervised by Clinical Psychologists in the Department of Psychology. Although the exact composition may change from year to year, the staff is generally composed of individuals from diverse ethnic and cultural backgrounds. Hours The PSC is open Monday through Friday our hours of operation are 8 am until 5 pm. Evening appointment are available on an individual basis. Contact Us To learn more about our services or arrange an intake appointment, please call us at (405) 744-5975. We are located on the OSU Campus at 118 Psychology Building, across Monroe Street from Theta Pond. Psychological Services Center Oklahoma State University 118 Psychology Building Stillwater, Oklahoma 74078-0250 (405) 744-5975 Supervising Clinical Psychology Faculty Garrett Pollert, Ph.D Director, Psychological Services Center John M. Chaney, Ph.D. Director, Marriage and Family Clinic Matt Alderson, Ph.D. Ashley Clawson, Ph.D. Lucia Ciciolla, Ph.D. DeMond M. Grant, Ph.D. Misty Hawkins, Ph.D. Thad R. Leffingwell, Ph.D. Larry L. Mullins, Ph.D. Maureen A. Sullivan, Ph.D. Stephanie N. Mullins-Sweatt, Ph.D. LaRicka R. Wingate, Ph.D. Ashley Cole, Ph.D. *The APA can be contacted in writing at American Psychological Association, 750 First Street, NE, Washington DC 20002-4242,by telephone at 800.374.2721 and 202.336.5510, by TDD/TTY at 202.336.6123, or you can visit their website at www.apa.org Stillwater Tulsa Oklahoma City Center for Health Sciences Division of Agriculture Institute of Technology Veterinary Medicine Accessibility Legal and Trademarks Safety Webmaster © 2022 - Oklahoma State University | All rights reserved