Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Department of Psychology Search https://twitter.com/PsychHarvard https://www.facebook.com/HarvardPsychology/ https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCFBv7eBJIQWCrdxPRhYft9Q Jobs Contact HOME About Historical Faculty Doctoral Alumni News and Events Academics Courses Graduate Program Postdoctoral Program Undergraduate Program Community Climate Surveys COVID Guidance Resources Student / Trainee Spotlight Diversity Call to Action DIB Committee DIB Events Initiatives PPREP Program Resources Contact Us DIB Office Hours Participate Study Pool People Faculty Fellows & Associates Graduate Students Postdocs & Research Associates Staff Research Clinical Science Cognition, Brain, & Behavior Developmental Psychology Social Psychology Interested in applying to Graduate School? Visit our PRO-TiP page for answers to many FAQs! Participate in Psychology Studies One important way to learn about psychology is from the inside - by being a participant in psychological studies Clinical Psychology Research at Harvard The Clinical Psychology Program adheres to a clinical science model of training, and is a member of the APCS Cognition, Brain, & Behavior Research at Harvard Research in the CBB group includes studies of sensation and perception, learning and memory, and other research topics Developmental Psychology Research at Harvard Shedding light on the human mind and nature by studying their origins and development in infants and children Social Psychology Research at Harvard Understanding Human Experiences and Behaviors in Social Settings History of Harvard Psychology The study of psychology, as something other than a branch of philosophy, began at Harvard in the late 1800's Welcome The field of Psychology first emerged at Harvard in the late 1800's under the scholarship of William James, and ever since then Harvard has been at the forefront of the field. The Department has a long and rich history, and its past faculty and researchers have included some of the most famous names in psychology, including B.F. Skinner, Gordon Allport, Jerome Bruner, George Miller, and Henry Murray. Click here for brief biographies of some of the pioneers who have worked and taught in the department. Today, the department has 27 faculty members. In 2007, the Chronicle of Higher Education published a quantitative survey which ranked Harvard as #1 among psychology departments in Faculty Scholarly Productivity. Members of the Harvard community may view these rankings here. The Graduate Program in Psychology currently has 74 graduate students who are trained in four major research programs: Cognition, Brain, & Behavior; Developmental Psychology; Social Psychology; and Clinical Science. Psychology is one of the most popular courses of study among undergraduates at Harvard. Click here for information about the undergraduate concentration in psychology, courses offered, and other information. New & Noteworthy Harvard Psychology mourns the passing of Herbert C. Kelman, 94 Saturday, March 5, 2022 Matthew Nock appointed to NIMH Advisory Council Friday, February 18, 2022 Professor Steven Pinker tries Wordle Tuesday, January 25, 2022 Congratulations to Professor Dan Gilbert who is listed among the Top 25 Most Influential Psychologists today! Monday, January 24, 2022 Professor Steven Pinker - Accomplishments and honors! Monday, January 24, 2022 Free Ice Cream This Summer! Enjoy free ice cream this summer! Sponsored by Edgerley Family Dean of the FAS Claudine Gay and funded by the Community Renewal Fund, an ice cream cookie truck will be parked either at the Northwest Building (52 Oxford Street) or in Harvard Yard each week, starting Tuesday, June 7. All members of the FAS community may present their Harvard ID for one complimentary ice cream sandwich. You can find a full schedule of the truck’s whereabouts each week on the FAS HR website. Coronavirus (COVID-19) The Department of Psychology is pleased to invite Harvard-affiliated community members back to campus! Buildings are open to Harvard affiliates during regular business hours. Vaccination and boosters are required. Updates are posted regularly on our COVID Guidance page. DIB Call to Action The Department of Psychology invites you to learn more about our enduring commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Belongingness in our Call to Action. Events 2022 Sep 23 Second-Year Project Talks (All day) Featured Publications Counterclockwise: Mindful Health and the Power of Possibility Inferring character from faces a developmental study Massively expedited genome-wide heritability analysis (MEGHA) Intergroup Schadenfreude: Motivating participation in collective violence Philosophers' biased judgments persist despite training, expertise and reflection Computational rationality: A converging paradigm for intelligence in brains, minds and machines The unforeseen costs of extraordinary experience Ultrasociality without group selection: possible, reasonable, and likely. The sense of style: The thinking person’s guide to writing in the 21st century The biological basis of language: Insight from developmental grammatical impairments The psychology of coordination and common knowledge Episodic future thinking and episodic counterfactual thinking: Intersections between memory and decisions Amelioration of child depression through behavioral parent training The contribution of human superior intra-parietal sulcus to visual short-term memory and perception William James Hall 33 Kirkland Street Cambridge, MA 02138 p: 617 495 3800 2c5194146f3d860172e5b9898834b126 Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement