Skip to content Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech - School of Psychology Menu Close Home About About Us History of the School Key Contacts How to Find Us People Faculty Emeritus Faculty Graduate Students Staff Research Programs Cognition & Brain Science Neuroscience Adult Development and Aging Engineering Psychology Industrial/Organizational Psychology Quantitative Psychology Laboratories Affiliated Centers How to participate Graduate Programs Why Choose Georgia Tech Prospective Students Admission Requirements Graduate Application Financial Aid F.A.Q. Graduate Handbook Programs Cognition & Brain Science Neuroscience Adult Development and Aging Engineering Psychology Industrial/Organizational Psychology Quantitative Psychology Quantitative Biosciences Graduate Courses Graduate Alumni Undergraduate Programs Programs Requirements for the major Senior Thesis Checklist Requirements for the Minor Certificates in Psychology Research Options Research Assistantship Admissions Courses by Semester Where Are They Now Undergraduate Activities Resources Funding Resources Foundations & Organizations Proposal Process Updates Forms & Procedures Who To See For What IT Resources Psychology Interlab Grant (PIG) Visit Us Georgia Tech Home Campus Map Directory Offices Facebook Twitter Google Plus YouTube LinkedIn Flickr Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Welcome to the School of Psychology at Georgia Tech. As you roam our webpage, you’ll notice that psychology at GaTech is rather unique in a number of ways. You already know that we are embedded in one of the leading science and engineering institutions of higher education in the world. Unlike many of our peers, our home college is the College of Science, which also houses the likes of Chemistry, Physics, Biology, and Math. You’ll see we have a structure of 5 programs which include Industrial-Organizational, Cognition and Brain Science, Cognitive Aging, Quantitative and Engineering Psychology that help us manage the research efforts and provide focused training to our graduate students, but all of the faculty move easily between areas. Finally, you may notice that we are small, intentionally. It allows us to focus our research and our training in a way that has made us exceptional. The Faculty, Grad Students, Undergraduates, and Staff are eager to meet you. News and Notes Top Gun's Return Sparks Another Adrenaline Rush How did “Top Gun” change movie making, and why does it continue to be relevant 36 years later? To address those questions and much more, the Georgia Tech community reflects on the film and its legacy on the eve of its long-awaited sequel — “Top Gun: Maverick.” Outstanding Students Honored at Annual Celebration Several College of Sciences students were recognized for excellence this year at the annual Student Honors Celebration on Thursday, April 21. Dobromir Rahnev Receives 2022 Elsevier-Vision Sciences Society Young Investigator Award The Elsevier-VSS Young Investigator Award, sponsored by Vision Research, is given to an early-career vision scientist who has made outstanding contributions to the field. This year's recipient is Doby Rahnev, associate professor in the School of Psychology. Thackery Brown Probes the ‘Black Box Problems’ in Cognitive Neuroscience Thackery Brown, assistant professor in the School of Psychology, has won a pair of prestigious research grants from the Curci Foundation and National Institute on Aging — and his lab has new research findings on memory, spatial navigation, and decision-making. Honoring Excellence: College of Sciences Students, Teaching Assistants, Future Faculty Earn Top Annual Awards Over 30 from College of Sciences are recognized as 2021-2022 recipients of top student honors, teaching assistant accolades, and future faculty awards — including the Institute’s prestigious Love Family Foundation Award. More News Events Jun 2 The Civic Role of Universities in a Changing Educational Landscape Georgia Tech's Center for 21st Century Universities (C21U) invites you to attend a half-day event, "The Civic Role of Universities in a Changing Educational Landscape." More Upcoming Events Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum School of Psychology J.S. Coon Bldg Georgia Institute of Technology 654 Cherry Street Atlanta, Georgia 30332-0170 Telephone: 404-894-2680 Web Team Digital Asset Management Project Management Wiki Site Map Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment GT Login Standard Login © Georgia Institute of Technology