Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Humanities and Social Sciences Department of Psychology Main Navigation Faculty Academics Students Advisement Resources Alumni Need Help Contact Us News Calendar Support Our Department Spring 2022 Office Hours Welcome to Psychology at CSU Fullerton! The Psychology Department has a long tradition of excellent undergraduate and graduate programs. We offer many opportunities for student involvement through student organizations, research with faculty, and internships in the community. Enjoy learning more about us as you explore our web site. Department of Psychology NOTE: Please provide your full name and CWID in your email or phone message. PLEASE NOTE: CSUF is shifting to virtual instruction for the first two weeks (January 22, 2022 through February 6, 2022). Department offices will remain open during this time. You can also reach out by phone or email for assistance. For further COVID-19 information and Spring 2022 updates, please see: http://coronavirus.fullerton.edu/ General Assistance: Noel Torres noeltorres@fullerton.edu Cynthia Landin cylandin@fullerton.edu Graduate Programs (MA & MS): psychology@fullerton.edu Major Advising: For psychology major advisement, contact the Psychology Advisement Office at: psycadvisement@fullerton.edu NEW & TRANSFER STUDENTS: Do NOT make an advisement appointment until after you have attended orientation. To make an appointment with Major Psychology Advising/Grad Check, visit: https://csufpsychologyadvisement.acuityscheduling.com/schedule.php Advising Related to COVID-19: For advisement specific to transition to remote instruction and your graduation etc., contact H&SS Student Success Center. Email hssuccessteam@fullerton.edu or visit hss.fullerton.edu/ssc University Policy on COVID-19 Vaccine: Please visit the Titans Return website for details. You can view the current vaccine policy at: http://coronavirus.fullerton.edu/messages/csu-covid-19-vaccine-update/ Department Chair: Dr. Laura Zettel-Watson lzettel-watson@fullerton.edu If you would like to express your concern about the course you are taking, please include the course number, the course section, and the name of the instructor in your email as well as your CWID and your full name. We will respond to your phone inquiry. Please call 657-278-3514 This site is maintained by Department of Psychology. Last Published 3/23/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact dasohn@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.1 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.