Skip to content Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech - School of Psychology Menu Close Home About About Us History of the School Key Contacts How to Find Us People Faculty Emeritus Faculty Graduate Students Staff Research Programs Cognition & Brain Science Neuroscience Adult Development and Aging Engineering Psychology Industrial/Organizational Psychology Quantitative Psychology Laboratories Affiliated Centers How to participate Graduate Programs Why Choose Georgia Tech Prospective Students Admission Requirements Graduate Application Financial Aid F.A.Q. Graduate Handbook Programs Cognition & Brain Science Neuroscience Adult Development and Aging Engineering Psychology Industrial/Organizational Psychology Quantitative Psychology Quantitative Biosciences Graduate Courses Graduate Alumni Undergraduate Programs Programs Requirements for the major Senior Thesis Checklist Requirements for the Minor Certificates in Psychology Research Options Research Assistantship Admissions Courses by Semester Where Are They Now Undergraduate Activities Resources Funding Resources Foundations & Organizations Proposal Process Updates Forms & Procedures Who To See For What IT Resources Psychology Interlab Grant (PIG) Visit Us Georgia Tech Home Campus Map Directory Offices Facebook Twitter Google Plus YouTube LinkedIn Flickr Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Research Programs Engineering Engineering psychologist are applied scientists who develop knowledge concerning the capabilities and limitations of humans to sense, store, and process information, and to act. This knowledge is applied to the design, use, and maintenance of human/machine systems. Depending on its mission, the system is then optimized with respect to human performance. The environmental factors affecting system performance are recognized as important and are considered systematically. When relevant data are not available, the engineering psychologist must uncover it through research efforts. This requires considerable skill in experimental design and quantitative methodology. The engineering psychologist is primarily an applied experimental psychologist. For this reason, the foundation areas of research are the various content areas of experimental psychology. Work in the Engineering Psychology program at Georgia Tech includes: human-computer interaction, human factors in aviation and air traffic control, educational technology, visual attention, decision making in visual search, human factors in cognitive aging, the development and evaluation of auditory and multimodal interfaces, as well as other topics. Researchers in the Engineering Psychology program at Georgia Tech collaborate with other organizations at the institute, including the Aware Home and the Graphics, Visualization, and Usability Center. To learn more about specific research conducted in Engineering Psychology at Georgia Tech, visit the Laboratories page. The Engineering Psychology graduate program has been given full accreditation by the Human Factors and Ergonomics Society (HFES). There is a colloquium series at which students and invited speakers present their research. For more information, please see the events section on the Home page. Programs Cognition & Brain Science Neuroscience Adult Development and Aging Engineering Psychology Industrial/Organizational Psychology Quantitative Laboratories Affiliated Centers How to participate Colloquium and Faculty Presentations Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum School of Psychology J.S. Coon Bldg Georgia Institute of Technology 654 Cherry Street Atlanta, Georgia 30332-0170 Telephone: 404-894-2680 Web Team Digital Asset Management Project Management Wiki Site Map Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment GT Login Standard Login © Georgia Institute of Technology