Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Humanities and Social Sciences Department of Psychology About Us Contact Equity and Justice Committee Undergraduate Prospective Students Academic Advising Experiential Learning Research and Graduate Studies Applied Social and Community Human Factors and Applied Cognition Industrial and Organizational Lifespan Developmental School Social and Behavioral Health Research Group People Psychoeducational Clinic Clinic Home Page Evaluation Consultation Intervention Give Now About Us Undergraduate Research and Graduate Studies People Psychoeducational Clinic Full Site Navigation About Us Contact Equity and Justice Committee Undergraduate Prospective Students Academic Advising Experiential Learning Research and Graduate Studies Applied Social and Community Human Factors and Applied Cognition Research People Apply Industrial and Organizational Research People Lifespan Developmental School Social and Behavioral Health Research Group Psychoeducational Clinic Clinic Home Page Evaluation Consultation Intervention Advancing the Science of Behavior Join us in transforming the way humans interact with each other, technology, organizations and the world. Our teams of scientist-practitioners address major behavioral and social issues and challenges in today’s world. Their expertise is contributing to advancing knowledge about how individuals are affected by physical, emotional, educational, organizational and community contexts and experiences. The department has an active and dedicated group of scholars, staff, graduate and undergraduate students who are fostering the growth of innovative research, teaching and learning. We have three overarching goals: (1) to advance the science and practice of psychology, (2) to continue integrating psychology in the university’s mission and (3) to prepare the next generation to identify and address the concerns that challenge and inspire them. Think and Do Exploring Hunger and Homelessness at NC State Far too many NC State students are at risk for homelessness and hunger, as research from psychologist Mary Haskett shows. Working with a group of NC State faculty, staff and community leaders, Haskett surveyed 7,000 NC State students to assess the extent of food and housing insecurity on campus. The group also evaluated existing support programs and services at NC State and on campuses across the country. See what the researchers found, and learn how you can help. Learn More‌ Cross-cutting Research Linking Diversity to Excellence Psychology faculty advance knowledge about how people learn, what motivates our choices, and why and how we can be effective in challenging social barriers to achievement. Research labs focus on families, communities and institutions (senior citizen centers, schools, and universities) to develop and evaluate innovative interventions that promote equity and social justice. To learn more, see: Stereotypes Lab Families, Affect, Beliefs and Behavior (FAB Lab) Family Studies Lab Metacognition and Advanced Learning Technologies Lab Hope Lab Building Meaningful Lives Psychology faculty lead teams of researchers who explore the factors that are associated with health and well-being and that influence how people of all ages understand and experience their lives. This includes our emotional, interpersonal, and physical worlds. Current projects focus on topics such as healthy development across the lifespan, emotional and physical health and well-being, and humanitarian work. To learn more, see: Adult Development Lab IOTech4D Lab Daily Well-Being in Adulthood Teen Health Lab Mindset Lab Staying Safe and Secure Psychology faculty enhance safety and security within organizations, communities, and at the individual level. Researchers collaborate with industry partners, government organizations, health care agencies, and the non-profit sector. Current projects focus on topics such as national security, law enforcement, mental illness and violence, safety and risk communications, and human-computer interactions. To learn more, see: Learning, Aging, and Cognitive Ergonomics Lab Applied Cognitive Psychology Lab Psychometrics Lab Forensic Psychology in the Public Interest Lab Psychology Department News More Stories Events Submit an Event‌‌‌ Psychology Events‌‌‌ NC State Academic Calendar‌‌‌ Humanities and Social Sciences Psychology 640 Poe Hall, Campus Box 7650, Raleigh, NC 27695-7650 919.515.2251 Resources for Faculty and Staff Resources for Current Graduate Students Humanities and Social Sciences NC State Accessibility Authenticate Main Campus Map © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.