Skip to main content University of Pennsylvania School of Arts and Sciences Penn A-Z Penn Calendar Psychology Search form SearchSearch Psychology Home People Undergraduate Graduate Courses News Events Research Resources Contact SearchSearch Welcome Psychology is the science of mind, brain, and behavior. The Department of Psychology at the University of Pennsylvania is the oldest continuously functioning psychology department in North America. From the Flanagan-Cato lab: Behavioral circuits: Oxytocin-containing fibers (green) surround hypothalamic neurons (red). Daniels, Miselis and Flanagan-Cato. Members of the Kahana Lab have found that brain oscillations associated with successful encoding are reinstated during retrieval. Students in Rob DeRubeis's lab code sessions of cognitive therapy for depression to identify therapist and client behaviors related to better treatment outcome. This image depeicts a stimulus used in David Brainard's lab for studies of how object shape and material properties influence object color appearance. News Allyson Mackey is a recipient of International Mind, Brain and Education Society (IMBES) Early Career Award April 28, 2022 Allyson Mackey has been selected as an awardee for the IMBES Early Career Award! This award is designed to recognize early career scholars who... Becky Waller receives 2022 SSSP Jevon S. Newman Early Career Contribution Award April 18, 2022 The Society for the Scientific Study of Psychopathy has named Becky Waller a recipiant of the 2022 Jevon S. Newman Early Career Contribution Award... Amber L. Alhadeff awarded 2021 Eppendorf and Science Prize March 3, 2022 Amber L. Alhadeff named the grand prize winner of The Eppendorf & Science Prize for Neurobiology. The Eppendorf & ... View More Grad Students Caitlin Clements has been awarded a Fulbright Scholarship Caitlin Clements has been awarded a US Fulbright student grant to conduct research in Sweden. She will work with Dr. Mikael Landen at the Karolinska Institute to study genetic predictors of treatment response in individuals with depression. View More Department of Psychology / Stephen A. Levin Building / 425 S. University Ave / Philadelphia, PA 19104-6018 Phone: (215) 898-7300 / web@psych.upenn.edu © 2022 The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania Penn WebLogin