Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site Campus Transportation Metrorail Brightline Carpool Bike Safe Ride Walking Canes Hurry 'Canes Shuttles Zipcar Tri-Rail Metrobus Campus Parking Students Faculty and Staff Vendors and Contractors Visitors Event Venue Parking Lennar Foundation Medical Center People with Disabilities Campus Parking Map Bike Rack Map Citation Payment and Appeal Other Services News and Updates Event Coordinators Charter Bus Services Cane Card Taxi and Ride Share Safety Escort Motorist Assist Program Airport Transportation Employee Resources HR for Our Division SharePoint Access Box Access Workday Access Policies About Us Director's Message Our Team Contact Us Campus Transportation Campus Parking Other Services Employee Resources About Us Search Students Faculty and Staff Vendors and Contractors Visitors Event Venue Parking Lennar Foundation Medical Center People with Disabilities Campus Parking Map Bike Rack Map Citation Payment and Appeal Campus Transportation Metrorail Brightline Carpool Bike Safe Ride Walking Canes Hurry 'Canes Shuttles Zipcar Tri-Rail Metrobus Campus Parking Students Faculty and Staff Vendors and Contractors Visitors Event Venue Parking Lennar Foundation Medical Center People with Disabilities Campus Parking Map Bike Rack Map Citation Payment and Appeal Other Services News and Updates Event Coordinators Charter Bus Services Cane Card Taxi and Ride Share Safety Escort Motorist Assist Program Airport Transportation Employee Resources HR for Our Division SharePoint Access Box Access Workday Access Policies About Us Director's Message Our Team Contact Us Students Faculty and Staff Vendors and Contractors Visitors Event Venue Parking Lennar Foundation Medical Center People with Disabilities Campus Parking Map Bike Rack Map Citation Payment and Appeal Campus Transportation Campus Parking Other Services Employee Resources About Us Facilities Operations and Planning Home Campus Parking Event Venue Parking AAA Event Venue Parking Students Faculty and Staff Vendors and Contractors Visitors Event Venue Parking Lennar Foundation Medical Center People with Disabilities Campus Parking Map Bike Rack Map Citation Payment and Appeal The University hosts several on-campus events daily. Parking on campus could be challenging considering the volume of students, staff, faculty, event-goers, and visitors to accommodate. However, we efficiently utilize all parking resources to meet our customer's needs, while upholding pedestrian and vehicular safety. Metrorail Option: There is a Metrorail stop adjacent to our campus which, makes for a convenient and stress free commute for event goers. From the rail stop, event goers are able to walk to the Watsco Center, Alex Rodriguez Park and Cobb Stadium. Or, take advantage of the Hurry 'Cane Stanford Shuttle to reach our other campus venues. Shuttle map. Campus Parking Campus parking is strictly enforced Monday through Sunday 8 a.m.-11 p.m. and vehicles must park head-in only Visitors should follow the instructions provided by the school, department, venue, or event organizer. Alternatively, the following options are available. Daytime Visitors (M-F 8 a.m.-4 p.m.): Visitors may park at designated metered spaces using PayByPhone or a Pay Station. Using these options automatically registers the vehicle's license plate with the university's parking system. Metered spaces are located at the Pavia and Merrick Garages, Memorial Drive (by Richter Library), the Yellow, Gray, and Burgundy color zones found at visitor's parking map. If the vehicle is moved between the Pavia and Merrick Garage, the Yellow, Gray, or Burgundy color zones, a new parking session must be initiated. Nights and Weekends Visitors (M-F 4 p.m.-11 p.m. and Weekends 8 a.m.-11 p.m.): Visitors may pay to park using PayByPhone or a Pay Station. Using these options automatically registers the vehicle's license plate with the university's parking system. All parking lots and garages (except service and restricted spaces) are available for parking. See the visitor's parking map. A parking session is valid in any color zone and the vehicle can be moved between parking lots and garages without having to initiate a new parking session. Payment Options: PayByPhone Hourly - $1.50 plus 27 cents transaction fee. Credit card only (cash not accepted). A parking session of 5-hours or more converts to all day parking - $8.00 plus 27 cents transaction fee. PayByPhone frequently asked question found here. Download PayByPhone app and create account - Click icon Pay Station Hourly - $1.50; no transaction fee. Credit card only (cash not accepted). Pay station frequently asked questions found here. Daily Permit - Online Purchase Purchase a daily parking permit in advance at $8. Parking session is valid all day from 8 a.m.-11 p.m. For instructions on purchasing a permit online and creating an account click here. Directions: Athletic Games, Popular Venues, and Garages Athletic Venues Basketball at Watsco Center Football at Hard Rock Stadium Soccer at Cobb Stadium Swimming and Diving at Hurricane Aquatics Tennis at Neil Schiff Tennis Center Track and Field at Miami Hurricane Club Volleyball at Patti and Allan Herbert Wellness Center Baseball at Mark Light Field at Alex Rodriguez Park M-F 8 a.m.-4 p.m.: Parking is available in Burgundy and Gray color zones using PayByPhone or a Pay Station.Using these options automatically registers the vehicle's license plate with the university's parking system. Ponce Garage is available is not available for parking. M-F 4 p.m.-11 p.m. and Weekends 8 a.m.-11 p.m.: Visitors may park throughout campus using PayByPone or a Pay Station. Using these options automatically registers the vehicle's license plate with the university's parking system Ponce Garage is available for parking after 5 p.m. M-F and all day on weekends. Regional and Super Regional Games: Contact athletics at 305-284-2263 for parking information. Payment options: See section above. New for 2020 - GATE ENTRANCE - The right field entrance will be closed at The Light due to the ongoing facility project. All fans will now enter the stadium through the home plate main entrance. Performance Venues Frost School of Music Jerry Herman Ring Theatre Maurice Gusman Concert Hall Watsco Center Popular Venues Gables One Tower Herbert Wellness Center Lowe Art Museum Newman Alumni Center Donna E. Shalala Student Center Storer Auditorium Garages Merrick Garage Pavia Garage Ponce de Leon Garage University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Parking and Transportation 5807 Ponce de Leon Boulevard Suite 100 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-3096 305-284-3096 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices