Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site Campus Transportation Metrorail Brightline Carpool Bike Safe Ride Walking Canes Hurry 'Canes Shuttles Zipcar Tri-Rail Metrobus Campus Parking Students Faculty and Staff Vendors and Contractors Visitors Event Venue Parking Lennar Foundation Medical Center People with Disabilities Campus Parking Map Bike Rack Map Citation Payment and Appeal Other Services News and Updates Event Coordinators Charter Bus Services Cane Card Taxi and Ride Share Safety Escort Motorist Assist Program Airport Transportation Employee Resources HR for Our Division SharePoint Access Box Access Workday Access Policies About Us Director's Message Our Team Contact Us Campus Transportation Campus Parking Other Services Employee Resources About Us Search Campus Transportation Metrorail Brightline Carpool Bike Safe Ride Walking Canes Hurry 'Canes Shuttles Zipcar Tri-Rail Metrobus Campus Parking Students Faculty and Staff Vendors and Contractors Visitors Event Venue Parking Lennar Foundation Medical Center People with Disabilities Campus Parking Map Bike Rack Map Citation Payment and Appeal Other Services News and Updates Event Coordinators Charter Bus Services Cane Card Taxi and Ride Share Safety Escort Motorist Assist Program Airport Transportation Employee Resources HR for Our Division SharePoint Access Box Access Workday Access Policies About Us Director's Message Our Team Contact Us Our Team Contact Us Director's Message Campus Transportation Campus Parking Other Services Employee Resources About Us Facilities Operations and Planning Home About Us Executive Director's Message AAA Director's Message Mission Statement "To provide a positive visitor, student, faculty/staff experience by excelling in customer service, while providing safe, effective, integrated mobility options." Director's Message Welcome to the University of Miami’s Parking and Transportation Services Website. We have provided information that we hope will assist you in making your parking and mobility experience at the University as pleasant as possible. We are committed to providing safe and reliable parking and mobility options that enhance sustainability for the University community. Our department is responsible for the overall management of parking facilities, traffic control, maintaining an effective commuting system, and meeting the transportation needs of the Coral Gables campus. Our department offers several programs to assist the University of Miami community in meeting their parking and mobility needs. The Hurry ‘Cane Shuttles is a quick and convenient means of getting around campus. You may also choose to commute independently by walking or biking. Think about all the benefits—No need to search for parking space, it is fast and convenient, it reduces pollution, saves energy, allows you to get some exercise all while enjoying our beautiful campus. We encourage to browse material provided about Metrorail, Zipcar, Motorist Assistance Program, UBike, and Carpool as well as other programs offered. Please take some time to review information on the eligibility and availability for your parking status (Students, Faculty and Staff, Vendor/Contractor, and Visitor). We also encourage you to familiarize yourself with our parking facilities prior to arriving in order to ensure that your needs are met. Don't forget to visit our website often for updates and information regarding parking and traffic that may affect you. Finally, we want to hear from you. Please feel free to provide your feedback regarding our services at parking.gables@miami.edu. You may also contact me directly if I can be of assistance at e.stephan@miami.edu. Thank you for visiting our website. Eli Stephan Interim Director University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Parking and Transportation 5807 Ponce de Leon Boulevard Suite 100 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-3096 305-284-3096 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices