Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site Campus Transportation Metrorail Brightline Carpool Bike Safe Ride Walking Canes Hurry 'Canes Shuttles Zipcar Tri-Rail Metrobus Campus Parking Students Faculty and Staff Vendors and Contractors Visitors Event Venue Parking Lennar Foundation Medical Center People with Disabilities Campus Parking Map Bike Rack Map Citation Payment and Appeal Other Services News and Updates Event Coordinators Charter Bus Services Cane Card Taxi and Ride Share Safety Escort Motorist Assist Program Airport Transportation Employee Resources HR for Our Division SharePoint Access Box Access Workday Access Policies About Us Director's Message Our Team Contact Us Campus Transportation Campus Parking Other Services Employee Resources About Us Search Campus Transportation Metrorail Brightline Carpool Bike Safe Ride Walking Canes Hurry 'Canes Shuttles Zipcar Tri-Rail Metrobus Campus Parking Students Faculty and Staff Vendors and Contractors Visitors Event Venue Parking Lennar Foundation Medical Center People with Disabilities Campus Parking Map Bike Rack Map Citation Payment and Appeal Other Services News and Updates Event Coordinators Charter Bus Services Cane Card Taxi and Ride Share Safety Escort Motorist Assist Program Airport Transportation Employee Resources HR for Our Division SharePoint Access Box Access Workday Access Policies About Us Director's Message Our Team Contact Us Campus Parking Students Faculty and Staff Vendors and Contractors Visitors Event Venue Parking Lennar Foundation Medical Center People with Disabilities Campus Parking Map Bike Rack Map Citation Payment and Appeal Campus Transportation Campus Parking Other Services Employee Resources About Us Facilities Operations and Planning Home Campus Parking AAA Campus Parking Students Permit options may vary each academic year. Please familiarize yourself with our current options. Learn more Faculty and Staff Permit options may vary each academic year. Please familiarize yourself with our current options. Learn more Vendors and Contractors The University is pleased to have you as a partner. Please familiarize yourself with our options and guidelines for vendors. Please remember your cooperation and compliance with all of these guidelines is an important element in maintaining the vendor relationship. Learn more Visitors As a guest, we'd like to facilitate your visit to our beautiful campus. Please familiarize yourself with our parking options and guidelines. Learn more Event Venue Parking Please familiarize yourself with parking information concerning Coral Gables campus event venues. Learn more Lennar Medical Center If you are visiting The Lennar Foundation Medical Center please see the following for parking and arrival information http://security.med.miami.edu/. Learn more People with Disabilities Special parking accommodations may be available for those in need. Learn more Campus Parking Map Please access the latest Gables campus parking and transportation map through here. Printable map Citation Payment and Appeal To avoid fines, towing and possible disciplinary action familiarize yourself with the Coral Gables Parking Policies and Procedures. Please note that parking citations may be appealed under certain circumstances. Learn more University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Parking and Transportation 5807 Ponce de Leon Boulevard Suite 100 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-3096 305-284-3096 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices