Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site Campus Transportation Metrorail Brightline Carpool Bike Safe Ride Walking Canes Hurry 'Canes Shuttles Zipcar Tri-Rail Metrobus Campus Parking Students Faculty and Staff Vendors and Contractors Visitors Event Venue Parking Lennar Foundation Medical Center People with Disabilities Campus Parking Map Bike Rack Map Citation Payment and Appeal Other Services News and Updates Event Coordinators Charter Bus Services Cane Card Taxi and Ride Share Safety Escort Motorist Assist Program Airport Transportation Employee Resources HR for Our Division SharePoint Access Box Access Workday Access Policies About Us Director's Message Our Team Contact Us Campus Transportation Campus Parking Other Services Employee Resources About Us Search News and Updates Event Coordinators Charter Bus Services Cane Card Safety Escort Motorist Assist Program Lyft and Taxi Airport Transportation Campus Transportation Metrorail Brightline Carpool Bike Safe Ride Walking Canes Hurry 'Canes Shuttles Zipcar Tri-Rail Metrobus Campus Parking Students Faculty and Staff Vendors and Contractors Visitors Event Venue Parking Lennar Foundation Medical Center People with Disabilities Campus Parking Map Bike Rack Map Citation Payment and Appeal Other Services News and Updates Event Coordinators Charter Bus Services Cane Card Taxi and Ride Share Safety Escort Motorist Assist Program Airport Transportation Employee Resources HR for Our Division SharePoint Access Box Access Workday Access Policies About Us Director's Message Our Team Contact Us News and Updates Event Coordinators Charter Bus Services Cane Card Safety Escort Motorist Assist Program Lyft and Taxi Airport Transportation RELATED LINKS Service Request Form Campus Transportation Campus Parking Other Services Employee Resources About Us Facilities Operations and Planning Home Other Services Event Coordinators AAA Event Coordinators News and Updates Event Coordinators Charter Bus Services Cane Card Safety Escort Motorist Assist Program Lyft and Taxi Airport Transportation RELATED LINKS Service Request Form Planning an event? We are happy to help with your parking needs to facilitate the best possible experience for your guests. At the University of Miami, we proudly host an array of events that range from distinguished guest speakers to conferences, luncheons, concerts, etc., all of which have the potential to impact campus parking and traffic logistics. As part of your event planning process, it is important that you engage our Event Services Team. Complete our online Service Request Form and let us know your needs (for example: valet service, shuttles, deliveries, set-up, food trucks, etc.) Required Service Request Form: Access the online Service Request Form. Complete all fields with an * on the form, to include a valid UM departmental Workday PG account number for billing purposes. Submit the form with a minimum notice of seven (7) business days prior to your event; we cannot guarantee services that do not meet this minimum time. Email parking.events@miami.edu for all correspondence pertaining to events. Remember, UM is a smoke-free campus, so please advise all guests of our policy. Important - Pre-Event Planning Events longer than seven (7) days in duration, please contact Event Services directly at 305-284-1641. Events that require food trucks, large vehicles or equipment, must complete and submit an approved Coral Gables Campus Revocable Agreement for Use of University Facilities. Please contact Business Services at 305-284-5550 for assistance. Electronic Message boards are required for events with an audience of 2,000 or more; a nominal fee applies. The boards are strategically placed to keep all drivers (event attendees and local community) informed. Parking and Transportation should be consulted regarding artwork placed on directional signs and sandwich boards (A-frames) in order to ensure alignment with campus traffic. University of Miami Police Department (UMPD) UMPD services are required with events that need intersection control on Ponce de Leon Boulevard, serving of alcohol or reinforcement. Visit the UMPD website. Optional Services Reserved Parking Spaces Certain events require that an area of a lot or a number of spaces be reserved. In most cases, this requires a lot attendant (nominal fee) to secure the area, regardless of the number of spaces. Spaces without an attendant cannot be guaranteed. Staff Resources Your event may require staff resources to secure lots and parking spaces, traffic control, maintain pedestrian safety, etc. Our event team will assist in determining the right mix for your event. Parking and Transportation reserves the right to determine the type of staff resources that best suits your event, based on variables such as traffic flow, construction, and/or other events taking place in the area. We will consult with you during the process of arranging your services. You must give at minimum, a seven (7) business-days' notice, in order for us to staff an event. Shuttle Services Shuttle service is available and prices vary depending on your need, for example, shuttle type/size, usage time and trip distance. You may book directly through Academy Bus Company at 305-688-7700 ext. 1. Or, if arranged through Parking and Transportation via the online Service Request Form, you will incur a 10% administrative fee. Refer to Shuttle Rates. Valet Services We offer a convenient, efficient and professional level of valet service. A valet parking attendant is often the first point of personal contact at any event. Valet service is provided by UM's authorized vendor, which is supervised and equipped by Parking and Transportation. Rates vary based on the estimated number of vehicles expected for the event. Refer to Valet Rates. Please note, valet staffing depends on the size and location of the event, as well as the distance of the vehicle staging area from the drop-off/pick-up points. Our expectation is to deliver the highest level of customer service by requiring sufficient valet staff in order to meet a vehicle retrieval time of 4-6 minutes. Golf Cart Rental For information regarding Golf Car Rental, please contact Broward Electric Car and Equipment at 954-925-2400. Requirements: A valid Florida State Driver's License - Class C or E Traffic signals and signs must be followed at all times Seatbelt (if provided) must be worn by the driver and all passengers Point of Contact After Hours (Monday - Friday, 5:00 p.m. - 8:30 a.m.) and all day on weekends: Shuttle service rental: Academy Bus Company dispatch at 305-769-6065 On-Campus/Recreational Shuttle - 305-688-7700 Valet service: MAC Valet at 786-587-7176 Parking: UMPD dispatch at 305-284-6666 Event Responsibilities Familiarize yourself with the significant information that follows to ensure your event planning is in compliance with the City of Coral Gables and the University. Pre-Event Service & Delivery Supplier Guidelines - This link contains important information with specific details regarding the ingress & egress campus access roads to use, approved loading & unloading areas and governing policies. Delivery Access Roads - This map shows which access roads delivery vendors need to use to enter/exit campus. Signage letter from City Manager 040708.pdf (open link) and Temporary Signage Map 2015.pdf (open link) – These links explain the time signs may be placed outdoors and by when they need to be remove; size and placement. Post Event Equipment (i.e. tents, large equipment/vehicles) removal needs to occur within 2-hours after the event concludes, specifically if it impacts parking areas or traffic flow. If an exception is needed, contact Parking and Transportation at 305.284.1641 for review. Survey parking area(s) and immediate roadway for any damages incurred during the event for example: curbside or landscaping damage caused by delivery vehicle or event-goers; outdoor tents used and secured to the ground by drilling holes (asphalt needs to be resurfaced) instead of utilizing weighted sandbags or water barrels. Contact Facilities Management and Parking and Transportation as required. Move-Out Information Students requiring a storage container to facilitate their Move-Out activity may schedule the storage container delivery to campus as early as May 7, 2021. The storage unit can only remain on campus for a maximum of 3-days. Keep the following information in mind when planning the delivery and pick-up of the storage unit. Once the student contracts a POD company, the company must contact Event Services at parking.events@miami.edu to secure a space to place the POD; otherwise, the POD delivery will be denied. For Move-out instructions click here University's Parking and Transportation Requirements: Permit application click here Permit payment click here For additional helpful information, visit Student Affairs Housing & Residential Life. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Parking and Transportation 5807 Ponce de Leon Boulevard Suite 100 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-3096 305-284-3096 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices