Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site Campus Transportation Metrorail Brightline Carpool Bike Safe Ride Walking Canes Hurry 'Canes Shuttles Zipcar Tri-Rail Metrobus Campus Parking Students Faculty and Staff Vendors and Contractors Visitors Event Venue Parking Lennar Foundation Medical Center People with Disabilities Campus Parking Map Bike Rack Map Citation Payment and Appeal Other Services News and Updates Event Coordinators Charter Bus Services Cane Card Taxi and Ride Share Safety Escort Motorist Assist Program Airport Transportation Employee Resources HR for Our Division SharePoint Access Box Access Workday Access Policies About Us Director's Message Our Team Contact Us Campus Transportation Campus Parking Other Services Employee Resources About Us Search News and Updates Event Coordinators Charter Bus Services Cane Card Safety Escort Motorist Assist Program Lyft and Taxi Airport Transportation Campus Transportation Metrorail Brightline Carpool Bike Safe Ride Walking Canes Hurry 'Canes Shuttles Zipcar Tri-Rail Metrobus Campus Parking Students Faculty and Staff Vendors and Contractors Visitors Event Venue Parking Lennar Foundation Medical Center People with Disabilities Campus Parking Map Bike Rack Map Citation Payment and Appeal Other Services News and Updates Event Coordinators Charter Bus Services Cane Card Taxi and Ride Share Safety Escort Motorist Assist Program Airport Transportation Employee Resources HR for Our Division SharePoint Access Box Access Workday Access Policies About Us Director's Message Our Team Contact Us News and Updates Event Coordinators Charter Bus Services Cane Card Safety Escort Motorist Assist Program Lyft and Taxi Airport Transportation Campus Transportation Campus Parking Other Services Employee Resources About Us Facilities Operations and Planning Home Other Services Airport Transportation AAA Transportation To Local Airports News and Updates Event Coordinators Charter Bus Services Cane Card Safety Escort Motorist Assist Program Lyft and Taxi Airport Transportation There are several stress-free and sustainable mobility alternatives to get to and from the University of Miami, Miami International Airport, and Fort Lauderdale Airport. Utilizing these alternatives are cost effective as well. The following options may be helpful in your travels to/from our regional airports. Miami International Airport (MIA) You can use Metrorail to travel to and from the Miami International Airport. Once at the University Metrorail Station take the Orange Line (northbound) to get to Miami International Airport. The estimated time to Miami International Airport from the Metrorail University Station is 45 minutes. Visit Miami-Dade Transit website for more information or call Metrorail Customer Service at 305-891-3131. The Metrobus can be used in conjunction with Metrorail to travel to MIA. To find bus routes suitable to your needs visit Miami-Dade MIA Transit Connections. Fort Lauderdale International Airport Combine the use of the Metrorail, Tri-Rail and Fort Lauderdale Shuttle Express to get to/from Fort Lauderdale Airport. To learn more about the connection visit the Tri-Rail Airport Connections click here. Brightline Train You can get to Fort Lauderdale International Airport and Palm Beach International Airport using a combination of the Brightline train and Lyft ride-hail services. Click here for a map and instructions from the Metrorail-University Station. Students are eligible for 25% off of the first year of travel. Click here to register. Other Options The following options may be of use going to either airport: Carpool, Car-share (Zipcar), and Taxi/Ride-hail. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Parking and Transportation 5807 Ponce de Leon Boulevard Suite 100 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-3096 305-284-3096 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices