Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site Campus Transportation Metrorail Brightline Carpool Bike Safe Ride Walking Canes Hurry 'Canes Shuttles Zipcar Tri-Rail Metrobus Campus Parking Students Faculty and Staff Vendors and Contractors Visitors Event Venue Parking Lennar Foundation Medical Center People with Disabilities Campus Parking Map Bike Rack Map Citation Payment and Appeal Other Services News and Updates Event Coordinators Charter Bus Services Cane Card Taxi and Ride Share Safety Escort Motorist Assist Program Airport Transportation Employee Resources HR for Our Division SharePoint Access Box Access Workday Access Policies About Us Director's Message Our Team Contact Us Campus Transportation Campus Parking Other Services Employee Resources About Us Search Students Faculty and Staff Vendors and Contractors Visitors Event Venue Parking Lennar Foundation Medical Center People with Disabilities Campus Parking Map Bike Rack Map Citation Payment and Appeal Campus Transportation Metrorail Brightline Carpool Bike Safe Ride Walking Canes Hurry 'Canes Shuttles Zipcar Tri-Rail Metrobus Campus Parking Students Faculty and Staff Vendors and Contractors Visitors Event Venue Parking Lennar Foundation Medical Center People with Disabilities Campus Parking Map Bike Rack Map Citation Payment and Appeal Other Services News and Updates Event Coordinators Charter Bus Services Cane Card Taxi and Ride Share Safety Escort Motorist Assist Program Airport Transportation Employee Resources HR for Our Division SharePoint Access Box Access Workday Access Policies About Us Director's Message Our Team Contact Us Students Faculty and Staff Vendors and Contractors Visitors Event Venue Parking Lennar Foundation Medical Center People with Disabilities Campus Parking Map Bike Rack Map Citation Payment and Appeal Campus Transportation Campus Parking Other Services Employee Resources About Us Facilities Operations and Planning Home Campus Parking Vendors and Contractors AAA Vendors and Contractors Students Faculty and Staff Vendors and Contractors Visitors Event Venue Parking Lennar Foundation Medical Center People with Disabilities Campus Parking Map Bike Rack Map Citation Payment and Appeal The University is pleased to have you as a partner. Your cooperation and compliance with our guidelines is an important element in maintaining the vendor relationship. Click on Parking Policies and Procedures (rev. June 2021) to view all the rules for parking on campus. Service and Delivery Supplier - Guidelines All suppliers must follow the established responsible practices that comply with the University’s guidelines and the ordinances of the City of Coral Gables. Follow this link to familiarize yourself with the governing policies, including the approved ingress and egress campus access roads. All vehicles parked on campus are required to have a valid UM parking permit and must park head-in only. Campus parking is strictly enforced Monday through Sunday 8a.m. - 11p.m. Long-Term Parking Annual vendor, contractor, and visitor permits are available. Contact Parking and Transportation at 305-284-3096, option 2 or visit us at McKnight Building, 5807 Suite 100, Ponce de Leon Boulevard, Coral Gables, Florida. Long-term parking is not intended for storage. Short-Term Parking Visitor metered spaces are located at the Pavia and Merrick Garages, Memorial Drive (by Richter Library), the Daytime (M-F 8a.m. - 4p.m.): Park at designated metered spaces using PayByPhone or a Pay Station. Using these options automatically registers the vehicle's license plate with the university's parking system. Metered spaces are located at the Pavia and Merrick Garages, Memorial Drive (by Richter Library), the Yellow, Gray, and Burgundy color zones found at parking map. If the vehicle is moved between the Pavia and Merrick Garage, the Yellow, Gray, or Burgundy color zones, a new parking session must be initiated. Nights and Weekends (M-F 4p.m. - 11p.m. and Weekends 8a.m. - 11p.m.): Park using PayByPhone or a Pay Station. Using these options automatically registers the vehicle's license plate with the university's parking system. All parking lots and garages (except service and restricted spaces) are available for parking. See the parking map. A parking session is valid in any color zone and the vehicle can be moved between parking lots and garages without having to initiate a new parking session. Payment Options: PayByPhone Hourly - $1.50 plus 27 cents transaction fee. Credit card only (cash not accepted). A parking session of 5-hours or more converts to all day parking - $8.00 plus 27 cents transaction fee. PayByPhone frequently asked question found here. Download PayByPhone app and create account - Click icon Pay Station Hourly - $1.50; no transaction fee. Credit card only (cash not accepted). Pay station frequently asked questions found here. Daily Permit - Online Purchase Purchase a daily parking permit in advance at $8. Parking session is valid all day from 8a.m. to 11p.m. For instructions on purchasing a permit online and creating an account click here. Other Transportation Options If you chose not to drive, you can take advantage of the discount fares and programs offered by Miami Dade Transit. Some discount categories include Golden Passport, Patriot Passport (Military Veterans), Commuter Reduced Fares, and People with Disabilities. To learn more visit Miami-Dade Transit. In addition to public transit, you can also get to campus by carpooling with a co-worker, friend, or family member using the RideFlag mobile application. To learn more click here or download RideFlag at Google Play or Apple Store. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Parking and Transportation 5807 Ponce de Leon Boulevard Suite 100 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-3096 305-284-3096 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices