Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site Campus Transportation Metrorail Brightline Carpool Bike Safe Ride Walking Canes Hurry 'Canes Shuttles Zipcar Tri-Rail Metrobus Campus Parking Students Faculty and Staff Vendors and Contractors Visitors Event Venue Parking Lennar Foundation Medical Center People with Disabilities Campus Parking Map Bike Rack Map Citation Payment and Appeal Other Services News and Updates Event Coordinators Charter Bus Services Cane Card Taxi and Ride Share Safety Escort Motorist Assist Program Airport Transportation Employee Resources HR for Our Division SharePoint Access Box Access Workday Access Policies About Us Director's Message Our Team Contact Us Campus Transportation Campus Parking Other Services Employee Resources About Us Search Students Faculty and Staff Vendors and Contractors Visitors Event Venue Parking Lennar Foundation Medical Center People with Disabilities Campus Parking Map Bike Rack Map Citation Payment and Appeal Campus Transportation Metrorail Brightline Carpool Bike Safe Ride Walking Canes Hurry 'Canes Shuttles Zipcar Tri-Rail Metrobus Campus Parking Students Faculty and Staff Vendors and Contractors Visitors Event Venue Parking Lennar Foundation Medical Center People with Disabilities Campus Parking Map Bike Rack Map Citation Payment and Appeal Other Services News and Updates Event Coordinators Charter Bus Services Cane Card Taxi and Ride Share Safety Escort Motorist Assist Program Airport Transportation Employee Resources HR for Our Division SharePoint Access Box Access Workday Access Policies About Us Director's Message Our Team Contact Us Students Faculty and Staff Vendors and Contractors Visitors Event Venue Parking Lennar Foundation Medical Center People with Disabilities Campus Parking Map Bike Rack Map Citation Payment and Appeal Campus Transportation Campus Parking Other Services Employee Resources About Us Facilities Operations and Planning Home Campus Parking Visitors AAA Visitors Students Faculty and Staff Vendors and Contractors Visitors Event Venue Parking Lennar Foundation Medical Center People with Disabilities Campus Parking Map Bike Rack Map Citation Payment and Appeal As a guest, we would like to facilitate your visit to our beautiful campus. Familiarize yourself with our parking options and guidelines. Click on Parking Policies and Procedures (rev. May 2019) to view all the rules for parking on campus. Metrorail Option Our campus has a Metrorail stop which makes for a convenient visit. From the University Metrorail stop, you can walk to the Watsco Center, Alex Rodriguez Park, and Cobb Stadium. Or, take advantage of the Hurry 'Cane Stanford Shuttle to reach our other campus venues. Please access the shuttle map here. Campus Parking Campus parking is strictly enforced Monday through Sunday 8:00 a.m. - 11:00 p.m. and vehicles must park head-in only. Visitors should follow the instructions provided by the school, department, venue, or event organizer. Alternatively, the following options are available. Daytime Visitors (M-F 8a.m. - 4p.m.): Visitors may park at designated metered spaces using PayByPhone or a Pay Station. Using these options automatically registers the vehicle's license plate with the university's parking system. Metered spaces are located at the Pavia and Merrick Garage "visitors" section only, Memorial Drive (by Richter Library), the Yellow, Gray, and Burgundy color zones found at visitor’s parking map. If the vehicle is moved between the Pavia and Merrick Garage, the Yellow, Gray, or Burgundy color zones, a new parking session must be initiated. Nights and Weekends Visitors (M-F 4p.m. - 11p.m. and Weekends 8a.m. - 11p.m.): Visitors may pay to park using PayByPhone or a Pay Station. Using these options automatically registers the vehicle's license plate with the university's parking system. All parking lots and garages (except service and restricted spaces) are available for parking. See the visitor’s parking map. A parking session is valid in any color zone and the vehicle can be moved between parking lots and garages without having to initiate a new parking session. Payment Options: PayByPhone Hourly - $1.50 plus 27 cents transaction fee. Credit card only (cash not accepted). A parking session of 5-hours or more converts to all day parking - $8.00 plus 27 cents transaction fee. PayByPhone frequently asked question found here. Download PayByPhone app and create account - Click icon Pay Station Hourly - $1.50; no transaction fee. Credit card only (cash not accepted). Pay station frequently asked questions found here. Daily Permit - Online Purchase Purchase a daily parking permit in advance at $8. Parking session is valid all day from 8a.m. to 11p.m. For instructions on purchasing a permit online and creating an account click here. Long-Term Parking Annual vendor, contractor, and visitor permits are available. Contact Parking and Transportation at 305-284-3096, option 2 or visit us at McKnight Building, 5807 Suite 100, Ponce de Leon Boulevard, Coral Gables, Florida. Long-term parking is not intended for storage. Directions to Athletic Games, Popular Venues, and Garages click here University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Parking and Transportation 5807 Ponce de Leon Boulevard Suite 100 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-3096 305-284-3096 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices