Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site Campus Transportation Metrorail Brightline Carpool Bike Safe Ride Walking Canes Hurry 'Canes Shuttles Zipcar Tri-Rail Metrobus Campus Parking Students Faculty and Staff Vendors and Contractors Visitors Event Venue Parking Lennar Foundation Medical Center People with Disabilities Campus Parking Map Bike Rack Map Citation Payment and Appeal Other Services News and Updates Event Coordinators Charter Bus Services Cane Card Taxi and Ride Share Safety Escort Motorist Assist Program Airport Transportation Employee Resources HR for Our Division SharePoint Access Box Access Workday Access Policies About Us Director's Message Our Team Contact Us Campus Transportation Campus Parking Other Services Employee Resources About Us Search Students Faculty and Staff Vendors and Contractors Visitors Event Venue Parking Lennar Foundation Medical Center People with Disabilities Campus Parking Map Bike Rack Map Citation Payment and Appeal Campus Transportation Metrorail Brightline Carpool Bike Safe Ride Walking Canes Hurry 'Canes Shuttles Zipcar Tri-Rail Metrobus Campus Parking Students Faculty and Staff Vendors and Contractors Visitors Event Venue Parking Lennar Foundation Medical Center People with Disabilities Campus Parking Map Bike Rack Map Citation Payment and Appeal Other Services News and Updates Event Coordinators Charter Bus Services Cane Card Taxi and Ride Share Safety Escort Motorist Assist Program Airport Transportation Employee Resources HR for Our Division SharePoint Access Box Access Workday Access Policies About Us Director's Message Our Team Contact Us Students Faculty and Staff Vendors and Contractors Visitors Event Venue Parking Lennar Foundation Medical Center People with Disabilities Campus Parking Map Bike Rack Map Citation Payment and Appeal Campus Transportation Campus Parking Other Services Employee Resources About Us Facilities Operations and Planning Home Campus Parking Students AAA Students Students Faculty and Staff Vendors and Contractors Visitors Event Venue Parking Lennar Foundation Medical Center People with Disabilities Campus Parking Map Bike Rack Map Citation Payment and Appeal Spring permits are now available. Apply for your UM parking permit and CLICK HERE to learn about the importance of parking in your assigned color zone. All vehicles parked on campus are required to have a valid UM parking permit and must park head-in only. Parking permits are issued with an assignment to a specific color zone. Park in your assigned color zone where the lots and/or garage entrance sign includes the color matching your parking permit. In order to avoid fines, towing, and possible disciplinary action, all vehicles parked on the Coral Gables campus should adhere to these policies. Familiarity with, and attention to, the University of Miami's Parking Policies and Procedures is the most effective way of avoiding parking citations. Campus parking is strictly enforced Monday through Sunday 8a.m. - 11p.m. EV Charging Stations are available throughout campus. Be sure to familiarize yourself with the EV Charging Station parking policy. For detailed information on the rules and regulations pertaining to parking on campus, refer to our Parking Policies and Procedures (rev. June 2021). The cost of the 2021-22 permits is listed below: Regular Color Zone (Red, Brown, White, Yellow, Gray, Burgundy, & Pink) $553 Discount Permit (Mahoney Pearson Garage - Upper two floors) $276 Fall Only Commuter Permit $276 Resident Student (1st Year freshmen are ineligible for a permit) $596 Fall Only Resident Permit $301 University Village Resident $276 Nights and Weekend Permit (Valid after 4pm weekdays and any time at the weekend) $270 All Students may apply for a parking permit via the following link Apply for UM Parking Permit during our annual sign-up process. An e-mail will be sent to all with this link and the dates on which each group will be eligible to apply. Once in the university's parking system, we will advise you which color zones are available for purchase. IMPORTANT: Students with an unpaid parking citation balance may not purchase a parking permit until such balance is paid. MasterCard and/or Visa payments are accepted at the Parking & Transportation office by calling 305-284-3096, option 2. Cash or check payment for fine(s) are accepted at the University Cashiers in the Ashe Building. Parking During Winter and Summer Breaks (Resident Students Only) at Mahoney-Pearson Garage Vehicles may be stored during these breaks with no in/out access. Winter break storage is available the week of Fall Commencement through the opening day of student housing in January. Summer break storage is available the week of Spring commencement through the opening day of student housing in August. Commuter students are not permitted to store their vehicles on campus. For further information, please contact Parking & Transportation at 305-284-3096, option 2, or e-mail. Motorist Assist Program Our Motorist Assistance Program is designed to assist those who experience minor vehicle problems while on the Coral Gables campus. During fall and spring semesters, UM’s Motorist Assistance can provide jump-starts for dead batteries, access to your locked vehicle, and temporary fixes for flat tires. For assistance, contact UM Police by calling 305-284-6666. We are committed to serving you. If you have any questions, problems, or suggestions, please contact us. Fall Move-In and Move-Out May (move-out) and August (move-in): Students who reserve a container storage unit (i.e. POD) will be able to schedule the delivery to campus as early as August 2. The storage unit can only remain on campus for a maximum of 3-days. Please keep the following important information in mind when planning the delivery and pick-up of the storage unit. Dates are to be detrmined. Approved storage unit placement on campus City of Coral Gables Permit: Please ensure the company you are using secures the required Storage Unit Permit. Should you have any questions, please contact Parking and transportation at 305-284-3096, option 2. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Parking and Transportation 5807 Ponce de Leon Boulevard Suite 100 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-3096 305-284-3096 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices