Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site Campus Transportation Metrorail Brightline Carpool Bike Safe Ride Walking Canes Hurry 'Canes Shuttles Zipcar Tri-Rail Metrobus Campus Parking Students Faculty and Staff Vendors and Contractors Visitors Event Venue Parking Lennar Foundation Medical Center People with Disabilities Campus Parking Map Bike Rack Map Citation Payment and Appeal Other Services News and Updates Event Coordinators Charter Bus Services Cane Card Taxi and Ride Share Safety Escort Motorist Assist Program Airport Transportation Employee Resources HR for Our Division SharePoint Access Box Access Workday Access Policies About Us Director's Message Our Team Contact Us Campus Transportation Campus Parking Other Services Employee Resources About Us Search Metrorail Carpool Bike Safe Ride Walking Canes Hurry 'Cane Shuttle Zipcar Tri-Rail Metrobus Campus Transportation Metrorail Brightline Carpool Bike Safe Ride Walking Canes Hurry 'Canes Shuttles Zipcar Tri-Rail Metrobus Campus Parking Students Faculty and Staff Vendors and Contractors Visitors Event Venue Parking Lennar Foundation Medical Center People with Disabilities Campus Parking Map Bike Rack Map Citation Payment and Appeal Other Services News and Updates Event Coordinators Charter Bus Services Cane Card Taxi and Ride Share Safety Escort Motorist Assist Program Airport Transportation Employee Resources HR for Our Division SharePoint Access Box Access Workday Access Policies About Us Director's Message Our Team Contact Us Metrorail Carpool Bike Safe Ride Walking Canes Hurry 'Cane Shuttle Zipcar Tri-Rail Metrobus Campus Transportation Campus Parking Other Services Employee Resources About Us Facilities Operations and Planning Home Campus Transportation Carpool AAA Carpool Metrorail Carpool Bike Safe Ride Walking Canes Hurry 'Cane Shuttle Zipcar Tri-Rail Metrobus Upgrade Your Color Zone EXPLORE NEW WAYS TO IMPROVE YOUR COMMUTE! RideFlag, the University's official carpool mobile app, provides carpool matches in real time and allows you to schedule future carpool rides or ride with a fellow 'Cane. Carpool Mobile Application Upgrade your parking permit color zone (subject to availability) when using the RideFlag mobile App. Upgrades are NOT available in Reserved, Restricted, Service, and Visitor parking spaces. Receive 6 emergency ride home vouchers. Save money by sharing your commute cost. Eligibility The RideFlag program is available to full-time and part-time students, faculty, and staff. One vehicle MUST have a valid UM parking permit. If the rider does not own a UM parking permit, you MUST complete this form and submit to the Parking Office in order to be eligible for the color zone upgrade. Signing up is quick! Download RideFlag at Google Play or Apple Store. You will be prompted to complete your personal profile using your UM email credentials. Once registered, you may review the list of carpool matches and you can call, text, or email for carpool confirmation. You and other carpooler(s) set up your meeting time and location. All information is kept confidential. How to schedule a ride With RideFlag you can schedule your next ride within the UM community "circle." RideFlag also provides the flexibility to schedule your next ride as a Driver or a Rider. Scheduling a ride is quick and easy: Enter your destination and get instant carpool matches or schedule future rides. Decide whom you ride or drive with. A valid UM parking permit is required. In the event of Emergency? Make sure you enroll in the Emergency Ride Home (ERH) program through this link and receive 6 ERH vouchers when you register your carpool. Carpools must be renewed each year. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Parking and Transportation 5807 Ponce de Leon Boulevard Suite 100 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-3096 305-284-3096 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices