Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site Campus Transportation Metrorail Brightline Carpool Bike Safe Ride Walking Canes Hurry 'Canes Shuttles Zipcar Tri-Rail Metrobus Campus Parking Students Faculty and Staff Vendors and Contractors Visitors Event Venue Parking Lennar Foundation Medical Center People with Disabilities Campus Parking Map Bike Rack Map Citation Payment and Appeal Other Services News and Updates Event Coordinators Charter Bus Services Cane Card Taxi and Ride Share Safety Escort Motorist Assist Program Airport Transportation Employee Resources HR for Our Division SharePoint Access Box Access Workday Access Policies About Us Director's Message Our Team Contact Us Campus Transportation Campus Parking Other Services Employee Resources About Us Search Students Faculty and Staff Vendors and Contractors Visitors Event Venue Parking Lennar Foundation Medical Center People with Disabilities Campus Parking Map Bike Rack Map Citation Payment and Appeal Campus Transportation Metrorail Brightline Carpool Bike Safe Ride Walking Canes Hurry 'Canes Shuttles Zipcar Tri-Rail Metrobus Campus Parking Students Faculty and Staff Vendors and Contractors Visitors Event Venue Parking Lennar Foundation Medical Center People with Disabilities Campus Parking Map Bike Rack Map Citation Payment and Appeal Other Services News and Updates Event Coordinators Charter Bus Services Cane Card Taxi and Ride Share Safety Escort Motorist Assist Program Airport Transportation Employee Resources HR for Our Division SharePoint Access Box Access Workday Access Policies About Us Director's Message Our Team Contact Us Students Faculty and Staff Vendors and Contractors Visitors Event Venue Parking Lennar Foundation Medical Center People with Disabilities Campus Parking Map Bike Rack Map Citation Payment and Appeal Campus Transportation Campus Parking Other Services Employee Resources About Us Facilities Operations and Planning Home Campus Parking Citation Payment and Appeal AAA Citation Payment and Appeal Students Faculty and Staff Vendors and Contractors Visitors Event Venue Parking Lennar Foundation Medical Center People with Disabilities Campus Parking Map Bike Rack Map Citation Payment and Appeal In an attempt to discourage illegal parkers from utilizing parking spaces otherwise available to permit holders, all parking zones are strictly enforced Monday through Sunday 8a.m. - 11p.m. Enforcement increases the chances of finding a parking space for those that pay for and properly link a valid UM parking permit to their vehicle. Violators of the University of Miami's Moving Parking Policies and Procedures (Revised June 2020) will receive a parking citation. Parking citations must be appealed within 15 calendar days of citation issuance. Once the appeal is submitted and processed, the appellant is not required to take any further action until the appeal is judged and a decision issued. The appellant will be notified of the decision via e-mail within 6-8 weeks from receipt of the appeal. Following the initial appeal decision, a second level appeal may be requested. The citation must be paid in full prior to initiating the second level appeal. Submit the second level appeal to parking.gables@miami.edu within 15 calendar days from the issuance of the initial appeal decision. If the appeal is successful, the citation payment will be refunded. Click here for citation payment and appeal. Citation payments can be made in three different ways using credit card Visa, Master Card, American Express, and Discover, money order, and checks (Cash is NOT accepted): Citation Payment Options: Online: Login into your parking account By mail: Check Only University of Miami Parking P.O. Box 025405 - Location # 5 Miami, Florida 33102-5405 In Person: Credit card or check - 8:00 AM to 5:00 PM (Monday - Friday) Parking and Transportation Office 5807 Ponce Boulevard, Suite 100 Coral Gables, Florida 33146 Examples generally unsuccessful in the appeals process: I was late for business or a personal appointment. Being late does not allow the driver the privilege of parking illegally. There was no place to park or the lot was full. It is the driver’s responsibility to locate legal parking. I was only parked for a few minutes. A short stay does not mitigate the violation, and it does not allow the driver the privilege of parking illegally. Nobody else around me got a ticket. Vehicles that are seen in violation of parking rules are cited. The fact that a given vehicle may not be cited is not permission for another to violate policy. This violation has not been enforced in the past. Prior lack of enforcement in no way constitutes a valid excuse for illegal parking. I have done it for years. Everybody does it. This is not an acceptable excuse for illegal parking. I did not see the citation on my vehicle. Citations are considered legally delivered when placed on the vehicle windshield or receipt by mail. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Parking and Transportation 5807 Ponce de Leon Boulevard Suite 100 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-3096 305-284-3096 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices