Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site Campus Transportation Metrorail Brightline Carpool Bike Safe Ride Walking Canes Hurry 'Canes Shuttles Zipcar Tri-Rail Metrobus Campus Parking Students Faculty and Staff Vendors and Contractors Visitors Event Venue Parking Lennar Foundation Medical Center People with Disabilities Campus Parking Map Bike Rack Map Citation Payment and Appeal Other Services News and Updates Event Coordinators Charter Bus Services Cane Card Taxi and Ride Share Safety Escort Motorist Assist Program Airport Transportation Employee Resources HR for Our Division SharePoint Access Box Access Workday Access Policies About Us Director's Message Our Team Contact Us Campus Transportation Campus Parking Other Services Employee Resources About Us Search Students Faculty and Staff Vendors and Contractors Visitors Event Venue Parking Lennar Foundation Medical Center People with Disabilities Campus Parking Map Bike Rack Map Citation Payment and Appeal Campus Transportation Metrorail Brightline Carpool Bike Safe Ride Walking Canes Hurry 'Canes Shuttles Zipcar Tri-Rail Metrobus Campus Parking Students Faculty and Staff Vendors and Contractors Visitors Event Venue Parking Lennar Foundation Medical Center People with Disabilities Campus Parking Map Bike Rack Map Citation Payment and Appeal Other Services News and Updates Event Coordinators Charter Bus Services Cane Card Taxi and Ride Share Safety Escort Motorist Assist Program Airport Transportation Employee Resources HR for Our Division SharePoint Access Box Access Workday Access Policies About Us Director's Message Our Team Contact Us Students Faculty and Staff Vendors and Contractors Visitors Event Venue Parking Lennar Foundation Medical Center People with Disabilities Campus Parking Map Bike Rack Map Citation Payment and Appeal Campus Transportation Campus Parking Other Services Employee Resources About Us Facilities Operations and Planning Home Campus Parking Faculty and Staff AAA Faculty and Staff Students Faculty and Staff Vendors and Contractors Visitors Event Venue Parking Lennar Foundation Medical Center People with Disabilities Campus Parking Map Bike Rack Map Citation Payment and Appeal Apply for UM Parking Permit All vehicles parked on campus are required to have a valid UM parking permit and must park head-in only. Parking permits are issued with an assignment to a specific color zone. Park in your assigned color zone where the lots and/or garage entrance sign includes the color matching your parking permit. Employees located in Gables One Tower can click here for additional information with regards to parking at that location. For detailed information on the rules and regulations pertaining to parking on campus, refer to the Parking Policies & Procedures. (rev. June 2021). In order to avoid fines, towing, and possible disciplinary action, all vehicles parked on the Coral Gables campus should adhere to the policies. Familiarity with, and attention to, University of Miami’s Moving Parking Policies and Procedures is the most effective way of avoiding a parking citation. Campus parking is strictly enforced 7 days a week, 8 a.m. - 11 p.m. For Faculty and Staff of the Coral Gables campus, permits are continuous and so if you have a current permit, no further action is required (Employees based at Gables One Tower still need to apply for a parking permit each year and will be sent details of when to do this). You will receive an email that will confirm your color zone assignment and the cost for the upcoming year. For any faculty or staff member without a current permit and wanting to apply for one should use the link at the top of this page to access their parking account. It is recommended that a permit be purchased before July 12th, 2021 when permits go on sale to students. At this time, many of the color zones will sell out. Once in the system, we will advise you which zones are available for purchase. UM currently provides Level 2 EV Charging Stations throughout campus. Be sure to familiarize yourself with the EV Charging Station parking policy. Participants in the University of Miami’s Public Transportation Benefit Program may not purchase a University of Miami parking permit. The cost of the 2021-22 permits is listed below: Regular Color Zone (Red, Purple, Brown, White, Yellow, Gray, Burgundy, & Pink) $553 Discount Permit (Regular color zone as above, but earning $35,000 or less per year) $276 Nights & Weekend Permit (valid after 4 p.m. M-F and at any time on the weekend) $270 Preferred Permit $1,011 Reserved Permit $1,336 Gables One Tower Lower Deck $700 Gables One Tower Upper Deck $553 Gables One Tower Discount Lot $276 Faculty and Staff with a UM parking citation balance may not purchase a parking permit until balance is paid. MasterCard and/or Visa credit card payment for fine(s) are accepted at the Parking and Transportation Services offices, telephone 305.284.3096, option 2. Cash or check payment for fine(s) are acceptable at the University Cashiers in the Ashe Building. We are committed to serving you. If you have any questions, problems, or suggestions, please contact us , Monday - Friday from 8:30a.m. - 5:00p.m. and we will do our best to accommodate your needs. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Parking and Transportation 5807 Ponce de Leon Boulevard Suite 100 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-3096 305-284-3096 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices