Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site Campus Transportation Metrorail Brightline Carpool Bike Safe Ride Walking Canes Hurry 'Canes Shuttles Zipcar Tri-Rail Metrobus Campus Parking Students Faculty and Staff Vendors and Contractors Visitors Event Venue Parking Lennar Foundation Medical Center People with Disabilities Campus Parking Map Bike Rack Map Citation Payment and Appeal Other Services News and Updates Event Coordinators Charter Bus Services Cane Card Taxi and Ride Share Safety Escort Motorist Assist Program Airport Transportation Employee Resources HR for Our Division SharePoint Access Box Access Workday Access Policies About Us Director's Message Our Team Contact Us Campus Transportation Campus Parking Other Services Employee Resources About Us Search Campus Transportation Metrorail Brightline Carpool Bike Safe Ride Walking Canes Hurry 'Canes Shuttles Zipcar Tri-Rail Metrobus Campus Parking Students Faculty and Staff Vendors and Contractors Visitors Event Venue Parking Lennar Foundation Medical Center People with Disabilities Campus Parking Map Bike Rack Map Citation Payment and Appeal Other Services News and Updates Event Coordinators Charter Bus Services Cane Card Taxi and Ride Share Safety Escort Motorist Assist Program Airport Transportation Employee Resources HR for Our Division SharePoint Access Box Access Workday Access Policies About Us Director's Message Our Team Contact Us About Us Our Team Contact Us Director's Message Campus Transportation Campus Parking Other Services Employee Resources About Us Facilities Operations and Planning Home About Us AAA About Us Our Parking and Transportation staff strives to provide parking services to our customers in a safe and effective manner. Our basic services include parking and transportation operations, customer service, mobility strategies, and special events. Operations Our Operations Team strives to serve the University's mission in a manner which on balance meets all stakeholder's needs. Our team is also responsible for enforcing Parking and Transportation policies and procedures in a professional manner. Contact our Operations Team at 305-284-9262. Customer Service Service excellence is a daily goal for our Customer Service Team. Our team interacts with students, faculty, staff, contract service partners, and visitors. As such, the team handles Cane Cards, the issuance of all parking permits, and citations. Furthermore, the team handles all customer service inquires. Contact our Customer Service Team at 305-284-3096 or email us at parking.gables@miami.edu. Special Events The University hosts events ranging from athletics, concerts, guest speakers and conferences. Our Special Events Team coordinates these events with the appropriate departmental host liaisons ensure appropriate parking resources and traffic management compliance. Contact our Special Events Team at 305-284-1352. Mobility Management We offer integrated mobility strategies that include public transit, bicycling, walking, Zipcar, Carpool, on-campus shuttles, and recreational shuttles. To learn more about the options available to you, contact 305-284-1547 Our Team is committed to serving your needs. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Parking and Transportation 5807 Ponce de Leon Boulevard Suite 100 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-3096 305-284-3096 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices