Skip to Main Content Brown University Political Theory Project Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Origin & Milestones People Support the PTP Seminars & Lectures Janus Forum Lecture Series Odyssey Lecture Series Philosophy, Politics and Economics Research Seminar Student Programs Brown Political Review (BPR) Philosophy, Politics & Economics Society (PPE Society) Brown University Journal of Philosophy, Politics & Economics (JPPE) PTP Grants for Student Programs Postdoctoral Fellowships Past Postdoctoral Research Associates Postdoctoral Fellowship Application Information Courses Events Video Archive Search Political Theory Project Political Theory Project Political Theory Project An interdisciplinary research center at Brown University Mission The mission of the Political Theory Project (PTP) is to investigate the ideas and institutions that make societies free, prosperous, and fair. We approach these big questions by combining insights from history, philosophy, politics, and economics. Central to our approach is a commitment to methodological and viewpoint diversity. We believe that quality research in political economy is best conducted by a community of scholars who see the world in diverse ways and whose work spans disciplinary boundaries. Bedrock Principles The PTP is committed to encouraging, and providing venues for, free thinking at Brown. Specifically, the PTP affirms freedom of speech and expression as first principles of education in a free society. We affirm that principle even when (indeed, especially when) the topics or speakers are challenging, controversial, or politically heterodox. The PTP believes that substantive policy disagreements are best conducted with reference to evidence--for example, findings of mainstream social science. If sides in a discussion deny social facts, or claim that opponents who assert facts are ipso facto committing errors, political discussions threaten to slip into virtue signaling, or mere assertions of power. By contrast, conscientious reference to social scientific facts improves political discourse. Free thinking takes bravery, especially when one questions widely held beliefs. But a culture of civility can make departures from orthodoxy less costly. We encourage Brown students to respect one another’s opinions, especially when those opinions diverge from campus orthodoxies. The PTP creates spaces for civil discourse through explicit presumptions of good faith and charitable interpretation. Civic education, especially at an elite university such as Brown, requires that students have regular opportunities to consider the ideas of leading scholars and public figures holding divergent ideological viewpoints. Public lectures and events sponsored by the PTP are crafted so as to showcase political differences (at a minimum, PTP events showcase central ideas from the major political parties in America). PTP Highlighted in Brown's Annual Financial Report FY20 The Political Theory Project is transforming political discourse by diving beneath easy ideological labels and encouraging debate between brilliant minds from across the political spectrum. Read about the PTP's impact Recent News December 27, 2021 Law and History Review PTP Postdoctoral Fellow Anthony Gregory "Policing Jim Crow America: Enforcers’ Agency and Structural Transformations" in Law and History Review This critical historiographical essay explores how the decisions of police and sheriffs illuminated and drove developments in white supremacist power from Reconstruction through the era of Jim Crow segregation. The article considers the importance of law enforcement in light of demographic personnel changes after the Civil War, the role of lynching in constructing law, the interlocking legal and extralegal methods of control in the Jim Crow South, and the displacement of informal mob law and formal racial caste by a national regime of extralegal police violence, unequal patterns of incarceration and execution, and federal protections of civil liberties and civil rights. November 19, 2021 American Society of Criminology (ASC) Winner, 2021 Outstanding Book Award, American Society of Criminology Congratulations to Professor David Skarbek whose book The Puzzle of Prison Order won the 2021 "Outstanding Book Award" from the American Society of Criminology's Division of International Criminology. In his book Professor Skarbek draws on economics and a vast empirical literature on legal systems, and offers a framework to understand why life on the inside varies in such fascinating and novel ways, and also how social order evolves and takes root behind bars. September 22, 2021 Political Science Now PTP Postdoc Lowry Pressly Receives the Prestigious 2021 Leo Strauss Award Lowry Pressly is a postdoctoral fellow at Brown University’s Political Theory Project. His philosophical work currently focuses on questions of privacy, oblivion, and the value of being obscure to others and to oneself. His book on privacy (forthcoming from Harvard University Press) argues against the cultural and economic forces of transparency and datafication for the vital role of ambiguity, inarticulacy, and obscurity in human life. A second book on the stranger is underway. In addition to his academic work, his essays, fiction, and criticism appear widely and have received several awards. He received his Ph.D. from Harvard University. Lowry is the second PTP Postdoc to win this prestigious award. May 31, 2021 News from PTP Daniel Newman Awarded Outstanding Student Contribution Award for the PTP Daniel Newman is the 2020 recipient of the Outstanding Student Contribution Award for his participation in the Political Theory Project and his commitment to viewpoint diversity and robust debate. May 13, 2021 Brown University Politically polarized brains share an intolerance of uncertainty A new study on political polarization led by a Brown University team showed how an aversion to uncertainty is often associated with black-and-white political views. February 16, 2021 News from PTP Professor David Skarbek's book wins "Outstanding Book Award" from ACJS The Puzzle of Prison Order: Why Life Behind Bars Differs Around the World receives the "Outstanding Book Award" from the International Section of the Academy of Criminal Justice Sciences. We've moved and we're growing We've come a long way since our humble beginnings in 2003 when we occupied the attic space of Blistein House. This summer the PTP moved our office from its longtime home in the carriage house at 8 Fones Alley to a beautiful historic building, 25 George Street, on the corner of Brown's main green. The move was necessitated by the project's continued organic growth and is a sign of good things to come in the years ahead. 1 of 2 The plaque on the PTP's former home in the carriage house at 8 Fones Alley 2 of 2 The PTP's new home in the historic building at 25 George Street on the corner of Brown's main green Upcoming Events Event Calendar See all of our upcoming lectures, seminars and workshops. Upcoming Events Video Archive Videos from past lectures are available on our Youtube playlist. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Origin & Milestones People Support the PTP Seminars & Lectures Janus Forum Lecture Series Odyssey Lecture Series Philosophy, Politics and Economics Research Seminar Student Programs Brown Political Review (BPR) Philosophy, Politics & Economics Society (PPE Society) Brown University Journal of Philosophy, Politics & Economics (JPPE) PTP Grants for Student Programs Postdoctoral Fellowships Past Postdoctoral Research Associates Postdoctoral Fellowship Application Information Courses Events Video Archive Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Political Theory Project Open details for Political Theory Project Bookmark this Page