Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Parking and Transportation Getting to GT Commute Concierge Driving Regional Transit Carpool and Rideshare Bicycling Dockless Mobility Devices Alternative Transportation Resources Getting Around Campus Campus Bus Routes Stingerette & Paratransit Bicycling Dockless Mobility Devices Parking Permits & Payments Visitors Maps & Zones Electric Vehicle Charging Enforcement & Citations Rules and Regulations Event Parking & Transit Gameday Parking Event Parking & Rental Services ParkMobile Bus Charters Transit Advertising Sustainability Contact Us Forms Driver's Seat Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Getting to GT Bicycling at Georgia Tech Georgia Tech encourages bicycling to and throughout campus as a healthy, convenient, and low-cost form of transportation. Students, faculty and staff can bike each semester to traverse the campus and surrounding areas while reducing traffic congestion on area streets. See below for bicycling options: Bike & Scooter Safety Classes E-Bike Rental Bike Rooms in Dalney and Tech Square Parking Decks How to Lock Your Bike Tips for Riding Safely Starter Bikes Bike Shop Relay - Atlanta Bikeshare Fix-It Stations and Air Pumps Bike Registration Abandoned Bikes Bike Resources Need Help? Phone: (404) 894-0061 Email: support@pts.gatech.edu Online support form Gold Level Bicycle Friendly University Bike & Scooter Safety Classes Georgia Tech offers online Ride Smart bicycle and scooter, safety classes as a collaboration of GTPD, PTS, and the Campus Recreation Center. In this 12 minute class, you can learn how to share the road safely, laws regarding riding on and around campus, general equipment set up, and maintenance. Classes are open to all Georgia Tech students, faculty, and staff. No pre-registration is required to participate, and persons that complete the class can receive a free helmet after taking a short quiz. Ride Smart Online Bike/Scooter Safety Classes E-Bike Rental Spin e-bikes are offered as a resource to the Tech community for traveling on campus and beyond. Fully charged bikes are staged daily at five designated locations and may be parked throughout campus if they're not blocking access or creating a hazard. We request they be parked, as with scooters, near but not at bike racks. Sign up with your GT email for community incentives. Spin will be allowed to distribute the e-bikes at five designated locations on campus: Near the entrance to the Curran parking deck on Turner Place Techwood Drive near Ferst Drive Techwood Drive across from Bobby Dodd Stadium Ferst Drive in front of the CRC Near the entrance to the Area 4 parking lot at Ferst Drive/State Street Spin E-bike Rental Bike Rooms in Dalney and Tech Square Parking Decks The Dalney (W22) and Tech Square (E81) parking decks feature secure, covered bike parking for commuters. Students, faculty, and staff have access to the bike rooms via BuzzCard. The Dalney room is accessed via Dalney Street and also has a fix-it station. The Tech Square room is accessed via the pedestrian entrance on William Street. Bikes should be secured to the racks by their frames, not by the wheels or other removable parts; U-locks are recommended. Students may store their bike in the Dalney bike room between semesters including during the summer. Please remove any valuable items such as lights, bags, etc. There are no fees to enter, however, bikes are required to be registered via GTPD. For further info please email commute@gatech.edu. How to Lock Your Bike Use a U-lock. U-locks offer the best theft deterrence, as they better resist prying and cutting than a cable. U-locks are available at Starter Bikes. Lock your bike to a rack, as they are designed to deter theft. Do not lock to an object that can be moved or cut. Bikes locked to objects other than racks may be impounded. Secure lock through frame or rear triangle; do not lock through wheels or any part attached with a quick release. Do not leave any free or easily detachable parts, such as headlights or bags, on the bike. Avoid leaving bicycles locked outside overnight. GTPD Bike Security Video Tips for Riding Safely We care about bicyclists' safety! To ensure that Georgia Tech is safe for you and other travelers, please note the following: Bicycles are defined as vehicles in Georgia, with the same rights and responsibilities on public roads as motor vehicle drivers. Always obey stop signs and signals. Bicyclists should stay as far to the right side of the road as practicable, but may use the whole lane when necessary - if road conditions are poor, if the lane is too narrow to share the lane safely, or when turning left. Motor vehicle drivers must provide at least three feet of safe passing distance when following or overtaking a bicyclist. Ride predictably! Ride in a straight line, don't weave. Signal your intentions by extending either arm. Be visible! Use lights and reflectors. Georgia law requires at least a white front light and red rear light or reflector when riding at night. High visibility clothing is also important. Use a helmet! Make sure it fits snugly and is secured. Helmets are available in the PTS office for $12. We'd like to see all cyclists on campus wearing one! Read our Bicycles and Personal Mobility Devices Procedures and Guidelines where you'll learn more about helmet sales. Never assume a motorist sees you. Make eye contact. Proceed cautiously through intersections. Pay attention- no earbuds, no phone! Additional information may be found in Georgia Bikes' Bicyclist Pocket Guide, available online and in hard copy at the PTS customer service center. To view these documents, a PDF reader is required. Download Adobe Reader for free. Starter Bikes Bike Repair Starter Bikes is a collaborative project between Georgia Tech’s Students Organizing for Sustainability and the Atlanta Bicycle Coalition. Volunteers refurbish abandoned and donated bikes into low-cost, entry-level bicycles for students and community members in need of inexpensive yet reliable transportation. The program can be beneficial for people who would like to try biking without investing much money. For more information, visit Starter Bikes on Facebook. Starter Bikes Info Relay - Atlanta Bikeshare Relay Bikeshare is the City of Atlanta's official bike-share provider, and Georgia Tech has several stations! Approximately 60 bicycles are available at six locations on campus for short term rental - check the Relay website or app for the station/bike availability map. Monthly membership for the GT community is $10.00 and includes 90 minutes of daily ride time. The campus stations are part of the citywide network of 65 stations and 500 bikes; bikes may be picked up and dropped off at any stations throughout the city. Find a Relay Bike Here Fix-it Stations and Air Pumps Dero Fix-it public bike repair stations are located throughout campus. Most units have pumps (with universal heads for both Schrader and Presta tire tube valves) and they all have a variety of tools for use in on-the-go repairs. Fix-it station locations are shown the GT campus map. All outdoor bike repair facilities are free for all to use! To view this document, a PDF reader is required. Download Adobe Reader for free. Pump Head Usage Guide Bike Registration The Institute recommends that students, faculty and staff register their bikes with the Georgia Tech Police Department. This enables the GTPD to identify the bike and contact the customer in the event that the bicycle is recovered after being lost or stolen. To inquire about stolen bikes, please contact the GTPD at 404-894-2500. Bike Registration Abandoned Bikes Bicycles are not meant to be stored at campus bike racks long term. Spaces at racks are needed for those actively traveling on campus, and bikes left for a long time can become unsightly. If a bike is deemed to be abandoned (see Bicycle Rules and Regs) it may be removed by Georgia Tech. If you believe your bike may have been removed or stolen, please submit the form below. Abandoned Bikes Form Bike Resources Atlanta Bicycle Coalition Bicycle/PMD Rules and Regulations Bike GT Campus Bicycle/Personal Mobility Device Policy Georgia Bikes! Facebook Twitter YouTube Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum 828 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30332 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login