Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Parking and Transportation Getting to GT Commute Concierge Driving Regional Transit Carpool and Rideshare Bicycling Dockless Mobility Devices Alternative Transportation Resources Getting Around Campus Campus Bus Routes Stingerette & Paratransit Bicycling Dockless Mobility Devices Parking Permits & Payments Visitors Maps & Zones Electric Vehicle Charging Enforcement & Citations Rules and Regulations Event Parking & Transit Gameday Parking Event Parking & Rental Services ParkMobile Bus Charters Transit Advertising Sustainability Contact Us Forms Driver's Seat Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Event Parking & Transit Gameday Parking Dear Georgia Tech Community: Parking on campus is a valued commodity, and it becomes even more significant when guests arrive during athletic events. During these events, we welcome not only you, our students, faculty and staff, but also our entire Georgia Tech community—alumni, parents, families and fans. Everyone who is part of our community is special, and we want to make our guests feel especially welcomed when they visit the Institute. Please do your part to accommodate our guests by transporting your vehicle to an alternate location during home games. Not only does freeing up parking spaces help our guests enjoy their visit, but it also provides the following benefits to you as one of our current parking patrons: Reduced annual parking costs resulting from revenue generated by guests parking on gameday An active role in increasing Georgia Tech’s positive and welcoming image During the week before each home game, you will receive an email message which will inform you of alternate parking locations and times and dates they will be available to you. You can also find this information by clicking on the Gameday links below. Our athletic teams play hard to win during each game, but they can’t do it alone. Thousands of people gather in our stadiums and athletic facilities to motivate our teams to win. There are several players who make gameday a victorious experience for all of us, including the staff at Parking and Transportation Services. We encourage you to take part in this initiative. By parking in alternate parking areas on gameday, you help us make gameday a success for all Georgia Tech fans. We thank you in advance for your active support. Go Jackets! Parking Instructions: Football Basketball Baseball Football Parking Fans and Visitors PARKING AND TRANSIT INSTRUCTIONS Fans are allowed to park in all non-residential campus parking areas (areas that are coded with ‘E’ or ‘W’). To view the parking map, a PDF reader such as Adobe Reader is required. Click here to download Adobe Reader for free. View Parking Maps & Zones Page Advanced Parking: To purchase guaranteed gameday parking in advance, visit the ParkMobile website. Attendants from Lanier Parking will be collecting parking fees on-site also. On-site parking fees are not available for RVs. Purchase Game Day Parking from ParkMobile Parking Rules: Parking on sidewalks, lawns, green space or landscaped areas is prohibited. Vehicles found in violation will be subject to impoundment and fines. Tailgating is allowed on campus, but grills are not allowed inside parking decks and garages, including E81-Tech Square/GT Hotel and Conference Center Deck. 2021 Football Parking & Transit Notices GT vs. Northern Illinois: Sat., Sept. 4, 2021 (Whiteout) GT vs. Kennesaw State: Sat., Sept. 11, 2021 (Heroes Day) GT vs. Pitt: Sat., Oct. 2, 2021 (Family Weekend) GT vs. Virginia Tech: Sat., Oct. 30, 2021 (Homecoming) GT vs. Boston College: Sat., Nov. 13, 2021 GT vs. UGA: Sat., Nov. 27, 2021 (Senior Day) Men's Basketball Parking Fans and Visitors To purchase guaranteed gameday parking in advance ($12 plus service fee), visit the ParkMobile website. Cash payments ($15) are also accepted at each parking location listed below (attendants from Lanier Parking will be collecting parking fees). Fans are allowed to park in E40 (select games only), E52 and W23. Click here for more information on parking zones. For weekend games, parking areas open one and a half (1.5) hours before tipoff. For weekday games, parking areas open at 5:00 p.m. Visitors who arrive before these areas open are welcome to park in the GT Hotel and Conference Center parking deck (E81) in Tech Square or in Visitors’ Area 6 at $1.50 per hour. Please note the following regulations: Parking on sidewalks, lawns, green space or landscaped areas is prohibited. Vehicles found in violation will be subject to impoundment and fines. Baseball Parking Fans and Visitors Fans and visitors are allowed to park in the Klaus parking deck (E40) three (3) hours before game time and in the Peter’s parking deck (E52) two (2) hours before game time. Click here for more information on parking maps and zones. Parking is $5 per vehicle. To purchase guaranteed gameday parking in advance, visit the ParkMobile. You may also pay for parking in cash at each parking deck (attendants from Lanier Parking will be collecting parking fees). Visitors who arrive before these areas open are welcome to park in the GT Hotel and Conference Center parking deck (E81) in Tech Square or in Visitors’ Area 6 at $1.50 per hour. Please note the following regulations: Parking on sidewalks, lawns, green space or landscaped areas is prohibited. Vehicles found in violation will be subject to impoundment and fines. Facebook Twitter YouTube Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum 828 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30332 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login