Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Parking and Transportation Getting to GT Commute Concierge Driving Regional Transit Carpool and Rideshare Bicycling Dockless Mobility Devices Alternative Transportation Resources Getting Around Campus Campus Bus Routes Stingerette & Paratransit Bicycling Dockless Mobility Devices Parking Permits & Payments Visitors Maps & Zones Electric Vehicle Charging Enforcement & Citations Rules and Regulations Event Parking & Transit Gameday Parking Event Parking & Rental Services ParkMobile Bus Charters Transit Advertising Sustainability Contact Us Forms Driver's Seat Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Getting to GT Driving South on I-75/85 into Atlanta Take Exit 249D (North Avenue). At the top of the exit ramp, turn right onto North Avenue. Cross Techwood Drive (the first light) and continue on North Avenue approximately two blocks to Cherry Street. Turn right onto Cherry Street and then turn left onto Ferst Drive. The Student Center will be located on the right side. Park in the Area 2 visitor’s parking lot adjacent to the Student Center. Driving North on I-75/85 into Atlanta Take Exit 249D (North Avenue/Spring Street/West Peachtree Street). At the top of the exit ramp, proceed through the first intersection (Spring Street). At the next intersection (West Peachtree), turn left. Continue on West Peachtree for approximately one block and turn left on North Avenue. Cross over the interstate and Techwood Drive. Turn right onto Cherry Street and then left onto Ferst Drive. Park in the visitor’s parking lot adjacent to the Student Center. Need Help? Phone: (404) 894-0061 Email: support@pts.gatech.edu Online support form Interactive Campus Map Where to Stay During Your Visit Facebook Twitter YouTube Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum 828 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30332 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login