Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Parking and Transportation Getting to GT Commute Concierge Driving Regional Transit Carpool and Rideshare Bicycling Dockless Mobility Devices Alternative Transportation Resources Getting Around Campus Campus Bus Routes Stingerette & Paratransit Bicycling Dockless Mobility Devices Parking Permits & Payments Visitors Maps & Zones Electric Vehicle Charging Enforcement & Citations Rules and Regulations Event Parking & Transit Gameday Parking Event Parking & Rental Services ParkMobile Bus Charters Transit Advertising Sustainability Contact Us Forms Driver's Seat Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Getting to GT Regional Transit Georgia Tech encourages students, faculty, and staff to use cleaner commutes by offering discounted monthly transit passes. Students and employees can purchase MARTA passes each month at the PTS customer service center. These passes are available the last five business days through the second Friday of the pass month at the PTS customer service center. Employees are also eligible to purchase their transit pass via payroll deduction for MARTA, GRTA Xpress, CobbLinc, and Gwinnett County Transit. Purchasing a transit pass through payroll deduction, or making a change to your payroll deduction, is now made in OneUSG Connect. All changes must be made by the 4th of the month to take effect the following month. Sign into OneUSG Connect via Techworks. Click on the Voluntary Deductions tile. To start a new deduction, click on 'Add Deduction' and choose your transit provider (MARTA, Xpress, CobbLinc or Gwinnett County Transit). Enter deduction amount (if you're paid biweekly put half the pass amount, as you will be deducted twice). Enter a Deduction Start Date of the 4th of the current month. You don't have to put an end date. (To end a current deduction, enter a Stop Date of the 4th of the current month. This will ensure your pass is deactivated for the next month.) Click 'Submit'. When PTS orders the passes from MARTA approximately two weeks prior to the pass month, you'll receive an email stating when and where to pick up your Breeze card, which will be activated to start the 1st of the month. Please email commute@gatech.edu with any questions. Need Help? Phone: (404) 894-0061 Email: support@pts.gatech.edu Online support form Transit Options Map Get Transit Directions Start: Destination: Leave/Arrive: LeaveArrive Date: Time: Route: Best routeFewer transfersLess walking Mode: Any modeBusTrain Transit Pass Discounts - Promotional Campaign Georgia Tech Employees and Students: Parking and Transportation Services is implementing a major outreach effort to increase the numbers of Georgia Tech students, faculty, and staff taking transit to campus by sharing transit pass discount information. We have new marketing materials (flyers and posters) that will describe the program along with a QR code for information on determining one's best transit options. Help Us Spread the Word Please help us disseminate the these materials with your departments and organizations, hanging and distributing these posters and flyers where appropriate. Transit Promotional - 8.5x11 Flyer Employees | Students Transit Promotional - 11x17 Poster Employees | Students Instagram and Facebook Campaign Image Twitter Campaign Image Transit Options: All passes must be picked up at the PTS customer service office CobbLinc Description: CobbLinc (formerly Cobb Community Transit) provides express service from various destinations in Cobb County to midtown Atlanta. CobbLinc Website Payroll Deduction: Faculty/Staff Only Faculty/Staff: $105 Payroll Deduction Gwinnett County Transit Description: Gwinnett County Transit (GCT) provides express service from various destinations in Gwinnett County to Midtown Atlanta. Monthly fare rates are based on zones. Please visit the GCT website for update route, zone, and fare information. GCT Website Payroll Deduction: Faculty/Staff Only Faculty/Staff: Zone 1: $110 Monthly | Zone 2: $160 Monthly MARTA Bus and Rail Description: Georgia Tech is served by the Midtown and North Avenue stations on the Red and Gold lines. Tech’s Gold Stinger bus provides direct service to the Midtown Station. The Tech Square bus offers a stop within short walking distance to the North Avenue Station. Monthly passes can be used for both MARTA bus and rail service. MARTA Website Student: $50 Monthly Payroll Deduction: Faculty/Staff Only Faculty/Staff: $57 Payroll Deduction | $67 Monthly Note: Monthly passes are available the last five business days through the second Friday of the pass month at the PTS customer service center. Sign up via OneUSG Connect by the 4th of the month prior to the pass month. From Midtown MARTA station: 12 Howell Mill Road / Cumberland 14 14th Street / Blandtown 36 N Decatur Road / Virginia Highland From North Ave. MARTA station 2 Ponce de Leon Avenue / Druid Hills 50 Donald Lee Hollowell Parkway 51 Joseph E Boone Boulevard 102 North Avenue / Little Five Points 899 Old Fourth Ward Xpress Description: The Georgia Regional Transportation Authority (GRTA) operates Xpress, a regional bus service that serves 12 counties in the metro Atlanta area. Xpress bus service is provided weekdays from 5:30 a.m. to 9:30 p.m. Xpress Website Payroll Deduction: Faculty/Staff Only Faculty/Staff: Green Zone: $70 | Blue Zone: $105 Facebook Twitter YouTube Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum 828 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30332 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login