Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Parking and Transportation Getting to GT Commute Concierge Driving Regional Transit Carpool and Rideshare Bicycling Dockless Mobility Devices Alternative Transportation Resources Getting Around Campus Campus Bus Routes Stingerette & Paratransit Bicycling Dockless Mobility Devices Parking Permits & Payments Visitors Maps & Zones Electric Vehicle Charging Enforcement & Citations Rules and Regulations Event Parking & Transit Gameday Parking Event Parking & Rental Services ParkMobile Bus Charters Transit Advertising Sustainability Contact Us Forms Driver's Seat Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Sustainability in Parking and Transportation Parking and Transportation Services commitment with sustainable transportation includes offering a wide variety of transportation choices to help conserve natural and financial resources and updating their existing infrastructure reducing energy costs by up to 80%. To learn more about sustainable initiatives at Georgia Tech visit the Campus Sustainability website. Sustainable Operations LED Lighting: All parking decks on campus use LED lighting and surface lots are currently being converted to LED. Additionally, occupancy and daylight sensors are utilized as part of our efforts to lower energy consumption. Flex and SmartPark Permitting: A permit option for campus commuters that better meets the need to teleworking and alternative work schedules. This contributes to helping reduce Georgia Tech's carbon footprint from commuters. Transit Sustainability: By July 2022 a portion of the new transit fleet will be hybrid electric, which are projected to cut emissions by at least 30%. The department is also evaluating all-electric options for parking enforcement and parking maintenance vehicles. Virtual Permitting and License Plate Recognition: Allows permitting and parking enforcement without having a physical permit hang tag. This significantly reduces the number of parking permits printed each year. Sustainable Initiatives Parking Deck Recycling: All parking decks are in process of updating their waste receptacles to ones that accept plastics recycling in addition to landfill waste. Alternative Commute Programs: Provide multiple alternative transportation programs on campus that support non-single occupancy vehicle commuting including ride matching, discounted transit passes, bicycle education, and carpool permits. Commute Concierge Program: Educates faculty/staff and students on alternative commuting options and provides personalized recommendations on the best commute option to Georgia Tech. EV Fleet Vehicle Readiness: Working with key GT stakeholders to plan for the transition to electric fleet vehicles campus wide, including procurement, re-fueling, and maintenance needs. Electric Vehicle Charging: A public charging program that consists of over 40 charging ports across campus to support the adoption of electric vehicles by employees, students, and visitors. Facebook Twitter YouTube Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum 828 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30332 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login