Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Parking and Transportation Getting to GT Commute Concierge Driving Regional Transit Carpool and Rideshare Bicycling Dockless Mobility Devices Alternative Transportation Resources Getting Around Campus Campus Bus Routes Stingerette & Paratransit Bicycling Dockless Mobility Devices Parking Permits & Payments Visitors Maps & Zones Electric Vehicle Charging Enforcement & Citations Rules and Regulations Event Parking & Transit Gameday Parking Event Parking & Rental Services ParkMobile Bus Charters Transit Advertising Sustainability Contact Us Forms Driver's Seat Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Getting Around Campus Stingerette Safety Shuttle & Paratransit Stingerette service operates each night from 8 PM to 3:15 AM. Need Help? Phone: (404) 894-0061 Email: support@pts.gatech.edu Online support form Stingerette Updates Stingerette news and announcements are listed below: Service Boundary Stingerette will operate nightly from 8 PM to 3:15 AM. Stingerette's service boundary includes Georgia Tech's campus and the neighborhoods in-between: Georgia Tech buildings and facilities within main campus: 10th Street to the north, Techwood Drive to the east, North Avenue to the south, and Tech Parkway to the west. Georgia Tech buildings located along 14th Street, the NARA and TEP facilities along North Avenue, and campus buildings within Technology Square. (Pick-up and Drop-offs) Home Park and Centennial Place residential addresses. (Drop-offs only) MARTA Midtown when traveling to/from Georgia Tech's main campus. (Pick-ups and Drop-offs) Service boundary excludes: Spring Street (except GT buildings), West Peachtree (except GT buildings), Northside Drive, 16th Street, Marietta Street (except GT buildings), and the North Avenue MARTA Station. Holiday Service Impacts Georgia Tech will not operate Stingerette service on the following Institute holidays: May 30, 2022 — Memorial Day June 20, 2022 - Juneteenth (Observed) July 4, 2022 — Independence Day Sept. 5, 2022 - Labor Day Nov. 24-25, 2022 - Thanksgiving Break Dec. 26-30, 2022 - Winter Break Jan 2, 2023 - New Year's Day (Observed) Jan 16, 2023 - Martin Luther King Jr. Day Stingerette Nighttime Safety Shuttle Stingerette is a demand-response, shared-ride transportation service for Georgia Tech students aimed to provide safe and efficient evening transportation on Georgia Tech's campus and the neighborhoods in-between. The Stingerette is available seven days a week from 8:00 p.m. to 3:15 a.m. (excluding Institute holidays and during home football games). To request a ride, use the GT Stingerette app for Android and iPhone, or visit www.stingerette.com. Student Paratransit Georgia Tech provides paratransit service to students with a qualifying disability (permanent or temporary) which requires transportation as a reasonable accommodation. Authorization to use student paratransit services must be obtained from the Office of Disability Services located in the Student Services Building. Paratransit service is prescheduled on a weekly basis, and available Monday-Friday, 7:30 AM to 7:30 PM. Any student seeking transportation assistance between 8:00 PM and 3:15 AM may request a ride through the nighttime on-demand Stingerette service. (Any Georgia Tech student is eligible to use the nighttime Stingerette on-demand service.) Accessible vans are available for the nighttime Stingerette upon rider request. Have an ADA transportation concern? Georgia Tech provides several avenues of resolution including providing a general comment or submitting a formal grievance. Additionally Parking and Transportation accepts ADA feedback about transit services directly through paratransit@gatech.edu. Stingerette Safety Shuttle - How to Use How do I sign-up for Stingerette? Visit https://gt-new.ridecell.com/request Log in with your GT Account and Password. Create your profile using your phone number. Who is eligible to use Stingerette? Stingerette is only available to Georgia Tech students and employees. What are the different ways of requesting a Stingerette ride? Use the free Android or iPhone Stingerette app. Through the web request interface at https://gt-new.ridecell.com. What is the quickest mode of request to get picked up? Making a ride request through your smartphone or online will instantly add you to the queue of requests. Canceling and re-entering a trip request will not increase service speed but will move your request to the end of the queue. How do I make a trip request? Set your pick-up location, drop-off location, and the total number of riders for the request. Your trip will then be assigned and you will receive an estimated time of arrival range. When you are next in line for pickup, you will be notified which driver and vehicle is assigned to your trip and their estimated time of arrival. Track them in real-time using the app or online map. You will also be notified when the driver arrives at your pickup location. Rate your ride and leave an optional feedback about the system and your experience. How do I give trip feedback? Feedback can be provided directly through the Stingerette App or through our online feedback form. What are the Hours of Operation? Stingerette operates nightly, seven days a week, 8:00 p.m. to 3:15 a.m. Holidays, semester breaks, and home football games may alter the operating days and times. What are the Stingerette Safe Ride boundaries? Stingerette's service boundary includes Georgia Tech's campus and the neighborhoods in-between: Georgia Tech buildings and facilities within main campus: 10th Street to the north, Techwood Drive to the east, North Avenue to the south, and Tech Parkway to the west. Georgia Tech buildings located along 14th Street, the NARA and TEP facilities along North Avenue, and campus buildings within Technology Square. (Pick-up and Drop-offs) Home Park and Centennial Place residential addresses. (Drop-offs only) MARTA Midtown when traveling to/from Georgia Tech's main campus. (Pick-ups and Drop-offs) Service boundary excludes: Spring Street (except GT buildings), West Peachtree (except GT buildings), Northside Drive, 16th Street, Marietta Street (except GT buildings), and the North Avenue MARTA Station. The general service boundary is shown in gray shading on this map. How do I know if I’ve been assigned to a driver? You will be notified once you’ve been assigned to a driver (by call or text). You can also check out the web or app interfaces for real-time updates about your driver's location, and your request status. How long does it take for my driver to pick me up? It depends on how busy the system is at any given time. The app and web interfaces will show you an estimated time of arrival based on your driver’s real-time GPS, current trip load, other planned pickups and drop offs, and traffic. Can I track my driver? You can track your driver with real-time GPS updates via the smartphone app and online. How will I know when my driver arrives if I don’t have a smartphone? You can set up SMS or phone call notifications in your user profile online or in the smartphone app. Once these preferences are set, you do not need a smartphone to receive basic calls or SMS messages. You will be notified via the phone number on your account. The default method of contact is SMS. If you prefer a phone call or if your phone does not receive texts, you must change your preferred method of contact. Will my driver take me directly to my destination? The Stingerette service is a shared-ride program. The driver may have several other pick ups and/or drop offs before the van arrives at your destination. Does canceling my request and then making another one put me at the bottom of the request queue? Canceling a request and resubmitting a new request moves you to the end of the queue. Your new request will be assigned to the next available driver. Repeated cancellations may result in the suspension of ride privileges. Is the driver’s location always accurate when I look at the map? Some GPS inaccuracies occur from buildings being close together or due to limited network areas. If you are observing inaccuracies, try force-quitting the GT Stingerette app or refreshing the web page to get a better connection. How do I contact my driver? If you have important information to relay to your driver or dispatcher (such as “I am using crutches.”), you can input a comment when placing your ride request. You can also contact Stingerette dispatch directly at 404-385-7433. For everyone’s safety, direct calls to the driver are not allowed. Can I make a request for someone else to get picked up? The service is reserved for your personal use. You cannot make a request on another person’s behalf. You must have a valid GT ID to utilize the Stingerette. If you have other GT students traveling with you, you all must be picked up and dropped off at the same location. If you have guests, up to two (2) may ride with you on your trip from start to finish. You are responsible for your guests and may be liable for any incidents they are involved in while on Stingerette. Your guests may be required to present a photo ID. What do you do if I receive a message that my phone number is associated with another account? Please email support@ridecell.com and provide your first and last name, your email address, any other email aliases, and your phone number. Once that email has been received, we will update your account. How do I request a accessible vehicle? Stingerette Safe Ride has several vehicles in its fleet with ramps, and all drivers are trained on its use. When requesting your trip online or through the Stingerette app, please let us know that you need an accessible vehicle. Stingerette Safety Shuttle Disclaimer Rides and entry into the Stingerette may be denied because intoxication, foul language, or any perceivable risk to the Stingerette driver, passengers, or the vehicle. This also includes general disrespect for the driver or their duties. Riders that are deemed to be in one of these categories will be refused entry into the Stingerette. If the offense occurs while in route, the Stingerette driver will divert to a safe location, and the passenger will be asked to exit the vehicle. If any of the aforementioned situations occur, the Stingerette driver will notify the Georgia Tech Police and request their assistance. Stingerette and Parking and Transportation Services reserves the right to deny transportation to any institution or establishment that operates contrary to the mission of the Georgia Institute of Technology. Georgia state law requires the use of a car seat or booster seat by infants and small children. One can be provided in each Stingerette and must be used to transport children. Please request car seats and booster seats when submitting ride requests. Stingerette drivers are not trained, nor are their vehicles equipped, to manage emergency health situations. If an emergency occurs, contact Georgia Tech Police (404.894.2500) or dial 911. Facebook Twitter YouTube Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum 828 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30332 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login