Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Parking and Transportation Getting to GT Commute Concierge Driving Regional Transit Carpool and Rideshare Bicycling Dockless Mobility Devices Alternative Transportation Resources Getting Around Campus Campus Bus Routes Stingerette & Paratransit Bicycling Dockless Mobility Devices Parking Permits & Payments Visitors Maps & Zones Electric Vehicle Charging Enforcement & Citations Rules and Regulations Event Parking & Transit Gameday Parking Event Parking & Rental Services ParkMobile Bus Charters Transit Advertising Sustainability Contact Us Forms Driver's Seat Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Getting to GT Carpool and Rideshare Carpooling is an environmentally friendly way for Georgia Tech students, faculty, and staff to commute to campus and also to share the cost a campus parking permit. The carpool permit costs $100 less than the Annual Individual Permit and can be split among carpool members. Georgia Tech students and employees can find carpool partners and explore carpooling incentives through the Georgia Commute Options website and the GA Commute app (iOS or Android). The website offers the opportunity to choose potential carpool partners only within the GT community. Georgia Commute Options also provides additional commuter support to employees taking alternative commutes, such as Guaranteed Ride Home and Route Matching. Waze Carpool is now available in Atlanta, and can be used to match drivers and riders commuting at similar times and on similar routes. To get started, download the Waze Carpool app (iOS and Android). Be sure to use your gatech.edu email address to best match with others in the Georgia Tech community. Select whether to request or offer a ride, and then start saving money by carpooling to work! For students or employees that wish to borrow a vehicle for brief periods, Zipcars are available at several locations throughout campus. Zipcar is a membership-based car sharing company that provides members access to a variety of new fuel-efficient vehicles. Georgia Tech's collaboration with Zipcar provides convenient pickup locations and discounts for students, faculty, and staff. Need Help? Phone: (404) 894-0061 Email: support@pts.gatech.edu Online support form How to Apply for a Carpool Permit Learn both the captain's and members' roles for applying for carpool permits. How to Apply for a Carpool Permit Carpool Rules & Regulations Learn more about the rules and regulations for PTS' carpool permit program. Carpool Rules & Regulations Carpool Boundary Map Use this boundary map to help determine if your address qualifies for a carpool permit. Carpool members must live outside the 1/4 mile boundary of campus. Carpool Map (PDF) To view PDF files, a PDF reader such as Adobe Reader is required. Click here to download Adobe Reader for free. Carpool FAQs What is the purpose of the carpool program at Georgia Tech? The carpool program is designed to accomplish three things: Reduce the total "vehicle miles traveled" by the Georgia Tech community. Assist in reducing the total tailpipe emissions to help improve Atlanta's air quality. Assist in reducing traffic congestion throughout metro Atlanta. Who is eligible for a carpool permit? All carpool participants must be Georgia Tech faculty, staff or students who do not reside on the Georgia Tech campus and do not live within a 1/4 mile buffer of Georgia Tech's Campus. View the carpool 1/4 mile buffer map of campus. Persons living in student housing adjacent to the GT campus are not eligible for carpool. How much will a carpool permit cost? Carpool permits are $100 less than the Annual Individual Permit and are prorated throughout the year. Where can I park with a carpool permit? The carpool permit allows access to one parking location (selected during the application process) for everyday use. Carpool permit holders may park in nonresidential and gated areas from 5:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m. Monday through Thursday (carpool permits can be used to access gated areas after hours). Permits may also be used from 5:00 p.m. Friday to 8:00 a.m. Monday for weekend access. After-hours access for E45 and E81 is granted from 5:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. on weekdays. The E40 parking lot at Turner Place is unavailable to non-E40 permit customers after hours. Will all carpool members receive a permit? One permit hangtag for the carpool will be issued to the carpool captain. This hanging permit must be appropriately displayed while carpool vehicles are parked on the Georgia Tech campus. Individual BuzzCards will not be activated to allow access to gated lots. How do carpool members access gated parking lots/decks? Your carpool permit will have a chip embedded inside of it. Hold the permit up to the electronic prox card reader located at the gated entrance for access. Can I register for my own individual permit and also be a part of a carpool? No. To be eligible to participate all members of the carpool must turn in their current parking permits (if applicable), thus canceling their present parking access. Can I participate in more than one carpool? No. Carpool participants may only belong to one carpool group. What are the carpool captain’s responsibilities? Carpool captains are responsible for the following actions: Applying for the carpool online. Inviting other people to join the carpool as members. Paying for and receiving the carpool permit. Splitting the permit fee and collecting any fees due from the other members of the carpool. Notifying the Parking and Transportation office if members leave the carpool or if the carpool disbands. Filling member vacancies within 14 days if the carpool has fewer than two (2) members. Reporting any malfunctions of the carpool permit to the PTS customer service office. Can more than one vehicle be associated with a carpool permit? Yes. Carpool captains and members may register as many of their own vehicles as needed. Remember to place the hangtag in the vehicle that is being driven to campus. Vehicles not displaying the carpool permit are subject to citation. If one of the vehicles in a carpool is ticketed or towed, who is responsible? Each vehicle associated with the carpool permit will be registered under the owner’s name. (Please do not register your carpool partner's vehicle to your account.) Carpool captains and members are responsible for their personal vehicles’ citations and towing fees. What should I do if my carpool participant leaves Georgia Tech? If a carpool member leaves Georgia Tech, the carpool captain will have 14 days to fill the vacancy if the carpool is fewer than two people. If the vacancy remains open after 14 days, the carpool will be considered void and the captain holder will be assessed the full, prorated fee for the parking permit. If the carpool originally consisted of three or more people, please notify PTS of the leaving member, but the carpool may remain active with two or more people. If the carpool captain leaves Georgia Tech, the carpool will be disbanded and members will have to re-apply for a new carpool permit. How do I add or remove members from my carpool? The carpool captain should contact carpool@gatech.edu with a request to add or remove carpool members. What should I do if I need to drive alone or if I forget to bring the carpool permit? Each carpool participant may obtain up to 12 complimentary days of parking per permit year. Upon customer request, daily parking passes (good for one day of free parking) will be issued in an ungated parking location. The day passes can only be requested at the PTS customer service office on the day in which parking is needed. The passes may be used all in one month or spread out over the year. Free day passes are non-transferrable and expire at the end of the permit year. How will I be notified that my carpool has been approved or denied? The carpool captain and members will be notified by email once a carpool has been approved or denied. During the registration period for the upcoming permit year, carpool permits may not be processed by PTS immediately. If carpool captains have not received a denial email, the application is still pending. Captains will receive an approval or denial email once the application is processed by PTS. Who is not eligible for a carpool permit? Persons already in another carpool. Persons listed twice in the same carpool. Persons registered for a carpool permit and a regular permit. Persons living within 1/4 mile of campus. Any participant providing fraudulent information in order to obtain a carpool permit will be removed from the carpool and the following actions will be taken: the vehicle displaying the fraudulently obtained permit will be impounded, issued a citation, and the owner of the vehicle will be required to pay for the prorated use of the parking facility from the date the permit was issued through the date the fraud was discovered. In addition, students will be reported to the Dean of Students for disciplinary action. Employee infractions will be reported to the employee's supervisor. Facebook Twitter YouTube Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum 828 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30332 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login