Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Parking and Transportation Getting to GT Commute Concierge Driving Regional Transit Carpool and Rideshare Bicycling Dockless Mobility Devices Alternative Transportation Resources Getting Around Campus Campus Bus Routes Stingerette & Paratransit Bicycling Dockless Mobility Devices Parking Permits & Payments Visitors Maps & Zones Electric Vehicle Charging Enforcement & Citations Rules and Regulations Event Parking & Transit Gameday Parking Event Parking & Rental Services ParkMobile Bus Charters Transit Advertising Sustainability Contact Us Forms Driver's Seat Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Parking Electric Vehicle Charging Georgia Tech offers 40+ electric vehicle charging stations for use by students, faculty, staff, and visitors. Revenue from the charging stations is used by Georgia Tech to offset electrical and administrative costs, to maintain the chargers, and help expand the charging program to other locations. Rates, parking spaces, and conditions may be adjusted based on data received. Electric vehicle charging rules and regulations can be found here. EV charging customers may call PTS dispatch at 404-385-7275 to report vehicles that may be violating PTS charging rules and regulations. To receive more information on future announcements regarding EV charging, interested students, faculty, and staff can email commute@gatech.edu with their name and GTID. To view PDF files, a PDF reader such as Adobe Reader is required. Click here to download Adobe Reader for free. Need Help? Phone: (404) 894-0061 Email: support@pts.gatech.edu Online support form Zone Map View the Map Level II Charging for GT Affiliates and Visitors Level II electric vehicle charging is provided by ChargePoint for an hourly fee. A valid GT permit or paid visitor parking is also required for all EV parking spaces on campus. Level II charging is available in the following locations: Area 4 Visitor's Lot (Ferst Drive/State Street): 6 spaces (hourly ChargePoint rates apply to all users). Any valid GT permit is permissible to park in EV spaces. Visitors must pay hourly parking rate in addition to ChargePoint fee. W02 Deck (Student Center): 4 spaces (hourly ChargePoint rates apply to all users). Non-W02 GT permit holders and campus visitors must pay hourly parking rate in addition to ChargePoint fee. W22 Deck (Dalney): 20 spaces located on the 3rd, 4th, and 5th levels (hourly ChargePoint rates apply to all users). Non-W22 GT permit holders and campus visitors must pay the hourly parking rate in addition to ChargePoint fee. W23 Deck (State Street): 4 spaces (hourly ChargePoint rates apply to all users). Non-W23 GT permit holders and campus visitors must pay hourly parking rate in addition to ChargePoint fee. WR30 Deck (Curran): 4 spaces (hourly ChargePoint rates apply to all users). Any valid GT permit is permissible to park in EV spaces. Visitors must pay hourly parking rate in addition to ChargePoint fee. E81 Deck (Tech Square): 4 spaces accessible from the 4th Street entrance only (hourly ChargePoint rates apply to all users). Non-E81 GT permit holders and campus visitors must pay hourly parking rate in addition to ChargePoint fee. The hourly charging rate is $0.75/hour for the first four hours, then $5/hour thereafter; the rate increases to encourage patrons to move their vehicles to allow other patrons to use the charging stations. EV charging decals are not required to use the Level II charging stations. Payment can be made using credit and debit cards, or by signing up for the ChargePoint Network. Station availability Facebook Twitter YouTube Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum 828 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30332 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login