Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Parking and Transportation Getting to GT Commute Concierge Driving Regional Transit Carpool and Rideshare Bicycling Dockless Mobility Devices Alternative Transportation Resources Getting Around Campus Campus Bus Routes Stingerette & Paratransit Bicycling Dockless Mobility Devices Parking Permits & Payments Visitors Maps & Zones Electric Vehicle Charging Enforcement & Citations Rules and Regulations Event Parking & Transit Gameday Parking Event Parking & Rental Services ParkMobile Bus Charters Transit Advertising Sustainability Contact Us Forms Driver's Seat Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Event Parking & Transit Transit Advertising *The transit advertising program is currently suspended for the 2021-2022 academic year.* Each day, over 8,000 riders use the Stinger buses—that’s over 1.2 million passengers each academic year! Transit advertising reaches the entire campus community. Ads will be visible to students, faculty, staff and visitors as they travel around campus. With packages available for about $10 per day (for campus entities) and $15 per day (for off-campus entities), Transit Ads provide an economical and effective way of reaching the entire Georgia Tech population. View Transit Ad Template View Georgia Tech Advertising Policy To view PDF files, a PDF reader such as Adobe Reader is required. Click here to download. Need Help? Phone: (404) 894-0061 Email: support@pts.gatech.edu Online support form How it works: Complete the transit advertising request form to reserve a space and desired advertising period. Submit an electronic proof of the artwork (landscape, 11"H x 17"W, in .pdf format) at the end of the online form. All ads must adhere to the advertising policy and are subject to approval by PTS before installation. Once the artwork is approved, PTS will print and install the ad on all 13 Stinger buses! Facebook Twitter YouTube Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum 828 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30332 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login