Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Parking and Transportation Getting to GT Commute Concierge Driving Regional Transit Carpool and Rideshare Bicycling Dockless Mobility Devices Alternative Transportation Resources Getting Around Campus Campus Bus Routes Stingerette & Paratransit Bicycling Dockless Mobility Devices Parking Permits & Payments Visitors Maps & Zones Electric Vehicle Charging Enforcement & Citations Rules and Regulations Event Parking & Transit Gameday Parking Event Parking & Rental Services ParkMobile Bus Charters Transit Advertising Sustainability Contact Us Forms Driver's Seat Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Event Parking & Transit Charter Bus Services Parking & Transportation Services allows Georgia Tech student organizations and departments to charter buses for transportation within the metro Atlanta area. All Georgia Tech buses comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act, and are lift equipped with drivers who are trained in the lifts' use. Charter reservations must be made at least one week in advance. A cost estimate will be provided upon confirmation of your reservation. Please read below for a full list of charter rules and estimated pricing. Georgia Tech Stinger Bus Charter Request Form Approved External Charter Bus Suppliers Need Help? Phone: (404) 894-0061 Email: support@pts.gatech.edu Online support form Charger Rental Service Impact Due to a change in transit service operators, Georgia Tech will be unable to provide charters between June 26, 2022 and July 16, 2022. We apologize for any inconvenience this may cause. Shuttle Types Stinger Bus Capacity: 32 passengers Usage fee: $450 for three hours (minimum); $150/hr thereafter Charter Rules Groups are required to identify two individuals per bus who will be responsible for ensuring the safety of the group. The names and contact information of these individuals must be provided after service is approved and prior to the service date. Georgia Tech operators are not responsible for the care of those who may be chemically impaired. Students who, in the judgment of the group's representatives, pose a threat to their own safety or the safety of others will not be allowed to board the bus. Groups who fail to behave responsibly may have their charter privileges revoked or suspended. Approval usually takes three to five days. You will receive notification from our department by email of your approval or denial. Service will be billed based on the start and end time of the overall service; no split schedule billing is allowed. Service that is less than three hours will be billed at the three (3) hour minimum. The charter bus may travel up to a 50-mile radius from the Georgia Tech Student Center (350 Ferst Drive NW, Atlanta, GA 30332-0441). Cancellations and modifications are allowed up to 72 hours prior to time of service and must be submitted via email. All cancellations or modifications requested after this time will be subject to a fee penalty equal to the minimum usage fee. During the academic school year, rentals are not provided Monday thru Friday between the hours of 5:00 a.m. and 6:30 p.m.. Based on charter destinations, the department reserves the right to determine whether standing passengers will be allowed; however, standing will not be allowed on a bus traveling on a street with a speed limit over 35 miles per hour or highways. There is no eating or drinking alcoholic beverages on the bus. If a person with a disability requires a modification to this policy related to a disability, please notify the department's special event coordinator before the service date in order to ensure accommodation. If the charter bus requires cleaning beyond what is deemed normal, a $150 cleaning fee per incident will be assessed. Facebook Twitter YouTube Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum 828 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30332 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login