Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Parking and Transportation Getting to GT Commute Concierge Driving Regional Transit Carpool and Rideshare Bicycling Dockless Mobility Devices Alternative Transportation Resources Getting Around Campus Campus Bus Routes Stingerette & Paratransit Bicycling Dockless Mobility Devices Parking Permits & Payments Visitors Maps & Zones Electric Vehicle Charging Enforcement & Citations Rules and Regulations Event Parking & Transit Gameday Parking Event Parking & Rental Services ParkMobile Bus Charters Transit Advertising Sustainability Contact Us Forms Driver's Seat Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Getting Around Campus Personal Mobility Devices Guidelines Personal Mobility Devices Guidelines Personal mobility devices (PMDs) include shareable and personally owned e-scooters, e-skateboards, and dockless bikes. There are currently several dockless, shareable mobility services operating throughout the City of Atlanta. These and personally owned PMDs must follow the rules of the road and may be operated and parked on Georgia Tech’s campus according to the following guidelines: Ride responsibly: Ride scooters and dockless bikes in bike lanes and wherever a bike is allowed to ride. Electric mopeds must be driven as motor vehicles according to Georgia state law and are not allowed to be driven on sidewalks. Always yield to pedestrians: Remember pedestrians have the right of way. When in the proximity of pedestrians, please travel at a similar speed. Be aware of campus traffic: Stinger buses and other vehicles may be pulling to or away from curbs frequently. Always be aware of and respectful to other road users, and be cautious of larger vehicles nearby. Park responsibly: Scooters may be parked near (but not at) bike racks on campus. Do not leave them on sidewalks, or at other locations if they can be parked near a bike rack. Do not park scooter in a position that blocks pedestrian paths or access. Dockless bikes must be parked at bike racks. Electric mopeds must be parked in designated motorcycle/moped permit parking areas. Mopeds parked at bike racks or not in permit parking areas will be cited, booted, and/or confiscated. Please wear a helmet: Scooter riders and bicyclists may purchase helmets from Parking and Transportation Services for $12. Per campus policy, electric scooters and other shared dockless devices are not allowed in campus buildings, including residence halls, and may not be charged anywhere on campus. Please adhere to all terms and conditions put forth by the operator of the device you are using. Georgia Tech is not liable for incidents occurring with these devices on campus. Please see Georgia Tech's Bicycle and PMD Policy and Bicycle and PMD Rules and Regulations for more information. Facebook Twitter YouTube Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum 828 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30332 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login