Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Parking and Transportation Getting to GT Commute Concierge Driving Regional Transit Carpool and Rideshare Bicycling Dockless Mobility Devices Alternative Transportation Resources Getting Around Campus Campus Bus Routes Stingerette & Paratransit Bicycling Dockless Mobility Devices Parking Permits & Payments Visitors Maps & Zones Electric Vehicle Charging Enforcement & Citations Rules and Regulations Event Parking & Transit Gameday Parking Event Parking & Rental Services ParkMobile Bus Charters Transit Advertising Sustainability Contact Us Forms Driver's Seat Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Parking Permits & Payment Parking and Transportation Services provides a variety of permits to meet the needs of each customer, whether they park on campus daily or occasionally. Permit Options Permit Pricing Permit Payments Returns, Refunds & Exchanges Proration Need Help? Phone: (404) 894-0061 Email: support@pts.gatech.edu Online support form Permit Availability To view real-time permit availability, visit driverseat.gatech.edu. View Parking Zones & Maps Permit Options Annual Individual Permits The Annual Individual Permit is valid for use from August 15 through August 14 of the following year. This permit allows its owner to: Park in one assigned area at any time (except as needed for special events). Park after-hours (5 p.m. to 8 a.m.) and on weekends (5 p.m. Friday to 8 a.m. Monday) in non-residential, non-visitor parking areas (6 a.m. daily for E45 and E81). Permits may be purchased year-round at prorated prices. View Pricing Purchase a permit Carpool Permits Carpooling is an environmentally-friendly way for Georgia Tech students, faculty, and staff to commute to campus and share the cost of a campus parking permit. The carpool permit costs $100 less than an annual individual permit, and can be split among carpool members. The carpool permit is valid from August 15 to August 14 of the following year. More Carpool Information View Pricing Purchase a permit Semester Permit Semester Permits are designed to benefit graduate and senior students graduating in December and students who may need to pay for permits on a semester basis. The Fall Semester Permit is valid for use August 15 through December 31 of the same year. The Spring Semester Permit is valid for use January 1 through May 15. This permit allows its owner to: Park in one of the following locations (except as needed for special events): All “ER” and “WR” parking locations, E40-Klaus Deck, E52-Peters Deck, E65, E70, E81-Tech Square, W01, W02-Student Center Deck, W06, W10-CRC Deck, W21, W22-Dalney Deck, W23-North Campus Deck, and W31 (based upon availability) Park after-hours and on weekends in non-residential, non-visitor parking areas (non-residential zones are marked with E or W; residential zones are marked with ER or WR). After-hours privileges may be utilized 5:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m., Monday through Thursday and also from 5:00 p.m. Friday to 8:00 a.m. Monday. Notes: E81 parking areas must be vacated by 6:00 a.m. daily. Customers must own an E40, E44 or E82 permit to park in E40 (Turner Place), E44 or E82 after hours. September 30 is the deadline for all Fall Semester Permit sales and returns for refund. February 15 is the deadline for all Spring Semester Permit sales and returns for refund. View Pricing Purchase a permit SmartPark Permits SmartPark is a pay-as-you-go permit program for occasional drivers, including teleworkers, virtual learners, and commuters. The program costs $25 to join each year and allows parking in one of five campus locations at $6 per usage. Current SmartPark locations include E81-Tech Square/GT Hotel Deck, W02-Student Center Deck, W22-Dalney Deck, W23-North Campus Deck, and Visitors Area 1. Customers are required to purchase SmartPark units at $6 per usage in The Driver's Seat using credit cards or in the PTS office using BuzzFunds or credit cards. A "unit" represents a single parking session. Units may be purchased in bundles of 3, 5, or 10 units. Customers are encouraged to purchase units after their SmartPark permit purchase to prevent delays in future parking attempts. The SmartPark program is now “permitless” - customers will not receive a physical permit hangtag. SmartPark customers will now tap their BuzzCards on the main entry/exit card readers at any SmartPark location to gain entry/exit. SmartPark is allowed 5:30 a.m. to midnight. Overnight parking is not permitted. Regular hourly parking rates will apply if SmartPark units have not been purchased. Permits are valid from August 15 to August 14 of the following year. SmartPark units are nonrefundable but can be rolled over year to year with the purchase of a new SmartPark permit. View Pricing Purchase a SmartPark permit or unit(s) Flex Permit The Flex Permit program was designed to provide short-term parking for teleworkers and commuters in non-SmartPark and non-visitors parking locations. Flex permits allow parking in one parking lot or deck for one day, two consecutive days, one week, or one month. Permits are valid also after-hours (5:00 p.m. to 11:59 p.m.) in ungated, nonresidential locations (overnight parking is not allowed in after-hours locations). Customers can choose permit dates up to 60 days in advance of use/activation. Permits allow in/out access while the permit is active. All permits are virtual (customers will not receive physical hangtags). Permits are available in The Driver’s Seat for the following locations (based on availability): E40-Klaus Deck E46-Burge Deck E52-Peters Deck E63-O’Keefe Lot E65-McCamish Pavilion E70-GTRI/GPB/14th St. Deck ER51-SE Housing ER54-North Ave. Apartments South Deck ER55-Fowler St./Greek Housing ER66-10th and Home/Family Housing Deck W01-Tech Parkway/Ferst Drive W04-OHR/Business Services W06-Tech Parkway/Marietta St. W10-CRC Deck W21-Physics/Boggs/Mason W27-CRB Lot WR29-Woodruff/West Campus WR30-Curran Deck Flex Permits expire at 11:59 p.m. at the end of valid period. Permits are not available three (3) days before home football games or major campus events. Permits are nonrefundable. View Pricing Purchase a permit Virtual Permit The Virtual permit program eliminates the need for physical hangtag permits in most parking areas. BuzzCards are the primary entry method in all gated locations. License plate numbers serve as permit credentials and are used for enforcement and gate entry in some parking locations. Customers should keep their BuzzCards handy and update license plate information in The Driver’s Seat. Customers will not receive physical permit hangtags to display in their cars EXCEPT the following permit types: E70 Annual Individual Permit (14th Street Parking Deck) Carpool Permits Alumni Permits Motorcycle Permits Temporary Permits Please note: • Customers will be required to park front-in only (no back-in or pull-through parking) as their license plate information will be used for parking enforcement. License plate information can be updated via online parking accounts in The Driver’s Seat. • Vehicles that are not parked front-in will be subject to citation. • BuzzCards will be the primary method of entry in all gated locations. • Temporary permits are available for non-registered vehicles. • Customers may register multiple vehicles; however, only one allowed on campus at a time. • Customers who have temporary license plate numbers may purchase permits, however, their license plate info must be updated once permanent tag arrives in The Driver’s Seat. • To return permits, complete the Permit Return Request form. Benefits of the virtual permit program include reducing the number of physical permits produced and mailing requirements; allows customers to purchase permits online and have instant parking access; and allows customers to register all personal vehicles under one permit. View Pricing Temporary Permits To accommodate campus guests, PTS offers nonrefundable Temporary/Visitors Permits for use in ungated parking zones on a daily, weekly or monthly basis. Daily Permits are issued for one day and expire at 7:00 a.m. the following morning. Weekly Permits are issued for one week and expire at 7:00 a.m. the morning after the same day the following week. Monthly Permits are issued for one month and expire at 7:00 a.m. the morning after that same day the following month. Weekend Permits are sold to students and/or visitors who desire parking for the weekend. The permit will begin on Friday and expires Monday morning at 7:00 a.m. Weekend permits are not available when campus is hosting a Saturday home football game. Temporary/Visitor Permits are only valid when used in the area and on the date(s) as indicated on the front of the permit. The permit is not valid when the "valid from/to" dates or parking area have been altered. Unauthorized vehicles will be subject to citation and/or impoundment. View Pricing Evening/Weekend Permits The Evening/Weekend permit is essential for employees and students who work or study on campus after normal business hours. It allows parking in any non-residential and ungated lot (excluding E44 and E49) from 5:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m. Monday through Thursday and on weekends from 5 p.m. Friday to 8 a.m. Monday. Evening/Weekend permit holders parking in E81 overnight must remove their vehicle by 6:00 a.m. For an additional fee, patrons can also customize these permits to allow access at 2:00 p.m., 3:00 p.m. or 4:00 p.m. Evening/Weekend permit customers may also choose one gated zone (excluding W23, E45 and E48) upon purchasing a permit. View Pricing Purchase a permit Motorcycle Permits Motorcycle permits allow motorbikes, mopeds, scooters, and minibikes of all engine sizes to park on campus in any designated motorcycle parking area. For customers whose primary mode of transportation is a car, motorcycle permits can also be purchased as a secondary permit. Motorcycles must be registered with the DDS and have a valid GT permit to park on campus. Motorcycles are only allowed to park in designated motorbike parking areas. Please provide your vehicle registration and driver's license to obtain a permit. View Pricing Purchase a permit Reserved Spaces Faculty and staff are eligible to purchase reserved parking spaces in their assigned parking lot or deck. Reserved spaces are available only to the owner or the owner’s designee 24 hours a day, seven days a week (with the exception of special events or construction). To request a reserved space, please complete the Reserved Space Request form. Once a reserved space request has been approved by the PTS Senior Director, PTS staff will assist the customer in choosing a reserved space in his/her assigned parking location and will install reserved space signage. View Pricing Retiree Permits Georgia Tech faculty and staff who retire can purchase permits at a discounted rate. Permits can be used in any ungated, non-residential parking zone (excluding E44 and E49). Permits for fully-retired employees are $50 annually (not prorated or refundable). Retirees who are working part-time at the Institute can also request gate access for one gated parking area (excluding E44 and E45). Permits are valid from August 15 of the current year (or the date of purchase) through August 14 of the following year. New retirees are required to show documentation of their retired status from OHR. Authorization must be granted by their supervisor. View Pricing Departmental Permits Many Georgia Tech faculty and staff use their personal vehicles to travel to several campus buildings to conduct Institute business (meetings, deliveries, etc.). Department heads whose personnel use personal vehicles to conduct Institute business may purchase Official Business Permits for their employees. To request departmental permits, complete this form. More information Vendor/Contractor Permits Vendors and contractors who visit the Institute frequently for business purposes are required to purchase permits for each vehicle associated with their organization. Several parking options are available to meet a variety of needs, including permits for ungated or gated parking zones or temporary permits valid for a specific time period. BuzzCards or PTS gate cards will be required to access gated locations. Vendor and Contractor Permits may only be purchased in the PTS office. Please bring the registration information for each vehicle needing a permit. View Pricing Back to Top 2021-2022 Permit Prices Annual Individual Permit: $795 Carpool Individual Permit: $695 Semester Permit: $400 Reserved Space: $750 (in addition to the cost of an annual permit; available for faculty and staff only) Evening/Weekend Permit: $235 Evening/Weekend Plus 1 Hour Access: $335 Evening/Weekend Plus 2 Hour Access: $435 Evening/Weekend Plus 3 Hour Access: $535 SmartPark Permit: $25 (non-refundable), $6 per SmartPark unit Motorcycle/Scooter/Moped Permit: Primary Vehicle: $145 Secondary Vehicle: $30 (non-refundable, with the purchase of any Annual Individual Permit) Retirees Permit: On GT payroll: $398 Not on payroll: $50 (non-refundable; permitted in ungated parking lots only) Temporary Permits: Daily: $15 Weekly: $35 Monthly: $110 Weekend Permit: $15 (valid Friday 5:00 p.m. to Monday 8:00 a.m. Flex Permits (Pilot Program): Daily: $8 Two Days (Consecutive): $15 Weekly: $35 Monthly: $110 Vendor/Contractor Permits (single location only): Daily: $15 Weekly: $45 Monthly: $115 Annual: $865 Vendor/Contractor Permits -V01 (provides access to ungated and loading areas): Daily: $15 Weekly: $45 Monthly: $130 Annual: $1,115 Vendor/Contractor Permits -V02 (provides access to gated, ungated and loading areas - excludes paid visitor locations): Daily: $15 Weekly: $45 Monthly: $155 Annual: $1,325 Official Business Permit: $460 (in addition to the cost of an annual permit; available for faculty and staff only; approval required) Dual Access: $290 (in addition to the cost of an annual permit; available for faculty and staff only; approval required) Campus Fleet Vehicle Permit: $230 Replacement fee for lost/stolen permits: $35 Replacement fee for gate card: $35 Event Parking: price based on posted event signage Back to Top Permit Payments All student permit fees are transferred to the Bursar’s office to be paid along with tuition and fees. Faculty and Staff have the following payment options: Payroll deduction: available for all benefits-eligible employees who are paid monthly or bi-weekly. Permit fees are deducted August through May annually (there are no deductions June and July). The deadline to enroll in payroll deduction is May 31 for current employees. Credit card via driverseat.gatech.edu (note funds will be deducted immediately, even for permit purchases made for an upcoming academic year). Credit card or check in person at the PTS customer service center. Returns, Refunds, and Exchanges Permits are issued and assigned in accordance with Georgia Tech’s academic year. Annual permits are valid from August 15 to August 14 of the next year. Permits are sold starting in April for the upcoming academic year. Refundable permits may be returned for prorated refunds to the PTS office before March 31 annually. Permits returned after this date will not be refunded. SmartPark, Temporary Permits and Fully Retired Permits are nonrefundable. Click here to open the Permit Return Request form. Customers may exchange their Annual Individual or Carpool Permits for a different location by filling out the online Permit Return Request form and purchasing their desired permit in The Driver’s Seat. Click here to view the Availability page to determine what parking locations are currently available for sale or exchange. Proration Starting September 1 of each year, most permit prices are prorated every two weeks. Contact PTS for the most recent prorated permit prices. Back to Top Facebook Twitter YouTube Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum 828 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30332 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login