Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Public Safety Office myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link Our Mission & People Careers Our Training Campus Safety Select to follow link Campus Safety Overview Staying Safe Statistics and Reporting Community Services Select to follow link Community Services Unit Lost and Found Fingerprinting Service Community Education Weapons Storage Police Services Security Select to follow link Security Unit Keys & Security Devices Security Assessments Communications Unit Emergency Management Select to follow link Mission & Partners Emergency Planning Building Liaisons Accessibility in an Emergency AED Program Community Resources Contact Select to follow link Compliments and Complaints Contact Info & Location Records Request Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Public Safety Office Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Emergency Management Emergency Planning The overall priorities of the University of Kansas during a disaster are the protection of lives, live assets, valuable research, property and the environment. As a result of these priorities, the university has developed an Emergency Management Plan which addresses the key objectives of responding to emergency conditions and managing the processes of restoring academic and research programs and services. In order to implement the plan to its fullest, the university is committed to training its employees to effectively respond to an emergency and developing that training with exercises and drills designed to assess response capabilities and adequacy of policies, plans, procedures and protocols. The Emergency Management Plan is available in KU's Policy Library. Continuity of Operations Planning The University of Kansas participates in a state-wide comprehensive project for the purpose of developing Continuity of Operations Plans (COOP). A web-based continuity planning system is used to assist government organizations in the COOP development process. The system guides users through each step of the continuity planning process and helps develop a plan that outlines the roles and responsibilities required to ensure an organizations ability to transition and continue its operations during times of disruption. The system has been customized to meet the specific COOP planning needs of the State of Kansas, and access is provided to individuals and units by request. Special Event Planning Not every planned event runs as scheduled. To ensure the safety of our students, employees and visitors, all members of the community have the responsibility to protect and minimize the effects of an emergency incident at a planned special event. Event organizers are encouraged to review the Special Event Emergency Planning Guide form (pdf) during their planning process. When Planning an Event Develop an emergency plan for the event. Download the Special Event Planning Guide form (pdf). Designate a point of contact for first responders or public safety officials. Notify the Office of Public Safety of your event by sending your Special Event Plan to pso_em@ku.edu. At least one person on the event-management team should be able to receive KU text notification alerts. If an alert is issued, tell attendees exactly what the message says and follow the directions provided. Conduct a pre-event briefing with managers, ushers, volunteers and other event staff. Review details of the venue, including entrances and exits, number of people attending and specific information about the audience/attendees. Review policies and procedures on unacceptable behavior. Monitor the weather. If inclement weather is expected, designate someone to monitor it. Know how to communicate with each other and attendees if a severe weather warning is issued. For assistance with weather monitoring, contact KU Emergency Management at 785-864-5900 or the National Weather Service-Topeka Office at 785-234-2592. Determine who may need assistance evacuating or sheltering in place. Review details on evacuation, shelter-in-place and emergency communication plans. Review details on medical procedures. Public Safety Building 1501 Crestline Drive Suite 120 Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Route: 10 & 30 kupso@ku.edu 785-864-5900 facebook twitter Compliment / Complaint Clery Report Use of Force Summaries Report Sexual Assault/Harassment KU Alert System Student Housing Safety Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.