Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Public Safety Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Home About Us Dispatch Patrol Emergency Management Clery Administrators OSU Cascades DPS Employment Services After Hours Passes Bike Information Lost & Found View all Services Resources Community Wellness, Education and Safety Network Policy DAMSafe FAQ Incident Log Budget OSU Assist Training Bargaining Efforts Contact Us Feedback/Complaints Process Public Records Request Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Home About Us Dispatch Patrol Emergency Management Clery Administrators OSU Cascades DPS Employment Services After Hours Passes Bike Information Lost & Found View all Services Resources Community Wellness, Education and Safety Network Policy DAMSafe FAQ Incident Log Budget OSU Assist Training Bargaining Efforts Contact Us Feedback/Complaints Process Public Records Request Report an Emergency: Dial 9-1-1 or call (541) 737-7000 24/7 Dispatch/Non-Emergency: (541) 737-3010 or TTY Line: (541) 713-0320 The ‘Run. Hide. Fight.’ model is considered a best practice for response to active threats, such as an active shooter. Although graphic, this FBI video demonstrates the three tactics that you can use to keep yourself and others safe during an active shooter attack—RUN, HIDE, or FIGHT. Learning these principles now will prepare you to act quickly. It’s also important to keep in mind that the decision to RUN, HIDE, or FIGHT is highly personal and there should be no fear of judgment for the decision that you make, whether it is to RUN, HIDE, or Fight. It’s most important that you prepare now to make quick decisions, and to quickly turn those decisions into action should the unthinkable occur. Please take a moment to familiarize yourself with the ‘Run. Hide. Fight.’ model. As always, our DPS is committed to the well-being of our students, staff and community. Shanon Anderson Associate Vice President for Public Safety and Chief of Police This video depicts content that some viewers may find graphic and disturbing. Viewer discretion is advised. RUN Have an escape route and plan in mind. Leave your belongings behind. Keep your hands visible. Call 911 when you are in a safer place. HIDE If you can’t escape, hide in an area out of the shooter’s view. Hide behind something solid if possible. Block entry to your hiding place and lock the doors. Silence your cell phone and other devices. FIGHT Fighting is a last resort to be used only when your life is in imminent danger. Attempt to incapacitate the active shooter. Find an object to use as a weapon, such as a fire extinguisher or chair. Work as a team with someone else if possible. When law enforcement arrives: Follow instructions. Keep your hands visible at all times. Avoid pointing or yelling. Know that help for the injured is on its way Facebook Twitter Instagram Public Safety Principles As an institution of learning, we believe that interactions involving members of the Oregon State University community, the general public and public safety personnel should strive to follow an educational model, be responsive and non-escalatory, and be restorative, not punitive, whenever possible. Members of the university community should value and feel a strong sense of safety. Yet, each person’s experience with law enforcement differs. We seek to advance and support an environment within Oregon State University that is welcoming, compassionate and caring, understanding, trusting and diverse. View other principles (PDF) that the Public Safety Advisory Committee is observing in its work. Corvallis Campus Public Safety Background The provision of public safety on OSU’s Corvallis campus has undergone a transition. The OSU Police Department was formed on January 1, 2021. Public safety within the university is advanced by many university departments, including the Department of Public Safety and contractors at major OSU athletics events. Other community well-being, public safety services and student support are provided by Student Health Services, the Survivor Advocacy & Resource Center, Counseling & Psychological Services and other OSU departments. The university also collaborates with the Corvallis Police Department, the Corvallis Fire Department and other local public safety agencies. Tips to Keep your Bike Secure on Campus About Us Dispatch FAQ Patrol Resources About Us › Contact Info OSU Department of Public Safety 200 Cascade Hall 601 SW 17th St Corvallis, OR 97333 Send Email Emergency: 541-737-7000 or 9-1-1 Non-Emergency: 541-737-3010 TTY Line: 541-713-0320 Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook Twitter Instagram