Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Public Safety Office myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link Our Mission & People Careers Our Training Campus Safety Select to follow link Campus Safety Overview Staying Safe Statistics and Reporting Community Services Select to follow link Community Services Unit Lost and Found Fingerprinting Service Community Education Weapons Storage Police Services Security Select to follow link Security Unit Keys & Security Devices Security Assessments Communications Unit Emergency Management Select to follow link Mission & Partners Emergency Planning Building Liaisons Accessibility in an Emergency AED Program Community Resources Contact Select to follow link Compliments and Complaints Contact Info & Location Records Request Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Public Safety Office Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Campus Safety Campus Safety We work to provide the safest possible campus environment for KU students, faculty, staff and the general public by partnering with KU leaders and campus units on day-to-day safety, as well as planning and coordinating large campus events. The KU Lawrence campus has more than 27,000 students, faculty and staff, placing it in the top 20 of Kansas' largest towns on any given day. Unfortunately, as in towns of all sizes, serious crimes are sometimes committed on the KU campus. When these crimes occur, the KU Office of Public Safety asks that everyone in the community does what they can to assist us in solving the crimes. If you have information regarding any crime within our campus community, please contact the KU Office of Public Safety at 785-864-5900, the Crime Stoppers Hotline at 785-864-8888, or email kupso@ku.edu. Emergency Communications KU has an emergency notification system to keep students, faculty, staff and visitors informed in the event of an emergency that could affect their health and safety. To reach the most people in a timely manner, KU has invested in a multi-tiered system. Some or all of the following methods may be used in any given campus emergency. Campus Emergency Notification System KU Alert System Students, faculty and staff with a KU online ID can sign up to receive a KU Alert text message through Enroll & Pay, under the Emergency Contact tab. Email KU Alert messages are automatically sent to all KU email accounts. Public address system KU’s police dispatchers are able to broadcast alerts and instructions through fire alarms in nearly two-thirds of campus buildings (all classroom buildings and large gathering venues). 864-SNOW This phone line, with a recorded message, is activated if bad weather forces the delay or cancellation of classesor the closure of campus. Local media The university will utilize local media to inform the university community Web resources Alert banners will appear at the top of all KU websites with a link to the KU Alert information site. KU Alerts System Learn more about campus alerts and how to sign up for notications. KU Alerts Site Public Safety Building 1501 Crestline Drive Suite 120 Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Route: 10 & 30 kupso@ku.edu 785-864-5900 facebook twitter Compliment / Complaint Clery Report Use of Force Summaries Report Sexual Assault/Harassment KU Alert System Student Housing Safety Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.