skip to main content About Administration & Leadership Campus Locations Public Health News Fact Sheet Contact Us Academics Degrees & Programs Departments Faculty Students Admissions Degrees & Programs Student Spotlights International Applicants Tuition & Financial Aid Community Engaging Community Partners Prevention/Intervention Research Volunteerism Practice Practicum Experience Public Health Scholars Study Abroad PHield Trips Research Research Centers Research Programs Faculty Research Interests Research Resources Climate & Diversity Give Search Search Close Menu Collapsed content that can be toggled with the menu button. Apply Alumni Contact News About Administration & Leadership Colleges & Campuses Public Health News Fact Sheet Contact Us Academics Degrees & Programs Departments Faculty Students Admissions Degrees & Programs Student Spotlights International Applicants Tuition & Financial Aid Community Engaging Community Partners Prevention/Intervention Research Volunteerism Practice Practicum Experience Public Health Scholars Study Abroad PHield Trips Research Research Centers Research Programs Faculty Research Interests Research Resources Alumni Apply Climate & Diversity Calendars Contact Directory Employment Give News Parking Press & Media Webmail Find Your Path in Public Health Tell us your passion and we’ll help you create an academic plan to turn that passion into a successful career. Home Find Your Path in Public Health Undergraduate Programs in Public Health Bachelor of Science in Public Health (BSPH) Public Health Practice The BSPH program is based on a philosophy of health promotion and disease prevention, to improve the quality of life of individuals, families, and communities. Graduates of the BSPH program will be able to assess factors influencing health in populations as well as plan, design, implement, and successfully manage effective health care programs and interventions. Bryan-College Station McAllen public-health bachelors More on BSPH degree » Minor in Public Health Public Health Practice The Public Health minor is based on a philosophy of health promotion and disease prevention, to improve the quality of life of individuals, families and communities. Students will receive an introduction to the foundational and social issues of Public Health as well as gain an understanding of threats to public health and the role that our environment affects both the practice and applications of public health. Bryan-College Station public-health minors More on Public Health minors » Minor in Occupational Safety and Health Occupational Safety and Health According to the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, 4,821 workers were killed on the job in 2014. As a future employer or manager it’s critical to understanding how to keep your employees safe and healthy. Students in the Occupational Safety and Health minor will gain a basic understand of public health practices to address the risks at various workplaces and how to prevent injuries and fatalities. Bryan-College Station public-health minor More on Public Health minors » Master's and Doctoral Programs in Public Health Master of Public Health (MPH) Multiple Concentrations Available The MPH degree is a multidisciplinary professional degree program designed to provide practical training in areas related to public health practice. We offer six concentrations for the student to select as their major: Environmental Health, Occupational Safety and Health, Health Behavior, Epidemiology, Biostatistics, and Health Policy and Management. Bryan-College Station Online public-health masters More on MPH degree » Master of Health Administration (MHA) Health Policy and Management The MHA degree is a professional degree program intended for students pursuing administrative practice in health service related settings. The vision of the program is to develop health care managers who will provide leadership for their organizations and communities based on a strong commitment to public health, ethics, integrity and service as well as demonstrate the ability to implement innovative ways of meeting health care needs of a diverse society. Bryan-College Station Houston public-health masters More on MHA degree » Doctor of Public Health Sciences (DrPH) Multiple Concentrations Available The Doctor of Public Health Sciences (DrPH) is an advanced professional degree for those whose career goals are in the area of professional practice in public health, including current and potential leaders in public health practice. We offer three concentrations you may choose from, including Epidemiology, Environmental Health, and Health Behavior. Bryan-College Station public-health certificates More on DrPH degree » Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) in Health Services Research Health Policy and Management The Doctor of Philosophy in Health Services Research is designed to prepare students to conduct high-quality research addressing important health services issues through intensive education in research methods. Students will be provided opportunities for advanced training in health policy, organization theory, and health economics along with applied knowledge in specific substantive areas of health policy or management. Bryan-College Station public-health certificates More on PhD degree » Undergraduate/Graduate Dual Degree Programs 3+2 Bachelor of Science and Master of Public Health (BSPH/MPH) Multiple Concentrations Available Students can earn a combined BSPH/MPH degree through an intensive program within five years. Students will begin the master's curriculum during their undergraduate senior year. They will receive both degrees upon completion of the program to then become competitive in the workforce or for health profession programs. Bryan-College Station public-health dual-degrees More on 3+2 programs » 3+2 Bachelor of Science Interdisciplinary Engineering and Master of Public Health in Occupational Safety Multiple Concentrations Available The School of Public Health and the College of Engineering have created a dual degree that gives students the opportunity to receive both the Bachelor of Science in Interdisciplinary Engineering and Master of Public Health in Occupational Safety and Health through a five-year program. The graduate curriculum is traditional begun during the fourth year of the undergraduate career. Bryan-College Station public-health dual-degrees More on 3+2 programs » 3+2 Bachelor of Science Industrial Engineering and Master of Public Health in Occupational Safety Multiple Concentrations Available The School of Public Health and the College of Engineering have created a dual degree that gives students the opportunity to receive both the Bachelor of Science in Industrial Engineering and Master of Public Health in Occupational Safety and Health through a five-year program. The graduate curriculum is traditional begun during the fourth year of the undergraduate career. Bryan-College Station public-health dual-degrees More on 3+2 programs » Graduate/Professional Dual Degree Programs Master of International Affairs/Master of Public Health (MIA/MPH) Multiple Concentrations Available The Bush School and the School of Public Health have combined to offer students the ability to receive both a Master of International Affairs degree and a Master of Public Health degree in a three year period. International affairs increasingly deals with issues of global cooperation on preventing and responding to pandemics and other transborder health issues. Students will begin in the MPH program then complete the MIA program in their final four semesters. Bryan-College Station public-health dual-degrees More on MIA/MPH program » Doctor of Medicine/Master of Public Health (MD+MPH) Multiple Concentrations Available The increasing complexities of health care delivery put a premium on professionals who understand and meet the demands required to deliver innovative, collaborative, and compassionate care. Administered by the Texas A&M College of Medicine, the MD Plus Program is committed to providing students the skills needed to take leadership roles in the healthcare industries. With multiple courses of study, the program is designed to meet students' varied interests. Bryan-College Station public-health dual-degrees More on MD/MPH program » Juris Doctor/Master of Public Health in Health Policy and Management (JD/MPH) School of Law and School of Public Health The School of Law and the School of Public have combined to offer students the ability to receive both a Juris Doctor (JDLW) degree and a Health Policy & Management (PHPM) Master of Public Health (MPH) degree in four years. Bryan-College Station public-health dual-degrees More on JD/MPH program » Graduate Certificate (GH) Programs in Public Health Global Health Certificate Health Behavior The Graduate Certificate in Global Health Program is an interdisciplinary certification that is available to all graduate students at Texas A&M University. Its purpose is to teach public health professionals about global perspectives on public health, encourage students to consider careers in a variety of settings around the world, and to promote research and innovation in addressing the myriad public health problems seen around the world. Bryan-College Station public-health certificates More on GH Certificate » Maternal and Child Health (MCH) Certificate Epidemiology and Biostatistics The Maternal and Child Health (MCH) certificate is an interdisciplinary certificate that partners with departments across the School of Public Health, designed to increase MCH competencies to graduate-level students. Additionally, the MCH certificate offers electives from the College of Education and Human Development and the Bush School of Government and Public service. Bryan-College Station public-health certificates More on MCH certificate » Health Systems Management (HSM) Certificate Health Policy and Management The Health Systems Management Certificate is intended for students who are, or expect to be, working in a health care setting. This 12 graduate hour certificate focuses on public health and health care management knowledge, abilities, and skills needed for individuals working alongside health care administrators. Upon completion of the certificate, students will have a strong foundation of health care management and be prepared to work alongside health care managers and executives. Bryan-College Station public-health certificates More on HSM certificate » FacebookTwitterInstagramLinked inRSSFlickrYouTube Back to top Institution Health Science Center Dentistry Medicine Nursing Pharmacy Public Health Information Calendar Contact Us Diversity Accreditation Organizational Chart Emergency Information Parking Press & Media Title IX Clery Annual Reports Resources Directory Facilities Work Request Howdy Portal Visitor Parking Request Information Technology Intranet Libraries Counseling Webmail Texas A&M University · Texas A&M University System · State of Texas · Open Records · Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline · State Link Policy · Equal Opportunity / Nondiscrimination · Employment · Texas Veterans Portal · Security · Site Policies · Accessibility