Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Office of Public Affairs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Strategic Communications Government Relations Select to follow link State Relations Select to follow link Budget State Agenda KU Fact Book Jayhawks in the Statehouse KU Roundup Newsletter KU Fact Sheets Testimonies Federal Relations Select to follow link Kansas Delegation Monitoring Congress Federal Agencies Groups & Coalitions Tips Internships Marketing Select to follow link Studio Portraits News Select to follow link Find a Faculty Expert Submit KU News News and Media Relations Staff Event Management Communicators Select to follow link Communicators Directory Resources Talking Points Newsletter Media Interview Tips KPR & Audio-Reader Contact Us Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Office of Public Affairs Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Communicators Talking Points Newsletter Talking Points is a periodic newsletter from the Office of Public Affairs that helps keep our network of communicators informed. May 10, 2021 This edition covers Commencement, the new Sunflower CMS, an updated Experts at KU website, and the new Jayhawk Welcome Center. February 12, 2021 This month's edition covers Commencement planning, the new Sunflower CMS, guidelines for event registration, and the Chancellor's recent testimony to the Kansas Legislature. February 14, 2019 This month's edition covers recent legislative testimony, an op-ed from Chancellor Girod in The Kansas City Star, and the upcoming "One Day. One KU." day of giving. December 4, 2018 This month's edition covers new templates in the brand tool kit, holiday cards, and the retirement of a KU photographer Doug Koch after 29 years of service. September 25, 2018 This edition includes information on Homecoming, Crimson & Blue Day, and our annual "20th day" enrollment announcement. August 16, 2018 This month's edition includes information on Traditions Night, Convocation and Brand Day, as well as details on nametags and the social content manager position. July 2, 2018 This month's edition includes details on Telly Awards, the KU homepage refresh, and fence wrap for the construction site in front of the Kansas Union. February 14, 2018 This months' edition includes Chancellor Girod's presentation to the legislature, updated funding charts, reminders about youth programs and conference planning services, and information about Endowment's upcoming day of giving. January 17, 2018 This month's edition covers the Legislative session, updates to meta data, our new Commencement website and Endowment's upcoming "One Day, One KU" day of giving. December 5, 2017 In this month's edition, learn about the KU Visitors Guide, opportunities to optimize your metadata, and a brown bag lunch series to learn about the 2018 legislative session. October 10, 2017 This month's edition covers Crimson & Blue Day, enrollment data, campus notifications and the University Scholarly Achievement Award. August 15, 2017 This month's edition includes information on our new interim vice chancellor for public affairs, LinkedIn Showcase Pages, and U.S. News rankings. July 14, 2017 This month's edition includes information on Brand Breakfasts, a homepage makeover and changes to Facebook metadata. June 22, 2017 This month's edition includes information on CASE membership, the 2017-18 social media calendar, new typefaces, and our next chancellor, Douglas A. Girod. May 23, 2017 This month's edition includes information on Commencement assets, the new brand.ku.edu website, a new faculty expertise portal, and a party for Vice Chancellor Tim Caboni. April 25, 2017 This edition of Talking Points covers Commencement, Brand Day, and a social media campaign to celebrate Chancellor Gray-Little as she prepares to step down this summer. March 1, 2017 This month's edition includes information on the 2017 Chancellor's Report, upcoming U.S. News graduate rankings, Facebook Live, KU branded regalia, and a message from Chancellor Gray-Little on KU's core values and potential threats to universities nationwide. February 7, 2017 This month's edition discusses a new Alumni Association app, Chancellor Gray-Little's recent presentation to the House Higher Education Budget Committee, and our updated KU Roundup e-newsletter for legislators. January 12, 2017 This month's edition discusses the 2017 Legislative Session, updates to the Commencement site, the Chancellor's Report, and our new Central District website. December 12, 2016 This month's edition includes information on new websites for KU Endowment and the DeBruce Center, a new pop-up survey on the KU homepage, and a new Student Affairs monthly publication. November 7, 2016 This month's edition covers the next KU Communicators meeting, KU Elevate, and the upcoming Integrated Science Building "topping out" ceremony. October 6, 2016 This edition contains information on 2016 enrollment, KU's weapons policy, the ongoing Climate Study and messaging regarding diversity, inclusion and free speech. September 8, 2016 This month's summary covers U.S. News & World Report rankings, the upcoming Climate Study, enrollment data and the bittersweet announcement that Gerald Holland will be leaving KU to take a new position with Sporting KC. August 10, 2016 This month's summary covers our upcoming KU Communicators diversity training session, the conclusion of the Far Above campaign, Family Day and the Common Book. July 6, 2016 This month's update covers the KU Event Calendar, the Kansas Open Records Act, our Minors on Campus policy and a new youth programs website. Strong Hall, Room 230 1450 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 publicaffairs@ku.edu 785-864-7100 Strategic Communications Government Relations Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.