Skip to content Contact Search Menu Home About Get Engaged Faculty Features Awards Resources Bringing U-M Insights & Information to the World Recent Posts Connecting Michigan Clinicians with Pediatric and Perinatal Mental Health Resources May 13, 2022 Mental health care isn’t only provided in psychiatrists offices. It often occurs in family doctors’ or primary care providers’ offices, especially when the care is for children and young adults. Those providers, however, aren’t always equipped with the resources needed to address mental health concerns of their patients. That’s where the Michigan Child Collaborative Care … The Critical Need for Public Health Engagement May 13, 2022 F. DuBois Bowman, dean of the University of Michigan School of Public Health, believes public engagement is a critical piece of academic public health. We spoke with Dean Bowman to learn more about public engagement and how the School of Public Health has been committed to supporting the State of Michigan. What is public engagement? … Bringing Faculty & Communities Together May 12, 2022 MICHIGAN ROAD SCHOLARS BY ERICA COLAIANNE Universities are a space for teaching and learning, but they do so much more. Connecting faculty and communities increases knowledge and understanding of educational systems, economic issues, and societal challenges. The Michigan Road Scholars Tour, a five-day traveling seminar for faculty throughout Michigan, does just that. The educational tour … Nursing & Mental Health: A Michigan Minds Special Series May 12, 2022 National Nurses Week is celebrated each year from May 6-12, ending on the day of Florence Nightingale’s birthday. The theme for the 2022 celebration has been ‘Nurses: A Voice to Lead’ — an important signifier of the vital role nurses play in caring and advocating for patients. Many recent studies have found that nurses are … Public Engagement & Impact Office of the Vice President for Communications 503 Thompson Street Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1340 Emailpublicengagement@umich.edu Michigan Impact Newsletter Signup Washington Update Newsletter Signup © 2022 Regents of the University of Michigan