Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Office of Public Affairs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Strategic Communications Government Relations Select to follow link State Relations Select to follow link Budget State Agenda KU Fact Book Jayhawks in the Statehouse KU Roundup Newsletter KU Fact Sheets Testimonies Federal Relations Select to follow link Kansas Delegation Monitoring Congress Federal Agencies Groups & Coalitions Tips Internships Marketing Select to follow link Studio Portraits News Select to follow link Find a Faculty Expert Submit KU News News and Media Relations Staff Event Management Communicators Select to follow link Communicators Directory Resources Talking Points Newsletter Media Interview Tips KPR & Audio-Reader Contact Us Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Office of Public Affairs Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Government Relations The 2022 Legislative Session The 2022 Legislative Session is now underway. For the next few months, KU leaders will work with Kansas legislators and policymakers on budgets and other matters of importance to higher education and the university. On January 12, Governor Laura Kelly shared her Fiscal Year 2023 Budget Proposal, which serves as a starting point for budget discussions that will be ongoing throughout the session. The Governor's proposal includes two provisions that KU will ask lawmakers to support this session: Restore higher education funding to FY 2021 levels so universities can freeze tuition ($45.7M) Create a University Economic Development Challenge Grant ($195M) Additionally, KU is asking lawmakers to create legislation that would: Enable universities to sell donor-funded university property with Regents approval and use the proceeds to address deferred maintenance Information about these proposals is below. Restore Higher Education Funding KU has frozen tuition for the past three years and would like to do so again. To accomplish this, we need lawmakers’ help. Specifically, we are asking lawmakers to support Gov. Kelly’s proposal for $45.7 million to restore higher education funding to FY 2021 levels and address inflationary costs. For context, it is important to note that State funding for higher education remains below 2008 levels – and that’s without adjusting for inflation. KU continues to make cuts to become more efficient, but the university cannot continue to function as a top research institution and remain affordable for Kansas families without stable State funding. Create a University Economic Development Challenge Grant The Governor has proposed the creation of a University Economic Development Challenge Grant. This grant would enable universities to match donor dollars with State funds to develop projects that have significant economic benefit to the state. KU joins the Board of Regents in asking lawmakers to support this $195 million proposal in Gov. Kelly’s budget. The reality is, universities are uniquely positioned to drive economic growth. KU does this by recruiting scholars to the region, meeting workforce needs, creating startup companies, and partnering with industry to develop products and services. The University Economic Development Challenge Grant would enhance KU’s ability to do all of this. Enable KU to Sell University Property Currently, universities may sell university property that was originally gifted or purchased with gifted dollars – but each project requires a lengthy bureaucratic process and legislative approval. This makes it hard for KU to be nimble and get the best price when negotiating a property sale. Thus, KU and the Board of Regents are asking lawmakers to allow state universities to sell gifted or donor-funded university property with KBOR approval, rather than legislative approval. KU would commit to use the proceeds of these sales to address deferred maintenance, which benefits the university, the Legislature and taxpayers. State Relations Budget State Agenda Jayhawks in the Statehosue Groups and Coalitions Internships KU Roundup Newsletter Testimonies State Relations Kelly Whitten Director of State Relations View full profile Strong Hall, Room 230 1450 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 publicaffairs@ku.edu 785-864-7100 Strategic Communications Government Relations Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.