Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Office of Public Affairs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Strategic Communications Government Relations Select to follow link State Relations Select to follow link Budget State Agenda KU Fact Book Jayhawks in the Statehouse KU Roundup Newsletter KU Fact Sheets Testimonies Federal Relations Select to follow link Kansas Delegation Monitoring Congress Federal Agencies Groups & Coalitions Tips Internships Marketing Select to follow link Studio Portraits News Select to follow link Find a Faculty Expert Submit KU News News and Media Relations Staff Event Management Communicators Select to follow link Communicators Directory Resources Talking Points Newsletter Media Interview Tips KPR & Audio-Reader Contact Us Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Office of Public Affairs Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Marketing Studio Portraits Portrait Event Dates Spring, 2022 - Location/time TBD Portrait Eligibility KU community members who are eligible for portraits are listed below and include: New faculty at posted walk-in portrait events Current faculty, deans, directors at semi-annual walk-in portrait events Subjects of national news stories released by KU News National scholarship recipients supported by the University Honors Program As of July 1, 2017, Marketing will no longer produce studio portraits of Lawrence campus staff and students on a cost-recovery basis. We regret that the requirements of a service center are not scalable at our current level of operation and staffing. As part of our office charter, we’ll continue to photograph faculty during annual and semi-annual portrait events, though monthly portrait events will cease. Departments in need of staff portraits should consider hiring a local freelance photographer. Marketing regrets the inconvenience of using an off-campus source and appreciates your past patronage, patience, and understanding. Guidelines for Professional Head-and-Shoulder Portraits Business or business casual attire with neutral grays or muted colors is best. Neon colors and bold prints/patterns tend to detract from one’s face. Stark white or black values are often difficult to reproduce pleasingly. Herringbone or other weaves with narrow lines may distort in a moiré pattern when displayed on a computer monitor. Blouses with low necklines often make subjects appear barely (or not at all) dressed, when the photo is closely cropped. For individuals with a dark complexion, consider choosing wardrobe items with middle-to-dark brightness values. This helps reduce excess contrast. For individuals with a shiny complexion, consider consulting an aesthetician about the use of an astringent or properly tinted dulling powder. Transitions®-type eyeglasses should be shielded from bright light for at least ten minutes just prior to a portrait sitting. Large, highly reflective jewelry may produce glare, and long necklaces may be pointless if the photo is cropped/re-sized for a departmental webpage. Questions? For additional questions contact kuphotos@ku.edu. Thank you. Strong Hall, Room 230 1450 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 publicaffairs@ku.edu 785-864-7100 Strategic Communications Government Relations Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.