Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Public Safety Office myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link Our Mission & People Careers Our Training Campus Safety Select to follow link Campus Safety Overview Staying Safe Statistics and Reporting Community Services Select to follow link Community Services Unit Lost and Found Fingerprinting Service Community Education Weapons Storage Police Services Security Select to follow link Security Unit Keys & Security Devices Security Assessments Communications Unit Emergency Management Select to follow link Mission & Partners Emergency Planning Building Liaisons Accessibility in an Emergency AED Program Community Resources Contact Select to follow link Compliments and Complaints Contact Info & Location Records Request Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Public Safety Office Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home About Careers There are a number of careers within the Public Safety Office that provide the opportunity to serve and protect the KU community in different ways. The common thread is the desire to create a safer campus environment and help students, faculty, staff and visitors. We believe differences in perspectives, experiences and cultures create a stronger team, and we encourage applicants from diverse backgrounds to apply for available positions. Below is a list of minimum qualifications, procedures for applying, and a description of the hiring process for each position. Complete position descriptions and job information are posted on the Work at KU website. Please do not send applications directly to our office. Positions Overview Deputy Chief Click to expand Required Qualifications High school diploma or completion of a G.E.D. equivalency and a minimum of five years of commissioned law enforcement work; or a Bachelor's degree in Criminal Justice, Public Service or related field and a minimum of three years of commissioned law enforcement work. Minimum of three years of field supervisory experience in law enforcement. Certified or ability to be certified as a law enforcement officer by the Kansas Commission on Peace Officers' Standards and Training. Must be free of convictions, expunged convictions, and diversions for any misdemeanor crimes of domestic violence or their equivalent under the uniform code of military justice imposed by any state or federal government (KSA 74-5605). Must be free of convictions, expunged convictions, and diversions for any felony or their equivalent under the uniform code of military justice imposed by any state or federal government (KSA 74-5605). Preferred Qualifications Master's degree in criminal justice (or a related field), public administration or business administration. Three years of commissioned law enforcement experience with the KU Public Safety Office (Lawrence campus); or lacking that, at least six years of commissioned law enforcement experience at a college or university with over 25,000 enrolled students and on-campus housing. Completion of a recognized law enforcement executive development program, such as the FBI National Academy, Southern Police Institute, or similar program. Experience with command management of events with large attendance (16,000-50,000+) and requiring coordinated law enforcement/security/EMS response. Position Requirements U. S. citizen. 21 years of age or older. Have a valid driver's license. Able to qualify biannually with duty weapon. Complete a background check, physical, psychological testing and drug screen for new hires (commissioned positions). Salary Range $83,000 - $89,000 Police Officer Click to expand Required Qualifications High school diploma or completion of a G.E.D. equivalency and a minimum of five years of commissioned law enforcement work; or a Bachelor's degree in Criminal Justice, Public Service or related field and a minimum of three years of commissioned law enforcement work. Minimum of three years of field supervisory experience in law enforcement. Certified or ability to be certified as a law enforcement officer by the Kansas Commission on Peace Officers' Standards and Training. Must be free of convictions, expunged convictions, and diversions for any misdemeanor crimes of domestic violence or their equivalent under the uniform code of military justice imposed by any state or federal government (KSA 74-5605). Must be free of convictions, expunged convictions, and diversions for any crimes which are a felony or its equivalent under the uniform code of military justice imposed by any state or federal government (KSA 74-5605). Must be free of convictions, expunged convictions, and diversions for any misdemeanor crimes of domestic violence or their equivalent under the uniform code of military justice imposed by any state or federal government (KSA 74-5605). Preferred Qualifications Master's degree in criminal justice (or a related field), public administration or business administration. Three years of commissioned law enforcement experience with the KU Public Safety Office (Lawrence campus); or, lacking that, at least six years commissioned law enforcement experience at a college or university with over 25,000 enrolled students and on-campus housing. Completion of a recognized law enforcement executive development program, such as the FBI National Academy Southern Police Institute, or similar program. Experience with command management of events with large attendance (16,000-50,000+) and requiring coordinated law enforcement/security/EMS response. Position Requirements U. S. Citizen 21 years of age or older. Have a valid driver's license. Qualify biannually with duty weapon. Complete a background check, physical, psychological testing and drug screen for new hires(commissioned positions). Hiring Process Complete application form online at the Work at KU website. A resume and cover letter must be attached to the online application. Review of applications. Interview with Interview Board. Security Officer Click to expand Position Requirements High school diploma or completion of a G.E.D. equivalency. 18 years of age or older. United States citizen or non-United States citizen legally able to perform the work in or for the United States. Must be able to pass a background check and be free of any diversions or convictions of felonies and free of serious misdemeanors. Must be able to obtain and maintain an unrestricted driver’s license (corrected vision acceptable). Must be in compliance with the KU Public Safety Office policies and procedures regarding intentional body alterations. Contact the KU Public Safety Office for additional information. Ability to perform all essential job functions and not pose a direct threat to the health or safety of self or others. Hiring Process Complete application form online for available positions at the Work at KU website. A resume and cover letter must be attached to the online application form. Review of applications. Interview with Security Interview Board. Background interview with a detective will be conducted and will be scheduled for a later date pending outcome of the initial interview. A thorough background check must be conducted and passed before applicant can proceed in the hiring process. Interview with Chief and Assistant Director of Public Safety Office. Emergency Communications Specialist Click to expand Position Requirements High school diploma or completion of a G.E.D. equivalency. United States citizen or non-United States citizen legally able to perform the work in or for the United States. Must be able to pass a background check and be free of any diversions or convictions of felonies and free of serious misdemeanors. Must be able to work assigned 8-, 10-, or 12-hour shifts with rotating days off. Hearing correctable to a range that will allow normal radio and telephone conversation with field units. Must submit to a hearing examination. Vision correctable to a range that will allow reading of computer display terminals, maps, and printouts quickly and accurately. Ability to perform all essential job functions and shall not pose a direct threat to the health or safety of self or others. Hiring Process Complete application form online at the Work at KU website. A resume and cover letter must be attached to the online application form. Review of applications. Interview with Emergency Communications Specialist Interview Board. Background interview with a detective will be conducted and will be scheduled for a later date pending outcome of the initial interview. A thorough background check must be conducted and passed before applicant can proceed in the hiring process. Pass a hearing test. Student Security Monitor Click to expand Position Overview Monitor CCTV cameras at Spencer Museum of Art and Public Safety Office. Make inspection tours inside Spencer Museum of Art (includes art galleries, stairs, storage rooms) reporting any suspicious activities or irregularities. Based on need, students may perform security responsibilities on foot during home football and basketball games. Students will be assigned to monitor activities in specified sectioned seating areas at special events and report any suspicious activities or irregularities. Establish and maintain professional working relationships with staff of Spencer Museum of Art and the Public Safety Office. In order to carry out the responsibilities of a student security monitor, applicants must remain mentally alert, be confined to a small space for long periods of time without experiencing anxiety, see and hear clearly in order to detect suspicious activities or irregularities. Required Qualfications Must meet KU minimum enrollment requirements for employment (6 credit hours or more during the academic year). Must be available to work late nights, weekends and holidays/breaks. Excellent communication skills, both verbal and written, as evidence by application materials and interview. Position Requirements Good command of the English language, both verbal and written. Pursuant to Federal and State Regulation effective 8-9-2013, all civilian law enforcement employees having access to CJIS (Criminal Justice Information System) are required to be U.S. citizens or non-U.S. citizens who are legally able to perform the work in or for the United States. (NOTE: Naturalized U.S. citizens and non-U.S. citizens legally able to perform work in or for the U.S. must provide appropriate official documentation for proof of such.) Must be free of any diversions or convictions of felonies and free of serious misdemeanors Must submit to a background investigation. Must have hearing and sight correctable to a normal range. Mental alertness is mandatory at all times. Must be able to climb stairs, walk long distances and stand for long periods of time with or without accommodation. Must be able to speak using good clarity, tone, syntax and grammar for purpose of reporting irregularities. Preferred Qualifications Must have working knowledge of computer. Experience working in an office setting. Must work effectively with others. Work Schedule Hours worked will be between 6:00 pm and 6:00 am, Sunday through Saturday. CCTV Monitoring Center shift hours: 6:00-10:00 pm, 10:00 pm-2:00 am, and 2:00-6:00 am. Spencer Art Museum hours. Based on need, students may also work football and basketball games. Employees can work up to a maximum of 20 hours in a normal work-week period. Uniform Employees assigned to Spencer Museum of Art will be issued one uniform shirt. Employees will be responsible for providing their own pants/slacks to be worn with the uniform shirt. Pants must be khaki or tan in color – no jeans or shorts. Employees are required to maintain a professional appearance. They must assume the responsibility for maintaining high standards of personal grooming and cleanliness. Hair will be neat, clean and present a professional appearance. Beards shall be neatly trimmed and groomed. Hiring Process Complete application form online at the Work at KU website. Review of applications Interview with Student Security Monitor Interview Board. Background check interview with a detective. A thorough background check must be conducted and passed before applicant can proceed in the hiring process. If all positions are filled, applicant will be placed in a "pool" for consideration when a position becomes available in that semester or succeeding semesters. Locksmith Click to expand Position Requirements U.S. citizen or non-U.S. citizen legally able to perform the work in or for the United States. (NOTE: Naturalized U.S. citizens and non-U.S. citizens legally able to perform work in or for the U.S. must provide appropriate official documentation for proof of such.) Free of any diversions for or convictions of felonies and free of serious misdemeanors. Must process and maintain a valid driver’s license. Must pass a thorough background check. Ability to read, interpret, and work from sketches, blueprints, and specifications. Ability to work independently and from both oral and written instructions. Willingness and ability to work overtime and respond to after-hours emergencies as needed. Ability to work in extreme weather conditions, both heat and cold. Ability to lift and carry up to 50 pounds. Hiring Process Complete application form online at the Work at KU website. Review of applications. Interview with Locksmith Interview Board. Background interview with a detective will be conducted and will be scheduled for a later date pending outcome of the initial interview. A thorough background check must be conducted and passed before applicant can proceed in the hiring process. Emergency Management Coordinator Click to expand Position Requirements Available to respond to emergencies and to support emergency management operations. Available to participate in scheduled and unscheduled events that may occur before or after normal working hours. Ability to evaluate situations and make difficult and time-sensitive decisions. Ability to effectively coordinate disaster response regarding emergency preparedness issues. Ability to lead, motivate, direct and mentor others. Ability to communicate effectively, both orally and in writing. Ability to prepare and maintain required records and reports. Must be U.S. citizen Must be free of diversions from or convictions of felonies or serious misdemeanor crimes. Possess a valid driver’s license and acceptable driving record. Submit to and pass a thorough background investigation. Hiring Process Complete application form online at the Work at KU website. Review of applications. Interview with Emergency Management Board. Background interview with a detective will be conducted and will be scheduled for a later date pending outcome of the initial interview. A thorough background check must be conducted and passed before applicant can proceed in the hiring process. Security Supervisor — Edwards Campus Click to expand Position Requirements U.S. citizen or non-U.S. citizen legally able to perform the work in or for the United States. (NOTE: Naturalized U.S. citizens and non-U.S. citizens legally able to perform work in or for the U.S. must provide appropriate documentation of legal work authorization.) Must be at least 21 years of age. Must be able to obtain an unrestricted Kansas driver’s license (correct vision acceptable) Must be in compliance with the KU Public Safety Office policies and procedures regarding intentional body alterations. Contact the KU Public Safety Office for additional information. Must be able to work long hours indoors and outside in varying climate conditions, reacting quickly and calmly in emergency situations to determine an effective course of action. Must be able to perform all essential job functions and shall not pose a direct threat to the safety or health of self or others. Ability to organize and direct security patrol and supervise personnel in performing routine security duties. Must be able to work rotating shifts, flexible hours and/or 10-hour shifts. Must pass a detailed background check. Hiring Process Complete application form online at http://employment.ku.edu/. Review of applications Interview with Security Interview Board. Background interview with a detective will be conducted and will be scheduled for a later date pending outcome of the initial interview. A thorough background check must be conducted and passed before applicant can proceed in the hiring process. Interview with Chief and Assistant Director of Public Safety Office Public Safety Building 1501 Crestline Drive Suite 120 Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Route: 10 & 30 kupso@ku.edu 785-864-5900 facebook twitter Compliment / Complaint Clery Report Use of Force Summaries Report Sexual Assault/Harassment KU Alert System Student Housing Safety Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.