Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Public Safety Office myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link Our Mission & People Careers Our Training Campus Safety Select to follow link Campus Safety Overview Staying Safe Statistics and Reporting Community Services Select to follow link Community Services Unit Lost and Found Fingerprinting Service Community Education Weapons Storage Police Services Security Select to follow link Security Unit Keys & Security Devices Security Assessments Communications Unit Emergency Management Select to follow link Mission & Partners Emergency Planning Building Liaisons Accessibility in an Emergency AED Program Community Resources Contact Select to follow link Compliments and Complaints Contact Info & Location Records Request Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Public Safety Office Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Community Resources The University of Kansas Office of Public Safety staff and officers care about the health, well-being and safety of all members of the KU community. There are resources and organizations available at KU and in Lawrence and Douglas County that provide support to meet a variety of needs. Health and Well-being Watkins Health Services Provides comprehensive, affordable medical care to students, along with outreach programs to promote the health of students and other members of the KU community. Headquarters Counseling Center Counseling and intervention services for people who are experiencing a mental health crisis, seeking emotional support or feeling suicidal. Counseling and Psychological Services Helps students with issues related to adjusting to college and other psychological, interpersonal and family problems through Individual or group sessions and other psychiatric services. Douglas County Citizens Committee on Alcoholism Provides social and community services that improve the safety, health, and well-being of individuals, including substance abuse, mental health, and more. Alcoholics Anonymous Peer support program for alcohol and other addictions. Bert Nash Community Mental Health Center A licensed, comprehensive mental health facility that serves as a safety-net provider and essential health care service for children, families, and adults regardless of their ability to pay. Al-anon & Alateen Peer support programs for individuals who are worried about someone with alcohol addition. Discrimination & Sexual Assault/Harassment The Sexual Trauma & Abuse Care Center Provides 24/7 support for victims and survivors of sexual trauma and abuse. Civil Rights & Title IX Office The Civil Rights & Title IX Office investigates sexual assault, sexual harassment and offers training on how to keep our campus safe. Ombuds Office Confidential, impartial, informal, and independent office on campus where members of the campus community can discuss issues they may be facing as a student, staff, or faculty member. Emily Taylor Women's Resource Center Supports women, femmes, non-binary and trans individuals, while engaging all KU community members in an effort to raise awareness around inequity and empower individuals to advocate for themselves and others. Safety KU Buddy System A protective behavior campaign created by KU students to help peers stay safe if they or their friends choose to drink alcohol. Douglas County Emergency Management Provides a comprehensive program to effectively mitigate against, prepare for, respond to and recover from all types of major emergencies or disasters. Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Coordinates federal, state and local emergency relief efforts related prepare for and respond to disasters. VINELink Crime victims/survivors can register to receive information and updates about the custody status of their offender when the offender’s custody status changes. Legal Legal Services for Students Provides assistance to KU students who anticipate or encounter commonly occurring legal issues. The office provides three major services: advice, representation and educational programs. City of Lawrence Municipal Court Handles violations of city ordinances including traffic and parking violations within the city limits. District Attorney's Office Responsible for prosecuting criminal cases that occur in Douglas County, both juvenile and adult, as well as involuntary commitments, traffic, consumer protection and child in need of care cases. Douglas County Treasurer Services include vehicle license plate registration and renewal. Kansas Division of Motor Vehicles Responsible for Kansas driver's license and Kansas identification cards. Law Enforcement Lawrence Police Department Primary agency responsible for public safety and law enforcement within Lawrence city limits. Douglas County Sheriff's Office Primary agency responsible for public safety and law enforcement within Douglas County. Public Safety Building 1501 Crestline Drive Suite 120 Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Route: 10 & 30 kupso@ku.edu 785-864-5900 facebook twitter Compliment / Complaint Clery Report Use of Force Summaries Report Sexual Assault/Harassment KU Alert System Student Housing Safety Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.