Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Office of Public Affairs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Strategic Communications Government Relations Select to follow link State Relations Select to follow link Budget State Agenda KU Fact Book Jayhawks in the Statehouse KU Roundup Newsletter KU Fact Sheets Testimonies Federal Relations Select to follow link Kansas Delegation Monitoring Congress Federal Agencies Groups & Coalitions Tips Internships Marketing Select to follow link Studio Portraits News Select to follow link Find a Faculty Expert Submit KU News News and Media Relations Staff Event Management Communicators Select to follow link Communicators Directory Resources Talking Points Newsletter Media Interview Tips KPR & Audio-Reader Contact Us Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Office of Public Affairs Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Government Relations Federal Relations Tips Because of federal lobbying laws, all official KU requests for meetings with the Kansas congressional delegation must be coordinated with Government Relations. Please contact our federal relations staff prior to requesting a meeting with Kansas members of the U.S. House or U.S. Senate. Communication Tips Try to keep letters and emails to one page. Personal stories are always compelling, so if you have one that helps illustrate your point, share it with your audience. An email with a PDF attachment is the quickest way to get your message seen by members of U.S. Congress. Please share this with our federal relations staff prior to sending it to Washington. If you’re meeting with policymakers in person: Before you go in, think of a sentence or two to sum up your position. It’s a good way to get the ball rolling. Explain an issue in everyday language. Don’t feel like you need to use technical jargon or abbreviations to impress your audience. Be sure to talk about how your ideas will benefit KU, the state of Kansas, or the country as a whole. Strong Hall, Room 230 1450 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 publicaffairs@ku.edu 785-864-7100 Strategic Communications Government Relations Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.