Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Public Safety Office myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link Our Mission & People Careers Our Training Campus Safety Select to follow link Campus Safety Overview Staying Safe Statistics and Reporting Community Services Select to follow link Community Services Unit Lost and Found Fingerprinting Service Community Education Weapons Storage Police Services Security Select to follow link Security Unit Keys & Security Devices Security Assessments Communications Unit Emergency Management Select to follow link Mission & Partners Emergency Planning Building Liaisons Accessibility in an Emergency AED Program Community Resources Contact Select to follow link Compliments and Complaints Contact Info & Location Records Request Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Public Safety Office Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Community Services Fingerprinting Service A number of agencies and organizations require fingerprints. The KU Public Safety Office offers fingerprinting service to KU students, staff, and faculty for no cost and by appointment only. To make an appointment, please use the QLess app to get a fingerprinting time slot. Carefully read the instructions provided by the requesting agency or organization in regards to fingerprints to ensure you have everything you need when you arrive for fingerprinting. Please bring those instructions with you. Bring the following to your appointment: Valid driver's license. Valid photo ID if photo is not on driver's license. Valid KU ID. Fingerprint card if one is provided by the agency or organization. Envelope with adequate postage if we are required to mail fingerprint card for you. Any additional paperwork to be completed by us for the agency or organization. Instructions from the agency or organization. If you are not a KU student, staff or faculty member, please visit the Douglas County Sheriff's Office website for fingerprinting services. Public Safety Building 1501 Crestline Drive Suite 120 Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Route: 10 & 30 kupso@ku.edu 785-864-5900 facebook twitter Compliment / Complaint Clery Report Use of Force Summaries Report Sexual Assault/Harassment KU Alert System Student Housing Safety Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.