Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Public Safety Office myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link Our Mission & People Careers Our Training Campus Safety Select to follow link Campus Safety Overview Staying Safe Statistics and Reporting Community Services Select to follow link Community Services Unit Lost and Found Fingerprinting Service Community Education Weapons Storage Police Services Security Select to follow link Security Unit Keys & Security Devices Security Assessments Communications Unit Emergency Management Select to follow link Mission & Partners Emergency Planning Building Liaisons Accessibility in an Emergency AED Program Community Resources Contact Select to follow link Compliments and Complaints Contact Info & Location Records Request Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Public Safety Office Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Security Security Unit The Security unit is responsible for patrolling and securing 124 academic, athletic, business and research facilities spanning two campuses. Security services are provided to academic buildings, housing units and Kansas Athletics facilities 365 days a year. In addition, selected services are provided at Spencer Art Museum and the Edwards Campus. Services include scheduled locks/unlocks, community engagement, requested unlocks, maintenance and hazard checks. All security officers and supervisors are trained in first aid, CPR and use of automated external defibrillators (AED). Security officers have direct access to the department’s Emergency Communications Center via their portable radios. Security shares nightly lock-up responsibilities with Facilities Services housekeeping. While patrolling buildings, security officers enforce the university's building hours policies and ask people to leave who are not authorized to be in the buildings after posted hours. As part of the building lock-ups, Security is also available to respond to lockout calls in accordance with the building lockout policy. To ensure safety, Security officers prepare write-ups reporting various maintenance issues they find in buildings. Security operations are provided by: Three Security Supervisors 20 Security Officers Approximately 10 Student Security Staff Campus Safety Escorts Security officers provide safety escorts from campus facilities to parking lots or to on-campus living facilities. To request an escort, call 785-864-5900 and advise them of your campus location and your destination. Student Security Student Security has two primary responsibilities. The first is to monitor the on-campus CCTV system which records activities in certain areas of the main KU campus and the Edwards campus. Student security staff watch for suspicious activities and provide information to responding police officers and other emergency services personnel about the nature of an incident. Full-time security officers also monitor the system, as needed. The second responsibility is to monitor the Spencer Museum of Art. Their job is to ensure that patrons have a safe and enjoyable experience at the museum. Spencer Museum of Art Security patrols the Spencer Museum of Art building and galleries and maintains a satellite office at that location. Both full-time security officers and part-time student security staff monitor the galleries to enforce the museum rules and ensure that all patrons have a safe and enjoyable visit. Kansas Athletics The PSO Security unit patrols the on-campus athletic stadiums. Allen Fieldhouse, Memorial Stadium, Rock Chalk Park and the KU Boat House are walked day and night to ensure the safety and security of those facilities. Edwards Campus The KU Office of Public Safety at the Edwards Campus is responsible for the opening and closing of all academic buildings and classrooms located at the Edwards Campus. The security officers at Edwards Campus monitor reserved spaces and provide core security functions, including camera monitoring, patrolling of all campus areas, responding to possible security concerns, providing emergency first aid, and working with municipal and county emergency responders to resolve campus emergencies. Security officers respond to lockout requests as well as requests for personal escorts during academic campus operating hours. Contact KU Office of Public Safety at the Edwards Campus: 913-897-8700 Regents Center, Room 107 Public Safety Building 1501 Crestline Drive Suite 120 Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Route: 10 & 30 kupso@ku.edu 785-864-5900 facebook twitter Compliment / Complaint Clery Report Use of Force Summaries Report Sexual Assault/Harassment KU Alert System Student Housing Safety Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.