Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Public Safety Office myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link Our Mission & People Careers Our Training Campus Safety Select to follow link Campus Safety Overview Staying Safe Statistics and Reporting Community Services Select to follow link Community Services Unit Lost and Found Fingerprinting Service Community Education Weapons Storage Police Services Security Select to follow link Security Unit Keys & Security Devices Security Assessments Communications Unit Emergency Management Select to follow link Mission & Partners Emergency Planning Building Liaisons Accessibility in an Emergency AED Program Community Resources Contact Select to follow link Compliments and Complaints Contact Info & Location Records Request Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Public Safety Office Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Promoting a safe and secure Jayhawk community How to Contact Us Emergency 9-1-1 Call 911 for police, fire or medical emergency response. Non-Emergency Calls For non-emergency questions, services and information, including records requests and more. Call 785-864-5900 Lost & Found The KU Office of Public Safety's Lost and Found is the central Lost and Found for the KU campus. Call 785-864-5911 KU Crime Stoppers Crime Stoppers is an anonymous telephone tip line. Information about criminal activity is received and transferred to law enforcement for immediate action. Call 785-864-8888 Welcome from Chief Mosley Welcome to the University of Kansas Office of Public Safety website. On behalf of the dedicated men and women of this agency, thank you for taking the time to visit and learn more about our department and the resources we offer. Our mission is to provide a safe, secure and inclusive environment through education, collaboration and service . My commitment to you is that we will continually work openly and transparently to build and enhance relationships within the KU community, one personal connection at a time. KU PSO has a community policing philosophy involving community engagement, innovative problem solving, transparency and accountability. Our goal is to provide exceptional public safety services in a fair, equitable and just way, treating everyone with dignity and respect. Our focus on diversity, equity and inclusion includes partnering with KU leaders, student groups and community stakeholders to implement the recommendations of KU’s 2021 Task Force on Community-Responsive Public Safety. I welcome input on our services and community interactions, and I encourage you to follow us on Facebook and Twitter for more information about our agency, crime prevention tips, available resources, and other educational community safety facts. Again, thank you for taking the time to visit our website. I also encourage you to stop by our office at Crestline Drive and Bob Billings Road to visit with me or any department member. If you don’t find what you need on this website, please reach out to us for further assistance. Rock Chalk! Chief Nelson Mosley Chief Nelson Mosley Join Our Team Our team is comprised of commissioned police officers and non-commissioned professionals who are committed to serving and protecting the KU community. We value diversity and encourage individuals from under-represented groups to apply for police officer and other staff positions. See KU Jobs See KU Jobs Our Mission Statement We are committed to cultivating partnerships within the Jayhawk community that promote a safe and secure campus environment and support the academic and research missions of the university. Read our full mission Follow us on Facebook & Twitter FacebookTwitter Campus Lost & Found The KU Public Safety Office Lost & Found is the central one for the KU campus. Lost items are stored for 90 days. After that period, they are disposed of or donated to charity. Go to Lost & Found Chancellor's Task Force The Task Force on Community-Responsive Public Safety was created in summer 2020 by Chancellor Girod to review KU Public Safety policies and procedures; examine best practices and proposals for change; and make recommendations to ensure respectful, transparent and community-responsive public safety services. Task Force Information Public Safety Building 1501 Crestline Drive Suite 120 Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Route: 10 & 30 kupso@ku.edu 785-864-5900 facebook twitter Compliment / Complaint Clery Report Use of Force Summaries Report Sexual Assault/Harassment KU Alert System Student Housing Safety Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.