Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Public Safety Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Home About Us Dispatch Patrol Emergency Management Clery Administrators OSU Cascades DPS Employment Services After Hours Passes Bike Information Lost & Found View all Services Resources Community Wellness, Education and Safety Network Policy DAMSafe FAQ Incident Log Budget OSU Assist Training Bargaining Efforts Contact Us Feedback/Complaints Process Public Records Request Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Home About Us Dispatch Patrol Emergency Management Clery Administrators OSU Cascades DPS Employment Services After Hours Passes Bike Information Lost & Found View all Services Resources Community Wellness, Education and Safety Network Policy DAMSafe FAQ Incident Log Budget OSU Assist Training Bargaining Efforts Contact Us Feedback/Complaints Process Public Records Request Report an Emergency: Dial 9-1-1 or call (541) 737-7000 24/7 Dispatch/Non-Emergency: (541) 737-3010 or TTY Line: (541) 713-0320 FAQ Why do Public Safety Officers drive pickup trucks? The current Public Safety trucks are assets purchased by previous leadership. Because they are already owned and paid for, DPS leadership is reviewing when it will make sense financially to replace them. While pickup trucks are useful to transport large objects, such as abandoned bicycles and road barricades, DPS leadership intends to purchase, more fuel-efficient vehicles for Public Safety in the future. Why does the Department of Public Safety release information and/or photos of incidents or people? The decision to release information and/or photos is made on a case-by-case basis. Generally, information and/or photos are released to protect and inform the public, as well as prevent further offenses. Examples of this include: • The prevention of crime or discouraging offenders • The apprehension of suspects • Encouraging witnesses and/or victims to come forward • Informing the public • Reinforcing confidence in the criminal justice system • The apprehension of people unlawfully at large How is public safety presently provided on Oregon State University’s Corvallis campus? Public safety is a university priority, is part of the community culture at OSU and is provided in numerous ways on OSU’s Corvallis campus. Public safety programs and services include SafeRide, blue light emergency phones located across campus and educational safety programs and events that are held throughout the year. As well, the university’s Department of Public Safety (DPS) operates 24/7 and provides numerous services. DPS provides patrols and dispatched response by unarmed campus safety officers and armed law enforcement officers. DPS has a 24/7 dispatch center that provides resources, information and responds to non-emergency calls for service from members of the campus community and general public. DPS oversees the university’s emergency management program and compiles crime data that is published in the annual campus security report required by the federal Clery Act. The university also provides public safety and safety educational services through numerous departments and initiatives, including: The Division of Student Affairs Survivor Advocacy and Resource Center Student Health Services Office of Equal Opportunity and Access Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards University Housing and Dining Services Counseling and Psychological Services OSU Athletics during athletic events Emergency responder services provided by the Corvallis Fire Department Mutual aid services provided by the city of Corvallis Police Department Why is licensed law enforcement needed at OSU’s Corvallis campus as part of the university’s public safety efforts and programs? Oregon State University has had armed law enforcement on its Corvallis campus since the early 1970s as part of the university’s commitment to provide for campus safety. Licensed law enforcement provides a campus safety presence; an immediate and trained response to emergencies on campus, including accidents, reported violence and criminal activities; enforces state and local ordinances and laws within university property; and investigates and follows up on crimes ranging from vandalism and theft to stalking, assault and hate crimes. Licensed law enforcement at OSU’s Corvallis campus also engages with university community members to provide safety education and training for many campus units in an effort to provide helpful, strategic and targeted response to various situations. Since 1989, OSU has contracted with Oregon State Police to provide law enforcement services. In 2021, OSU formed its own campus police department. OSU requires specific timely response from its law enforcement provider for any crime occurring on campus. For example, federal requirements mandate a rapid, armed response to incidents that may occur at the OSU Radiation Center. What is the history of law enforcement on the Corvallis campus? OSU has had a security department on its Corvallis campus since the 1950s. In 1974, OSU created its own police department, in which armed officers who were commissioned by the Benton County Sheriff’s Office worked on the Corvallis campus. In 1989, the Oregon Legislature passed legislation limiting universities’ ability to have their own police departments. In response, OSU contracted with OSP to provide licensed law enforcement services for the Corvallis campus. In 2013, the Oregon Legislature adopted legislation enabling Oregon’s public universities with governing boards to choose independently to operate their own licensed law enforcement departments. The University of Oregon and Portland State University operate their own campus police departments. In 2021, OSU formed its own campus police department. What services does OSU’s Department of Public Safety provide? DPS officers provide medical emergency response assistance; 24/7 patrols of campus; occasional transports of students to Student Health Services, collection and reporting of Clery Act crime data, community engagement, public safety patrols within athletic events, crime prevention planning, daily locking and unlocking of campus buildings, safety escorts on campus for students and employees, safety planning, and public safety education. DPS staff members also engage in emergency planning and emergency event management. Does the need for licensed law enforcement require the presence of armed law enforcement officers on OSU’s Corvallis campus? Yes. Since the 1950’s OSU has recognized the need for crime prevention and timely response by licensed law enforcement personnel, including response to crimes against people, such as sexual assault or robbery, armed or violent intruders, such as the possibility of an active shooter or other significant threat to the campus community. Since the 1950’s, that response has included licensed law enforcement officers who carry weapons. Does the presence of the OSU Radiation Center on the Corvallis campus require OSU to have armed response capabilities? Yes. Federal requirements require that OSU have provisions for a rapid armed response to the OSU Radiation Center. Why is a change in how law enforcement is provided on the Corvallis campus needed at this time? In consideration of its staffing needs across the state, Oregon State Police has decided to end its contract with OSU and relocate its personnel working at OSU to duties across the state. In 2021, OSU formed its own campus police department. How was community input gathered and used in considering law enforcement options? The Public Safety Advisory Committee hosted four community listening and input sessions in March 2020 to understand the public safety values and safety needs of the OSU community. The committee also gained input through two virtual meetings in April 2020 and an online input form. The committee’s findings from these sessions are summarized here. This input was considered in the committee’s recommendations to university leadership and support the OSU Board of Trustees April 2020 decision to establish a police department for the Corvallis campus. In 2021, OSU formed its own campus police department. Will there be further opportunities for community dialogue and input? Public Safety Advisory Committee members are meeting with more than a dozen groups across campus to discuss the law enforcement transition and public safety operational design. Further outreach beyond these groups is planned. How will the Corvallis campus community, including faculty, staff and students, be engaged in evaluating and providing input on OSU’s public safety services? In addition to the diverse representation of the Public Safety Advisory Committee, listening sessions will enable community input. Committee members met with more than a dozen campus groups to discuss the law enforcement transition and gather input. Additionally, the Department of Public Safety plans to hire a safety engagement and inclusion manager to work with members of the Corvallis campus community on outreach, policy development and other strategic goals. What is the budget for the Department of Public Safety? You can find information about the Department of Public Safety Budget on this page: https://publicsafety.oregonstate.edu/budget. ‹ Dispatch up Patrol › Contact Info OSU Department of Public Safety 200 Cascade Hall 601 SW 17th St Corvallis, OR 97333 Send Email Emergency: 541-737-7000 or 9-1-1 Non-Emergency: 541-737-3010 TTY Line: 541-713-0320 Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook Twitter Instagram