Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Office of Public Affairs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Strategic Communications Government Relations Select to follow link State Relations Select to follow link Budget State Agenda KU Fact Book Jayhawks in the Statehouse KU Roundup Newsletter KU Fact Sheets Testimonies Federal Relations Select to follow link Kansas Delegation Monitoring Congress Federal Agencies Groups & Coalitions Tips Internships Marketing Select to follow link Studio Portraits News Select to follow link Find a Faculty Expert Submit KU News News and Media Relations Staff Event Management Communicators Select to follow link Communicators Directory Resources Talking Points Newsletter Media Interview Tips KPR & Audio-Reader Contact Us Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Office of Public Affairs Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Freedom of expression The University of Kansas is committed to freedom of speech and expression as part of our goal to encourage the robust exchange of ideas and perspectives by students, employees and guests across our campuses. Freedom of expression is a right guaranteed in the U.S. Constitution, and it is a particularly significant value in higher education. The University of Kansas is committed to freedom of speech and expression as part of our efforts to encourage the robust exchange of ideas and perspectives by students, employees and guests across our campuses. The University of Kansas has formally adopted the Kansas Board of Regents Statement on Free Expression, which is posted below. This statement was developed in consultation with students and institutional leaders to assert the value of students’ First Amendment rights and our commitment to upholding those rights. While this statement merely reasserts rights that have been protected for centuries under the United States’ Constitution, it is nonetheless a critical step to re-affirm our unwavering support for those rights. We encourage all members of the KU community to familiarize themselves with the principles and concepts articulated in this statement. For additional information on policies and procedures related to freedom of expression, visit the KU Policy Library. Kansas Board of Regents Statement on Free Expression The Kansas Board of Regents adopts this Statement on Free Expression to reaffirm the System's long-held commitment to full and open inquiry and discourse, and the robust exchange of ideas and perspectives by students enrolled in our State Universities and present on our State University campuses. The principles of freedom of speech and freedom of expression in the United States and Kansas Constitutions, in addition to being legal rights, are essential to achieving the three-part university mission to deliver a high-quality academic experience for our students, engage in meaningful and productive research, and provide other valuable public services for the benefit of our local communities, the State of Kansas, the nation, and the world. The purpose of this Statement is to express our continuing dedication to these principles and to maintaining our campuses as environments where the open exchange of knowledge and expression of ideas furthers our mission. This Statement generally concerns student expression in non-academic situations; it does not attempt to address the rights of non-students or students' academic work within the classroom setting. A fundamental purpose of an institution of higher education is to provide an environment where divergent ideas, opinions, and philosophies can be rigorously debated and critically evaluated. Through this process, often referred to as the marketplace of ideas, students are generally free to express their ideas and opinions, even if others may disagree with them or find those ideas and opinions to be disagreeable or even offensive. The very process of debating divergent ideas and challenging others' opinions develops the intellectual skills necessary to think critically and respectfully argue through civil discourse. The development of these important skills leads to personal and scholarly growth and is an essential component of the academic and research missions of each of our institutions. It is equally important that we, as governmental entities, not stifle the lawful dissemination of students' ideas, even if we or members of our communities find those ideas abhorrent. Students wishing to express ideas with which others may disagree must generally be free to do so without fear of being disciplined by the University. This does not mean that such ideas are necessarily endorsed or tolerated, nor should they go unchallenged by members of the University community openly and vigorously contesting their merit, but the Board and the Universities are prohibited from pursuing disciplinary or punitive actions that unlawfully inhibit or penalize protected expression. And though we value civil behavior and believe all members of our campus communities have a responsibility to promote and maintain a climate of civility and mutual respect, the Board, and by extension the Universities they govern, cannot use a desire for civility and respect as the basis to silence expression. The Board and the Universities should empower, enable and encourage students to speak and listen and to do so respectfully, rather than interfere with or silence their protected expression of ideas. We also recognize, however, that some speech is not protected, such as true threats, incitement to imminent violence, "fighting words," and unlawful, targeted harassment. The Board and its Universities can restrict speech that is not protected by the First Amendment, though it is important to note that these exceptions are narrowly interpreted. Additionally, reasonable restrictions on when, where, and how expression is disseminated are allowable and appropriate. Because universities and colleges are first and foremost places where people go to engage in scholarly endeavors, it is necessary to the efficient and effective operations of each University for there to be reasonable limitations on the time, place, and manner in which First Amendment rights are exercised. By law, these time, place, and manner limitations must be narrowly drawn and content-neutral and must serve to ensure that our students have the opportunity to express their ideas and opinions. The Kansas Board of Regents is committed to protecting and encouraging students' exercise of their First Amendment free speech rights in accordance with this Statement. Strong Hall, Room 230 1450 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 publicaffairs@ku.edu 785-864-7100 Strategic Communications Government Relations Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.