Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Public Safety Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Clery Alerts Services Crime Prevention Emergency Protocols Annual Security Report Community About Us Awards Related Organizations News Contact Us Careers Monthly Newsletter Card Reader Repair Columbia University EMS Emergency Notifications Fingerprinting Guard Service ID Card Access Lost and Found Maps & Schedules Safety Escort Program Student Employment Blue Light Emergency Call Boxes Lion Safe App Device Engraving - Operation ID ID Center On-Demand Evening Shuttle Situational Awareness Training Transportation Services Crime Prevention Newsletters Crime Prevention Programs Crime Prevention Tips Crime Informationals Report a Crime Lion Safe App Safe Havens Events NYPD Information and Trends Emergency Notifications Your Rights and Responsibilities Events Inclusive Public Safety Group Public Safety Recognition Staffing Demographics Submit Feedback or Service Complaint Form Training and Development Use of Force Policy Public Safety You are here: Home About Us About Us On behalf of all the members of Columbia University's Department of Public Safety, welcome to our website. Just as we are committed to making our campus and its surrounding environs as safe and secure as they can possibly be, so too are we committed to ensuring that your visit to our website is as hassle-free and informative as it can be. Whether you are looking for crime statistics or crime prevention tips, need to report a crime, or are seeking information on the Safe Haven, Blue Light, or Campus Escort programs, it is my sincere hope that you will find our website both informative and user friendly. We at Public Safety take pride in our professionalism, and strive to provide the best service we can to members of the Columbia community. That commitment to excellence extends to our website as well. Please let us know how we are doing. We encourage and welcome your feedback, whether positive or negative, so that we may make improvements to the website where necessary, and continue to provide the level of service you expect and deserve. Regards, Deidre M. Fuchs Interim Vice President Columbia University Public Safety Our Mission The Mission of the Columbia University Department of Public Safety is to enhance the quality of life for the Columbia community by maintaining a secure and open environment where the safety of all is balanced with the rights of the individual. The Department strives to accomplish its mission while adhering to its core values of Pride, Professionalism, and Service. The success of this mission depends upon an effective working relationship between Public Safety personnel and the diverse elements of the Columbia community, including students, staff, faculty, and visitors. Critical to this relationship is mutual respect. Therefore, we pledge to respect the needs and interests of the community we serve and to be diligent and relentless in the protection of both persons and property. In return, we ask that our partners in the community assume their individual and collective responsibilities to make Columbia University a place that is free of crime, fear, and disorder, and to provide a civil and open environment that fosters learning. Staffing Demographics The Department of Public Safety takes pride in our demographic diversity, which is reflective of the communities we serve. Our hiring practices are focused to promote an equitable and inclusive workplace and campus culture by selecting members from diverse backgrounds with unique personal & professional experiences. Morningside Campus: Emergency Line: 212-854-5555 Main Line: 212-854-2797 Manhattanville Campus: Emergency Line: 212-853-3333 Main Line: 212-853-3301 Medical Center Campus: Emergency Line: 212-305-7979 Main Line: 212-305-8100 Lamont-Doherty Campus: Emergency Line: 845-359-5555 Main Line: 845-359-2900 Emergency Announcements Columbia University Preparedness Morningside Campus: 212-854-2797535 West 116th Street, 101 Low Library, MC 4301, New York, NY Manhattanville Campus: 212-853-33013270 Broadway, New York, 10027 Medical Center Campus: 212-305-8100 650 West 168th Street, 109 Black Building, New York, NY, 10032 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close