Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search Dean of Students Office | HARVARD.EDU Academics Mindich Program in Engaged Scholarship Student Advisory Committee Scholarship & Social Justice Conference Secondary Fields Pathways to Practice Summer Opportunities Mindich Service Fellowship Program SPARK Winter Opportunities Fong Family Winternship Program Harvard Winnovation Program Post-Graduate Opportunities Public Service Recruiting Day Alumni Engagement Public Interested Conference (PIC) Partner with Us! Student Engagement and Leadership Trainings Buttenwieser Public Service Academy Mentor Certificate Tutor Certificate Program Management Certificate More... DSO Student Organization Training Identity Discussions, Workshops, and Trainings Journeys Toward Justice Harvard's Global Day of Service Harvard Serves Everywhere: Virtual Volunteering Student Organization Resources Term-Time Opportunities Resources 2020-2021 Annual Report Student Public Service Funding Fellowships Group Funding Individual Funding Student Organization Resource Guide 2018-2019 Public Service Directory Alumni Connections History of Phillips Brooks House News & Media News Features Videos Photo Galleries Media Inquiries About Our Staff FAS Standing Committee for Public Service National Advisory Board for Public Service Public Service Tutors Public Service Student Representatives First-Year Council Contact SPARK student application deadline: June 1st! Harvard College Class of 2026, don't miss out on SPARK, our six-week public service program for incoming first-year students! Register for the 7th Annual Scholarship and Social Justice Conference! The Scholarship & Social Justice Undergraduate Research Conference will be held virtually on April 14-15... April 21: Don't miss the 19th annual PBHA Summer Urban Program Auction! Attendees will have the opportunity to bid on experiences and items, or donate directly to SUP! Cabot House Book Club Examines Prison Abolition Doctoral candidate DeAnza Cook talks to the Harvard Gazette about engaging students in abolition work... Summer 2022 Program Deadlines Coming Up Don't miss out! Register for Public Interested 2022 on February 5th! Explore public interest careers and make meaningful connections - register by 1/31! Download Our 2020-2021 Annual Report Learn more about our department's social impact work in our latest annual report. 12/13: Harvard Alumni Allyship Series: Breaking the Cycle of Homelessness Join the Harvard Alumni Allyship Series for a special holiday program, Breaking the Cycle of Homelessness... 28th Annual Toy and Joy Drive! Support over a dozen local organizations! Donations provide toys, games, books, art supplies, and winter clothing to youth... November 2: Harvard's Day of Civic Action Take action on Election Day to support civic engagement at Harvard College - to learn more, visit dayofcivicaction.org! Serving on a Nonprofit Board Webinar Watch (or rewatch) our webinar featuring nonprofit board advice from Michael Brown, Cynthia Remec, and Shirley Sagawa! PBHA honors justice activist Mia Mingus Mia Mingus was honored with the Robert Coles "Call of Service" Award - watch Mia's lecture here! From the Harvard Gazette: United in Service Over 1,400 Harvard students and alums worked with 71 project sites on five continents... Class of 2022: Public Service Recruiting For seniors interested in the public sector, this is an early opportunity to build relationships and find post-grad job leads! Register for "A Tale of Three Chinatowns" on 10/22 Join our discussion with Andrew Leong and Karen Chen, two activists from Boston's Chinatown who are featured in the documentary. Fellows at the Forefront Apply by 3/28: spend your summer working with leading researchers and practitioners on climate change and sustainability issues Public Interested 2021 Conference Highlights Did you miss the Harvard Community Partner Forum? Read through our presentation to learn how you can work with Harvard's public service offices! Fong Family Establishes Fund for Civic Winternship Experiences Student proposals are due by November 30th! Virtually Volunteer with Harvard Serves Everywhere Harvard Serves Everywhere is virtual volunteer platform connecting students with community partners... To Serve Better: Stories of Purpose To Serve Better is a year-long series that highlights inspiring students and alums working in service. About the Center for Public Service and Engaged Scholarship The Center for Public Service and Engaged Scholarship is the hub and department that provides support for all public service efforts at Harvard College. It is home to academic engagement through the Mindich Program in Engaged Scholarship, student leadership development programs, student professional development programs, and active citizenship efforts through volunteering in the Greater Boston community. The Center also provides resource management, guidance on residential advising, and strategic planning for college-wide civic engagement efforts, leading collaborative programs such as the Global Day of Service, Public Service Recruiting Day, the Scholarship and Social Justice Conference, and the Public Interested Conference. The Center also supports Phillips Brooks House Association, the largest student-run, community-based, nonprofit public service organization at Harvard College. Sign up for our weekly newsletter to get all the updates of the week's public service events! Follow @harvardserves for regular social media updates! harvardserves social media feed Powered by Curator.io Calendar ff5228b975bacb12f25aab1c9a72ee96 Message from the Faculty Director and Assistant Dean For more than a century, Harvard College students have engaged in meaningful community service through programs at Phillips Brooks House. Today, Phillips Brooks House is a vibrant and growing department offering curricular and co-curricular programs to prepare Harvard College students with the knowledge and tools needed to meet the challenges facing our society. Through coursework, volunteerism, community activism and pre-professional experiences, we offer multiple pathways for students to engage in public service. We work closely with a wide range of partners to ensure that our programs address critical community needs. By participating in our programs, Harvard students can make important contributions to social welfare and develop a strong sense of public purpose and commitment to civic good. We welcome you to the Phillips Brooks House. Please do not hesitate to contact us with ideas, questions and feedback at publicservice@fas.harvard.edu. Julie Reuben, Charles Warren Professor of the History of Education, Faculty Director Travis Lovett, Assistant Dean, Civic Engagement and Service Search Subscribe to our mailing list! Contact Phillips Brooks House 1 Harvard Yard Cambridge, MA 02138 publicservice@fas.harvard.edu (617) 495-5526 Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement