Skip to main content About Us Department Overview A Message from the Assistant Vice President for Public Safety Mission Statement News Our Teams Divisions Directory DPS Organizational Chart More Information Policy Section Interactive Campus Map FAQs Contact Us Services In-Person Services Campus Vehicle Driver Certification Emergency Blue Light Phones & Towers Lockout Services Fingerprinting Lost & Found R.E.A.C.T. Self-Defense Classes Request for Security Presence After Shuttle Hours Escort Service Building Access Event Security Jump-Starting Cars Medical Transport Safety Presentation Requests Welfare Check Online Services Bicycle Registration Contractor Escorts Fire Safety Permit Register or Update Emergency Contact Information Tiger Alert Victim Services Police Record Request Safety Emergency Management Princeton's Emergency Management Page FBI Active Shooter Event Quick Reference Guide Active Shooter Informational Video Safety & Security Safety and Security Tips StandBy - Mobile Site The Public Safety Community Advisory Committee Alerts & Warnings TigerAlert (formerly PTENS) Emergency Blue Light Phones & Towers Emergency Alerts & Warnings Information Clery About Clery Clery Crime Reporting Campus Security Authority (CSA) Monthly/Annual Data Daily Crime Logs Campus Crime Statistics Annual Safety & Fire Reports Directives and Public Reports Public Reports DPS Standard Operating Procedures New Jersey Attorney General Law Enforcement Directives Employment Working at DPS Department Culture Who We Hire Join Our Team Current Opportunities Search and Apply Get in Touch with Us Student Employment Employment Opportunities How to Apply Search Important Advisory Coronavirus (Covid-19) Information Update Princeton University is actively monitoring the situation around coronavirus (Covid-19) and the evolving guidance from government and health authorities, in keeping with our commitment to ensure the health and safety of all members of the University community. The latest University guidance for students, faculty and staff is available on the University’s Coronavirus information website. https://covid.princeton.edu Homepage Community Caretaking: Public Safety & the Princeton University Community as Active Allies The effort to enhance campus safety by collaborating to identify and fulfill community needs. Learn More Sworn University Police Officers Now Wearing Body Cameras Read More Community Caretaking: Public Safety & the Princeton University Community as Active Allies Learn More Our Mission The Department of Public Safety’s mission is to enhance the living, learning and working experience at Princeton University by protecting life, maintaining order and safeguarding property. We fulfill this mission by providing our community with a full range of services that meet the highest professional and accredited standards of campus public safety. We are committed to the philosophy of “Community Caretaking” and working with our students, staff and faculty to build a lasting partnership. Learn More Services We Provide In-Person Services Online Services Request for Security Presence Event Security After Shuttle Hours Escort Service Request for Security Presence Welfare Check Request for Security Presence Safety Presentation Requests Request for Security Presence Medical Transport Request for Security Presence Building Access Request for Security Presence View All Latest News & Updates Celebrating February’s Black History Month 16, Feb 2022 In celebration of February’s Black History Month, the Department of Public Safety is delighted to highlight the following programming and resources offered by Princeton University: Meet Coach! 2, Feb 2022 The Princeton University Department of Public Safety (DPS) would like to introduce you to our newest member, Coach! Information Security - Common Scams 2, Feb 2022 Sgt. Sean Ryder met with Tara Schaufler, Information Security Training and Awareness Program Manager, to discuss some of the most common types of cyber fraud and scams encountered by our community. Kinamo Lomon Named the Department of Public Safety's Director of Operations 22, Nov 2021 Kinamo Lomon, director of public safety for the Willingboro, New Jersey, police department, has been named the Princeton Department of Public Safety’s director of operations. Fall 2021 Welcome Back to Campus! 9, Sep 2021 Welcome to Campus! Dear Students, Faculty, and Staff; Sworn University Police Officers now Wearing Body Cameras 9, Jun 2021 University Police Officers will now be wearing body worn cameras while on duty. Kenneth Strother Jr. is named next AVP of the Department of Public Safety 1, Jun 2021 Kenneth Strother Jr., formerly serving as the Director of Operations at the Princeton University Department of Public Safety, has been named the Department's new Assistant Vice President, effective June 1st, 2021. View All Become a Community Caretaker Working at DPS The Princeton University Department of Public Safety has the honor of serving a unique and diverse community. When hiring, we search for bright individuals who understand and uphold our core values. Please be sure to check in often to view available positions. Department Culture Join Our Team Get in Touch Leave Us Feedback! Leave Us Feedback! Contact Us The Department of Public Safety Office Hours: Monday - Friday 8:45 a.m. to 5 p.m. Important Numbers All Emergencies: 9-1-1 Non-emergencies: (609) 258-1000 University weather alert hotline: 609-258-SNOW 200 Elm Drive, Princeton, NJ 08544 Accessibility ©2021 The Trustees of Princeton University