Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Public Safety Office myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link Our Mission & People Careers Our Training Campus Safety Select to follow link Campus Safety Overview Staying Safe Statistics and Reporting Community Services Select to follow link Community Services Unit Lost and Found Fingerprinting Service Community Education Weapons Storage Police Services Security Select to follow link Security Unit Keys & Security Devices Security Assessments Communications Unit Emergency Management Select to follow link Mission & Partners Emergency Planning Building Liaisons Accessibility in an Emergency AED Program Community Resources Contact Select to follow link Compliments and Complaints Contact Info & Location Records Request Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Public Safety Office Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Communications Unit Communications The Communications section provides emergency communication coordination for all entities within the university that maintain two-way radio systems, as well as connectivity to those external agencies that provide emergency response. In addition, the Communications section acts as the central repository for crime reporting, associated statistical data and criminal history reporting systems. The Communications Center (Dispatch) The Communications Center provides emergency and non-emergency call-taking and dispatching services for the university community, including police, fire and medical, safety and security, maintenance, and parking services. In a support role, the Communications Center functions as a backup to the Douglas County Emergency Communications Center that serves the residents of Douglas county. Emergency and non-emergency calls Click to expand 911 Calls When you call 9-1-1, the dispatcher will answer "911, what is the address of your emergency?" The name, address and phone number of the calling party will be displayed on a screen for the dispatcher to confirm and verify. Call 911 for emergency situations only! If there is an immediate threat to life or property, such as a crime in progress, fire or medical emergency, use 911. Do not call 9-1-1 for weather or road conditions, telephone numbers, directions to a location, or any other type of general information that is better handled by a non-emergency number. Non-emergency Calls The KU Office of Public Safety maintains a non-emergency phone number (785-864-5900) for routine requests and general information. This includes requests for copies of police reports, campus directions, lost and found, and other non-emergency-related calls. Alarm monitoring Click to expand The Communications Center provides alarm-monitoring service for the university community. With state-of-the-art fiber optic and graphical display system, the Communications Center directly monitors fire alarm systems for university-owned and affiliated buildings. Due to the technology available through this system, the Communications Center can also monitor campus building security systems. Alarms are prioritized as follows: Primary Fire Alarms Armed Robbery (locations that have a high cash flow/volume) Bank (ATM Machines) alarms Anti-Theft alarms Secondary Call-in alarms to include doors and temperature controls at campus locations. Records Request Call 785-864-5900 Public Safety Building 1501 Crestline Drive Suite 120 Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Route: 10 & 30 kupso@ku.edu 785-864-5900 facebook twitter Compliment / Complaint Clery Report Use of Force Summaries Report Sexual Assault/Harassment KU Alert System Student Housing Safety Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.