Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Public Safety Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Home About Us Dispatch Patrol Emergency Management Clery Administrators OSU Cascades DPS Employment Services After Hours Passes Bike Information Lost & Found View all Services Resources Community Wellness, Education and Safety Network Policy DAMSafe FAQ Incident Log Budget OSU Assist Training Bargaining Efforts Contact Us Feedback/Complaints Process Public Records Request Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Home About Us Dispatch Patrol Emergency Management Clery Administrators OSU Cascades DPS Employment Services After Hours Passes Bike Information Lost & Found View all Services Resources Community Wellness, Education and Safety Network Policy DAMSafe FAQ Incident Log Budget OSU Assist Training Bargaining Efforts Contact Us Feedback/Complaints Process Public Records Request Report an Emergency: Dial 9-1-1 or call (541) 737-7000 24/7 Dispatch/Non-Emergency: (541) 737-3010 or TTY Line: (541) 713-0320 About Us Dispatch Dispatchers field all incoming telephone and radio communications, determine the nature and location of calls and assess scope and extent of response necessary, then dispatch appropriate field units. They coordinate with appropriate emergency service jurisdictions and request assistance when necessary. Patrol OSU Public Safety Officers respond to fire and medical emergencies on campus, as well as calls for service for office lock outs, bike lock cuts, and non-emergency transport to Student Health Services. Officers help ensure a safe campus by providing patrol and security checks of buildings and OSU property, as well as responding to all animal issues. Officers contact people in buildings after hours, as well as suspicious individuals present on campus. Emergency Management The Emergency Management Department provides a comprehensive program of preparedness for Oregon State University. We ensure that Departments, Colleges, Campuses, and the University plan and prepare for response and recovery from manmade and natural disasters. We conduct training, planning assistance, drills, and exercises to ensure OSU is Disaster And Mission Ready, DAMReady. Clery The Clery Act requires institutions to provide the campus community with timely and accurate information about campus crimes and safety so they can make informed and reasoned decisions about their personal safety. Each year, an Annual Security and Fire Safety Report is published to provide a one-stop resource for information about crimes and fire safety at Oregon State University. It contains crime and fire statistics, current safety policies, helpful survivor resources, and information about security and safety programs for students and employees at Oregon State University. Admin Administrative staff provide leadership and support to Public Safety employees. They attend meetings with other campus leaders and advise on safety matters. In general, they help ensure that the campus' safety needs are being met. OSU Cascades DPS The OSU-Cascades Department of Public Safety provides security services to the faculty, staff and students at the OSU-Cascades campus in Bend. Our Public Safety Officers are the first responders on campus for any fire, medical emergencies or security incidents. Additional services provided by Public Safety include safe escort, crime prevention patrols, lost and found, building & room lock outs, security checks, safety training, and enforcement of University rules & parking regulations. ‹ Main up Dispatch › Contact Info OSU Department of Public Safety 200 Cascade Hall 601 SW 17th St Corvallis, OR 97333 Send Email Emergency: 541-737-7000 or 9-1-1 Non-Emergency: 541-737-3010 TTY Line: 541-713-0320 Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook Twitter Instagram