Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Public Safety Office myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link Our Mission & People Careers Our Training Campus Safety Select to follow link Campus Safety Overview Staying Safe Statistics and Reporting Community Services Select to follow link Community Services Unit Lost and Found Fingerprinting Service Community Education Weapons Storage Police Services Security Select to follow link Security Unit Keys & Security Devices Security Assessments Communications Unit Emergency Management Select to follow link Mission & Partners Emergency Planning Building Liaisons Accessibility in an Emergency AED Program Community Resources Contact Select to follow link Compliments and Complaints Contact Info & Location Records Request Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Public Safety Office Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home About Our Training Police Officers in the KU Office of Public Safety are fully commissioned police officers certified by the State of Kansas as established under Kansas Statutes Annotated, 76-726. To become certified as a police officer, a Police Officer Trainee must undergo 560 hours of basic training at the Kansas Law Enforcement Training Center in Hutchinson, Kansas. Following graduation, they must complete 240 hours of in-house training before moving on to patrol. In patrol, the Police Officer Trainee must satisfactorily complete 400 hours of ride-a-long training with a Field Training Officer (FTO). Only then will the new Police Officer become available for general police assignments. Continuous Training The Community Services section is responsible for the continuing education of veteran officers and the training of new officers. All police officers within the KU Office of Public Safety must attend a state-certified law enforcement academy and an in-house training program before being assigned to patrol activities. Every law enforcement officer in the state of Kansas is also required to attend 40 hours of continuing education to maintain his/her certification. This includes mandatory training in topics such as firearms qualification, domestic violence, and first aid. Additionally officers attend numerous training classes that are set up by the Community Services section throughout the year. As each officer acquires training, those hours are submitted to the Kansas Law Enforcement Training Center to be recorded in the officer's training file. Kansas Law Enforcement Training Center A unit of the University of Kansas Lifelong & Professional Education, the Kansas Law Enforcement Training Center (KLETC) serves as the central law enforcement training facility and headquarters for all law enforcement training in Kansas. The KLETC is located at the former naval air station, which is situated south of the City of Hutchinson and west of the City of Yoder in Reno County, Kansas. Mission: “The promotion and development of improved law enforcement personnel and procedures throughout the state, and the training center shall offer to qualified applicants such programs and courses of instruction designed to fulfill this end.” Related Departmental Policies J. Racial or Other Biased Based Policing Click to expand Effective Date: April 12, 2021 Review Cycle: Annual Review Dates: J.1. POLICY It is the policy of this department to treat all persons having contact with this agency in a fair, equitable, and objective manner, in accordance with law, and without consideration of their race, ethnicity, national origin, gender, religious dress or other individual characteristics. Therefore, the purpose of this policy is to prohibit the practice of racial and other biased-based policing by members of this department. This policy applies to all employees and volunteers of this agency. J.2. DEFINITIONS A. “Racial or other biased-based policing” means the unreasonable use of race, ethnicity, national origin, gender or religion by a law enforcement officer in deciding to initiate an enforcement action. It is not racial or other biased-based policing when race, ethnicity, national origin, gender or religion is used in combination with other identifying factors as part of a specific individual description to initiate an enforcement action. B. “Enforcement Action” means any law enforcement act, as described in K.S.A. 22-4609, and amendments there to, during a nonconsensual contact with an individual or individuals. C. “Law Enforcement Officer” has the meaning ascribed thereto in K.S.A. 74-5602, and amendments thereto. J.3. CONDUCT A. All law enforcement officers with this department are prohibited from using racial or other biased-based policing in: determining the existence of probable cause to take into custody or to arrest an individual; constituting a reasonable and articulable suspicion that an offense has been or is being committed so as to justify the detention of an individual or the investigatory stop of a vehicle; or determining the existence of probable cause to conduct a search of an individual or conveyance. B. Acts that constitute racial or other biased-based policing include but are not limited to: Using race, ethnicity, national origin, gender, or religion as a general indicator or predictor of criminal activity. Using the race, ethnicity, national origin, gender, or religion of a person in the course of any law enforcement action unless the officer is seeking to detain, apprehend, or otherwise be on the lookout for a suspect sought in connection with a crime who has been identified or described in part by race, ethnicity, national origin, gender, or religion. Using the race, ethnicity, national origin, gender, or religion of a person in the course of any reasonable action in connection with a status offense, such as, runaways, child in need of care, missing persons, and other non-criminal care taker functions unless the person is identified or described in part by race, ethnicity, national origin, gender, or religion. Using race, ethnicity, national origin, gender, or religion shall not be motivating factors in making law enforcement decisions and/or actions, unless the person is identified or described in part by race, ethnicity, national origin, gender, or religion. Using race, ethnicity, national origin, gender, or religion as the basis for discretionary law enforcement i.e. who they will cite, arrest, warn, search, release or which person(s) to treat with respect and dignity. C. Any employee who witnesses or who is aware of any instance of racial or biased-based policing shall immediately report the incident to their supervisor. D. Law enforcement supervisors are responsible for: a working knowledge of department complaint procedures and for directing or receiving complaints appropriately monitoring officers for reasonableness and appropriate application of legal standards while taking enforcement actions or using discretion taking appropriate action including coaching and discipline to assure compliance with this policy and related state and federal statutes. being observant for any pattern or practice of discriminatory treatment by officers or groups of officers and taking immediate steps to investigate, intervene or report the activity to superiors. E. Any member violating the provisions of this policy or the state or federal statutes pertaining to racial or other biased-based policing or violating the constitutional rights of any person as provided in this policy is subject to corrective action or discipline. Such discipline includes actions appropriate in response to the nature of the violation based on facts revealed in the investigation of the complaint and consistent with applicable laws, rules and regulations, labor contracts, resolutions, ordinances or policies, including but not limited to, demerits, suspension or termination of employment. Discipline may also include retraining, counseling, or any other action deemed appropriate to deter repeated violations. J.4. TRAINING All law enforcement officers with this department are required to attend annual education training which shall include, but not be limited to, training relevant to racial or other biased-based policing. Use of distance learning technology is allowed for this training. J.5. PUBLIC NOTICE This department shall engage in ongoing efforts to notify the public of the existence of this policy, the right of individuals to file a complaint with the department or the office of the Kansas Attorney General regarding incidents of alleged racial or other biased-based policing and the process for making a complaint of racial or other biased-based policing alleged to have been committed by law enforcement officers employed by the department or the department as a whole. J.6. COMPLAINTS Complaints on incidents alleging racial or other biased-based policing may be made by delivering a written statement, signed by the complaining party or parties to the Chief of the KU Public Safety Office or by utilizing the complaint process in effect for all other complaints against the department found in Sec. H of this manual. Complaints of racial or other biased-based policing can also be made directly to the Office of the Provost, 250 Strong Hall, 1450 Jayhawk Boulevard, Lawrence, KS 66045 or the Office of the Kansas Attorney General. No person who believes they have been subjected to racial or other biased-based policing shall be discouraged, intimidated or coerced from filing a complaint. No person will be discriminated against or subject to retribution because they have filed such a complaint. If, upon completion of an appropriate investigation by the department, it is determined that a commissioned employee of the department has directly violated this policy prohibiting racial or other biased-based policing the department shall initiate appropriate disciplinary action consistent with applicable laws, rules and regulations, or policies with penalties, including demerits, suspensions or termination of the employment of the law enforcement officer from the department. J.7. ANNUAL REPORT On or before July 31 of each year, the department will provide the Office of the Kansas Attorney General a report detailing any complaints of racial or biased-based policing for the period of July 1st to June 30th. The report will be completed on forms provided by the Office of the Kansas Attorney General. Read Use of Force Policy Public Safety Building 1501 Crestline Drive Suite 120 Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Route: 10 & 30 kupso@ku.edu 785-864-5900 facebook twitter Compliment / Complaint Clery Report Use of Force Summaries Report Sexual Assault/Harassment KU Alert System Student Housing Safety Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.