skip to main content About Administration & Leadership Campus Locations Public Health News Fact Sheet Contact Us Academics Degrees & Programs Departments Faculty Students Admissions Degrees & Programs Student Spotlights International Applicants Tuition & Financial Aid Community Engaging Community Partners Prevention/Intervention Research Volunteerism Practice Practicum Experience Public Health Scholars Study Abroad PHield Trips Research Research Centers Research Programs Faculty Research Interests Research Resources Climate & Diversity Give Search Search Close Menu Collapsed content that can be toggled with the menu button. Apply Alumni Contact News About Administration & Leadership Colleges & Campuses Public Health News Fact Sheet Contact Us Academics Degrees & Programs Departments Faculty Students Admissions Degrees & Programs Student Spotlights International Applicants Tuition & Financial Aid Community Engaging Community Partners Prevention/Intervention Research Volunteerism Practice Practicum Experience Public Health Scholars Study Abroad PHield Trips Research Research Centers Research Programs Faculty Research Interests Research Resources Alumni Apply Climate & Diversity Calendars Contact Directory Employment Give News Parking Press & Media Webmail Epidemiology and Biostatistics Home Departments Epidemiology and Biostatistics About the Department The Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics offers a supportive and stimulating work environment to inspire students to become global leaders in public health. Students will become competent users and interpreters of population-based health information by learning to apply fundamental epidemiologic and biostatistical methods to public health practice, policy and research. Our Degrees Contact Us What is Epidemiology? The goal of Epidemiology is to identify the patterns and determinants of health outcomes and diseases in populations, which may be used to determine appropriate health promotion and preventive responses. About the Epidemiology FACULTY What is Biostatistics? In studies of public health, medical and biological sciences, many problems and questions are addressed by collecting and exploring relevant data. Biostatistics focuses on the development and application of statistical methods to better understand, analyze and interpret public health data. About the Biostatistics FACULTY Why did you choose Texas A&M? Laura Hopkins '22 Robinson, TX MPH Epidemiology “Texas A&M’s reputation and the flexibility of the online degree program are the reasons I choose the School of Public Health. Working full-time, I needed a program that worked with my schedule.” Get to know Laura Explore the MPH Program Jocelyn Hunyadi '22 Amherst, MA MPH Biostatistics “For the biostatistics concentration and the public health program as a whole, I’ve really appreciated how theory or analytical techniques are almost always presented within the scope of a real-world application or problem. The people in my cohort come from a diverse array of backgrounds and life experiences, which has allowed me to learn different ways of thinking and approaches to solving problems that are really insightful in tackling issues.” Get to know Jocelyn Explore the MPH Program Samantha Chang '22 Austin, TX MPH Biostatistics “Since we have smaller classes, I am able to build relationships with my professors. Dr. Gang Han has been an excellent mentor, helping me explore career options and gain research experience.” Get to know Samantha Explore the MPH Program Mathew Kramm IV '25 Lubbock, TX DrPH Epidemiology “Texas A&M’s School of Public Health is full of engaged faculty, staff, and students ready to assist a fellow Aggie in any capacity. When you come here, you really are family.” Get to know Mathew Explore the DrPH Program TyKeara Mims '24 Knoxville, Tennessee DrPH Epidemiology “I instantly fell in love with disaster epidemiology and knew it was something that I needed to pursue. I was sure that was the path for me.” Get to know TyKeara Explore the DrPH Program PreviousNext More Student Spotlights EPIDEMIOLOGY ONLINE DEGREE PROGRAM Your schedule limitation won’t hold you back with the online epidemiology degree program that gives you the flexibility to learn from anywhere! Both online and in-person graduates have found employment in academia, research organizations and foundations, industry, public and private health services delivery organizations, and international agencies. Explore an Epidemiology Online Degree Give back and gain skills through EpiAssist EpiAssist is a student volunteer group that provides students with the opportunity to gain applied public health experience by assisting Texas’ state, regional and local health departments with outbreak investigations, disasters and emergencies, community health assessments and other projects. To date, EpiAssist has provided in excess of 4,000 hours in service to the state of Texas. Explore EpiAssist Faculty and Research Our faculty represent a wide array of disciplines, expertise and interests within Epidemiology and Biostatistics. Their backgrounds include tropical diseases, maternal and child health, vaccine development/safety, alcohol and drug prevention policy, emergency management, genomics of cancer, environmental exposure assessment, and survival analysis to name a few. Notable faculty studies and projects include: COVID-19 epidemiological surveillance Kidney disease epidemic in Central America Air pollution’s impact on Alzheimer’s and dementia-related diseases Role of maternal diabetes and obesity on reproductive outcomes Statistical methods and modeling Adolescent mental health Faculty Listing Research Interests FacebookTwitterInstagramLinked inRSSFlickrYouTube Back to top Institution Health Science Center Dentistry Medicine Nursing Pharmacy Public Health Information Calendar Contact Us Diversity Accreditation Organizational Chart Emergency Information Parking Press & Media Title IX Clery Annual Reports Resources Directory Facilities Work Request Howdy Portal Visitor Parking Request Information Technology Intranet Libraries Counseling Webmail Texas A&M University · Texas A&M University System · State of Texas · Open Records · Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline · State Link Policy · Equal Opportunity / Nondiscrimination · Employment · Texas Veterans Portal · Security · Site Policies · Accessibility