Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Public Safety Office myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link Our Mission & People Careers Our Training Campus Safety Select to follow link Campus Safety Overview Staying Safe Statistics and Reporting Community Services Select to follow link Community Services Unit Lost and Found Fingerprinting Service Community Education Weapons Storage Police Services Security Select to follow link Security Unit Keys & Security Devices Security Assessments Communications Unit Emergency Management Select to follow link Mission & Partners Emergency Planning Building Liaisons Accessibility in an Emergency AED Program Community Resources Contact Select to follow link Compliments and Complaints Contact Info & Location Records Request Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Public Safety Office Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Emergency Management Building Liaisons Building Emergency Liaisons (BEL) are university employees who work in each building and have special duties regarding emergency planning and response. This section outlines the responsibilities for BELs before and during a building emergency. The BEL team consists of a Primary BEL, a Secondary BEL and a Tertiary BEL with an organized line of succession. A Building Emergency Liaison should: Work in the building full time, or have their primary workplace in the building. Have knowledge of the building’s layout, operations and contents. For buildings without full time staff (i.e. annexes, storage buildings, etc.), the BEL should be someone with primary responsibility for the building’s operations or contents. Building Liaisons Login  BEL system Login Drill Report Login Evacuation Plan Login Building Liaison Training Login Building Emergency Liaison Responsibilities Coordinate and facilitate the development, communication, implementation and maintenance of the Building Emergency Plan. Make the Building Emergency Plan available to building occupants. Work with department and project administrators to appoint the Building Advisory Committee. Serve as chair or facilitator for the Building Advisory Committee. Conduct and/or assist in evacuation drills. Assist in training the building occupants in emergency procedures and evacuation responsibilities. Upon request, assist in the development of personal action plans for persons with access or functional needs. The Building Emergency Liaison should maintain a list of persons needing assistance during an evacuation. Serve as the point of contact for emergency responders regarding building information, training and walk-throughs. Maintain communications with the Secondary and Tertiary Building Emergency Liaisons on all matters related to the Building Emergency Plan. During an Emergency Immediately obey evacuation alarms and orders to evacuate. Tell others to evacuate. Direct people to the designated Emergency Assembly Areas. Meet emergency personnel upon their arrival and convey specific information about hazards in the building, access, etc. From a safe distance, prevent people from reentering the building until the all clear instruction has been given by first responders. Secondary and Tertiary BEL Responsibilities Fulfill the responsibilities of the Building Emergency Liaison in their absence. Work with department and project administrators to appoint the Building Advisory Committee. Serve on the Building Advisory Committee. Building Advisory Committee The Building Advisory Committee (BAC) provides coordination between the departments and projects within the building. The Building Emergency Liaisons will work with department and project administrators to develop the Building Advisory Committee. The Building Advisory Committee membership includes the BELs and one representative for each department and project housed in the building. Building Advisory Committee Responsibilities Assist the Building Emergency Liaisons in the development, communication, implementation and maintenance of the Building Emergency Plan. Meet quarterly to review building policies and procedures. Review the Building Emergency Plan annually (at minimum) and update it as needed. During an Emergency Immediately obey evacuation alarms and orders to evacuate. Tell others to evacuate. Direct people to the designated Emergency Assembly Areas. From a safe distance, prevent people from reentering the building until the all clear instruction has been given by emergency responders. In the absence of the Building Emergency Liaisons, BAC members may fulfill the BEL responsibilities. Drill Information The University of Kansas Public Safety Office conducts evacuation drills throughout campus each year. The drills are required to be done annually per University policy and federal regulations. Evacuation drills ensure that building occupants are prepared for an emergency situation. Evacuation drills will take place in all buildings that are designated for human occupancy. If the building does not have a Building Emergency Liaison, the Public Safety Office will make every effort to contact the individual(s) responsible for the building and ask them to complete the Evacuation Drill Report. Following completion of the drill, the drill report will need to be completed and submitted to KU Public Safety Office no later than five days after the drill. To access and complete the drill report form, the Building Emergency Liaison must log in using their KU Online ID and password. In order to prepare for a drill, the Building Emergency Liaison or the responsible party for the building will be notified at least one week prior to the evacuation drill. The Public Safety Office will schedule a meeting with building liaisons, usually two weeks before the drill is to take place. These meetings will address any questions and go over the plans for the drill. Please note: We can often change the time of day the drill takes place, but the schedule date usually needs to remain the same. We understand that these drills may interrupt some activities in the building. However, the drills are required by policy and regulations, and it is our responsibility to ensure that all buildings are able to safely evacuate their occupants in the event of an emergency. The Office of Public Safety intends to complete these drills as quickly and efficiently as possible in order to lessen any negative impacts on your building's daily functions. To ensure that drills are conducted efficiently, please review the Building Emergency Plan, Building Emergency Liaison Responsibilities, and talk to your building committees. Effort in advance will help ensure that we can address issues in advance and complete everything as quickly as possible. Building Evacuation Plans All buildings on campus are required to have a current and accurate building evacuation plan. These plans should be reviewed by KU Emergency Management staff and by the KU Fire Marshal Authority. Access to complete or modify building evacuation plans in the Emergency Management System is limited to Building Advisory Committee members and Building Emergency Liaisons. To request access, contact KU Emergency Management at pso_em@ku.edu. Public Safety Building 1501 Crestline Drive Suite 120 Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Route: 10 & 30 kupso@ku.edu 785-864-5900 facebook twitter Compliment / Complaint Clery Report Use of Force Summaries Report Sexual Assault/Harassment KU Alert System Student Housing Safety Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.