Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Public Safety Office myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link Our Mission & People Careers Our Training Campus Safety Select to follow link Campus Safety Overview Staying Safe Statistics and Reporting Community Services Select to follow link Community Services Unit Lost and Found Fingerprinting Service Community Education Weapons Storage Police Services Security Select to follow link Security Unit Keys & Security Devices Security Assessments Communications Unit Emergency Management Select to follow link Mission & Partners Emergency Planning Building Liaisons Accessibility in an Emergency AED Program Community Resources Contact Select to follow link Compliments and Complaints Contact Info & Location Records Request Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Public Safety Office Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Security Keys and Security Devices In order to help maintain and improve security throughout the campus, the University of Kansas Office of Public Safety maintains the university’s electronic access sites, physical key access, closed circuit camera system and intrusion alarms across campus. To use these services, an authorized staff member from your unit must complete the appropriate forms to request a security assessment so that we can determine the most efficient and effective security measures to make your area safer. Please also refer to KU's Key and Electronic Lock policy. Keys The university tries to minimize issuing physical keys and, instead, migrate to electronic access. All requests for physical keys must be approved by the KU Public Safety Office in accordance with the Key and Electronic Lock policy. Only deans, directors or department chairs may request physical keys. Begin this approval process by submitting an online service request in Maximo. The re-keying of a centrally scheduled classroom requires approval from the Vice Provost for Human Resources, Public Safety and Operations in consultation with the Senior Vice Provost for Academic Affairs. Electronic Access The Office of Public Safety has responsibility for oversight of university security programs and devices, including review and approval of security access requests and security hardware requests. The Public Safety Office works with KU Information Technology, Design and Construction Management, Facilities Services, and the KU Card Center as appropriate, to recommend security systems that, when used properly, provide a reasonable level of protection for facilities, property and persons. These systems include keys, electronic locks, alarms and cameras. Recommendations are based on the intended use of an area, the value of its contents, the accessibility required, and the available security options. A security assessment by the KU Public Safety Office is required before electronic access devices will be approved. Please contact the Public Safety Office at 785-864-5900 or kupso@ku.edu to request a security assessment. Our Security staff will schedule a site-specific security assessment tour. The site assessment is provided for a nominal fee.The cost of security devices, installation and the ongoing maintenance cost of devices is the responsibility of the department requesting the service. The electronic access devices used must be approved by the KU Public Safety Office in accordance with the university's Key and Electronic Lock policy. KU Card Access Not Working? If you experience issues using your KU Card to access any facilities at a time/location you are authorized to access, please complete a Card Access Incident Report. If you have any questions about access management, please contact us at 785-864-5900 or by email at kupso@ku.edu. Public Safety Building 1501 Crestline Drive Suite 120 Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Route: 10 & 30 kupso@ku.edu 785-864-5900 facebook twitter Compliment / Complaint Clery Report Use of Force Summaries Report Sexual Assault/Harassment KU Alert System Student Housing Safety Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.