skip to main content About Administration & Leadership Campus Locations Public Health News Fact Sheet Contact Us Academics Degrees & Programs Departments Faculty Students Admissions Degrees & Programs Student Spotlights International Applicants Tuition & Financial Aid Community Engaging Community Partners Prevention/Intervention Research Volunteerism Practice Practicum Experience Public Health Scholars Study Abroad PHield Trips Research Research Centers Research Programs Faculty Research Interests Research Resources Climate & Diversity Give Search Search Close Menu Collapsed content that can be toggled with the menu button. Apply Alumni Contact News About Administration & Leadership Colleges & Campuses Public Health News Fact Sheet Contact Us Academics Degrees & Programs Departments Faculty Students Admissions Degrees & Programs Student Spotlights International Applicants Tuition & Financial Aid Community Engaging Community Partners Prevention/Intervention Research Volunteerism Practice Practicum Experience Public Health Scholars Study Abroad PHield Trips Research Research Centers Research Programs Faculty Research Interests Research Resources Alumni Apply Climate & Diversity Calendars Contact Directory Employment Give News Parking Press & Media Webmail Master of Public Health Home Degrees and Programs Master of Public Health Master of Public Health MPH Curriculum How to Apply Contact Patty Robinson Program Coordinator II 979.436.9356 SPH-OSA@tamu.edu Request More Information Click here for us to contact you! About the MPH program Our award-winning Master of Public Health (MPH) curriculum is innovative education at its best! The integrated program begins with cross-disciplinary classes offering relevant practical skills with a collaborative learning structure focusing on health issues populations face. You will learn how to solve real problems gaining a better understanding of the determinants of health, applied methods, epidemiology of diseases, policy and ethics, and interventions. We offer six MPH concentrations: Health Behavior studies the health characteristics of populations and finds innovative ways to reduce risks and improve community capacity for population health improvement. Environmental Health looks at different factors in our environment and tries to understand their role in the health of individuals and populations. Occupational Safety and Health evaluates and provides interventions to reduce risk of injury and illness using ergonomics, human factors and wellness for future, current and past workers. Epidemiology studies the trends, patterns, and causes related to disease in populations. Biostatistics uses statistical reasoning and methods to address major problems in public health. Health Policy and Management is a multidisciplinary field concerned with the delivery, quality, and costs of health care for individuals and populations. Admission Requirements No GRE score required! Applicants must hold a bachelor's degree (or equivalent) from an accredited college or university prior to the start of the program. In addition, please note that the following concentrations enforce a minimum cumulative undergraduate GPA requirement. GPA Requirement The following programs have a minimum cumulative GPA requirement: Epidemiology: 3.0 Biostatistics: 3.0 Health Behavior: 2.75 Dates and Deadlines Application deadlines Entering Semester Application Deadline Mandatory Orientations First Class Day** Fall 2022 Feb. 1, 2022 (scholarship eligibility for all applicants) March 15, 2022 (final deadline for international applicants) May 1, 2022 (final deadline for domestic/US applicants) May 15, 2022 extended deadline for MPH-Occupational Safety & Health program only New Students August 22, 2022 International Students* August 15-16, 2022 Online course opens August 17, 2022 Face-to-Face course begins August 24, 2022 *All new international students must attend a mandatory orientation. More information will be shared via email. **All incoming MPH program students will be operating on an academic calendar different from other School of Public Health students. Cost of Attendance For cost of attendance including estimated cost of tuition and fees, books & supplies, housing, etc., please visit the Texas A&M Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships website. FacebookTwitterInstagramLinked inRSSFlickrYouTube Back to top Institution Health Science Center Dentistry Medicine Nursing Pharmacy Public Health Information Calendar Contact Us Diversity Accreditation Organizational Chart Emergency Information Parking Press & Media Title IX Clery Annual Reports Resources Directory Facilities Work Request Howdy Portal Visitor Parking Request Information Technology Intranet Libraries Counseling Webmail Texas A&M University · Texas A&M University System · State of Texas · Open Records · Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline · State Link Policy · Equal Opportunity / Nondiscrimination · Employment · Texas Veterans Portal · Security · Site Policies · Accessibility