Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Public Safety Office myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link Our Mission & People Careers Our Training Campus Safety Select to follow link Campus Safety Overview Staying Safe Statistics and Reporting Community Services Select to follow link Community Services Unit Lost and Found Fingerprinting Service Community Education Weapons Storage Police Services Security Select to follow link Security Unit Keys & Security Devices Security Assessments Communications Unit Emergency Management Select to follow link Mission & Partners Emergency Planning Building Liaisons Accessibility in an Emergency AED Program Community Resources Contact Select to follow link Compliments and Complaints Contact Info & Location Records Request Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Public Safety Office Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Use of Force Reporting We are committed to transparency and holding ourselves accountable for treating all individuals with respect and dignity. We do this by sharing information on our community interactions, including summaries of departmental uses of force. We also encourage community members to share feedback, both compliments and complaints. Below are use of force summaries for each year since 2015, along with our departmental Use of Force policy. Gender and race of the individuals and officers involved in each incident are noted in parentheses. Use of Force Summaries 2021 Click to expand April – An officer pointed a Taser at a person who was resisting arrest and was known to be carrying a knife. Other officers were able to place the person into custody. (W/M 37) (Officer – W/M) July – Officers made contact with a distraught man who wanted officers to shoot and kill him. The man kept his hand behind his back and told officers he had a gun. An officer fired a Taser at the man who was then transported to the hospital for a mental health evaluation. (W/M 31) (Officer – W/M) November - Officers made contact with fleeing suspect attempting to exit stadium. Two officers displayed their CEWs. The CEWs were not used. (W/M 18) (Officers - B/M, H/F) 2020 Click to expand February – An officer assisted the Lawrence Police in responding to a report of a person armed with a rifle. The officer provided cover with a rifle while LPD officers removed the occupants from the car. (B/M 18, B/M 18, W/M 18) (Officer – W/F) March – A suspect in a criminal trespass of a building attempted to walk away from officers. The person admitted to having a knife in a pocket. One officer pointed a Taser at the person while other officers applied handcuffs. (W/M 30) (Officers - 2 W/M, WHF) June – An officer found himself at the end of a vehicular pursuit in which the driver of the suspect vehicle got out and began firing a gun at pursuing officers, who fired back. The suspect, who was wanted for homicide in another state, pointed a gun at the KU officer who fired his handgun at the suspect. Medical aid was provided immediately but the suspect was pronounced dead at the scene. (W/M 31) (Officer – W/M) December – Officers assisted a Douglas County Sheriff’s deputy who had stopped a vehicle that had just left a party where shots were fired. Officers provided cover with handguns while the occupant was removed from the car. (B/M unknown age) (Officers – 2 W/M) 2019 Click to expand December – A suspect in a bike theft ran from an officer. After the suspect fell while running, the officer drew a Taser and ordered the suspect to stay on the ground. Another officer arrived and applied handcuffs. (W/M 27) (Officer – W/M) December – A suspect in a criminal trespass of a building was ordered by an officer to stop. The officer saw the person had a metal tool in a pocket. The person reached for the tool and the officer drew a Taser and ordered the person to the ground. The person eventually complied and other officers applied handcuffs. (W/M 28) (Officer – W/F) 2018 Click to expand February – An officer assisted the Lawrence Police with the arrest of an aggravated burglary suspect. The suspect had run from officers on foot and entered an occupied apartment to hide. The officer ordered the suspect out of a closet at gunpoint and the suspect was arrested. (W/M 19) (Officer - W/M) March – An officer assisted the Kansas Highway Patrol in stopping a car driven by a suspect of a shooting in Lawrence. The officer provided cover by handgun while the suspect was removed from the car. (B/M 25) (Officer – W/M) April – An officer chased a person on foot following a leaving the scene accident. The officer caught up to the person and pointed a Taser at the person until another officer could arrive to apply handcuffs. (B/M 19) (Officer - W/M) July – An officer saw three people beating another person on the ground in a parking lot just off campus. The officer pointed a Taser at the group and ordered them to stop and get on the ground. One person ran away and two others were handcuffed when other officers arrived. (2 W/M, B/M) (Officer - W/M) September – Two officers approached two people fighting. One officer drew a Taser and ordered the people to stop and get on the ground. One person complied but the other began advancing on the officers. The other officer tackled the non-compliant person and applied handcuffs. (W/M 20, W/M 51) (Officers - 2 W/M) September – The suspect in a battery of a police officer resisted arrest and then ran from officers. One officer fired a Taser at the suspect, but it was ineffective. The person was found in the area by another officer and was arrested. (W/M 28) (Officer - W/M) 2017 Click to expand January – A person fled from Lawrence Memorial Hospital while there for a mental health screening. The person was found, and then advanced on the officer and would not stop. The person was held at gunpoint, placed in handcuffs by another officer and returned to the hospital. (W/M 28) (Officers - W/F, W/M) February – Officers drew their handguns while searching an apartment for a suicidal person who was reported to have a gun. The person was found and held at gunpoint until other officers could apply handcuffs. (W/H/M 32) (Officers - W/M, W/F) August – Officers drew their handguns during a high-risk car stop following a leaving the scene accident and vehicle chase. The occupant was safely removed from the vehicle and arrested. (W/M 23) (Officers - 3 W/M, 1 W/F) 2016 Click to expand May – An officer assisted the Lawrence Police Department at the end of a vehicle pursuit by providing cover with a handgun while the occupants of the vehicle were removed. (W/M 19, B/M 19) (Officer - W/M) 2015 Click to expand February - An officer was involved in a traffic stop that changed into a vehicle pursuit. After the car stopped, officers drew their handguns as the occupant was safely removed from the car. (W/M 24) (Officers - W/F, W/M) June - Officers made contact with a driver during a traffic stop following concerns raised by people about the driver’s mental health. The officers noticed weapons present in the vehicle. Officers drew their weapons as the driver was ordered to exit the vehicle. (W/M 65) (Officers - W/F, B/M, 2 W/M) Read Use of Force Policy Public Safety Building 1501 Crestline Drive Suite 120 Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Route: 10 & 30 kupso@ku.edu 785-864-5900 facebook twitter Compliment / Complaint Clery Report Use of Force Summaries Report Sexual Assault/Harassment KU Alert System Student Housing Safety Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.