Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Public Safety Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Clery Alerts Services Crime Prevention Emergency Protocols Annual Security Report Community About Us Awards Related Organizations News Contact Us Careers Monthly Newsletter Card Reader Repair Columbia University EMS Emergency Notifications Fingerprinting Guard Service ID Card Access Lost and Found Maps & Schedules Safety Escort Program Student Employment Blue Light Emergency Call Boxes Lion Safe App Device Engraving - Operation ID ID Center On-Demand Evening Shuttle Situational Awareness Training Transportation Services Crime Prevention Newsletters Crime Prevention Programs Crime Prevention Tips Crime Informationals Report a Crime Lion Safe App Safe Havens Events NYPD Information and Trends Emergency Notifications Your Rights and Responsibilities Events Inclusive Public Safety Group Public Safety Recognition Staffing Demographics Submit Feedback or Service Complaint Form Training and Development Use of Force Policy Public Safety You are here: Home About Careers Careers Providing the Columbia Community with Pride, Professionalism, and Service. At Columbia Public Safety, our primary mission is to enhance the quality of life for the Columbia community by maintaining a secure and open environment where the safety of all is balanced with the rights of the individual. Safety is a shared responsibility and the Department of Public Safety’s highest priority is to ensure that the services we provide to protect the safety of all within Columbia's diverse community are inclusive and help all members develop tools to navigate our urban community safely and easily. Our efforts to keep the community safe include high-visibility patrols, responding to and investigating on and off-campus incidents, providing guard services at a myriad of University events, and increasing student and employee vigilance through crime prevention seminars, workshops, and other activities. Image Carousel with 6 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: During move-in/move-out, Public Safety assists students in transporting property to and from housing. Slide 2: Public Safety supervisors serve on the Bike Patrol Unit. Slide 3: The Public Safety Crime Prevention Unit administers several important programs for community members, offering education on personal safety and tools for preventing theft. Slide 4: Public Safety officers often serve as ambassadors to campus, welcoming visitors as they enter and helping with directions or other assistance for anyone who asks. Slide 5: Public Safety personnel regularly patrol campuses, providing assistance to the community, greeting visitors, reporting malfunctioning lights, locks, call boxes, or other unsafe physical conditions. Slide 6: During special events, Public Safety provides the appropriate level of security coverage for university events and helps to direct traffic on campus. During move-in/move-out, Public Safety assists students in transporting property to and from housing. Public Safety supervisors serve on the Bike Patrol Unit. The Public Safety Crime Prevention Unit administers several important programs for community members, offering education on personal safety and tools for preventing theft. Public Safety officers often serve as ambassadors to campus, welcoming visitors as they enter and helping with directions or other assistance for anyone who asks. Public Safety personnel regularly patrol campuses, providing assistance to the community, greeting visitors, reporting malfunctioning lights, locks, call boxes, or other unsafe physical conditions. During special events, Public Safety provides the appropriate level of security coverage for university events and helps to direct traffic on campus. Previous Next We take pride in our demographic diversity, which is reflective of the communities we serve. Our hiring practices are focused to promote an equitable and inclusive workplace and campus culture by selecting members from diverse backgrounds with unique personal and professional experiences. Learn more about us. Below is a list of our open positions. Lieutenant Manager Technology Projects Manager, Special Operations & Events Assistant Manager, Morningside Ops Sergeant Security Officer Morningside Campus: Emergency Line: 212-854-5555 Main Line: 212-854-2797 Manhattanville Campus: Emergency Line: 212-853-3333 Main Line: 212-853-3301 Medical Center Campus: Emergency Line: 212-305-7979 Main Line: 212-305-8100 Lamont-Doherty Campus: Emergency Line: 845-359-5555 Main Line: 845-359-2900 Emergency Announcements Columbia University Preparedness Morningside Campus: 212-854-2797535 West 116th Street, 101 Low Library, MC 4301, New York, NY Manhattanville Campus: 212-853-33013270 Broadway, New York, 10027 Medical Center Campus: 212-305-8100 650 West 168th Street, 109 Black Building, New York, NY, 10032 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close