Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Office of Public Affairs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Strategic Communications Government Relations Select to follow link State Relations Select to follow link Budget State Agenda KU Fact Book Jayhawks in the Statehouse KU Roundup Newsletter KU Fact Sheets Testimonies Federal Relations Select to follow link Kansas Delegation Monitoring Congress Federal Agencies Groups & Coalitions Tips Internships Marketing Select to follow link Studio Portraits News Select to follow link Find a Faculty Expert Submit KU News News and Media Relations Staff Event Management Communicators Select to follow link Communicators Directory Resources Talking Points Newsletter Media Interview Tips KPR & Audio-Reader Contact Us Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Office of Public Affairs Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home News Submit KU News KU News Service can help you reach the news media in two important ways. We promote KU discoveries, and we distribute submitted news releases to the media. Promote KU Discoveries KU News Public Affairs Officers are veteran news writers who help faculty tell the story of their research and scholarship, both ongoing and completed. If you have a story to share, contact your Public Affairs Officer, or email kunews@ku.edu. Distribute Submitted News Releases Working with school and unit communicators and other KU staff members, we distribute submitted news releases about: Upcoming public events, exhibits, etc. Important staff changes New programs Changes in existing programs Awards, achievements, and appointments Community outreach efforts Exceptional students, faculty, and staff Unique programs, skills, achievements, etc. Submitting Contributed Content To submit such news releases, use KU's online content management system. If you need access to the content management system, your unit’s IT contact can help you set it up. As soon as you know a release will be coming, please email kunews@ku.edu so we can get it on the schedule. When the content is ready, please submit no later than noon the day before it’s scheduled to run. If you have any questions, contact Assistant Director Christy Little at kunews@ku.edu. Tips for Writing News Releases Keep releases short. Write clearly, addressing who, what, where, why and when in the first two paragraphs. Identify a contact person (with a daytime phone number) who can answer questions. Date the release and include whether the material is for immediate use or for release at a later date. Use Associated Press style, and consult the KU Style Guide for university-specific style. Common News Release Mistakes Providing insufficient and inaccurate information. To be useful, releases must be complete, correct, and specific. Omission of the name and phone number of someone editors can contact with questions. Writing releases that are too long. Submitting a release too late. Strong Hall, Room 230 1450 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 publicaffairs@ku.edu 785-864-7100 Strategic Communications Government Relations Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.