Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Public Safety Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Home About Us Dispatch Patrol Emergency Management Clery Administrators OSU Cascades DPS Employment Services After Hours Passes Bike Information Lost & Found View all Services Resources Community Wellness, Education and Safety Network Policy DAMSafe FAQ Incident Log Budget OSU Assist Training Bargaining Efforts Contact Us Feedback/Complaints Process Public Records Request Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Home About Us Dispatch Patrol Emergency Management Clery Administrators OSU Cascades DPS Employment Services After Hours Passes Bike Information Lost & Found View all Services Resources Community Wellness, Education and Safety Network Policy DAMSafe FAQ Incident Log Budget OSU Assist Training Bargaining Efforts Contact Us Feedback/Complaints Process Public Records Request Report an Emergency: Dial 9-1-1 or call (541) 737-7000 24/7 Dispatch/Non-Emergency: (541) 737-3010 or TTY Line: (541) 713-0320 After Hours Passes Because of the nature of the university environment, it is often necessary for faculty, staff, and students to be in campus buildings after the regularly scheduled closure times for either special projects or ongoing work. To accommodate various schedules, OSU has established a procedure to assist people in gaining access to their research sites, offices, and classrooms while maintaining the security of campus facilities. The After Hours Pass Program is for students (including grad students) and non-university employees who have legitimate reasons for being in campus buildings after the regularly scheduled closure times. Administration of Passes The Department of Public Safety will provide the passes and program outline to the designated authority in departments. The department's designee will be the contact person with the Department of Public Safety. The department administration will develop the criteria for building access, authorization, and distribution of after hour permits. It's also necessary that the designee maintain the utmost discretion when assigning passes and storing unused passes. To obtain a packet of After Hours Passes please contact the Department of Public Safety at any time. For Students To obtain an After Hours pass, please contact the responsible party for the building you would like to study in. This will likely be the head of your academic department. Student Responsibilities: Carry your OSU ID with you and the After Hours Pass Present it as requested Ensure your pass is current each academic year Do not allow unauthorized persons to enter buildings After Hours Pass Monitoring All officers, while conducting building checks or inside a building after it has been closed, will check to ensure that all building occupants encountered are authorized to be inside the building. Authorization is indicated when the subject in question has a valid After Hours Pass in their possession. It is the hope of the Department of Public Safety that this will establish a uniform procedure for ensuring the safety of persons and equipment within university buildings. The following indicates the requirements for Faculty, staff and students while inside a University building or facility after hours: All persons inside a building that is not open for general use must have current authorization. This authorization is in one of two forms. All staff and faculty members, with current staff or faculty identification, are authorized to be inside buildings after hours. All staff and faculty members are required to carry and present University identification upon demand by a Public Safety Officer/Staff. All students, including graduate students, and non-university employees must have in their possession, a current University identification card and an After Hours Pass for the building and room in which they are working. All students, including graduate students, and non-university employees are required to carry and present University identification upon demand by a Public Safety Officer/Staff. All officers will contact persons found inside University buildings and facilities after the normal hours of operation for that building/facility or when the officer knows that the building or facility is closed. If a student or non-university employee is found that can not provide proper authorization as described in item 2, the person is to be escorted out of the building or facility. Persons who do not cooperate can be charged with Criminal Trespass II. Authorized individuals are not permitted to escort guests into the facility. Each person must have his or her own permit. For staff or faculty members, the officer may use discretion in determining if in fact the person has authorization to be in the building. If they can provide picture identification (drivers license, etc.) and they have an office with their name on it or are listed in the staff directory for that building. The officer may, but is not required to allow them to remain, but are to instruct them to carry their University identification in the future. An After Hours Pass allows a student to remain inside a building after it closes. It does not grant access to a building after it has been closed. Officers are not to provide access to a building or facility for use because a student has an after hours permit. Dispatchers will instruct the student as to this policy if contacted by a student requesting access. Policy After hours use by Individuals After hours use of buildings Key and Building Security Building Key Issuance Contact Info OSU Department of Public Safety 200 Cascade Hall 601 SW 17th St Corvallis, OR 97333 Send Email Emergency: 541-737-7000 or 9-1-1 Non-Emergency: 541-737-3010 TTY Line: 541-713-0320 Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook Twitter Instagram