Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Public Safety Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Home About Us Dispatch Patrol Emergency Management Clery Administrators OSU Cascades DPS Employment Services After Hours Passes Bike Information Lost & Found View all Services Resources Community Wellness, Education and Safety Network Policy DAMSafe FAQ Incident Log Budget OSU Assist Training Bargaining Efforts Contact Us Feedback/Complaints Process Public Records Request Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Home About Us Dispatch Patrol Emergency Management Clery Administrators OSU Cascades DPS Employment Services After Hours Passes Bike Information Lost & Found View all Services Resources Community Wellness, Education and Safety Network Policy DAMSafe FAQ Incident Log Budget OSU Assist Training Bargaining Efforts Contact Us Feedback/Complaints Process Public Records Request Report an Emergency: Dial 9-1-1 or call (541) 737-7000 24/7 Dispatch/Non-Emergency: (541) 737-3010 or TTY Line: (541) 713-0320 OSU Public Safety Association Bargaining On March 12, 2021, the Oregon State University Public Safety Association (OSUPSA) was recognized as the bargaining unit representing sworn police officers employed by Oregon State University. OSU is committed to collaboratively and transparently reaching a collective bargaining agreement with the Oregon State University Public Safety Association. The university values the critical work of sworn OSU police officers and their contributions to safety and support of Oregon State University’s mission of teaching, research, outreach and engagement. This will be an inaugural contract with the university’s sworn police officers and we look forward to building a strong and mutually beneficial collective bargaining agreement and ongoing relationship with the Oregon State University Public Safety Association. Bargaining Updates Update April 8, 2022 The parties signed a consent agreement that will allow OSU dispatchers and public safety officers to vote on whether they wish to join OSUPSA bargaining group. The Employment Relations Board will mail ballots to all employees who are eligible to vote in the election and a tally of the votes cast is scheduled for May 10, 2022. OSUPSA requested a pause in negotiations pending the outcome of the election. OSU agreed to that request. Update February 18, 2022 OSUPSA filed a petition with the State of Oregon Employment Relations Board to transfer OSU dispatchers and public safety officers into its bargaining unit. That petition was supported by a showing of interest by more than 50% of the affected employees. Update February 8, 2022 The parties continued to make good progress in negotiations. The parties have exchanged several proposals and have reached tentative agreements on the following articles: Outside Employment, Seniority, Layoff and Recall, Training, Probationary Periods, and Personnel Files. The parties are close to agreement on the following articles: Grievance, Assignment, and Discipline and Discharge. Update July 27, 2021 Members of the University bargaining team and Oregon State University Public Safety Association (OSUPSA) met for a little over an hour on Tuesday, July 27, 2021. During the bargaining session, the bargaining teams had time to review five of six new proposals that the university had previously provided the union. OSUPSA presented a counter proposal to the Association Business article which was discussed at last bargaining session. OSU and OSUPSA discussed this article and OSU will further review and present a future counterproposal. Of the five new articles discussed at the bargaining session, two of them were tentatively agreed upon by the University and OSUPSA; Business Travel and Check-Off and Dues. Three other articles that were discussed: Outside Employment, Performance Evaluation and Grievance require further review by OSU based on proposed changes requested by OSUPSA. OSU and OSUPSA are making good process and continuing to exchange written proposals. OSU noted that they intend to send additional articles to OSUPSA for discussion prior to the next bargaining session. Update June 25, 2021 Members of the bargaining teams for the university and Oregon State University Public Safety Association (OSUPSA) met for an hour and a half bargaining session on Friday, June 25, 2021. During the session, OSU offered edits to two proposed agreements regarding Recognition and Management Rights that were discussed during the last bargaining session. These two articles were tentatively agreed to by the parties. OSU presented three additional articles to OSUPSA which were Employee Rights, Check-Off and Dues, and Association Business. Of these three articles, one of them - Employee Rights - was tentatively agreed to with minor edits. At the next session, OSUPSA will bring a written counter-proposal to the Association Business article and the university will bring a counter to the Check-Off and Dues article. OSU and OSUPSA are working to schedule the next bargaining session. OSU noted that they intend to send additional articles to OSUPSA for discussion at the next bargaining session. Update June 3, 2021 Oregon State University and the Oregon State University Public Safety Association (OSUPSA) bargaining teams met on the Corvallis campus and by Zoom Thursday, June 3, 2021, for their second bargaining session. The meeting marked the first opportunity to share written proposals for consideration and both parties came to the session prepared with written articles. Bargaining efforts are proceeding as the parties were able to reach a tentative agreement on the following articles: Preamble, Continuity of Services, Totality of the Agreement and Separability. In addition, the parties are very close to reaching agreement on the Recognition, Management Rights and Term of Agreement articles. This is an inaugural contract with OSU’s sworn police officers, who are now represented by OSUPSA. We look forward to productive conversations and building a labor contract with this group. Tentative Agreements Personnel Files – Feb. 7, 2022 Probationary Period – Feb. 7, 2022 Seniority, Layoff and Recall – Jan. 18, 2022 Outside Employment – Nov. 9, 2021 Training – Nov. 9, 2021 Preamble – June 3, 2021 Continuity of Services – June 3, 2021 Totality of the Agreement – June 3, 2021 Separability – June 3, 2021 Recognition – June 25, 2021 Management Rights - June 25, 2021 Employee Rights - June 25, 2021 Business Travel – July 27, 2021 Check-Off and Dues – July 27, 2021 University Labor & Bargaining Team hhorn.jpeg Heather Horn is the associate vice provost and senior director for employee and labor relations and serves as OSU's lead negotiator. Before joining OSU on Feb. 28, 2019, she worked in labor and employee relations at the University of Illinois at both the Urbana-Champaign and Chicago campuses. Jason Perkiser Tarron Anderson Contact Info OSU Department of Public Safety 200 Cascade Hall 601 SW 17th St Corvallis, OR 97333 Send Email Emergency: 541-737-7000 or 9-1-1 Non-Emergency: 541-737-3010 TTY Line: 541-713-0320 Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook Twitter Instagram