Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Public Safety Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Clery Alerts Services Crime Prevention Emergency Protocols Annual Security Report Community About Us Awards Related Organizations News Contact Us Careers Monthly Newsletter Card Reader Repair Columbia University EMS Emergency Notifications Fingerprinting Guard Service ID Card Access Lost and Found Maps & Schedules Safety Escort Program Student Employment Blue Light Emergency Call Boxes Lion Safe App Device Engraving - Operation ID ID Center On-Demand Evening Shuttle Situational Awareness Training Transportation Services Crime Prevention Newsletters Crime Prevention Programs Crime Prevention Tips Crime Informationals Report a Crime Lion Safe App Safe Havens Events NYPD Information and Trends Emergency Notifications Your Rights and Responsibilities Events Inclusive Public Safety Group Public Safety Recognition Staffing Demographics Submit Feedback or Service Complaint Form Training and Development Use of Force Policy Public Safety You are here: Home Community Community Columbia Public Safety is deeply committed to our values of Pride, Professionalism and Service. Our mission is to enhance the quality of life for the Columbia community by maintaining a secure and open environment where the safety of all is balanced with the rights of the individual. The safety and well-being of our students, faculty, and staff are our top priorities. Columbia’s campuses and the surrounding areas are safe and have an extremely low crime rate for an urban university. We achieve this by engaging everyone in the business of public safety. We value our partnership with the community, and welcome and value your input and ask for your support. Expand all Collapse all Training Training is an important component of our mission. Learn more about the comprehensive training all personnel receive including skills development, accountability and compliance, and first responder training. Your Rights and Responsibilities To enhance communication, respect, and trust between Public Safety officers and our community, we have developed a brochure outlining your rights and responsibilities. Access the brochure on this page. Report of the Inclusive Public Safety Working Group The University released its Report of the Inclusive Public Safety Working Group in response to President Bollinger’s July 2020 call to action on Columbia’s anti-racism commitment. The Report of the Inclusive Public Safety Working Group includes observations and initial recommendations from this working group of students, faculty and staff from across the University. The University-wide Working Group on Inclusive Public Safety has the charge of working with the leadership of the Department of Public Safety to examine existing trainings and practices and to recommend concrete strategies for ensuring that we can have truly inclusive safety for all who are on Columbia’s campuses. Read the report. Memorandum with the New York Police Department There is no contract between Columbia and NYPD for police services. A memorandum recognizes that our Department of Public Safety will work with the NYPD in specified circumstances, including to investigate reports of missing students and criminal offenses involving violent felonies. All colleges and universities in New York are required by state law to enter this agreement. Use of Force Policy It is the policy of the Department of Public Safety that members will only use physical force that is reasonably necessary to bring an incident under control, while protecting the lives and safety of the member and others present and within the allowa ble guidelines of Article 35 of the New York State Penal Law. Access the of Force Policy on this page. CCTV Policy Closed-Circuit Television (CCTV) Policy This policy concerns the installation and use of CCTV to monitor and record areas for the purposes of safety and security. Feedback The Department of Public Safety welcomes your comments concerning our service. Learn more about how to submit feedback to the Department on this page. Morningside Campus: Emergency Line: 212-854-5555 Main Line: 212-854-2797 Manhattanville Campus: Emergency Line: 212-853-3333 Main Line: 212-853-3301 Medical Center Campus: Emergency Line: 212-305-7979 Main Line: 212-305-8100 Lamont-Doherty Campus: Emergency Line: 845-359-5555 Main Line: 845-359-2900 Emergency Announcements Columbia University Preparedness Morningside Campus: 212-854-2797535 West 116th Street, 101 Low Library, MC 4301, New York, NY Manhattanville Campus: 212-853-33013270 Broadway, New York, 10027 Medical Center Campus: 212-305-8100 650 West 168th Street, 109 Black Building, New York, NY, 10032 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close