Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Public Safety Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Clery Alerts Services Crime Prevention Emergency Protocols Annual Security Report Community About Us Awards Related Organizations News Contact Us Careers Monthly Newsletter Card Reader Repair Columbia University EMS Emergency Notifications Fingerprinting Guard Service ID Card Access Lost and Found Maps & Schedules Safety Escort Program Student Employment Blue Light Emergency Call Boxes Lion Safe App Device Engraving - Operation ID ID Center On-Demand Evening Shuttle Situational Awareness Training Transportation Services Crime Prevention Newsletters Crime Prevention Programs Crime Prevention Tips Crime Informationals Report a Crime Lion Safe App Safe Havens Events NYPD Information and Trends Emergency Notifications Your Rights and Responsibilities Events Inclusive Public Safety Group Public Safety Recognition Staffing Demographics Submit Feedback or Service Complaint Form Training and Development Use of Force Policy Public Safety You are here: Home Crime Prevention Crime Prevention Programs Crime Prevention Programs Theft Prevention Programs Operation ID NYPD Blue Light Bike Registration Computer Security Laptop Locks Stop-Theft Tags PC Phone Home Mac Phone Home Self Defense Classes Combat Auto Theft Programs Discount Bike Lock Program Operation ID This FREE and EFFECTIVE program is a national crime prevention project designed to protect your valuables from theft which has resulted in a dramatic reduction in property crime. A unique ID number is engraved and registered with both the NYPD and CU Public Safety. From New York to California, Operation ID makes it difficult to sell stolen property on the street or to any pawn shop. Persons in the unauthorized possession of registered property are subject to arrest. For more information or to set up an appointment, please e-mail: [email protected] Back to Top NYPD Blue Light The NYPD "Blue Light" (permanent invisible ink) program is designed to assist Law enforcement recover lost or stolen items. A special light is shined on the property that is found or recovered to determine if the item is registered in the program. Ideal for cell phones, MP3 Players, PDAs, calculators, laptops and more. The NYPD "Blue Light" program is FREE. For more information or to set up an appointment, please e-mail: [email protected] Back to Top Bike Registration This FREE and EFFECTIVE program is a national crime prevention project designed to recover and identify your bike in the event of theft. Bike registration is FREE has been a big success on campus. Bike registration has aided in the recovery of several stolen bicycles. A unique ID number is engraved & registered with the NYPD and CU Public Safety. In addition, a high visibility police decal is placed on the bike to discourage theft and to alert the police. Persons in possession of a registered bike can be arrested for possession of stolen property. For more information or to set up an appointment, please e-mail: [email protected] Back to Top Computer Security CU Public Safety offers desk top computer security for departments at discounted pricing. Price includes lock & professional installation. For more information or to set up an appointment, please e-mail: [email protected] Back to Top Laptop Locks CU Public Safety offers discounted laptop locks for departments, students, faculty, and staff. For more information or to set up an appointment, please e-mail: [email protected] Back to Top Stop-Theft Tags The STOP Security Plate is a patented, permanently affixed and bar-coded metal tag that actively deters equipment theft. STOP Security Plates mark equipment with a verifiable registration number, clear warnings, and indelible identification that renders the equipment useless to a thief. It eliminates the reason for most thefts: Resale Value. Stop-Theft Tags are discounted for students, faculty and staff. For more information please call 212-854-8513. Back to Top PC Phone Home PC Phone Home is an award-winning computer tracking and recovery software product that enables the actual recovery of your stolen laptop or desktop computer. The software installs in minutes, operates at a low level using almost no resources and is transparent to the user. Every time the computer connects to the Internet a stealth email is sent out and archived. Should your computer be stolen, the emails allow us to track and recover it. PC Phone home is FREE for CU students, faculty, and staff. To download PC Phone Home for Windows to your office or personal computer or laptop, follow the instructions and download from this link: https://cuit.columbia.edu/pc-phonehome For more information please e-mail: [email protected] Back to Top Mac Phone Home Mac Phone Home is an award-winning computer tracking and recovery software product that enables the actual recovery of your stolen laptop or desktop computer. The software installs in minutes, operates at a low level using almost no resources and is transparent to the user. Every time the computer connects to the Internet a stealth email is sent out and archived. Should your computer be stolen, the emails allow us to track and recover it. Mac Phone home is FREE for CU students, faculty, and staff. Follow the instructions and download from this link: https://cuit.columbia.edu/pc-phonehome For more information please e-mail: [email protected] Back to Top Self Defense Classes CU Public Safety offers FREE self-defense classes for students, faculty, and staff several times during the academic year. To check for upcoming classes please visit our events calendar: https://publicsafety.columbia.edu/events See short video of some of the techniques covered in the class. For more information please e-mail: [email protected] Back to Top Combat Auto Theft Programs Public Safety offers various proven effective crime prevention programs for autos from the New York City Police Department for FREE. See brochure Combat Auto Theft H.E.A.T Glass V.I.N. Etching For more information or to set up an appointment, please e-mail: [email protected] Back to Top Discount Bike Lock Program Prices and photo descriptions Where can I purchase a discount bike lock? Public Safety Crime Prevention Office Medical Center Campus M-F 9am-3pm, 650 West 168 Street room 109, 212-305-8100 Public Safety Crime Prevention Office Morningside Campus M-F 9am-4pm, Low Library room 112, 212-854-8513 Public Safety Crime Prevention Office Manhattanville Campus M-F 9am-3pm, 3280 Broadway 212-853-3301 Kryptonite New York Fahgettaboudit Chain 3.25’ with Disc Lock Super strong case hardened, tempered boron manganese chain for ultimate strength with a unique six-sided hexagonal shape Weather and heat resistant nylon cover Includes a disc lock with one lighted key and two standard keys The ultimate in motorcycle security in high theft areas Narrower inner width of individual links prevents leverage attacks A number 12 out of 12 rating for ultimate bike security. $3750 Anti-theft guarantee. Kryptonite NY U-Lock LS 16mm hardened MAX-Performance steel shackle resists bolt cutters and leverage attacks Higher security disc-style cylinder Double deadbolt locking for extensive holding power Protective vinyl coating Sliding dustcover protects and extends cylinder life 3 keys - one lighted with high intensity bulb & replaceable battery A number 11 out of 12 rating for ultimate bike security $3,000 Anti-theft guarantee Kryptonite Kryptolok Series 2 13mm hardened Performance steel shackle resists cutting and leverage attacks High security Bent FootTM design for serious protection and great value Patented deadbolt locking mechanism for extensive holding power High security, pick and drill resistant disc-style cylinder Enhanced internal engineering resists twisting leverage attacks Offset key location and overhead cam locking mechanism resists leverage attacks Rotating dust cover protects and extends cylinder life Includes versatile EZ Mount transportation bracket 2 keys - new "I" keys for easier usage $1500 Anti-theft guarantee Back to Top Morningside Campus: Emergency Line: 212-854-5555 Main Line: 212-854-2797 Manhattanville Campus: Emergency Line: 212-853-3333 Main Line: 212-853-3301 Medical Center Campus: Emergency Line: 212-305-7979 Main Line: 212-305-8100 Lamont-Doherty Campus: Emergency Line: 845-359-5555 Main Line: 845-359-2900 Emergency Announcements Columbia University Preparedness Morningside Campus: 212-854-2797535 West 116th Street, 101 Low Library, MC 4301, New York, NY Manhattanville Campus: 212-853-33013270 Broadway, New York, 10027 Medical Center Campus: 212-305-8100 650 West 168th Street, 109 Black Building, New York, NY, 10032 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close