Directory Calendar News Careers Alumni Giving Search Pitt Home Home Academics Degree Programs Master's Degrees Doctoral Degrees Bachelor's Degree Joint Degrees Certificates Non-Degree Options Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's Program Pitt2Pitt Courses Class Schedules Course Descriptions Course Evaluation Portal Registration Information Core Curriculum Schedule Academic Handbook & Degree Requirements Advising and mentoring Course and credit requirements Research, practice, and exam requirements Detailed policies and references Graduation Information Independent Development Plan First Semester To-Do List Writing Courses and Resources Academic Integrity and Plagiarism MPH Competencies MPH e-Portfolio Other academic resources Academic Calendar Forms Continuing Education/CEUs Resources for Teaching, Learning, and Advising Pedagogical Professional Development Teaching Tip of the Week Archives Career Services Resources for Faculty Research & Practice Research Centers and Institutes Center for Global Health Center for Health Equity LGBT Health MPH Practicum/Internship Pittsburgh Summer Institute EXPO Bridging the Gaps Internship Resources for Research and Practice Research and Practice News Research and Practice Videos Key Issues Our Experts Opioid Addiction Epidemic Cura Zika Health Equity HIV/AIDS Admissions & Aid Why Pitt Public Health? Why Study Public Health? Faculty Education Research and Practice Fast Facts How to Apply Requirements International Applicants Frequently Asked Questions Deadlines Tuition and Financial Aid Types of Aid International Applicants Frequently Asked Questions Tuition Costs and Billing Discover Open House Accepted Applicants Contact Admissions Request Information Apply Now Life Events Calendar Grand Rounds One Book, One Community Professional Development Workshops Student Life Student Government Association Student Feedback University Resources Life Management Resources Annual Signature Events Orientation APHA Annual Meeting Practicum/Internship Symposium Open House Nat'l Public Health Week Dean's Day Graduation Ceremonies Special Awards & Lectures Delta Omega Porter Prize Salk Symposia Craig Education Award Alumni Awards Life in Pittsburgh Living Here Things to Do Getting Around Pittsburgh News For New Students Who's Who Faculty (All) Primary Faculty Secondary Faculty Adjunct Faculty Emeritus and Retired Faculty Staff (All) Postdoctoral Researchers University Directory Leadership Board of Visitors Contacts About History, Mission & Vision Welcome from the Dean Mission, Vision & Values Salk Legacy Accreditation Governance Bylaws Faculty Senate Executive Committee (FSEC) MPH Committee Faculty Appointment, Promotion, and Tenure Committee (FAPTC) Faculty Diversity Committee (FDC) PBPC Educational Policies and Curriculum Committee (EPCC) Facilities COVID-19 Conversations about COVID-19 COVID-19 news from our experts Resources Creating Community Diversity and Inclusion Racial Diversity at Pitt Public Health Behavioral and Community Health Sciences Biostatistics Environmental and Occupational Health Epidemiology Health Policy and Management Human Genetics Infectious Diseases and Microbiology Pitt Public Health Students Prepare to Change the World We are a top-ranked center of learning and research that will prepare you to influence public health across the country and around the world. Learn more Prospective Students Pitt Public Health students are motivated to make a difference. Learn how you can affect real change across the community, the nation, and the planet. Our Research Pursue in-depth research projects or assist in translational research that informs public health practice or policy. Whatever you’re passionate about—we have a research and practice center to fit your interests. Our Alumni Pitt Public Health molds graduates who are ready to lead public health initiatives in response to the needs of communities and populations everywhere. See yourself among these visionaries. Our Faculty Work and learn side-by-side with brilliant faculty members committed to teaching and mentoring students. Be stimulated by their diverse, cutting-edge research interests and broad involvement in public health practice. We're Hiring! Pitt Public Health is looking for four dynamic leaders to join a diverse and vibrant community of researchers, educators, students and collaborators. Meet a Pitt Public Health Student Every student has a story. Learn about the award winning research and practice from this year's Dean's Day student showcase. New Name and New Era The school formally known as GSPH has a new name! Introducing the University of Pittsburgh School of Public Health! Journey to Pitt Public Health Alum Christian Garcia-Calavaro shares a special tattoo featuring the City of Bridges and his public health journey from his native Chile to Pittsburgh and back again. NEWS EVENTS Gary-Webb participates in White House listening session on health equity issues On May 25, Tiffany Gary-Webb,... Gary-Webb participates in White House listening session on health equity issues On May 25, Tiffany Gary-Webb, associate professor of Epidemiology, participated in a White House listening session on health equity issues across the Commonwealth. Experts from a range of disciplines – medicine, nursing, public health and social work – participated in the session. Attendees were ... (05/31/2022) Yue receives abstract scholarship and award at annual American Thoracic Society conference Congratulations to Molin Yue ... Yue receives abstract scholarship and award at annual American Thoracic Society conference Congratulations to Molin Yue (BIOST) on receiving the abstract scholarship and 3rd place American Thoracic Society (ATS) Pediatric Trainee abstract award in San Francisco at the annual American Thoracic Society conference, the most prestigious clinical conference in pulmonary medicine. Yue presente... (05/25/2022) Valerian Kagan, pioneer of "redox biology," graces academic journal cover Dr. Valerian Kagan, professor... Valerian Kagan, pioneer of "redox biology," graces academic journal cover Dr. Valerian Kagan, professor of environmental and occupational health at the University of Pittsburgh School of Public Health, was honored as the “Cover Scientist” of Anti-Oxidants and Redox Signaling , for his pioneering work in the field of redox biology. In addition to gracing the cover of t... (05/25/2022) Meet Public Health Genetics Alum Samantha Pettersen "Currently, I'm working with ... Meet Public Health Genetics Alum Samantha Pettersen "Currently, I'm working with Haley Director (HUGEN '22, '26) to educate the public about public health genetics through social media. You can find us at genetics.info on Instagram and TikTok!" (05/24/2022) Meet Public Health Genetics Student Lauren Spor "This summer, I'm very excite... Meet Public Health Genetics Student Lauren Spor "This summer, I'm very excited to perform genetic epidemiology research regarding a form of skin cancer, and I'm also interested in disability advocacy work." (05/24/2022) More Pitt Public Health News Pitt Public Health 130 De Soto Street Pittsburgh, PA 15261 USA Contact Us Prospective Students What is Public Health? Why Pitt Public Health? Academics Student Life Admissions Governance Delta Omega Resources For Employers Open Positions Update Your Profile Technology Support Technology Policies Communication Resources Health Sciences Library © 2022 by University of Pittsburgh School of Public Health Login | Sitemap