Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Public Safety Office myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link Our Mission & People Careers Our Training Campus Safety Select to follow link Campus Safety Overview Staying Safe Statistics and Reporting Community Services Select to follow link Community Services Unit Lost and Found Fingerprinting Service Community Education Weapons Storage Police Services Security Select to follow link Security Unit Keys & Security Devices Security Assessments Communications Unit Emergency Management Select to follow link Mission & Partners Emergency Planning Building Liaisons Accessibility in an Emergency AED Program Community Resources Contact Select to follow link Compliments and Complaints Contact Info & Location Records Request Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Public Safety Office Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Emergency Management Emergency Management Overview The University of Kansas Office of Public Safety's Emergency Management Division is responsible for the preparedness, training and coordination of emergency response and recovery efforts at the University of Kansas. They plan for natural, man-made and technological hazards that could adversely affect all members and the sustainable operations of the campus community. Emergency Management staff provide assistance coordinating resources, expertise, leadership and advocacy through an integrated and comprehensive risk-based emergency preparedness program. Emergency Management Partners Douglas County Emergency Management Provides emergency management services for the area that surrounds the KU campus, throughout Lawrence and the rest of Douglas County. KU Medical Center Emergency Management Office Oversees emergency management and preparedness programs for the KUMC campus in Kansas City, Kansas, and collaborates with Emergency Management staff at the Lawrence campus on issues affecting the entire university. Lawrence-Douglas County Fire and Medical Lawrence-Douglas County Fire Medical (LDCFM) provides fire suppression services to the City of Lawrence and emergency medical services to all of Douglas County, Kansas, which includes the University of Kansas. Kansas Division of Emergency Management A division of the Kansas Adjutant General's Department that provides mitigation advocacy, planning requirements and guidance, response coordination and administration of recovery programs for the civil sector of the state. Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Part of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, FEMA is responsible for coordinating government-wide relief efforts, as well as federal policies, programs, and actions to mitigate, prepare for, respond to, and recover from all hazards. U.S. Department of Homeland Security The U.S. Department of Homeland Security's responsibilities include counter terrorism, securing the nation’s borders, cyberspace and infrastructure protection, and strengthening the nation’s preparedness and resilience toward attacks and disasters. Emergency Management Mission Provide an integrated, comprehensive emergency management program for the University of Kansas. Public Safety Building 1501 Crestline Drive Suite 120 Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Route: 10 & 30 kupso@ku.edu 785-864-5900 facebook twitter Compliment / Complaint Clery Report Use of Force Summaries Report Sexual Assault/Harassment KU Alert System Student Housing Safety Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.