Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Program in Writing and Rhetoric Search this site Submit Search Menu Home About PWR Director's Message PWR People PWR Staff and Leadership PWR Lecturers Oral Communication Hume Profiles Storytelling Profiles All PWR Profiles Understanding the Writing and Rhetoric Requirements Write 2 classes outside PWR Transfer Credit and the Writing Requirement PWR 1 Course Equivalence PWR 2 Course Equivalence PWR Policies The PWR Commitment to Students PWR Attendance Policy PWR Evaluation & Grading Criteria PWR Incomplete Policy Grade Appeals and Course Concerns Academic Integrity and University Policies A Rhetorical Approach to Writing at Stanford PWR Principles Publications, Prizes, and Awards The Boothe Prize PWR Boothe Prize Essay Archive The Lunsford Award for Oral Presentation of Research The Lunsford Award Presentations Archive Lunsford Honorees: Spring and Summer 2020 Lunsford Honorees: Fall 2020 Lunsford Honorees: Winter 2021 Lunsford Honorees: Spring and Summer 2021 The Hoefer Prize for Writing in the Major Past Initiatives Writing Specialists Writing Matters: Faculty Edition Christopher Edwards Margot Gerritsen Deborah M. Gordon Susan Holmes Mark Kasevich Julie Kennedy Susan McConnell Mehran Sahami Ravi Vakil Richard N. Zare Writing Matters: Student Edition Kezia Alfred Mia Divecha Rachael Flatt Zoya Lozoya Clarice Nguyen Jacob Portes Jasmine Ragland Tina Roh Cole Rojas Kimmy Scheible Karen Shen Kyle Vermeer Joy Vorapatchaiyanont Courses Enroll PWR Enrollment Dates and Deadlines View or Petition to Change Quarter Plan for PWR Submit PWR Section Preferences Petition to Change PWR Section View PWR Enrollment FAQs Student Resources See a Tutor at the Hume Center Hume Resources for Writers Hume Resources for Speakers Library Research Guides Publish Your PWR Proiect Stanford Publications Non-Stanford Undergraduate Journals (individual listings) Non-Stanford publications (comprehensive lists) Undergraduate Research Conference Opportunities PWR Notations Writing in the Major Teaching Teaching a Write 2 Course Teaching a WIM course Teaching Positions in PWR PWR Lecturer Full Job Description Main content start The Program in Writing and Rhetoric (PWR) At Stanford, you will develop your ability to write purposefully and confidently as an integral component of your academic journey. PWR courses focus on themes designed to inspire you as a writer and researcher -- from ethics and artificial intelligence to hip-hop culture, language and power, and Silicon Valley and the future of work, for example. As a central element of your PWR course, you will have the opportunity to pursue a research project on the topic of your choice, aligned with your class theme. Learn more about PWR Honoring "Students’ Right to Their Own Language" in a New Era: PWR and the Power of Cultural Rhetorics The most enduring policy document of our leading intellectual and professional organization, the Conference on College Composition and Communication was ratified nearly 50 years ago, in April 1974. That document, “Students’ Right to Their Own Language,” identifies students’ “patterns and varieties of language” as a fundamental right that writing instructors must honor—and must have the “experiences and training” that will enable them to do so. Read PWR Director Adam Banks' full message The Writing and Rhetoric Requirement at Stanford PWR 1 and PWR 2 courses are carefully designed to offer richly diverse intellectual experiences based on shared assignments, goals, and learning outcomes. The basic structure of required PWR courses—in particular, the assignment sequence—does not vary from section to section, but each instructor builds on this shared core, designing class materials and activities and choosing readings to develop a unique course. Explore PWR Courses PWR 1 Courses PWR 1 is a 4 unit course taken by students in their first year that fulfills Stanford's WR 1 requirement. It engages students in the serious practice of academic analysis, college level research, and argument. PWR 1 PWR 2 Courses PWR 2 is a 4-unit course, taken by students in their second year, that continues PWR 1’s emphasis on analysis and research-based argument, while adding a focus on oral and multimedia communication. The course satisfies second-level WR 2 General Education Writing and Rhetoric requirement. PWR 2 Additional Elective Courses in Writing and Rhetoric The Program in Writing and Rhetoric offers several elective courses every quarter that invite students to build on the skills they developed in PWR 1 and PWR 2, further developing their strategies of writing, rhetoric, and oral communication in a range of genres and modes. These courses do not fulfill the WR-1 or WR-2 university requirements. Explore Additional Electives Featured Spring Elective Critical Rhetoric: Racism, Misogyny, and the Law PWR 194KTA Featured Spring Elective Doctors' Stories: Communicating Health Sciences PWR 91SP Publications, Prizes, and Awards Learn more about the Boothe Prize, the Lunsford Award for Oral Presentation of Research, and the Hoefer Prize for Writing in the Major. Publications, Prizes, and Awards The Program in Writing and Rhetoric offers notations in cultural rhetorics and science communication. A Notation is a designation that appears on your transcript indicating your advanced work in rhetoric and communication. It is like a minor but allows more latitude in completing the required work and focuses on an interdisciplinary ePortfolio rather than a high number of additional courses. Explore PWR Notations Stanford Program in Writing and Rhetoric Web Login Address Sweet Hall, Third Floor 590 Escondido Mall Stanford, CA 94305-3069 United States Facebook Instagram Twitter Contact Us Phone: 650-723-2631 Fax: 650-723-0631 For enrollment questions, please email pwrcourses@stanford.edu. For contact information for PWR instructors, visit the PWR instructor profiles. Visit the PWR Notations site here. Adam Banks Faculty Director, Program in Writing and Rhetoric | Sweet 314 Marvin Diogenes Associate Vice Provost, Director, Program in Writing and Rhetoric | Sweet 311 Christine Alfano Associate Director, Program in Writing and Rhetoric | Sweet 310 Lisa Ramee Student Services Officer, Program in Writing and Rhetoric | Sweet 317C Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top