Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Quantitative Social Science Program in Quantitative Social Science Contact Us Quantitative.Social.Science@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview What is it like to write a QSS thesis? Questions about the curriculum What is it like to complete a one quarter QSS research project? What can I do with a QSS degree? Major Minor Courses Course Schedule by Term QSS student prize Faces of QSS QSS Class of 2021 QSS Class of 2020 Back to Top Nav Research Overview Honors Theses Selected theses 2020-21 Selected theses 2019-20 Selected theses 2018-19 Selected theses 2017-18 Selected theses 2016-17 Selected theses 2015-16 One Quarter Research Projects Selected 2018-19 Projects Selected 2017-18 projects Selected 2016-17 projects Faculty-Student Collaborations Back to Top Nav About the Program General questions Questions about the curriculum Questions about research What can I do with a QSS degree? A student's perspective on QSS Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Dartmouth Interdisciplinary Network Research Group Past Events Back to Top Nav People Faculty, Fellows, Affiliates & Staff What can I do with a QSS degree? Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story QSS postdoctoral fellows Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search QSS thesis presentations begin in early May 2022…. Come join us for our '22 QSS Honors Thesis presentations. Click here for the complete schedule. QSS students present results from culminating one-quarter research projects This past March 7 and 8 were poster session days for the students completing one-quarter research projects in the Program in Quantitative Social Science (QSS). In Winter 2022, one-quarter project courses were taught by Visiting Professor Robert Cooper and Lecturer Peter DeWan. Together they supervised 22 research projects. Click here for additional details. Advice for graduates from Professor Crabtree Along with other faculty members at the college, Professor Crabtree was recently asked to provide some advice to the graduating members of the Class of 2021. Here is an interview with Professor Crabtree, describing his Winter 2021 QSS course, his pandemic year, and the origins of his words of advice. Yusaku Horiuchi on the value of public diplomacy Yusaku Horiuchi, Professor of Government and the Mitsui Professor of Japanese Studies at Dartmouth College, recently published an article on the effect of public diplomacy on foreign public opinion. Click here for additional details. The Faces of QSS Meet the QSS Class of 2021 PreviousNext About the Program The Program in Quantitative Social Science (QSS) brings together Dartmouth faculty and students who are interested in applying statistical, computational, and mathematical tools to social science questions. QSS offers undergraduates a major and minor, both of which combine mathematical training with one or more of the social sciences. Announcements View All QSS student John Cho `22 presents at the 2022 Midwest Political Science Association conference Date: 04/12/2022 Four Presidential Scholars Publish in Research & Politics Date: 12/13/2021 QSS 41 student publishes article on "Chaos from order" Date: 11/16/2021 Applying to Grad School Panel Date: 10/13/2021 Meet our Faculty Andrew A. Samwick Sandra L. and Arthur L. Irving '72a P'10 Professor of Economics Chair, Department of Economics view profile Yusaku Horiuchi Professor of Government Mitsui Professor of Japanese Studies view profile Jason Houle Associate Professor of Sociology Affiliate, Quantitative Social Science Program view profile Kimberly B. Rogers Associate Professor of Sociology Quantitative Social Science Program Affiliate view profile Scott D. Pauls Professor of Mathematics Cheheyl Professor and Director, Dartmouth Center for the Advancement of Learning view profile view all Quick Links Contact Us Recent News View All QSS major Matthew Chen wins Fulbright fellowship Matthew Chen, who completed a major in the Program in QSS, was awarded a Fulbright fellowship to be an English teaching assistant in Taiwan. '22 QSS Honors Thesis presentations begin this week The Program in QSS kicked off its Honor Thesis presentations this Tuesday, May 3. QSS faculty on political polarization Associate Professor of Mathematics Feng Fu's lab recently published in Humanities and Social Sciences Communications Students Inspired by QSS as a Tool for Social Change Eunice Liu '23 and Helen Ma '23 are working with Rebecca Ann Johnson, an assistant professor of Quantitative Social Science. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Program in Quantitative Social Science Undergraduate Overview What is it like to write a QSS thesis? Questions about the curriculum What is it like to complete a one quarter QSS research project? What can I do with a QSS degree? Major Minor Courses Course Schedule by Term QSS student prize Faces of QSS QSS Class of 2021 QSS Class of 2020 Research Overview Honors Theses Selected theses 2020-21 Selected theses 2019-20 Selected theses 2018-19 Selected theses 2017-18 Selected theses 2016-17 Selected theses 2015-16 One Quarter Research Projects Selected 2018-19 Projects Selected 2017-18 projects Selected 2016-17 projects Faculty-Student Collaborations About the Program General questions Questions about the curriculum Questions about research What can I do with a QSS degree? A student's perspective on QSS News & Events News & Events Dartmouth Interdisciplinary Network Research Group Past Events People Faculty, Fellows, Affiliates & Staff What can I do with a QSS degree? Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story QSS postdoctoral fellows My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback