Skip to main content Skip to footer unit links University of Washington Center for Quantitative Science Search Homepage arrow expansion arrow for mobile menu section Homepage About CQS arrow expansion arrow for mobile menu section About CQS Contact us Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion News CQS History Give Reporting Concerns and Grievances Undergraduate arrow expansion arrow for mobile menu section Undergraduate Q SCI Courses Q SCI Minor Graduate arrow expansion arrow for mobile menu section Graduate QERM Degree Programs Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) Master of Science Masters Bypass Option Elective Courses How to Apply to QERM Frequently Asked Questions QERM Student Funding QERM Student Profiles CQS Faculty arrow expansion arrow for mobile menu section CQS Faculty Emeritus Faculty Intranet arrow expansion arrow for mobile menu section Intranet Make a Gift UW Home College Home Directories Maps Intranet Search Make a Gift Center for Quantitative Science College of the Environment University of Washington About CQS Contact us Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion News CQS History Give Reporting Concerns and Grievances Undergraduate Q SCI Courses Q SCI Minor Graduate QERM Degree Programs Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) Master of Science Masters Bypass Option How to Apply to QERM Frequently Asked Questions QERM Student Funding QERM Student Profiles CQS Faculty Making Science Count The Center for Quantitative Science (CQS) offers unique, interdisciplinary opportunities for graduate and undergraduate students interested in applying quantitative methods to biological and ecological issues. Learn more QERM: PH.D. and Master's Program The Quantitative Ecology & Resource Management (QERM) program is a unique interdisciplinary graduate program designed for students interested in applying quantitative tools to ecological and resource management issues. Students receive intensive training in the application of statistical, mathematical, and decision sciences to terrestrial and aquatic ecology, natural resource management, biometrics, and mathematical biology. Learn more Q SCI: Quantitative Science Minor and Courses Minor The Center for Quantitative Science offers a minor for undergraduate students who are interested in applications of statistical and mathematical tools to problems in ecology, biology, renewable resource management, and the environment. Minor Requirements Courses and Electives The Q SCI courses are a series of math and statistics classes designed for students in biology or ecology-related sciences. Course information News and Events Twitter Facebook Email Oct 26, 2020 | General Welcome the 2020 QERM Cohort! We are excited to announce that three new QERMies joined the graduate program this fall! We welcome Jeff Miles, Zoe Rand, and Emily Sellinger into our community. Jeff Miles comes to us from Cornell University where he received a BA in Statistical Science. Read more » Twitter Facebook Email Oct 26, 2020 | General Publication News: Connie Okasaki Connie Okasaki, QERM PhD student, is lead author of the paper “Collective navigation can facilitate passage through human-made barriers by homeward migrating Pacific salmon” recently published in the Proceedings of the Royal Society B. Read more » Twitter Facebook Email Sep 15, 2020 | General Publication News: Dr. Aaron Wirsing Aaron Wirsing (Associate Professor, School of Environmental and Forest Sciences (SEFS) and QERM) was a collaborator on a study recently published in Nature titled, “Global status and conservation potential of reef sharks.” . Read more » More News Events No upcoming events. Additional events can be found on the College of the Environment Events Calendar. See All Events Back to Top Center for Quantitative Science Ocean Teaching Building, Suite 300, Box 357941 Seattle, WA 98195 cqs@uw.edu | 206-616-9571 Search Aquatic and Fishery Sciences Atmospheric Sciences Center for Quantitative Science Climate Impacts Group Cooperative Institute for Climate, Ocean, & Ecosystem Studies EarthLab Earth and Space Sciences Environmental and Forest Sciences Friday Harbor Laboratories Marine and Environmental Affairs Marine Biology Oceanography Program on Climate Change Program on the Environment Quaternary Research Center UW Botanic Gardens Washington Sea Grant University of Washington Be Boundless © 2022 University of Washington | Staff login Jobs My UW Privacy Terms