Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu IBM Quantum Hub at NC State About Overview Our Team Membership Industry Membership University Membership NC State Access Request Form Training and Education User Resources FAQs About Membership Training and Education User Resources FAQs Full Site Navigation About Overview Our Team Membership Industry Membership University Membership NC State Access Request Form Get Quantum Ready IBM Quantum Hubs are part of a worldwide community of leading Fortune 500 companies, startups, academic institutions, and national research labs working with IBM to advance quantum computing. PROMOTING QUANTUM COMPUTING RESEARCH AND APPLICATIONS Triangle Quantum Computing Seminar Series Join us each Friday at 2 p.m. for a collaborative series of talks hosted by Duke Quantum Center, IBM Quantum Hub at NC State and UNC Kenan-Flagler’s Rethinc. Labs. Learn more about the Speakers. The IBM Quantum Hub at NC State is a center of quantum computing education, research, development and implementation. We work directly with our industry and academic members and IBM to advance quantum computing, as well as interdisciplinary applied research, student development and quantum computing curricula at NC State. Together we are working to solve real-world problems faster and more efficiently than may be possible with a classical computer. See what Quantum can do for you Learn about our Quantum textbook Quantum Events Full Calendar Jun10 Friday 8:00 AM Triangle Quantum Computing Seminar Series Will Return Fall Semester Jun24 Friday 8:00 AM Triangle Quantum Computing Seminar Series Will Return Fall Semester Jul8 Friday 8:00 AM Triangle Quantum Computing Seminar Series Will Return Fall Semester MULTI-BILLION A YEAR INDUSTRY BY 2040 Analysts predict quantum computing creates value of $450 to $850 Billion in 20 years Source: Boston Consulting Group This is Quantum Computing Quantum computers are incredibly powerful machines that take a new approach to processing information using the principles of quantum mechanics. There are currently problems that classic computers can’t solve. These generally involve exponential scaling such as large-scale optimization or chemistry simulations. Quantum computers are being built to work with classical computers to solve these problems. Quantum Today Quantum computing has been pursued for decades in research labs and is still in early stages of development. However, prototype machines are today getting bigger and more capable, and significant advances are being made in quantum software development. Industries are just starting to explore the possibilities, and universities are beginning to develop quantum computing curriculums. Quantum computing has the potential to solve large-scale societal challenges in areas such as complex optimization, molecular modeling, machine learning, physics, materials science, chemical simulations and data discovery, and impact future breakthroughs in: Helping researchers create new medicines or materials Delivering (shipping, transporting) a product across the globe with the least amount of fuel Managing risk in constantly fluctuating financial markets Training artificial intelligence Learn more about how Quantum works Keeping up with the Quantum Hub IBM Quantum Hub Welcomes Fidelity Center for Applied Technology The Fidelity Center for Applied Technology — which assesses, tests, and scales concepts and ideas at Fidelity Investments — is joining the IBM Quantum Hub at NC State University. Read more IBM Doubles Its Quantum Computing Power Again IBM announced that it had doubled last year's quantum volume 32 to a quantum volume of 64 using one of its newest 27-qubit Falcon processors. Read more The University of New Mexico Becomes IBM Quantum Hub’s First University Member The University of New Mexico has joined the IBM Quantum Hub at NC State University to become its first university member. Read More Health Care Company Anthem Joins NC State’s IBM Quantum Hub Anthem, Inc., a leading health benefits company, is the second founding member to join the IBM Quantum Hub at NC State University, where it will explore how quantum computing may further enhance the consumer health care experience... Read more Become Part of the Network NC State Access Request NC State students, faculty and staff interested in accessing the IBM Quantum Hub at NC State may request access by filling out the form at the below link. Request Access Explore Resources Are you an NC State student, faculty or staff member interested in quantum computing? Access resources by visiting the below link. Explore Resources Career Opportunities View our current open positions. Learn More and Apply IBM Quantum Hub at NC State Contact Us NC State Access Request Form Industry Request Form Job Openings Chemistry Department Computer Science Department Electrical and Computer Engineering Department Mathematics Department Physics Department © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.