Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Quantum Initiative Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home About Research News Quantum Courses People Partners History Read Watch Attend Columbia Quantum Initiative Columbia Quantum Initiative Home Image Carousel with 3 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1 Slide 2 Slide 3 The Columbia Quantum Initiative is Taking Control The Columbia Quantum Initiative is Taking Control The Columbia Quantum Initiative is Taking Control Previous Next Follow @ColumbiaQuantum on Twitter In the first half of the 20th century, the first quantum revolution gave us a new way of thinking about the way the world works and brought us technologies such as lasers, MRI machines, and the transistors that underpin all aspects of modern life. Today, the second quantum revolution is underway, and it’s all about control. The coming generation of quantum technologies will be built on new physical principles and demand new materials, new methods of investigation, and new collaborations. At Columbia, we’re tackling these demands together and training the next generation of quantum scientists and entrepreneurs. Building on the collaborative culture long fostered at Columbia, the Quantum Initiative is combining interdisciplinary expertise in materials science, photonics, quantum theory, and more, all while taking advantage of our unique position in the global hub that is New York to develop novel quantum technologies that will open new frontiers into how we compute through complex problems, communicate with one another, and sense the world around us. Learn More Our Research Our Research Our People Our People Our Partners Our Partners Our History Recent News May 27, 2022 Tick-Tock! Building Molecular Clocks with Tanya Zelevinsky The experimental physicist uses quantum control of molecules to study fundamental science. Tags Atomic & Molecular Physics May 25, 2022 Quantum Q&A With Leo Lo, CC’22 As he graduates, the Physics and Math double major reflects on his time at Columbia and research experiences in a quantum lab. Tags Quantum Materials & Nanoscience May 20, 2022 Unique Quantum Material Could Enable Ultra-powerful, Compact Computers Columbia chemists and physicists find a link between tunable electronic and magnetic properties in a 2D semiconductor, with potential applications in spintronics, quantum computing, and fundamental research. Tags Quantum Materials & Nanoscience More News Upcoming Quantum Events May31Tue 2022 Workshop on Recent Developments in Electronic Structure (ES22) 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Jun8Wed Quantum Many-body Physics with Atoms and Photons Zoom 1:30 PM - 2:30 PM More Events Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Twitter Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close