Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Yale Quantum Institute About the Institute Mission & History Diversity Our members Annual Reports Join the Institute YQI in the Media Location & Contacts YQI Virtual Space Virtual Tour Programs & Events Upcoming Events Artists-in-Residence Program Colloquia and Seminar Series CS/YQI Quantum Computing Colloquium Series Distinguished Lecturer Series Fellowship Program MLS (Host only) Physics Open Mic Public Conversations Summer Lecture Series WIQI (Women in Quantum Information) Group Yale Undergraduate Quantum Computing (YuQC) YQI/Franke Program Nontechnical Talk Series Resources New to YQI Affiliation in publications Job postings How to Join the Quantum Workforce? Presentations Archive Superconducting qubit code library Quantum Institutes around the world Videos Subscribe home page Latest news Quantum Applied Scientist at AWS - US & EU Positions May 25, 2022 We are hiring two Quantum Applied Scientists for my group at Amazon Web Services. US job application: https://bit.ly/3GhWLhl EU job application: ... Distinguished Professorship in Quantum Computing at NC State University May 24, 2022 The Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering invites applications for the Goodnight Distinguished Chair in Quantum Computing. The... Live Culture: Super Cold + Scorching Hot May 11, 2022 WPKN Community Radio This month on Live Culture the tables get turned as Yale Quantum Institute Manager Florian Carle interviews Martha Willette... Yale Quantum Institute Creates One-of-a-Kind Album May 6, 2022 Here at Yale: Sounds from another realm May 4, 2022 Under an early evening dusk, made darker by rain clouds overhead, shades of red, blue, and rose flowed across the white façade of 17 Hillhouse Avenue... "The Quantum Revolution" Lands At The New Haven Museum April 22, 2022 At the opening night of The Quantum Revolution: Handcrafted in New Haven, the second floor of the New Haven Museum hummed with visitors. There were... Frontiers of Quantum Materials and Devices Conference - Spain, Jun 20-24, 2022 April 9, 2022 I want to bring your attention to the Frontiers in Quantum Materials and Devices conference, sponsored by the Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation,... Quantum Week at Yale geared toward novices and experts alike April 7, 2022 Yale’s hub for quantum research will soon entangle the campus — in the best possible sense — in a full week of mind-bending science, artistry, and... Event recommendations for Quantum Week at Yale! April 8-14 April 6, 2022 Dear YQI Community, As you know, Quantum Week at Yale (or QWAY!) starting this Friday! I know that 23 events happening during the week might be a... The 2022 Annual Report is out now! April 4, 2022 The Yale Quantum Institute publishes every year a report on its mission and activities, latest sciences news, and outreeach activities. The 2022... More news... The Yale Quantum Institute facilitates the research and teaching of quantum science on the Yale campus. YQI performs outreach in the form of seminars, workshops, and hosting leading scientists from around the world. YQI Tweets Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved