Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Quantum Initiative Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home About Research News Quantum Courses People Partners History Read Watch Attend Columbia Quantum Initiative You are here: Home Columbia Quantum Initiative News Columbia Quantum Initiative News The Latest Quantum News at Columbia May 15, 2013 Graphene Study Confirms 40-Year-Old Physics Prediction A team of researchers from Columbia University, City University of New York, the University of Central Florida (UCF), and Tohoku University and the National Institute for Materials Science in Japan, have directly observed a rare quantum effect that produces a repeating butterfly-shaped energy spectrum, confirming the longstanding prediction of this quantum fractal energy structure called Hofstadter’s butterfly. The study, which focused on moiré-patterned graphene, is published in the May 15, 2013, Advance Online Publication (AOP) of Nature. October 05, 2016 Electrons in Graphene Behave Like Light, Only Better Researchers discover that electrons mimic light in graphene, confirming a 2007 prediction – their finding may enable new low power electronics and lead to new experimental probes. October 04, 2017 The Cleanest Room on Campus When it comes to conducting ultrafine research on a nanoscale, even one speck of dust could short out a piece of microelectronics operating at the atomic level. October 12, 2017 Columbia Engineers Create Artificial Graphene in a Nanofabricated Semiconductor Structure Researchers at Columbia Engineering, experts at manipulating matter at the nanoscale, have made an important breakthrough in physics and materials science, recently reported in Nature Nanotechnology. Working with colleagues from Princeton and Purdue Universities and Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia, the team has engineered “artificial graphene” by recreating, for the first time, the electronic structure of graphene in a semiconductor device. May 15, 2018 Researchers Control the Properties of Graphene Transistors Using Pressure A Columbia University-led international team of researchers has developed a technique to manipulate the electrical conductivity of graphene with compression, bringing the material one step closer to being a viable semiconductor for use in today’s electronic devices. June 06, 2018 Quantum Interference May Be Key to Smaller Insulators In a highly interdisciplinary collaboration, researchers across Columbia Engineering, Columbia University Department of Chemistry, Shanghai Normal University, and the University of Copenhagen have upended conventional wisdom, synthesizing the first molecule capable of insulating at the nanometer scale more effectively than a vacuum barrier. October 02, 2018 In Physics | The Quantum and Classical Sides of a Chemical Reaction Experiments track a simple molecule dissociating to find when the reaction can be described with a quantum model and when a semiclassical one will do. January 24, 2019 Unlocking Graphene’s Superconducting Powers with a Twist and a Squeeze A Columbia University-led team has developed a new method to finely tune adjacent layers of graphene—honeycomb-like, 2D sheets of carbon atoms—to induce superconductivity. Their research provides new insights into the physics underlying this material’s intriguing characteristics. April 02, 2019 The Optical Society Names Alexander Gaeta the 2019 Charles Hard Townes Award Winner Honoree recognized for pioneering contributions to the fields of quantum and nonlinear photonics May 03, 2019 Making Her Mark: Q&A with Professor Michal Lipson Michal Lipson is a pioneer whose seminal research underpins the explosive growth and rapid commercialization of silicon photonics, a technology that uses optical rays to transfer data among computer chips. She spoke with Columbia Engineering about the joy of physics, putting all your eggs in one basket, and young female researchers taking charge of their careers. May 06, 2019 In Physics | Bilayer Graphene’s Wicked, Twisted Road Superconductivity, magnetism, and other forms of interacting electron behavior—bilayers of graphene seem to have it all. Researchers are now using this pristine material to unlock the secrets of interacting-electron phenomena with unprecedented control and tunability May 31, 2019 Columbia's Dmitri Basov Wins Vannevar Bush Fellowship Dmitri Basov, Higgins Professor of Physics at Columbia University, has been awarded the Vannever Bush Faculty Fellowship for 2019. The honor, which is one of the U.S. Department of Defense’s most prestigious awards, aims to foster research that probes the limits of today's technologies and has potential for transformative impact. June 25, 2019 Research Reveals Exotic Quantum States in Double-Layer Graphene Researchers from Brown and Columbia Universities have demonstrated previously unknown states of matter that arise in double-layer stacks of graphene, a two-dimensional nanomaterial. These new states, known as the fractional quantum Hall effect, arise from the complex interactions of electrons both within and across graphene layers. July 02, 2019 Columbia and Harvard Combine Quantum Expertise to Advance Research in Ultracold Molecules Leaders in the field of ultracold molecule research from Columbia and Harvard Universities are teaming up to propel understanding of the quantum mechanics of chemical reactions. July 15, 2019 Four Columbia Scientists Honored with Presidential Early Career Awards Cory Dean, Professor of Condensed Matter Physics, and Timothy Berkelbach, Assistant Professor of Chemistry, have been named recipients of the Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists and Engineers (PECASE). July 19, 2019 In Science | Columbia Expert on: Trilayer Graphene Shows Signs of Superconductivity Quantum materials physicist Cory Dean is quoted in a Science news story about recent work showing superconductivity in trilayer graphene. October 01, 2019 In Physics Today | A molecular clock for testing fundamental forces Physics Today covers new research on molecular clocks from Columbia Physicist Tanya Zelevinsky October 08, 2019 Columbia Team Receives $2M for Quantum Research Aimed at Stabilizing Atomic Excitation Columbia researchers Sebastian Will (Physics), Ana Asenjo-Garcia (Physics), and Nanfang Yu (Applied Physics) have been awarded $2 million for a project aimed at extending the excited state lifetime of atoms. November 06, 2019 At the Frontiers of Nanoengineering Using Columbia’s nano facilities, over four hundred researchers have achieved nearly three hundred inventions and patents. November 13, 2019 Profs. Gaeta, Lipson, and Yu Win NSF Grants to Advance Quantum Research Researchers propose a new approach—using a photonic-chip platform based on silicon nitride—to attain highly entangled photon states, essential to quantum computing and technology November 19, 2019 New Quantum Center Opens at Columbia Working together with the Flatiron Institute in New York City and the Max Planck Society in Germany, the University will harness quantum materials for wider applications and technologies. November 21, 2019 Breaking (and Restoring) Graphene’s Symmetry in a Twistable Electronics Device Columbia researchers invent a new way to tune the properties of 2D materials by adjusting the twist angle between them; technology enables the development of nanoelectromechanical sensors with applications in astronomy, medicine, search and rescue, and more. November 22, 2019 Quantum Leaps and Bounds Columbia University joins the Flatiron Institute and Germany’s Max Planck Society for the Advancement of Science to establish the Max Planck - New York City Center for Nonequilibrium Quantum Phenomena January 02, 2020 In Physics Today | Twisted bilayer graphene enters a new phase Physics Today covers advances in magic angle twisted graphene, including work from Columbia Physicist Cory Dean January 06, 2020 In Inverse | Quantum Mechanics Just Got a Helping Hand from Astrophysics Researchers from Columbia University and the University of California, San Diego were able to re-purpose techniques from astrophysics to better visualize nano-scale materials instead of galactic scale astronomical phenomena. January 06, 2020 A Quantum Breakthrough Brings a Technique From Astronomy to the Nano-scale January 10, 2020 Multi-modal nanoprobes reveal hidden magnetism A “multi-messenger” approach that was first employed to study astrophysical phenomena such as black hole mergers can also bring insights to the ultra-small realm of quantum physics, says researchers at Columbia University February 24, 2020 Columbia Team Discovers New Way to Control the Phase of Light Using 2D Materials Researchers use atomically thin materials—1/100,000 the size of a human hair—to manipulate the phase of light without changing its amplitude, at extremely low power loss; could enable applications such as LIDAR, phased arrays, optical switching, and quantum and optical neural networks March 11, 2020 In Quanta | Ideal Glass Would Explain Why Glass Exists at All Columbia Chemist David Reichman talks to Quanta Magazine about the mysteries of glass April 09, 2020 Study suggests two novel methods of searching for dark matter by measuring tiny perturbations in fundamental constants Physicists Rees McNally and Tanya Zelevinsky from Columbia University, New York, USA, have now published a paper in EPJ D proposing two new methods of looking for such perturbations and, thus, dark matter. May 02, 2020 Dmitri Basov and Andrew Millis Join the Ranks of the National Academy of Sciences May 28, 2020 Quantum Materials Researcher Receives $1.6 Million From the Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation Dmitri Basov will use the award to develop experimental techniques that could lead to revolutionary applications in electronics, computing energy technology and medical devices. June 02, 2020 In Physics | Simulations Reveal Quantum Tunneling Events in Glass In a glass, the freedom of atoms to move by quantum tunneling depends on how fast the glass was initially formed. July 06, 2020 2D Semiconductors Found to Be Close-To-Ideal Fractional Quantum Hall Platform Columbia University researchers report that they have observed a quantum fluid known as the fractional quantum Hall states (FQHS), one of the most delicate phases of matter, for the first time in a monolayer 2D semiconductor. July 13, 2020 Tiny Bubbles Make a Quantum Leap Using sophisticated optical microscopy techniques, Columbia engineers are first to demonstrate that sufficient strain in 2D material can yield single-photon emitters, key to quantum technologies and future photonic circuitry September 25, 2020 Columbia Leads Effort to Build a Quantum Simulator Columbia Leads Effort to Build a Quantum Simulator | The project is supported by an NSF Convergence Accelerator award that funds team-based, multidisciplinary initiatives addressing challenges of national importance. October 07, 2020 Yoshi Okawachi Elected Optical Society Fellow October 12, 2020 Stacking and Twisting Graphene Unlocks a Rare Form of Magnetism Twisting a monolayer and a bilayer sheet of graphene into a three-layer structure leads to new quantum mechanical states. October 15, 2020 MRSEC Wins $18M NSF Grant Columbia researchers have successfully re-competed for the highly competitive Materials Research Science and Engineering Center (MRSEC) program, sponsored by the National Science Foundation (NSF). Columbia’s MRSEC, the Center for Precision-Assembled Quantum Materials (PAQM), will receive $18 million over the next six years to support cutting-edge research into new quantum materials, in which clear effects of quantum mechanics emerge in macroscopic systems. December 07, 2020 Harnessing Quantum Properties to Create Single-Molecule Devices Columbia team discovers 6nm-long single-molecule circuit with enormous on/off ratio due to quantum interference; finding could enable faster, smaller, and more energy-efficient devices December 16, 2020 In Physics World | Destructive Quantum Interference Improves Single-molecule Switch January 13, 2021 Engineers observe avalanches in nanoparticles for the first time Researchers at Columbia Engineering report today that they have developed the first nanomaterial that demonstrates "photon avalanching," a process that is unrivaled in its combination of extreme nonlinear optical behavior and efficiency. February 04, 2021 Switching Nanolight On and Off Columbia researchers discover a new way to program light on an ultra-small scale February 10, 2021 Columbia Physicist Honored With a Commemorative U.S. Postage Stamp Chien-Shiung Wu’s pioneering work altered the way scientists view the structure of the universe. February 16, 2021 Ana Asenjo-Garcia Named 2021 Sloan Research Fellow The theoretical physicist who studies quantum optics joins three other Columbians considered rising stars in their fields, which include quantum physics, environmental science, statistics, and economics. February 16, 2021 Ana Asenjo-Garcia named 2021 Sloan Fellow The theoretical physicist studying quantum optics joins three other Columbians being recognized for outstanding contributions to their field with a $75,000 Sloan Research Fellowship. March 04, 2021 Twistoptics—A New Way to Control Optical Nonlinearity Columbia researchers engineer first technique to exploit the tunable symmetry of 2D materials for nonlinear optical applications, including laser, optical spectroscopy, imaging, and metrology systems, as well as next-generation optical quantum information processing and computing March 16, 2021 In Quanta | Columbia Expert on: A New Twist Reveals Superconductivity’s Secrets Cory Dean is quoted in Quanta about new results regarding superconductivity July 14, 2021 In Physics World | Electrons in Graphene Drag Light in Their Wake Physics World covers a recent Nature publication from the Basov Lab. July 21, 2021 Physicists Show That a Quantum Particle Made of Light and Matter Can Be Dragged by a Current of Electrons August 31, 2021 Columbia Faculty Receive Grant for Groundbreaking Quantum Research The pair will focus on an emerging field known as “twistronics.” September 20, 2021 Researchers Develop a Millimeter-Scale Chip-Based Supercontinuum Source for Optical Coherence Tomography The research groups of Christine Hendon and Michal Lipson have demonstrated a novel supercontinuum source that provides improved imaging performance. October 11, 2021 Heating Up Quantum Science Education with Laser Cooling A series of interactive workshops developed by Columbia physicist Sebastian Will and STEMteachersNYC will give educators tips and tools to cover quantum science in their classrooms. October 13, 2021 Quantum Phase Transition Detected on a Global Scale Deep Inside the Earth Spin transition discovered in the Earth’s mantle; finding will improve understanding the Earth’s interior, and enable better understanding of tectonic events including volcanic eruptions and earthquakes. October 14, 2021 Theoretical Physicist Ana Asenjo-Garcia Named a 2021 Packard Fellow One of 20 early-career researchers selected for the fellowship, Asenjo-Garcia is exploring how light and matter interact at the quantum level. October 15, 2021 Lars Onsager Prize Awarded to Boris Altshuler & Igor Aleiner Columbia theoretical physicists Boris Altshuler & Igor Aleiner have been awarded the 2022 Lars Onsager Prize from the American Physical Society for their foundational work on many-body localization. They share this year's prize with Princeton's David Huse. The prize, presented annually since 1995 in memory of Lars Onsager and his passion for analytical results, recognizes outstanding research in theoretical statistical physics. The prize consists of $10,000 as well as a certificate citing the contribution made by the recipient. October 21, 2021 With a Little Twist, Researchers Delve Into a Quantum Physics Puzzle In search of the mysterious transition between metallic and insulating states of matter, Columbia researchers find signatures of quantum criticality in a unique material. October 29, 2021 Untangling Quantum Information at Columbia Meet Henry Yuen, a computer scientist exploring the boundaries between classical and quantum computers. Yuen joined Columbia Engineering as an assistant professor in January 2021. November 01, 2021 Researchers Move Closer to Controlling Two-dimensional Graphene The results, published in Nature Electronics, relied on a cleaner technique to manipulate the flow of electricity, giving graphene greater conductivity than metals such as copper and gold, and raising its potential for use in telecommunications systems and quantum computers. November 09, 2021 Dynamic Control of Photon Lifetime for Quantum Random Number Generation A new paper, "Dynamic control of photon lifetime for quantum random number generation," from Prof. Alexander Gaeta's Quantum and Nonlinear Photonics Group and Prof. Michal Lipson's Nanophotonics Group was published by Optica. November 18, 2021 In Popular Science | Columbia Expert on: IBM's latest quantum chip breaks the elusive 100-qubit barrier Sebastian Will is quoted in Popular Science about IBM's 127-qubit chip, Eagle. November 22, 2021 New Device Modulates Visible Light—Without Dimming It—with the Smallest Footprint and Lowest Power Consumption Visible-spectrum, compact, power-efficient, low-loss phase modulator is a breakthrough in integrated photonics; the device will improve LIDAR for remote sensing, AR/VR goggles, quantum information processing chips, implantable optogenetic probes, and more. December 01, 2021 Shrinking Qubits for Quantum Computing with Atom-Thin Materials Using 2D materials, researchers have built superconducting qubits that are a fraction of previous sizes, paving the way for smaller quantum computers. December 01, 2021 New Computational Approach Predicts Chemical Reactions at High Temperatures Columbia engineers invent method that combines quantum mechanics with machine learning to accurately predict oxide reactions at high temperatures when no experimental data is available; could be used to design clean carbon-neutral processes for steel production and metal recycling. December 13, 2021 Nanoribbon Synthesis with Nickel Nanoparticles Scientists from Honda Research Institute USA, Inc. (HRI-US) have synthesized atomically thin “nanoribbons” – atomic-scale thickness, ribbon-shaped materials – that have broad implications for the future of quantum electronics, the area of physics dealing with the effects of quantum mechanics on the behavior of electrons in matter. December 16, 2021 A Tutoring Program for Harlem High School Students Breaks Out of Zoom During the pandemic, a group of Columbia graduate students launched the Physics and Coding Club at Democracy Prep Harlem High School. A year later, they’ve left the virtual world of Zoom to gather in real rooms for the first time. December 23, 2021 A Recap from Columbia Quantum's Newest Highly Cited Researchers Six Columbia Quantum Initiative researchers joined Clarivate’s Highly Cited Researcher list this year. Here, we've compiled some highlights from 2021. December 30, 2021 Columbia Physicists Discuss the State of Quantum Science With 2021 drawing to a close, Columbia physicists note the biggest quantum advances they saw last year and what may be coming as we head into 2022. January 05, 2022 Nematicity is a New Piece in a Phase Diagram Puzzle A team led by Columbia physicist Abhay Pasupathy sees stripes in samples of twisted double bilayer graphene, indicating the presence of a nematic phase characterized by broken rotational symmetry January 11, 2022 A Toolbox for Creating Quantum Effects The ability to program desired properties into materials will be key for making quantum technologies work in the real world. At the Programmable Quantum Materials Energy Frontiers Research Center, researchers have come together to create quantum effects on demand January 13, 2022 Tuning the Bonds of Paired Quantum Particles to Create Flow Without Losing Energy An adjustable platform made from atomically thin materials may help researchers figure out how to create a robust quantum condensate that can flow without dissipation January 14, 2022 Finding the Beauty in Condensed Matter Physics Raquel Queiroz, a new assistant professor at Columbia, is setting her own rules as she explores the science of solid materials. January 31, 2022 In Phys.org | Study Unveils a Moiré Nematic Phase in Twisted Double Bilayer Graphene Abhay Pasupathy explains his recent discovery of a nematic phase in twisted double bilayer graphene to Phys.org. February 10, 2022 Henry Yuen Wins NSF CAREER Award The theoretical computer scientist will use the award to push the boundaries of quantum information science. February 14, 2022 In Memoriam: Aron Pinczuk (1939-2022) Columbia mourns the loss of Aron Pinczuk, Professor of Applied Physics and Professor of Physics. He passed away on February 13, 2022. February 15, 2022 Henry Yuen Wins Sloan Research Fellowship The theoretical computer scientist joins four other Columbians being recognized for outstanding contributions to their field with a $75,000 Sloan Research Fellowship. February 16, 2022 Shedding Nanolight on Quantum Materials Dmitri Basov presents his work on nanolight and quantum materials at the Simons Foundation President Lecture Series. February 24, 2022 Looking to Control Quantum Effects on Demand? Check out 10 notable papers from Columbia’s Programmable Quantum Materials Energy Frontier Research Center February 24, 2022 A New Platform for Customizable Quantum Devices Columbia chemists contribute to a ground-up approach to designing customizable qubits. March 07, 2022 Columbia Physicists Make Ripples With Their Theory Explaining How Quantum Particles Get Stuck Boris Altshuler and Igor Aleiner share the American Physical Society’s Lars Onsager Prize with Princeton’s David Huse for their foundational work on many-body localization. March 08, 2022 Meet the Female Faculty of the Columbia Quantum Initiative In celebration of Women’s History Month, we’ve compiled a list of the women on the leading edge of quantum science at Columbia. March 15, 2022 Quantum Q&A with PhD Student Hamoon Mousavi Before he left for the Quantum Information Processing meeting, we asked Mousavi about combining quantum mechanics with computer science and how endurance sports help keep his mind fit. March 15, 2022 Using Materials from Columbia, Researchers Image the Full Structure of Trapped Excitons It’s a significant step in understanding these whirling quasiparticles and putting them to work in future semiconductor technologies. March 16, 2022 Toward a Quantum Computer That Calculates Molecular Energy Researchers at Columbia and Google Quantum AI have developed an algorithm that uses the most quantum bits to date to calculate ground state energy, the lowest-energy state in a quantum mechanical system. The discovery could help make it easier to design new materials. March 17, 2022 In IEEE Spectrum | Researchers Perform Largest Quantum Computing Chemistry Simulations to Date IEEE Spectrum covers a new hybrid quantum-classical approach from Columbia chemists David Reichman and Joonho Lee that could help avoid issues with noise in quantum circuits. March 25, 2022 Light Derails Electrons Through Graphene Columbia Engineers Cheng Tan and James Hone help colleagues from ICFO bend electrons in graphene with a little light. March 28, 2022 Women’s History Month Spotlight: Postdoc Norah Hoffmann Lights! Camera! Quantum! The theoretical quantum physicist by day and actor by night explains how she blends science and art. March 30, 2022 Collaboration Leads to Discovery in Rarely Studied Semimetal Drumhead State A new paper observing the topologically non-trivial drumhead state emerging from nodal-line semimetals offers new insights into how these newly discovered states behave in real materials. March 30, 2022 Physicists Engineer Ferroelectricity Into Well-known Family of Semiconductors Columbia Engineers Song Liu and James Hone help colleagues at MIT engineer ferroelectricity March 31, 2022 Columbia to Launch Master’s in Quantum Science and Technology Degree program will combine education in quantum fundamentals with hands-on experience in quantum research labs. April 08, 2022 In a Sea of Magic Angles, ‘Twistons’ Keep Electrons Flowing Through Three Layers of Graphene When it comes to superconductivity, three layers of graphene can be better than two. A new study from Columbia physicists reveals the atomic details that help explain why. April 21, 2022 A New Course Offers Hands-on Training in Quantum Computing Students learn about the rapidly advancing research field and work with real quantum computing hardware and software. April 22, 2022 How Can Quantum Mechanics Help Researchers Understand the Deep Earth? For Earth Day, learn about how science at its smallest scale is applied to the depths of our planet. May 04, 2022 President Biden Announces Two Presidential Directives Advancing Quantum Technologies Together, the two directives lay the groundwork for continued American leadership in an enormously promising field of science and technology, while mitigating the risks that quantum computers pose to America’s national and economic security. May 09, 2022 Hidden Distortions Trigger Promising Thermoelectric Property Study describes new mechanism for lowering thermal conductivity to aid search for materials that convert heat to electricity or electricity to heat May 16, 2022 Studying the Quantum Nature of Light at Columbia For International Day of Light, meet some of the faculty who are continuing the university’s long legacy of light research. May 18, 2022 Quantum Q&A With Postdoc Chiara Trovatello The recipient of the 2022 Couillaud Prize is back in New York and has her sights set on building a super tiny new laser to advance quantum optics research. May 18, 2022 Columbia Physicists Shine New Light on an Old Quantum Optics Problem About Collective Behavior Calculations from Ana Asenjo-Garcia and Stuart Masson reveal that any atom array is capable of bursting—a sign that atoms are syncing up. May 19, 2022 Ana Asenjo-Garcia Wins AMO Early Career Scientist Prize The theoretical physicist is recognized for her work on light-matter interactions in ultracold atoms. May 20, 2022 Unique Quantum Material Could Enable Ultra-powerful, Compact Computers Columbia chemists and physicists find a link between tunable electronic and magnetic properties in a 2D semiconductor, with potential applications in spintronics, quantum computing, and fundamental research. May 25, 2022 Quantum Q&A With Leo Lo, CC’22 As he graduates, the Physics and Math double major reflects on his time at Columbia and research experiences in a quantum lab. May 27, 2022 Tick-Tock! Building Molecular Clocks with Tanya Zelevinsky The experimental physicist uses quantum control of molecules to study fundamental science. Topics Year Keyword filter: Filter Filter Filter News, showing - Clear filtersFilterFilterFilter Columbia Quantum Newsletter May 2022 | See the Light at Columbia April 2022 | Lights! Camera! Quantum! March 2022 | Quantum at Columbia Marches On... Newsletter Archive Watch Where’s the Coldest Place in New York? In This Columbia Physics Lab How cold is cold? For Sebastian Will, assistant professor of physics at Columbia University, it's a few millionths of a degree above absolute zero. The Cleanest Room on Campus The Columbia Nano Initiative team set about meticulously creating these new world-class facilities to empower researchers from across the university as well as from industry and fellow academic institutions. Let It Rip! Scotch Tape in Quantum Research Columbia PhD student Valerie Hsieh shows off how scotch tape is used in quantum research More Video Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Twitter Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close