Racial Equity Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Racial Equity Main Menu Menu University Initiatives Academic Initiatives Current Work News & Events Your Ideas for Change Search Search Racial Equity “Systemic change requires systemic commitment. In order to live up to its values of diversity and excellence, Princeton must capitalize on its unique strengths and acknowledge the work that remains to be done. Building on past progress, we must make even greater investments in initiatives that support demographic evolution, sense of belonging, access and outreach, and scholarly innovation. We must hold ourselves accountable institutionally and as individual community members.” Michele Minter, Vice Provost for Institutional Equity and Diversity This website provides updates on Princeton’s commitments to enhance diversity, equity and inclusion and combat racism. In addition to the Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Annual Report, regular updates about actions and opportunities to offer input and feedback are posted periodically. An update on University commitments as of May 1, 2022 is now available. Highlights Inaugural Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Report As part of the University-wide effort to combat systemic racism, Princeton has published its first annual report highlighting diversity, equity and inclusion work across campus. The report provides a snapshot of projects, programs and initiatives during the 2020-21 academic year, and also includes demographic and climate data about students, staff, faculty and postdoctoral scholars. New partnerships, programs and positions are part of Princeton’s ongoing commitment to combat systemic racism An innovative research partnership with the United Negro College Fund and historically Black colleges and universities, the creation of the Effron Center for the Study of America, which embraces diverse and inclusive perspectives on what it means to be American, and a new vice dean position focused on faculty diversity are among Princeton’s many recent initiatives to address systemic racism. Upcoming Events No content available to show. View All Events “We must think broadly and ask hard questions of ourselves. We must reflect on our place in the world and challenge ourselves to identify additional steps we can take to fight racism. As a University, we must examine all aspects of this institution—from our scholarly work to our daily operations—with a critical eye and a bias toward action. This will be an ongoing process, one that depends on concrete and reasoned steps." - President Christopher L. Eisgruber, Sept. 2, 2020 Share your ideas for change Submit thoughts and feedback Back to Top Footer Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University