Raise Penn State A Greater Penn State for 21st Century Excellence Ways to Give Impact Stories Questions Select Page s Coronavirus Update: Keep up with the latest from Penn State on the global coronavirus outbreak. We Are Giving We Are Innovators. Driven. Curious. Dedicated. Family. Giving. On June 30, 2022, the University’s record-breaking fundraising campaign, A Greater Penn State for 21st Century Excellence, will come to a close. Today, join the hundreds of thousands of Penn Staters who are propelling the University to even greater heights. Make a Gift We Are Giving On June 30, 2022, the University’s record-breaking fundraising campaign, A Greater Penn State for 21st Century Excellence, will come to a close. Today, join the hundreds of thousands of Penn Staters who are propelling the University to even greater heights. Make a Gift We Get By Together. Earning a degree is an individual goal. But it takes a community to get there. And for an increasing number of Penn State students, the demands of college life are resulting in unmanageable mental and physical exhaustion. As we recognize Mental Health Awareness Month, join us in supporting students across the Commonwealth who need it the most by giving to one of our featured funds. Giving to Penn State changes lives Master of Professional Studies in Nutritional Sciences College of Health and Human Development World Campus Returning Senior Fund Beneficiary I am training hard and working just as hard in the classroom.” Penn State students are chasing their dreams and changing the world with support from alumni and friends. A Message of Gratitude Giving to Penn State is who we are Make a quick gift. Your support will go to the Penn State Future Fund, providing flexible funding to cover essential and unexpected needs. $25 $50 $100 $250 View all of the ways you can make a gift to Penn State. See all our giving options From today through June 30, 2022, all gifts advance A Greater Penn State for 21st Century Excellence, our current fundraising campaign. Office of University Development 116 Old Main University Park, PA 16802 814-863-4826 @RaisePennState Careers Contact Donor Recognition Foundation Relations Gift Planning Giving News Let’s Grow State Parent Philanthropy President’s Report on Philanthropy and Endowments Student Philanthropy THON Volunteer Programs We Are Magazine Women’s Philanthropic Advisory Board Privacy Statement | Non-Discrimination | Equal Opportunity | Accessibility | Legal | Website Support