Skip to content Cornell University Cornell University Library My account Search site and Catalog Search Filter Search Library Resources This site Search Close Libraries and Hours Ask a Librarian Rare and Manuscript Collections Library hours statusBy Appointment - Full Hours / Contact us Search Filter Search Library Resources This site Search Main Navigation Home About The Carl A. Kroch Library Full Hours FAQ Contact Us Staff Profiles Making a Gift to RMC Collections Collection Highlights American History & Culture Architecture & City Planning Asian History & Culture Atlantic Philanthropies Archives Cornell University Archives Digital Collections European History & Culture Food, Wine & Culinary History Icelandic History & Culture Literature & Theater Moving Image & Sound Recordings Music Photographs Science & Technology Sexuality & Gender Collecting Policies Use the Library Announcement Information for Visitors Finding Materials Instruction & Outreach Services Archival Guides Registration & Guidelines Reproductions & Permissions Request an Appointment in Our Reading Room Appointment Quick-Start Guide Loans for External Exhibitions Funding for Research Exhibitions Online Exhibitions Cornell Library Events Due to current staffing levels, the Division of Rare and Manuscript Collections is temporarily modifying some services. Please see this announcement and return frequently for updated details. RMC is currently open to all researchers for reading room appointments scheduled online. Our exhibition gallery is open Monday to Friday, 9am – 5pm. Please contact us with research and instructional support questions. We invite you to explore our digital collections and online exhibitions as well. Welcome The Division of Rare and Manuscript Collections is Cornell’s principal repository of rare books, manuscripts and archival materials in history, literature, music, the arts, science, natural history, and technology. Our collections include more than 500,000 printed volumes, more than 80 million manuscripts, and another million photographs, paintings, prints, and other visual media. We offer research and instruction services to support courses and scholarship, and host exhibitions that feature our collections. To learn more, see About Us. We welcome researchers and visitors from around the globe. Please see Information for Visitors to plan your visit. Research Tools Finding Materials Archival Guides Register & Request Items Request an Appointment Library Catalog Contact Us Featured Collections: Rare Books & Manuscripts Human Sexuality Collection History of Science Collections Cornell Hip Hop Collection Cornell University Archives Fiske Icelandic Collection Current & Featured Exhibitions Radical Desire: Making On Our Backs Magazine Hirshland Exhibition Gallery Visions of Dante Available online. Electrifying Music: The Life and Legacy of Robert Moog Available online. You may also view over 50 other online exhibitions. Libraries and Hours | Ask a Librarian Home About Collections Use the Library Exhibitions Making a Gift to RMC Staff Wiki CONTACT Rare and Manuscript Collections 2B Carl A. Kroch Library Ithaca, NY 14853 Rare and Manuscript Collections Library Location Email Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Phone: 607-255-3530 Fax: 607-255-9524 ©2022 Cornell University Library, Ithaca, NY 14853 | 607-255-4144 | Privacy | Web Accessibility Assistance | Staff Login FEEDBACK GIVE TO THE LIBRARY