Emergency Notification More details Skip to main content Dartmouth Home Search Index Dartmouth College The Rassias Center About Us John Rassias The Rassias Method® Language Programs Teacher Workshops Quick Links Support the Rassias Center May 2020 Podcast Rassias is Relational Teaching with Ann Diedrich January 2019 Podcast about ALPs and the Rassias legacy Congresswoman Ann Kuster honors John Rassias Study results on Rassias Method® in the classroom Inter American Partnership for Education (IAPE) Dartmouth Minors Protection Policy Home Search this Site The Rassias Center Dartmouth College 6071 Blunt Suite 202 Hanover, NH 03755-3526 USA Phone: (603) 646-2922 Email: rassias.center@dartmouth.edu Home > April 20, 2020: There will be no on-campus programs at Dartmouth College this Spring or Summer. CLICK HERE FOR INFORMATION ON OUR VIRTUAL COURSES Accelerated Language Programs (ALPs) About ALPs Program Dates What You Learn The ALPs Family A Typical Day Enrollment and Fees Scholarships College Credit Other Important Details ALPS 2020 Minimum age for ALPs is 18. Since 1980, students of all ages and interests have immersed themselves in a new language and culture through the Accelerated Language Programs (ALPs) using the Rassias Method®. People with a passion for languages and limited time join our unique program every year in order to learn a language by speaking it from day one. Language teachers also attend in an effort to expand their knowledge and cultural awareness of the language they teach. Developed for training Peace Corps volunteers in the early 1960s and adapted to college level instruction in 1967, the Rassias Method is a combination of dramatic techniques, rhythmic drills, and energetic reinforcement strategies that make learning an engaging experience, while eliminating inhibitions. The Rassias Method is widely used in colleges and schools throughout the country and abroad. Language Immersion the Rassias Way (aka for language masochists) Our goal is to make you feel comfortable and natural with the language immediately in an error tolerant atmosphere. Each day of ALPs increases your oral proficiency and features practical applications of the language. You will be in the company of motivated people for whom language is culture and culture is language. We look forward to welcoming you to our campus and to seeing you this summer. <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> Contact Us Top of page | Privacy | Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Last Updated: 6/11/20