Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Research subrbi Research Home RBI Home About About RBI History Location & Directions Contact Us Resource Form (GT Login Only) Research Research Services Circular Materials Paper, Packaging and Tissue Bioindustrial Manufacturing and Biorefining • Biobased Products • Chemical Bioprocessing People Leadership Faculty Staff Students Industry Benefits of Membership in RBI Member Companies Services Research Services: Overview Chemical Analysis Testing Corrosion Testing Microscopy Testing Paper, Board, and Box Testing Pulp Analysis Testing Recovery Testing Students Information For Students Paper Science and Engineering Program Master's in Manufacturing RBI Endowed Fellowships Museum News & Events News Events RBI Conferences and Events Newsletter Archive Open Search Search Search Renewable Bioproducts Institute HELP Didn’t find what you are looking for? We'd like to help! GT Community Inquiries Contact: Office of EVPR Team All Other Inquiries Contact: Georgia Parmelee, Director of Research Communications Breadcrumb Home Renewable Bioproducts Institute Pulp, Paper, Packaging and Tissue Pulp, Paper, Packaging, and Tissue From tree to tissue, or to package, or to stationery, magazine or newspaper or thousands of other products—pulping liberates fibers from woody plants and rearranges them into a consistently formed end products. The science rests in efficient processes that conserve energy and raw materials while producing the desired product. Pulping In the 1950s, the kraft chemical pulping process became the dominant technology for isolating wood fiber from chips. While this produces strong pulp and efficient recovery of raw materials and energy, the yield is below ideal and has an inherent capital intensity for the investor. RBI researchers are developing improvements in next generation pulping to address these challenges. We are exploring pretreatment options to make fiber separation more efficient, and improving yields. A number of catalysis options, including biochemical methods, are under investigation. Biorefining processes are converting cellulose and lignin into sugars, fuels, and chemical intermediates and feedstocks. Advanced processes under investigation include modeling tools for evaporation of water from spent pulping liquor and techniques to eliminate equipment fouling. Advanced membrane technologies are expanding capabilities for cost-effective separation of organics and inorganics from spent pulping liquor. This opens up new possibilities for reducing energy intensity and even more efficient reuse of process streams. Understanding the pathways of erosion and corrosion, and developing means to eliminate them, can save millions in maintenance and replacement costs, as well as lost production. Analysis and testing capabilities include thermodynamic prediction and modeling of corrosion processes and recommendations for improved metallurgy to address the aggressive environments in these applications. Paper At RBI, we continue to explore the seemingly limitless possibilities of paper. As the successor to the Institute of Paper Chemistry founded in 1929 by leaders of the pulp and paper industry, our mission is to create a body of knowledge and advance the industry. Our researchers are working to understand and manage new ways in which: • molecular structures in fibers can be coaxed to bond (or not) • the structure of a sheet can be formed • moisture, gases, oil and grease can be absorbed or repelled • inks can be accepted or released • formation and de-watering will improve manufacturing and energy efficiency These mechanisms and more are creating inspiration for new products of the 21st century. Operational excellence is our goal. In taking the industry into this new era of technology and application of science, we continue to develop paper-based substrates and biocomposites for applications in electronics used in smart packaging; high-strength, light-weight panels for aviation and automotive uses; advanced technologies for paper, packaging and films; strength and fracture characteristics of paper for packaging; superamphiphobic paper for water and grease repellency; and auxetic papers that expand when stretched. Innovative technologies have resulted in new applications, products and materials from renewable, sustainable forest biomass. New Product Innovations RBI continues to address challenges and opportunities in fiber engineering and paper physics to yield a step-change in paper/packaging product performance. For those members who utilize the fundamental knowledge embedded in our faculty and staff, RBI creates a competitive edge and insight into the future of forest products. In the area of consumer products, technologies such as light dry crepe and through-air drying, non-woven technologies such as spunbond, meltblown and spunlace are included in the expertise of our faculty. The application of biomaterials will be expanded in consumer products within the next few years across the spectrum of disposables and single-use plastics to create a more sustainable offering within this segment of the industry. Some of the new product innovations in paper board include smart packaging, coating solutions, printed electronics, renewable binders and adhesives and other chemicals with high value to customers, consumers and society as a whole. The future advances and technologies in these areas are sure to touch every aspect of daily life around the globe. Areas of Expertise: Advanced Packaging Technology New Coatings & Barriers Dissolving Pulp & Regenerated Cellulose Paper & Board Mechanics Printing Technology Pulp and Paper Manufacturing Tissue Key Contacts: Chris Luettgen, Associate Director, Renewable Bioproducts Institute, Professor of the Practice, Chemical and Biomolecuar Engineering and Director, undergraduate Pulp & Paper Certificate Program J. Carson Meredith, Executive Director, Renewable Bioproducts Institute, Professor, Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Rallming Yang, Research Scientist II, Renewable Bioproducts Institute James Collins, Research Scientist, Renewable Bioproducts Institute Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Accessibility Download PDF Reader Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN