Skip to main content Princeton University Library SPECIAL COLLECTIONS All Search Box * Search MENU Explore Exhibitions Digital Highlights New & Notable For Children Publications Digital Humanities Guide to Topics Collections Cotsen Children's Library Graphic Arts Collection Historic Maps Collection Manuscripts Division Numismatic Collection Public Policy Papers Rare Book Division Scheide Library University Archives Western Americana Collection Conducting Research Catalogs & Databases Library Services Ask Us! Research Account Access Visit Us Instruction Harvey S. Firestone Library Seeley G. Mudd Manuscript Library Ask Us! Information for Summer 2022 Please note: Princeton University Library will be closed on the following days this summer: May 30, May 31, June 17, June 20, July 4 and July 5. We will also be closing at noon on June 3. The Access Services page has information for all researchers on how to gain physical or virtual access to the collections. At this time, the Cotsen Children's Library Bookscape Gallery continues to be closed. Visit the Cotsen Children's Library website for more information on access to these collections. Princeton University Library 2021-2022 Resources Access Services Collections & Divisions Conducting Research Exhibitions Catalogs & Databases Ask Us! Visit Us About Us Welcome to Special Collections! We invite you to explore Princeton University’s rare books, manuscripts, and archives, which include the Cotsen Children’s Library, the Scheide Library, and the Seeley G. Mudd Manuscript Library, home of the University Archives and Public Policy Papers. You can begin searching our Finding Aids here and the Main Catalog here. We look forward to helping you engage with our holdings, which span five continents over five millennia and include items of global cultural significance. We aspire to be active and creative partners in the interpretation of these documents by providing you with as much access to our materials as possible and by engaging with you to develop innovative forms of pedagogy and research. We hope you will be able to visit us soon. Please feel free to Ask a Question in the meantime! New and Notable Operator, Operator, Connect me to Signor Rodari! More Telephone Tales, Please?? Posted 1 day 15 hours ago in the Cotsen Children’s Library Blog This Week in Princeton History for May 30-June 5 Posted 2 days 3 hours ago in the Mudd Manuscript Library Blog Party Line! Listen in on Gianni Rodari’s Telephone Tales Posted 3 days 2 hours ago in the Cotsen Children’s Library Blog More New and Notable Locations Firestone Library One Washington Road Princeton, NJ 08540 609-258-3184 Seeley G. Mudd Manuscript Library 65 Olden Street Princeton, NJ 08540 609-258-6345 Calendars: RBSC | Mudd Where to Access Your Account Ask Us! Find Material Order Images Learn About Theses & Dissertations Review Grant Opportunities Schedule a Class Visit Visit Us About Special Collections Collections and Divisions Exhibitions For Children Friends of the Library Publications Staff Directory Staff Workflows Staff Login Princeton University Library © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University. All rights reserved. Top