Skip to main content Princeton University Library SPECIAL COLLECTIONS All Search Box * Search MENU Explore Exhibitions Digital Highlights New & Notable For Children Publications Digital Humanities Guide to Topics Collections Cotsen Children's Library Graphic Arts Collection Historic Maps Collection Manuscripts Division Numismatic Collection Public Policy Papers Rare Book Division Scheide Library University Archives Western Americana Collection Conducting Research Catalogs & Databases Library Services Ask Us! Research Account Access Visit Us Instruction Harvey S. Firestone Library Seeley G. Mudd Manuscript Library Ask Us! Information for Summer 2022 Please note: Princeton University Library will be closed on the following days this summer: May 30, May 31, June 17, June 20, July 4 and July 5. We will also be closing at noon on June 3. The Access Services page has information for all researchers on how to gain physical or virtual access to the collections. At this time, the Cotsen Children's Library Bookscape Gallery continues to be closed. Visit the Cotsen Children's Library website for more information on access to these collections. Princeton University Library 2021-2022 Resources You are here Home Seeley G. Mudd Manuscript Library Seeley G. Mudd Manuscript Library 65 Olden Street Princeton, NJ 08540 609-258-6345 View on Campus Map Princeton University Archives Public Policy Papers Manage University Records Transfer or Donate Records to the Mudd Library Theses & Dissertations Research Grants & Prizes About Us The Seeley G. Mudd Manuscript Library, a division of the Department of Special Collections, is a state-of-the-art repository constructed in 1976 to house the Princeton University Archives and a highly regarded collection of 20th-century public policy papers. You can begin searching our collections using our Finding Aids. The 30,000 linear feet of archival and manuscript material in its possession are widely used by local, national, and international researchers. The Public Policy papers include important collections representing individuals and organizations in the areas of 20th-century American foreign policy, jurisprudence, journalism, public policy formation, and international development. The Library also houses the Archives of Princeton University which document administrative, research and student and staff activities on campus from its establishment as the College of New Jersey in 1746 to the present. The Library's collections include manuscript collections/archives, correspondence, publications, phonograph recordings, audio and video tapes, films, and photographs. Visit the Library's website for our open hours and holiday closures. New and Notable This Week in Princeton History for May 30-June 5 Posted 2 days 3 hours ago in the Mudd Manuscript Library Blog This Week in Princeton History for May 30-June 5 Posted 2 days 3 hours ago in the Mudd Manuscript Library Blog This Week in Princeton History for May 23-29 Posted 1 week 2 days ago in the Mudd Manuscript Library Blog Locations Firestone Library One Washington Road Princeton, NJ 08540 609-258-3184 Seeley G. Mudd Manuscript Library 65 Olden Street Princeton, NJ 08540 609-258-6345 Calendars: RBSC | Mudd Where to Access Your Account Ask Us! Find Material Order Images Learn About Theses & Dissertations Review Grant Opportunities Schedule a Class Visit Visit Us About Special Collections Collections and Divisions Exhibitions For Children Friends of the Library Publications Staff Directory Staff Workflows Staff Login Princeton University Library © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University. All rights reserved. Top