Skip Navigation Units Quicklinks/Search Division Units Through its units, the Division of Research delivers strategic support to further Texas A&M University’s research mission. Conflict of Interest / Responsible Conduct of Research Research Administration Research Communications and Public Relations Research Compliance and Biosafety Research Development Services Research Enterprise Business Services Sponsored Research Services Search Search Search Submit Search Quicklinks Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Research Rankings Research Titles and Staffing Sitemap Texas A&M University Division of Research Toggle Main Menu Find Funding Proposal Support Award Management Research Resources Events & Workshops About the Division Research Guidance during COVID-19 Home Research Compliance and Biosafety The Division of Research is committed to promoting and ensuring the highest standards of research integrity in proposing, conducting, and reporting research. Through its various programs, the Division provides information and guidance in areas such as biosafety, animal use and care, human research protection, and biosafety occupational health. Animal Welfare Program Biosafety Program Biosafety Occupational Health Program Human Research Protection Program iRIS Portal Resources Research Compliance and Biosafety Toolkit Sixth edition of the BMBL now available [PDF] Volunteer for Committee Service APHIS’ Veterinary Services (VS) announces the launch of the eFile VS Permitting Assistant (VSPA) Biosafety Manual in PDF Animal Welfare Program Guidance (requires NetID to view) New Single IRB Requirement for Federally Funded Cooperative Research Goes into Effect January 20, 2020 Research Compliance Review Committees Research Compliance Review Committees at Texas A&M provide the structure and requirements needed to maintain a safe and compliant environment for the research conducted at the university, including research personnel and the public. Each committee is comprised of research personnel, community members, and university administrators. These committees provide transparent and consistent oversight for research in the areas of animal use, biohazards, and human subjects. Federal, state, and local requirements guide the formation and organization for each committee, and those requirements are not always parallel across the regulatory landscape. Where possible, efforts are made to keep committee functions and roles consistent for ease of application. All three committees report to the university's institutional official (vice president for research). Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Institutional Review Board (IRB) Report an Incident Call 9-1-1 for help from emergency medical services (EMS) for serious injuries, multiple injuries, or other medical emergencies. Animals Biohazards Humans How to Get Research Compliance and Biosafety Assistance Are you a new PI performing activities with animals? Are you a current PI that would like help with your IACUC submission? Do you have other IACUC-related questions? Set up a one-on-one Zoom session with Animal Welfare Office staff members for help! Email animalcompliance@tamu.edu to schedule a Zoom session or for more information. Need Help with IBC submissions or other Biosafety-related questions? Come visit our zoom office hours and chat with biosafety staff members: now available Tuesdays - 10:00am-11:00am and Thursdays - 4:00pm-5:00pm. Email ibc@tamu.edu for the Zoom connection information. Texas A&M University Division of Research 1112 TAMU College Station, TX, 77843 View us on Flickr View us on YouTube Quicklinks Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Research Rankings Research Titles and Staffing Sitemap Articles, photos, and videos about research projects from the Texas A&M research enterprise on a single website > Our Commitment to Diversity The Division of Research values diversity as indispensable to academic excellence and welcomes a wide range of thought, background, ethnicity, and perspective. Diversity at Texas A&M > State of Texas Compact with Texans State Link Policy Statewide Search Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy