Skip to main content Stanford R&DE Creating a Culture of Excellence Feedback Student Housing Buy Meal Plans Organize a Meeting Order Catering About R&DE Who We Are Leadership Organizational Structure Staff Values Mission & Vision Principles Core Values Commitment to Wellness Emergency Preparedness Feedback Customer Service Maps Capital Projects R&DE Divisions Student Housing Stanford Dining Stanford Hospitality & Auxiliaries Stanford Conferences Finance & Administration Human Resources Strategic Communications Information Technology R&DE Calendar Contact Us Sustainability Sustainability Accomplishments and News Sustainability Awards Sustainability by R&DE Division Sustainable Food in R&DE Sustainability Interns Sustainable Living Welcome to Stanford R&DE - NEW Overview Residential & Dining Enterprises supports the academic mission of the university by providing the highest quality services to students and other members of the university community in a sustainable and fiscally responsible manner. Welcome to Stanford R&DE's vision is to be the best in the business by creating a culture of excellence. More Student Housing Everything you need to know about living in university housing and housing options for undergraduate and graduate students -- singles, couples and students with children. More Stanford Dining Exceptional meals for diverse tastes and dietary requirements that support sustainable, healthy living. More Stanford Hospitality & Auxiliaries Serving the Stanford community with retail cafes and markets, Stanford Catering and the Stanford Guest House. More Stanford Conferences Let our experts help you plan and execute your next in-person, virtual or hybrid event. Also get the latest updates on summer conferences. More Human Resources Information and updates for R&DE employees, plus career opportunities with R&DE. More Residential & Dining Enterprises COVID-19 FAQs Our COVID-19 FAQ page is regularly updated to keep you safe and informed throughout the pandemic. More R&DE Division Highlights May 3, 2022 Visiting Artist Presentations in EVGR April 28, 2022 Open Conversations with Dr. Everett on DEIB April 13, 2022 Midnight Breakfast Printer-friendly version Residential & Dining Enterprises: Creating a Culture Of Excellence About R&DE About Us Awards Privacy Policy 2022 Residential & Dining Enterprises All Rights Reserved