Skip to main content University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links About Chair’s Note Mission + History Diversity Real Estate Faculty Meetings Contact Programs Undergraduate Graduate Graduate Certificates BE PhD Programs People Faculty + Staff Students Alumni Industry Student Resources Mentorship Real Estate Club MSRE FAQs RE Major and Minor FAQs News + Events Event Calendar Information Sessions Video Archive Real Estate Major UW Runstad Department of Real Estate Menu About Chair’s Note Mission + History Diversity Real Estate Faculty Meetings Contact Programs Undergraduate Graduate Graduate Certificates BE PhD Programs People Faculty + Staff Students Alumni Industry Student Resources Mentorship Real Estate Club MSRE FAQs RE Major and Minor FAQs News + Events Event Calendar Information Sessions Video Archive Home UW Runstad Department of Real Estate Programs Undergraduate Programs Real Estate Major Undergraduate Programs Home Undergraduate Programs Real Estate Major Curriculum Resources Real Estate Minor Curriculum Resources RE Major and Minor FAQs Real Estate Major Real estate is core to both our society and economic well-being. Real estate professionals serve a central role in the development of the built environment from deciding what will be developed and how it will be funded to leasing and managing real property. The Bachelor of Science with a Major in Real Estate is designed to provide students with comprehensive exposure to the field of real estate. It will prepare students for careers in real estate finance, asset management, brokerage, urban and real estate development, or housing among many other potential career paths. Major in Real Estate The Real Estate Major requires the completion of 50 credits of approved courses. This includes 31 credit hours of core real estate courses and a total of 19 credits of interdisciplinary electives. To declare the Real Estate Major, complete RE 250: Introduction to Real Estate with a minimum grade of 2.0. RE 250 is offered every quarter and students are required to complete the course before they can declare the major. It is also a prerequisite for most other real estate courses. Real Estate Major Core Courses The 31 credit hours of core real estate courses include Introduction to Real Estate (RE 250) and 6 other required real estate courses (RE 361, RE 397, RE 411, RE 413, RE 416, and RE 480). Students may choose any of the other real estate courses for the remaining 12 credits. Interdisciplinary electives The 19 credits of interdisciplinary electives are broken into three categories: 9 credit hours of analytical courses to develop strong data management, analysis, and visualization skills 5 credit hours of built environment courses to be exposed to the context in which real estate takes place 5 credit hours of business skills courses to be introduced to some of the key communication, management, and organizational skills needed to be a successful professional. Declare the Major Students need to have completed RE 250 with a minimum 2.0 grade and must be in good standing with the University in order to declare the major. Students who meet these requirements may declare the major at any time. – If you are ready to declare the major, please complete this form and we will submit the Change of Major form on your behalf. All change of major requests received by the 4th week of each quarter and which meets all requirements will be processed by the time registration period I opens for the following quarter, giving you priority for registering in required real estate courses. – If you have questions or would like to speak with an advisor before declaring the major, please send an email to remajor@uw.edu Contact a real estate academic advisor to discuss your intent to declare the major at remajor@uw.edu. The Real Estate Major + Minor has been created with the generous support of Windermere Real Estate and the Jacobi family. Home Undergraduate Programs Real Estate Major Curriculum Resources Real Estate Minor Curriculum Resources RE Major and Minor FAQs Contact Us Support RE Calendar Privacy Terms CBE Intranet ©2021 College of Built Environments | Seattle, WA