About Topics Resources Blogs News & Events Right Where We Belong Back Vision Team Contact Back Overview Integration & Belonging Globalization & Migration Conflict Transformation Quality Education Back Overview For K-12 Educators For Policymakers For Researchers Back Covid-19 Migration & Displacement Submission Guidelines About Vision Team Contact Topics Overview Integration & Belonging Globalization & Migration Conflict Transformation Quality Education Resources Overview For K-12 Educators For Policymakers For Researchers Blogs Covid-19 Migration & Displacement Submission Guidelines News & EventsRight Where We Belong Scroll Research, education, and action for refugees around the world Our vision → Through collaborative research, education, and action, REACH fosters welcoming communities and quality education in settings of migration and displacement Meet our team Key Topics in Migration and Refugee Education Integration & Belonging Global policies have shifted toward a model of including refugees in national school systems. REACH explores how these policies are understood and experienced by students, teachers, and governments in contexts that host large refugee populations. We find that refugees are often included in national schools that already serve marginalized national students who feel alienated from opportunities. The collective challenge is to raise the quality of education for all, including access to feelings of belonging and future opportunities. Our work demonstrates how key to meeting this challenge is focusing on inclusive curricula and pedagogy and caring relationships among teachers and students. Explore Integration & Belonging → Globalization & Migration Refugees often experience multiple cycles of displacement and return, forcing young people to constantly re-imagine their futures. REACH considers how education can support physical and cognitive mobility, thereby enabling individuals and nation-states to build productive futures. Explore Globalization & Migration → Conflict Transformation We identify policies, pedagogies, and curricula that can mitigate conflict and reduce resource-based and identity-based inequalities. Our work at REACH shows how young people can develop inclusive and multiple identities through education, which are important for their futures and those of their nation-states. Particularly critical is education that allows young people to understand and link their pasts, presents, and futures and the inequalities that shape their experiences and opportunities. Explore Conflict Transformation → Quality Education Over one half of children globally who are out of school live in conflict settings. Yet quality education is an essential component for securing a future for refugee children. REACH identifies ways to strengthen and build refugees’ “unknowable futures.” This work is relevant not only for refugees but for other young people globally who face similar, even if less extreme, uncertainties in the face of rapid globalization and technological change. Explore Quality Education → Featured Resource We See You: What Syrian Refugee Students Wish Their Teachers Knew New research by the Refugee REACH team examines pedagogies of care and belonging in refugee contexts. Research included 8 months of observations in public and private schools in Lebanon and over 100 hours of interviews with Syrian Grade 9 students, their teachers, and families. An animation is also available for viewing, created in collaboration with PRIO, PositiveNegatives, and Sawsan Nourallah. Learn More For Educators Cultivating Trust with Afghan Refugee Students As an Afghan-American, REACH Affiliate Zuhra Faizi draws on her understanding of experiences of students in both Afghanistan and the US in this resource, designed to support American educators to cultivate trust and build relationships with their new students. The resource highlights three central elements that can cultivate trust: safe classrooms, community connections, and quality learning. It ends with questions to open conversations among educators, students, families, and community leaders. Learn More New Book Right Where We Belong: How Refugee Teachers and Students Are Changing the Future of Education Out with Harvard University Press on April 5, 2022 What would it take to ensure that all displaced young people have access to learning that enables them to feel a sense of belonging and prepares them to help build more peaceful and equitable futures? This is a collective challenge. In Right Where We Belong, REACH Co-Founder and Director Sarah Dryden-Peterson shows how students, teachers, parents, policymakers, and researchers are working to meet it. Learn more “Refugees are some of the most educationally marginalized children in the world. Indeed, more than half of the 58 million children who remain out of school globally live in conflict-affected settings.” — Sarah Dryden-Peterson, Negin Dahya, and Elizabeth Adelman Join the conversation Connect with us → Receive updates Newsletter sign-up → Banner Vision Key Topics Overview Featured Article Home | Blog Series Featured News & Events Quote Get Involved Harvard Graduate School of Education 13 Appian Way, Cambridge, MA, 02138, United States Hours Sign up for our newsletter Receive periodic updates from the field and learn about upcoming events. We will never share your information. Sign up About Vision Team Contact Topics Integration & Belonging Globalization & Migration Conflict Transformation Quality Education Resources For K-12 Educators For Policymakers For Researchers Blogs Covid-19 Migration & Displacement Submission Guidelines REACH is an initiative of the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Copyright © 2019 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Accessibility | Report copyright infringement Refugee REACH Initiative Please join us in congratulating our @REACH_HarvardEd team members on their #graduation! 🎓 We are more hopeful f… https://t.co/0TfINXfRwQ May 26, 2022, 9:37 AM Refugee REACH Initiative Hope you can join what promises to be a great conversation with @drydenpeterson and Jacques Bwira, teacher and scho… https://t.co/41wQy6nTvM May 23, 2022, 10:21 AM Refugee REACH Initiative 🗓️May 19th 🕣8:30am EST Re-imagine how education can enable individuals and communities to build durable futures.… https://t.co/iTxvLsvItJ May 18, 2022, 3:10 PM Refugee REACH Initiative ICYMI, watch @REACH_HarvardEd Director @drydenpeterson discuss what it would take to ensure that all young people g… https://t.co/wrg63R1o1q May 14, 2022, 9:59 AM