Skip to Main Content Close Explore Subjects Books Books Browse by Subject Journals Journals Browse by Title Browse by Subject Reading Lists Sign up for Issue Alerts About Information for Advertisers Book Authors Booksellers/Media Customers Educators Journal Authors/Editors Journal Subscribers Librarians Prospective Journals Licensing and Subsidiary Rights Societies Search Dropdown Menu header search search input Search input auto suggest filter your search Books & JournalsAll JournalsComparative Studies of South Asia, Africa and the Middle East Search Advanced Search User Tools Dropdown Register Sign In Toggle MenuMenu Issues For Authors Submission Guidelines Submit Article Order Article Reprints Alerts Purchase About About Comparative Studies of South Asia, Africa and the Middle East Editorial Board Advertising Skip Nav Destination Article Navigation Close mobile search navigation Article navigation Volume 41, Issue 2 August 1, 2021 Previous Article Article Navigation Book Review| August 01 2021 Success, Failure, and Other Historical Crafts Faiz Ahmed Faiz Ahmed Faiz Ahmed is the Joukowsky Family Distinguished Associate Professor of Modern Middle Eastern History at Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island. Search for other works by this author on: This Site Google Comparative Studies of South Asia, Africa and the Middle East (2021) 41 (2): 266–280. https://doi.org/10.1215/1089201X-9127305 Cite Icon Cite Share Icon Share Twitter Permissions Search Site Citation Faiz Ahmed; Success, Failure, and Other Historical Crafts. Comparative Studies of South Asia, Africa and the Middle East 1 August 2021; 41 (2): 266–280. doi: https://doi.org/10.1215/1089201X-9127305 Download citation file: Zotero Reference Manager EasyBib Bookends Mendeley Papers EndNote RefWorks BibTex toolbar search Search Dropdown Menu toolbar search search input Search input auto suggest filter your search Books & JournalsAll JournalsComparative Studies of South Asia, Africa and the Middle East Search Advanced Search Abstract The author of Afghanistan Rising responds to our critical review essays by six scholars of diverse historical expertise, from the late Ottoman and Habsburg Empires to Southeast Asia, and Islamic legal history to the political economy of the British Raj and Indo-Afghan frontier. Centering administrative and constitutional developments in Afghanistan within broader regional and global currents connecting the Balkans to Indian Ocean at the turn of the twentieth century, Ahmed reflects on what it means to write “a history that most people do not think exist.” Afghanistan, Ottoman Empire, British India, Islamic law, constitutionalism Copyright © 2021 by Duke University Press 2021 You do not currently have access to this content. Sign in Don't already have an account? Register Client Account You could not be signed in. Please check your email address / username and password and try again. Username / Email address ? Password Sign In Forgot password? Don't have an account? Sign in via your Institution Sign In Buy This Digital Article Advertisement 231 Views 0 Citations View Metrics × Citing articles via Google Scholar CrossRef Email alerts Latest Issue Close Modal Related Articles Islamic Modernism, the Hanafi Mazhab , and Codification in Aman Allah's Afghanistan Of Horizontal Exchanges and Inter-Islamic Inquiries The Historicization of Sharia and Historical Generalization Juridical Pan-Islam at the Height of Empire Related Topics Afghanistan Ottoman Empire British India Islamic law constitutionalism Related Book Chapters Constituting Paulista Identity Targeting Translation Counterinsurgency and the Weaponization of Language Two Crises and an Olympiad Empire’s Verticality The Af-Pak Frontier, Visual Culture, and Racialization from Above About Comparative Studies of South Asia, Africa and the Middle East Editorial Board For Authors Purchase Advertise Rights and Permissions Inquiry Online ISSN 1548-226X Print ISSN 1089-201X Copyright © 2022 Duke University Press 905 W. Main St. Ste. 18-B Durham, NC 27701 USA Phone (888) 651-0122 International +1 (919) 688-5134 Contact Contact Us Information For Advertisers Book Authors Booksellers/Media Customers Educators Journal Authors/Editors Journal Subscribers Librarians Prospective Journals Licensing and Subsidiary Rights Societies Careers View Open Positions emailJoin our Mailing List catalogCurrent Catalog Connect Facebook Twitter YouTube Pinterest Instagram ©2022 Duke University Press. All Rights Reserved. Accessibility Legal Privacy Get Adobe Reader Close Modal Close Modal This Feature Is Available To Subscribers Only Sign In or Create an Account Close Modal Close Modal This site uses cookies. By continuing to use our website, you are agreeing to our privacy policy. Accept