Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Real Estate Office Contact Us Facebook Twitter real.estate.office@dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Rental Property Dartmouth Rental Housing Graduate Rentals Info Employee Rentals Info Search Listings Upper Valley Rentals Search Listings Add/Edit Listing Commercial Space Search Listings Parking Back to Top Nav Sale Property Housing for Sale Search Listings Repurchase Options Back to Top Nav Tenant Services Urgent Matters Place a Service Request Contacts by Service Back to Top Nav About Our Staff Policies Rennie Farm Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Dartmouth Rental Housing Graduate Rentals Info Employee Rentals Info Search Listings Upper Valley Rentals Commercial Space Parking Search Dartmouth Rentals Apply for Housing Share Dartmouth Rental Housing Dartmouth College owns and manages 540 on- and off-campus rental housing units within two miles of campus. Accommodations range from studio apartments to single-family homes. About Dartmouth Rentals Dartmouth Real Estate rental housing is available only to matriculated Dartmouth graduate students and current Dartmouth College-paid, full-time, benefits eligible faculty and staff members. Some rentals allow up to two pre-approved pets. The monthly pet surcharge is $50 per month for the first pet, and $50 per month for the second pet. Dartmouth also publishes the Upper Valley Rentals List, the region's most comprehensive listing of privately owned properties for rent in the surrounding area. Properties on this list are available to the general public. Applying for Dartmouth Rental Housing If you would like to lease a Dartmouth rental housing unit, please submit an application online and pay the application fee. The $50-per-listing application fee is non-refundable. An application is not considered complete unless the $50 fee has been paid. In the event that we receive more than one complete application for a property, we will accept the first one received. We will review your application for approval on the first business day following receipt. Once your application is approved, you will receive an email containing a copy of your lease agreement. You will then have 7 calendar days to sign the lease and to return it with a security deposit check (equal to one month's rent) to the Dartmouth Real Estate Office at 4 Currier Place, Suite 305, Hanover, NH, 03755. All units must be rented as of the available date that they are listed, so please only apply for a unit if you are prepared to lease it from that date. Security Deposits You may pay your security deposit with a check or money order. International graduate students may pay the security deposit with an international money order, travelers check, or bank check. We cannot accept a credit card or cash for the security deposit. If paying by check, mail your payment to Dartmouth Real Estate Office, 4 Currier Place, Suite 305, Hanover, NH, 03755. (Please be sure to note your name and unit address on the check.) We will inspect the unit after you move out. If there are no damages or outstanding charges and all of the keys are returned, the entire security deposit will be refunded to you. Your security deposit refund check will be mailed to your forwarding address within 30 days of your move-out date. It is important for you to notify us of your forwarding address when you turn in your unit keys for prompt delivery of your security deposit refund. International students can have their refunds mailed to a forwarding address or deposited into an American bank account. Main menu Dartmouth College Dartmouth Real Estate Office Rental Property Dartmouth Rental Housing Graduate Rentals Info Employee Rentals Info Search Listings Upper Valley Rentals Search Listings Add/Edit Listing Commercial Space Search Listings Parking Sale Property Housing for Sale Search Listings Repurchase Options Tenant Services Urgent Matters Place a Service Request Contacts by Service About Our Staff Policies Rennie Farm Ribbon Footer Find Us Address 4 Currier Place, Suite 305 Hanover, NH 03755http://m.dartmouth.edu/map/ Phone: (603) 646-2170 Email: real.estate.office@dartmouth.edu More Contact Information Connect with Us Facebook Twitter Close Contact Us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback