Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Recreation and Wellness Search this site Submit Search Menu Home Move Virtual Fitness Faculty/Staff Free Faculty/Staff Programs Personal Training and Private Pilates Aquatics Masters Swim Membership and Dues Lane Etiquette and Equipment Announcements Resources Swim Away from Home Play Club Sports Intramural Sports Open Rec Sports Squash and Racquetball Courts Youth Programs Camp Cardinal Winter Programs Youth Camps FAQs Camp Counselors Adventure Equipment Rentals Climbing Stanford Pre-Orientation Trips (SPOT) Adventure Trips Student Opportunities Learn Physical Education Outdoor Education Recreational Classes Belay Cert CPR Certification Belong Diversity, Inclusion, and Accessibility Membership Faculty/Staff Visit Facility Hours Main Campus Stanford Redwood City SRWC Group Fitness SRWC Personal Training SRWC Aquatics SRWC Sports Stanford Red Barn Equestrian Center Stanford Horses Physical Education IEA & AEL Facilties and Boarding Pre-Collegiate Leadership Resident Trainers Riding Academy Arrillaga Recreation Center at SLAC Stanford Campus Recreation Association About Us Memberships Social Swimming Tennis Activities Rentals and Reservations Tennis & Golf Community Guidelines and Policies Connect About Us Contact Information Employment Opportunities Staff Diversity, Inclusion, and Accessibility Main navigation Skip to main content Secondary Navigation Diversity, Inclusion, and Accessibility Membership Faculty/Staff Main content start On this page: Belonging Statement Inclusive Services Partners and Resources Contact Us Belonging Statement We believe that access to a healthful and purposeful life is a right afforded to everyone. We are committed to a welcoming and inclusive environment that advances access for all members of the Stanford community. Through our cause of igniting a culture of belonging and well-being, we work to ensure that a diversity of cultures, races and ethnicities, gender identities, sexual orientations, political and religious beliefs, physical abilities, learning styles, political views, and other personal facets flourish. At Stanford, we believe that to advance education, it is essential to be exposed to views and cultures other than one’s own and to have one’s opinions and assumptions challenged. Such engagement expands our horizons, enables understanding across difference, prevents complacency and promotes intellectual breadth. Our diversity ensures our strength as an intellectual and active community. In today’s world, diversity represents the key to excellence and achievement. Inclusive Services Free Appointment-based demos The following services are available for free year-round, by appointment: Adaptive fitness equipment demonstrations Fitness center orientations (Fitness 101) Adaptive aquatics equipment demonstrations Recreational pool orientation Collaboration Opportunities Group Fitness Class A private group fitness class for your group! We can provide an instructor if you’d like to have the event at your location, or we can work to schedule an instructor and facility space at one of our recreational centers. Recreation Class Learn sport-specific skills through an instructional lesson for your group choosing from tennis, golf, basketball, and badminton. Personal Training Guidance from a certified personal trainer who can lead your group through a workout tailored to your specific needs. Wellness Consultant We’ll work to connect your group with our partners on campus, including BeWell, Residential Education, and Vaden. Facility Tours Meeting Space Special Events Diverse and expanded programming Need-based subsidized programs fees All-Gender Locker Room at the AOERC Fitness 101 Partners and Resources Stanford IBIC Diversity and Access Cardinal Nights Well-Being at Stanford Mini-Wellness Grants- Applications are available Spring and Fall quarters Contact Us Do you have ideas for creating a more inclusive environment within our facility, programs, or services? Have you experienced a situation within our department that you would like to discuss with someone? We welcome you to contact our Inclusivity Committee Chair, Daralisa Kelley. We look forward to working with you! Stanford Recreation and Wellness Address Arrillaga Outdoor Education and Recreation Center 285 Santa Teresa Street Stanford, CA 94305 United States Stanford Facebook Stanford Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Strava Contacts and Information Visit Campus Map Contact Us Register Here Resources for Faculty/Staff - want a personalized wellness program that you customize to meet your unique wellness needs? Students - want to be empowered to flourish through education, connection and positive culture change? Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top