Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Recreation and Wellness Search this site Submit Search Menu Home Move Virtual Fitness Faculty/Staff Free Faculty/Staff Programs Personal Training and Private Pilates Aquatics Masters Swim Membership and Dues Lane Etiquette and Equipment Announcements Resources Swim Away from Home Play Club Sports Intramural Sports Open Rec Sports Squash and Racquetball Courts Youth Programs Camp Cardinal Winter Programs Youth Camps FAQs Camp Counselors Adventure Equipment Rentals Climbing Stanford Pre-Orientation Trips (SPOT) Adventure Trips Student Opportunities Learn Physical Education Outdoor Education Recreational Classes Belay Cert CPR Certification Belong Diversity, Inclusion, and Accessibility Membership Faculty/Staff Visit Facility Hours Main Campus Stanford Redwood City SRWC Group Fitness SRWC Personal Training SRWC Aquatics SRWC Sports Stanford Red Barn Equestrian Center Stanford Horses Physical Education IEA & AEL Facilties and Boarding Pre-Collegiate Leadership Resident Trainers Riding Academy Arrillaga Recreation Center at SLAC Stanford Campus Recreation Association About Us Memberships Social Swimming Tennis Activities Rentals and Reservations Tennis & Golf Community Guidelines and Policies Connect About Us Contact Information Employment Opportunities Staff Rentals and Reservations Main navigation Skip to main content Secondary Navigation Facility Hours Main Campus Stanford Redwood City Stanford Red Barn Equestrian Center Arrillaga Recreation Center at SLAC Stanford Campus Recreation Association Rentals and Reservations Tennis & Golf Community Guidelines and Policies Main content start On this page: Facility Reservations and Rentals Information Frequently Asked Questions Facility Reservations and Rentals Use of Recreational Facility space is made available to Registered Student Organizations (RSO’s) and University Groups outside regularly scheduled programs/classes. Approval of reservations will be determined by the Recreation Facility scheduler. For all inquiries, email recwellscheduler@stanford.edu. All facility reservations require seven business days’ notice. Registered Student Organizations (RSO’s): Student groups must be a University recognized and active student organization, have at least 10 members and be free of unresolved issues with the Office of Student Engagement and DAPER prior to the use of recreation facility spaces. All members must have a valid SUID. University Department/Academic Unit: Any official Stanford University office or department with a university budget. University departments/academic units must pay with an internal PTA. University departments/academic unit must be free of unresolved issues with DAPER to prior use of recreation facility spaces. Rent a Space Make a tennis court reservation Spaces available for reservation ACSR Basketball Courts ACSR Mat Studio AOOERC 103B Classroom AOERC 103D Meeting Room AOERC 111 AOERC 203 AOERC Basketball Courts AOERC Cycling Room Ford/Burnham Basketball Courts Roble Field and Patio Sandhill Fields Soccer Field Sandhill Fields Softball Field West Campus Tennis Courts Taube South Tennis Courts FAQ Rental Fees: RSO’s: No charge for RSO’s provided no admission is charged, all participants are students and no special set up required. Charges will occur for additional services (i.e. janitorial, extra hours, special set up, etc.) University Departments/Academic Units: Will be charged in accordance to predetermined facilities fees. Departments/academic units must pay with an internal PTA. Academic classes do not pay for space. Note: Our fees may vary each fiscal year (September 1- June 30) Priority Use: Each recreation center and field shall be scheduled to host a variety of Recreation and Wellness based activities in sufficient quantity and quality to maximize its use. The priority usage of these facilities shall be to support the Recreation and Wellness needs of the Stanford community. The following guidelines describe the rank order usage of recreation facilities: 1st Priority: Activities approved by the President, Provost or Athletic Director of the University; Big 5 2nd Priority: Organized formal DAPER Varsity-based competitions and practices (in non-academic spaces); includes DAPER summer camps. 3rd Priority: Health and Human Performance academic classes 4th Priority: Organized formal fitness-based programs for DAPER Recreation during the morning, lunchtime, and early evening. 5th Priority: Organized formal DAPER Recreation Division-based programs, intramural sports, youth programs, special events, and other recreation classes. 6th Priority: Affiliated student-organized DAPER Recreation based programs such as club sports, and outdoor programs 7th Unscheduled informal drop-in use (goal is to protect space for general community needs; e.g. at least one court set aside) 8th Priority: Martial arts* PE rainouts cancel open rec permitted in 24 hours’ notice. Space will not be held for the class. Use Rules and Regulations: All users must follow Stanford Recreation Facility policies and procedures. The requested activity must be appropriate for the requested space. General Rental Guidelines: Any event considered by the Department of Athletics, Physical Education, and Recreation (DAPER) to be potentially harmful to the public image of Stanford University, or the Department of Athletics, Physical Education, and Recreation will not be allocated space. DAPER reserves the right to determine the potential harm to facilities and may reject said request. The scheduling of events will be based on facility availability and approval by DAPER. There may also be a review by other department-supported committees. All events will be negotiated by DAPER which will determine the extent of Stanford University personnel required to safeguard the university's interest. DAPER must have the appropriate contract for each request. University departments/academic units must present a completed PTA 14 days in advance of the event, or the event will be cancelled. Groups renting a facility will be held financially responsible for any special cleaning, maintenance or repair resulting from the event or activity. Groups renting a facility are required to observe Stanford University and all local, state, and federal laws. DAPER is not responsible for any lost, stolen, or damaged property belonging to the members of rental groups using the facilities. Family members and participants of groups renting spaces within the recreation facilities are prohibited from using the fitness center, varsity athlete equipment, basketball courts, squash courts, racquetball courts, nor the climbing wall. Liability and Insurance: RSO’s: Guests and members of RSO’s who are not enrolled for at least four credit hours must purchase a guest pass to enter an indoor facility. University Department/Academic Unit: University departments/academic units are responsible for ensuring that any non-employee attending their rental event signs a Release of Claims form. Outside Group: The lessee shall provide DAPER with a certificate of insurance demonstrating to Stanford University’s satisfaction general liability insurance coverage providing a minimum of $2 million of coverage per occurrence in aggregate naming The Board of Trustees of the Leland Stanford Junior University, its officers, agents, students, employees and volunteers as an additional named insured at least 10 business days in advance of the commencing lease term. Failure of a group to provide DAPER with a certificate of insurance will result in the cancellation of the event and forfeit of deposit. Parking: Permit spaces are free of charge after 4pm Monday- Friday and on Saturdays and Sundays. Visitor parking is also available. Please note that Event parking may affect cost, hours of operation and availability. For more information, please visit Stanford Transportation Parking. Embed Code Stanford Recreation and Wellness Address Arrillaga Outdoor Education and Recreation Center 285 Santa Teresa Street Stanford, CA 94305 United States Stanford Facebook Stanford Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Strava Contacts and Information Visit Campus Map Contact Us Register Here Resources for Faculty/Staff - want a personalized wellness program that you customize to meet your unique wellness needs? Students - want to be empowered to flourish through education, connection and positive culture change? Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top