Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Recreation and Wellness Search this site Submit Search Menu Home Move Virtual Fitness Faculty/Staff Free Faculty/Staff Programs Personal Training and Private Pilates Aquatics Masters Swim Membership and Dues Lane Etiquette and Equipment Announcements Resources Swim Away from Home Play Club Sports Intramural Sports Open Rec Sports Squash and Racquetball Courts Youth Programs Camp Cardinal Winter Programs Youth Camps FAQs Camp Counselors Adventure Equipment Rentals Climbing Stanford Pre-Orientation Trips (SPOT) Adventure Trips Student Opportunities Learn Physical Education Outdoor Education Recreational Classes Belay Cert CPR Certification Belong Diversity, Inclusion, and Accessibility Membership Faculty/Staff Visit Facility Hours Main Campus Stanford Redwood City SRWC Group Fitness SRWC Personal Training SRWC Aquatics SRWC Sports Stanford Red Barn Equestrian Center Stanford Horses Physical Education IEA & AEL Facilties and Boarding Pre-Collegiate Leadership Resident Trainers Riding Academy Arrillaga Recreation Center at SLAC Stanford Campus Recreation Association About Us Memberships Social Swimming Tennis Activities Rentals and Reservations Tennis & Golf Community Guidelines and Policies Connect About Us Contact Information Employment Opportunities Staff Tennis & Golf Main navigation Skip to main content Secondary Navigation Facility Hours Main Campus Stanford Redwood City Stanford Red Barn Equestrian Center Arrillaga Recreation Center at SLAC Stanford Campus Recreation Association Rentals and Reservations Tennis & Golf Community Guidelines and Policies Main content start On this page Stanford Golf Course Tennis Court Reservations Golf Stanford Golf Course Located in the foothills above the Stanford University Campus, the Stanford Golf Course is consistently rated one of the finest courses in the world. Learn more about the Golf Course Tennis Court Reservations Taube South Availability Taube South Tennis Courts, latest schedule>> *Availability is subject to change Make a Reservation at Taube South West Campus Availability West Campus Tennis Courts, latest schedule>> Mak a Reservation at West Campus Court Usage Priority Tennis team events/practices, physical education classes and special events have priority over all other use. Otherwise: Use of the tennis courts is restricted to individuals who are members of the Stanford University community. To Reserve Online: You must have a SUNet ID. (If you do not have a SUNet ID, check to see if you are eligible at http://sunetid.stanford.edu/create). You may reserve one court for an hour up to one week in advance. (If you need two hours your playing partner may sign up for an additional hour). Important: Print your reservation confirmation and bring it to the court. If you are not eligible for a SUNet ID, but are a member of the extended Stanford community as defined below, you are entitled to use any court not occupied by a person with a printed confirmation. This is on a first come, first served basis. Identify yourself to anyone already on the court or to anyone who asks when you are playing: Retirees – by presenting your Faculty-Staff ID Card Visiting Scholar or Associate – by presenting Recreation & Wellness issued “Membership Card”* Full-time hospital employee or Spouse of Stanford faculty, staff, student or retiree – by presenting a “Courtesy Card” from the ID Card Office** or Recreation & Wellness issued “Membership Card”* Stanford Alumni and Summer Conference Participants – by presenting a Recreation & Wellness issued “Guest Membership Card”* * obtained at the AOERC located at 285 Santa Teresa. **obtained Forsythe Hall, 275 Panama Street (650)725-5501). (The 3a – d categories above have equal priority to each other, but have secondary priority to a person with a printed reservation – .i.e, a SUNet ID holder. It is strongly suggested that you choose a time of play based on availability as noted on the Reservation Sheets for each venue) In fairness to other court users, the following rules apply: You can only reserve 1 hour per day. (Your partner may sign up for a second hour if available) Your court reservation for that hour will be voided if you fail to arrive 10 minutes after the hour. You can only reserve 1 court per day. You cannot reserve a court more than 7 days ahead. Print your Reservation Confirmation and bring it with you to the courts in order to verify to anyone using the court that you have official and immediate priority. Private lessons are absolutely prohibited unless specifically authorized by the Department of Athletics! Frequently Asked Questions How many days in advance can I make a court reservation? All court reservations open 14 days in advance. How can I make a court reservation? Visit recwell.stanford.edu Logging in: Stanford affiliates can click the “Stanford Login” button to access their account. Courtesy card holders, alumni, hospital employees, and Graduate School of Business alumni should click “Local” to log in. Scroll down and select your court preference. Search for a time and date that best meets your schedule. Remember to bring a face-covering and a completed Stanford Health Check every time when entering any Recreation facility. How do I cancel a court reservation? Visit recwell.stanford.edu Login into your account (the login button can be found in the top right corner of the website). From your profile: Select the profile icon in the top right corner. Select “Bookings” from the left menu. Click “Cancel” next to the court reservation you want to cancel. From the Bookings page: Find the list of upcoming bookings. Click the three vertical dots from the court reservation you wish to cancel. Expand the menu. Click “Cancel Booking”. How come I can't see a grid and who's playing next to me? Fusion is not equipped with this feature currently. A grid will return in the next software iteration coming later this year. How come I can't see the bookings online? If you’re having membership issues while making a booking online please contact recmembership@stanford.edu I can see the bookings online, but why can’t I see a specific time slot? Ex; Tuesday/Thursday 3pm - 4pm? Some booking slots may be unavailable due to scheduled practices, classes, or events. To review all scheduled events, use the links below. West Campus Tennis Court availability Taube South Tennis Court availability Stanford Recreation and Wellness Address Arrillaga Outdoor Education and Recreation Center 285 Santa Teresa Street Stanford, CA 94305 United States Stanford Facebook Stanford Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Strava Contacts and Information Visit Campus Map Contact Us Register Here Resources for Faculty/Staff - want a personalized wellness program that you customize to meet your unique wellness needs? Students - want to be empowered to flourish through education, connection and positive culture change? Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top