Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Recreation and Wellness Search this site Submit Search Menu Home Move Virtual Fitness Faculty/Staff Free Faculty/Staff Programs Personal Training and Private Pilates Aquatics Masters Swim Membership and Dues Lane Etiquette and Equipment Announcements Resources Swim Away from Home Play Club Sports Intramural Sports Open Rec Sports Squash and Racquetball Courts Youth Programs Camp Cardinal Winter Programs Youth Camps FAQs Camp Counselors Adventure Equipment Rentals Climbing Stanford Pre-Orientation Trips (SPOT) Adventure Trips Student Opportunities Learn Physical Education Outdoor Education Recreational Classes Belay Cert CPR Certification Belong Diversity, Inclusion, and Accessibility Membership Faculty/Staff Visit Facility Hours Main Campus Stanford Redwood City SRWC Group Fitness SRWC Personal Training SRWC Aquatics SRWC Sports Stanford Red Barn Equestrian Center Stanford Horses Physical Education IEA & AEL Facilties and Boarding Pre-Collegiate Leadership Resident Trainers Riding Academy Arrillaga Recreation Center at SLAC Stanford Campus Recreation Association About Us Memberships Social Swimming Tennis Activities Rentals and Reservations Tennis & Golf Community Guidelines and Policies Connect About Us Contact Information Employment Opportunities Staff Employment Opportunities Main navigation Skip to main content Secondary Navigation About Us Contact Information Employment Opportunities Staff Main content start Aligned with the pioneering spirit of Stanford University, Stanford Recreation & Wellness is committed to bold and purposeful engagement. Our people create a campus and workplace where everyone’s well-being flourishes. As part of the country’s leading collegiate athletic department, we work cohesively, lead with courage, pursue and revere excellence, and activate movement, adventure, fun, leadership, and learning. We are building a community that is inclusive and a team that is committed to excellence. We take risks. We are willing to stand alone. We do the right thing. We develop our employees. We celebrate achievements. We have fun. If that sounds like you, join us. Pay rates range from $17/hour to $25/hour. How To Apply Download an Electronic Application Specify the position(s) you are interested in and email a copy of your application to recreationjobs@stanford.edu Positions Available / Job Descriptions Main Campus Aquatics Lifeguard Sport Programs Intramural Sports Official Fitness Course Instructor Personal Trainer Group Fitness Instructor Climbing Wall Climbing Wall General Application SRWC Recreation and Wellness Center Membership Services Associate Fitness Associate Personal Trainer Aquatics Manager Lifeguard Main Campus Membership Services Membership Services Associate Adventure Programs Assistant Outdoor Center Manager Youth Programs Camp Counselor Full-Time Positions If you are interested in full-time positions with Stanford Recreation & Wellness, please visit the Stanford University Careers Page. Learn more about Membership Services Stanford Recreation and Wellness Address Arrillaga Outdoor Education and Recreation Center 285 Santa Teresa Street Stanford, CA 94305 United States Stanford Facebook Stanford Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Strava Contacts and Information Visit Campus Map Contact Us Register Here Resources for Faculty/Staff - want a personalized wellness program that you customize to meet your unique wellness needs? Students - want to be empowered to flourish through education, connection and positive culture change? Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top