Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Recreation and Wellness Search this site Submit Search Menu Home Move Virtual Fitness Faculty/Staff Free Faculty/Staff Programs Personal Training and Private Pilates Aquatics Masters Swim Membership and Dues Lane Etiquette and Equipment Announcements Resources Swim Away from Home Play Club Sports Intramural Sports Open Rec Sports Squash and Racquetball Courts Youth Programs Camp Cardinal Winter Programs Youth Camps FAQs Camp Counselors Adventure Equipment Rentals Climbing Stanford Pre-Orientation Trips (SPOT) Adventure Trips Student Opportunities Learn Physical Education Outdoor Education Recreational Classes Belay Cert CPR Certification Belong Diversity, Inclusion, and Accessibility Membership Faculty/Staff Visit Facility Hours Main Campus Stanford Redwood City SRWC Group Fitness SRWC Personal Training SRWC Aquatics SRWC Sports Stanford Red Barn Equestrian Center Stanford Horses Physical Education IEA & AEL Facilties and Boarding Pre-Collegiate Leadership Resident Trainers Riding Academy Arrillaga Recreation Center at SLAC Stanford Campus Recreation Association About Us Memberships Social Swimming Tennis Activities Rentals and Reservations Tennis & Golf Community Guidelines and Policies Connect About Us Contact Information Employment Opportunities Staff Intramural Sports Main navigation Skip to main content Secondary Navigation Club Sports Intramural Sports Open Rec Sports Youth Programs Main content start Intramural Sports provides an opportunity to participate in a variety of recreational sports and activities for people of all skill levels: from those never having played before looking to learn a new game to those who want a competitive contest. Intramural Sports welcomes any and everyone while engaging in teamwork, fair play, and self-awareness. Spring 2022 Registration for spring leagues opens on Monday, March 28 at 9:00 AM PST. Register Registration takes place on the IMLeagues website. Register and Create an Account Here Spring League Schedules Sand Volleyball Registration Season Advanced 4v4 Sand Volleyball Upcoming Mar 28 9:00AM - Apr 6 3:00PM Join Teams Until: 05/06/22 Midnight Apr 11 - May 06 Intermediate 4v4 Sand Volleyball Upcoming Mar 28 9:00AM - Apr 6 3:00PM Join Teams Until: 05/06/22 Midnight Apr 11 - May 06 Soccer Registration Season Outdoor 7v7 Advanced Upcoming Mar 28 9:00AM - Apr 6 3:00PM Join Teams Until: 05/21/22 Midnight Apr 11 - May 21 Outdoor 7v7 Intermediate Upcoming Mar 28 9:00AM - Apr 6 3:00PM Join Teams Until: 05/21/22 Midnight Apr 11 - May 21 Softball Registration Season Outdoor 10v10 Advanced Upcoming Mar 28 9:00AM - Apr 6 3:00PM Join Teams Until: 05/09/22 Midnight Apr 11 - May 09 Outdoor 10v10 Beginner Upcoming Mar 28 9:00AM - Apr 6 3:00PM Join Teams Until: 05/09/22 Midnight Apr 11 - May 09 Outdoor 10v10 Intermediate Upcoming Mar 28 9:00AM - Apr 6 3:00PM Join Teams Until: 05/09/22 Midnight Apr 11 - May 09 Please note that you will need to create an IMLeagues account. League Schedules Reminder: Your team is confirmed once you have the minimum number of players and have paid for the league. Your status will be pending until you have done so. General Information Our Intramural Sports Program offers over 20 individual and team sports throughout the year, with flag football offered in the fall, basketball in the winter, outdoor soccer in the spring, and softball in the summer. All sports are separated between two to three divisions in order to accommodate a wide variety of skill levels and experience in each sport. Divisions include: Beginner: Players will focus on learning the rules and having fun, not competition. Intermediate: For players who know the rules and game play but are looking for less intense competition. Advanced: The most competitive league where players are highly skilled. Our staff reserves the right to assist teams in finding the most comfortable league for them. Players are not able to play on two teams in the same division. All leagues are open with no gender restrictions. Leagues typically run 4-6 weeks for the regular season with 1-2 weeks for playoffs, concluding with a single elimination tournament to determine the team champion. This can vary based off of facility access and weather. Games are not typically rescheduled unless deemed necessary by the Intramural Sports Office. All leagues and sports are on a first come basis. Limited space is available and we encourage you to register during the first day of registration. All participants must have a SUID to participate in Intramural Sports. Courtesy card holders need to email Jordan Hunt at jrdn38@stanford.edu to register. Stanford Recreation and Wellness Address Arrillaga Outdoor Education and Recreation Center 285 Santa Teresa Street Stanford, CA 94305 United States Stanford Facebook Stanford Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Strava Contacts and Information Visit Campus Map Contact Us Register Here Resources for Faculty/Staff - want a personalized wellness program that you customize to meet your unique wellness needs? Students - want to be empowered to flourish through education, connection and positive culture change? Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top