Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Recreation and Wellness Search this site Submit Search Menu Home Move Virtual Fitness Faculty/Staff Free Faculty/Staff Programs Personal Training and Private Pilates Aquatics Masters Swim Membership and Dues Lane Etiquette and Equipment Announcements Resources Swim Away from Home Play Club Sports Intramural Sports Open Rec Sports Squash and Racquetball Courts Youth Programs Camp Cardinal Winter Programs Youth Camps FAQs Camp Counselors Adventure Equipment Rentals Climbing Stanford Pre-Orientation Trips (SPOT) Adventure Trips Student Opportunities Learn Physical Education Outdoor Education Recreational Classes Belay Cert CPR Certification Belong Diversity, Inclusion, and Accessibility Membership Faculty/Staff Visit Facility Hours Main Campus Stanford Redwood City SRWC Group Fitness SRWC Personal Training SRWC Aquatics SRWC Sports Stanford Red Barn Equestrian Center Stanford Horses Physical Education IEA & AEL Facilties and Boarding Pre-Collegiate Leadership Resident Trainers Riding Academy Arrillaga Recreation Center at SLAC Stanford Campus Recreation Association About Us Memberships Social Swimming Tennis Activities Rentals and Reservations Tennis & Golf Community Guidelines and Policies Connect About Us Contact Information Employment Opportunities Staff Youth Camps FAQs Main navigation Skip to main content Secondary Navigation Club Sports Intramural Sports Open Rec Sports Youth Programs Camp Cardinal Winter Programs Youth Camps FAQs Camp Counselors Main content start How do I know if I qualify for the Stanford Affiliate Discount? The following qualify for the Stanford Affiliate Discount: University Exempt/Non-Exempt Employee University Faculty University Temporary/ Casual Employee University Retiree University Family Member University Post Doc University Student- Undergraduate/ Graduate University Alumni Stanford Health Care Employee Stanford Children’s Health Employee What COVID-19 precautions will be taken? All campers must be vaccinated against COVID-19. A negative COVID-19 test taken within 3 days of camp must be presented upon check-in on the first day of camp. Hand sanitizer will be provided to all campers and physical distancing will be encouraged all throughout. Although campers will not be required to wear a face-covering outside, we will provide a safe and inclusive environment for all campers who prefer to wear a face-covering. With the rapidly changing response to the coronavirus, our precautions may be more or less stringent than these currently listed. Any changes will be communicated prior to their implementation. Daily health checks are required to be filled out and presented upon the camper’s entry. Where will my child be located during camp? A majority of our day will be spent at Arrillaga Outdoor Education Recreation Center (AOERC) or on Roble Field. How do I register for Camps? Follow the link on our most current Camp page here. When space is full, please sign up your camper for the waitlist and we will reach out to you if a spot opens up. Campers will be placed on a waitlist in the order applications were received. How do I pay for Camp? Can I cancel my registration? Full payment for all programs as well as extended care and any additional financial options is due upon enrollment. $100 per camp week is considered a non-refundable deposit. Changes to and/or withdrawals from camp sessions, including extended care, are subject to a $15 administrative fee per change. The final day to get a refund for all Summer camps (minus the non-refundable deposit) is Monday, May 30th. There will be no refunds after this date for summer. All cancellations must be received in writing by 6:00 pm on May 30th. Please email us at campcardinal@stanford.edu. If a camper is not behaving in accordance with camp safety, policies and expectations, the camper may be dismissed from the remainder of the session(s) without refund. Can you group my child with their friend? Yes, usually. If they are the same age group, please let us know on the first day of camp that you would like them to be together and we will accommodate you as best as we can. Please note that we like to accommodate such requests in the interest of keeping things fun (it is CAMP, after all!). Sometimes, however, we may choose to separate a group of friends for personnel or behavioral reasons. I am only available for one day of Camp. Can I pay for just one day at a time? When we allow a camper to enroll for one day of camp, we’re taking away a spot from a camper that may have come for the whole week. Because of this, staffing requirements, and other factors, we do not prorate our Camp weeks. Other things to note: There will be no reduction or refund of fees for camp programs because of absence, illness, suspension/expulsion, or withdrawal due to changes in family circumstances during camp sessions. No partial enrollment or proration is available. Please allow up to 3 weeks for refunds to be processed. Photography Unless otherwise specified in writing, the undersigned gives permission for photos and video to be taken for future brochures or published anonymously on the Stanford Recreation website or other online sites without compensation. Late Pick Up If your child is not picked up at the pick-up time, a late fee will be assessed. 1-15 Minutes…$25 16-25 minutes…$35 26-35 minutes…$45 Campers that are continually picked up late may be withdrawn from the camp program. The Week of Camp What is the policy regarding early drop-off or late pick-up? We will be closely monitoring COVID-19 and we will make the decision if we will have extended care as we get closer to summer. Can my camper arrive late or leave early for a doctor’s or other appointments? If you need to schedule an appointment for your camper, we recommend doing so early or late in the day for easier drop-off and pick-up. If you have to miss anything, please let us know as soon as possible by email. Let your camper’s group leader know about the appointment at check-in the day before the appointment so they can give you the location of the camper’s group at your expected arrival or departure time or the contact information to reach them. When will I receive a packet with all of the relevant information about Camp? The Wednesday prior to your program starting, you will receive a parent packet via email with additional program information and camp policies. Can my child bring a phone or other portable electronic devices? We strongly discourage campers from bringing electronic games, music players, cell phones, and other electronic devices. Not only are they vulnerable to being taken, forgotten, and broken, they discourage personal interaction and participation. Campers that bring electronic devices and accessories do so at their own risk. If campers do bring these items, counselors will ask that they keep these devices in their bags and out of sight throughout the camp day. We want campers to interact with each other and the counselors while being active for the best camp experience possible! What should my child bring to camp? Please label everything so we can more easily return it to you if it is left behind: ● A bag or backpack ● SUNBLOCK! Please apply sunblock in the morning before drop off and we will remind campers to reapply throughout the day. ● Hat ● Book, comic book, coloring book or other item for down time after lunch (please no cell phones or electronic games – we don’t want them to be lost or taken!) ● Lunch every day. We recommend that plenty of snacks are also packed ● Optional: swim suit, goggles, sandals, towel ● Reusable water bottle Additional Camp Policies Camp activities are subject to cancellation based on camper enrollment. Additional Questions? If you have a question that is not answered by our FAQs, please email us at campcardinal@stanford.edu. Stanford Recreation and Wellness Address Arrillaga Outdoor Education and Recreation Center 285 Santa Teresa Street Stanford, CA 94305 United States Stanford Facebook Stanford Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Strava Contacts and Information Visit Campus Map Contact Us Register Here Resources for Faculty/Staff - want a personalized wellness program that you customize to meet your unique wellness needs? Students - want to be empowered to flourish through education, connection and positive culture change? Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top