Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Recreation and Wellness Search this site Submit Search Menu Home Move Virtual Fitness Faculty/Staff Free Faculty/Staff Programs Personal Training and Private Pilates Aquatics Masters Swim Membership and Dues Lane Etiquette and Equipment Announcements Resources Swim Away from Home Play Club Sports Intramural Sports Open Rec Sports Squash and Racquetball Courts Youth Programs Camp Cardinal Winter Programs Youth Camps FAQs Camp Counselors Adventure Equipment Rentals Climbing Stanford Pre-Orientation Trips (SPOT) Adventure Trips Student Opportunities Learn Physical Education Outdoor Education Recreational Classes Belay Cert CPR Certification Belong Diversity, Inclusion, and Accessibility Membership Faculty/Staff Visit Facility Hours Main Campus Stanford Redwood City SRWC Group Fitness SRWC Personal Training SRWC Aquatics SRWC Sports Stanford Red Barn Equestrian Center Stanford Horses Physical Education IEA & AEL Facilties and Boarding Pre-Collegiate Leadership Resident Trainers Riding Academy Arrillaga Recreation Center at SLAC Stanford Campus Recreation Association About Us Memberships Social Swimming Tennis Activities Rentals and Reservations Tennis & Golf Community Guidelines and Policies Connect About Us Contact Information Employment Opportunities Staff Main content start Mental Health Awareness Month Recreation and Wellness and partners invite you to take it slow this May. April 18, 2022 | Roxanne Corbin On this page: Webinars/Seminars Fitness Programming Recreation and Wellness (partnering with HHP, Weiland Health Initiative, CAPS, Well-Being at Stanford, and Contemplation by Design) invites you to take it slow next month. Rec and Well is celebrating their third annual iteration of Mental Health Awareness Month programming to support the well-being of students, staff, and faculty. Enjoy FREE seminars, webinars, classes, and practicums that explore the benefits of slowing down, contemplating, and reflecting on your thoughts, motivations, and actions. Whether you are looking to slow down or take the time to breathe, you have opportunities this month to do so. Enjoy classes such as Yoga Nidra Meditation and learn more about meditation, resilience, and more to help you stay centered. Explore the many ways to take a step back and tend to the important things in our lives. Webinars/Seminars We have partnered with Weiland Health Initiative, CAPS, Contemplation by Design, and HHP to bring you virtual and in-person learning opportunities. Monday, May 2 at 12:00 PM Meditation: More than Getting More Done Sarah Meyer Tapia View the webinar recording>> Have you tried to meditate but haven’t found a practice or method that works for you? Do you enjoy meditation but struggle to practice on a regular basis? Are you curious about how a meditation practice could be supportive for you? Meditation is touted for its benefits in productivity, focus, and mental health, yet figuring it out and fitting it in can feel even more stressful. What does meditation look like in your real life right now? What if it were enough to meditate not for an end goal but because it felt good? In this workshop we will talk about the neuroscience of meditation, identify challenges and misconceptions, and explore different approaches so you can curate your own practice. Wednesday, May 4 at 11:30 AM 20 Minute Meditation Sarah Meyer Tapia Come as you are for these brief drop-in meditations led by Sarah Meyer Tapia, head of Wellness Education at Stanford. No experience needed. These meditations are designed to support a sense of calm, focus, and presence. The Zoom link will be sent out in your confirmation email. The first attachment in the email will also allow you to add the class and link to your calendar! Classes can be joined up to 10 minutes prior to the scheduled start time. Please note that these sessions will not count towards the BeWell program. Wednesday, May 11 at 12:00 PM at Thornton Room 211 Walking the Windhover Labyrinth for Well-being Tia Rich, PhD, Director, Stanford Contemplation by Design, School of Medicine, and Lecturer, Stanford Community Health and Prevention Research Program Gather at THORNTON Room 211 (Thornton Center, 79 Santa Teresa Street) to learn the global history and diverse methods for Labyrinth walking. Then we will proceed to walk the Labyrinth together. Wednesday, May 11 at 12:00 PM at Kingscote Gardens, Room 101 Normalizing & Navigating Grief Dr. Helen Hsu, Director of Outreach at CAPS, and Donnovan Somera Yisrael, Senior Health Educator, Mental Health & Well-Being, Well-Being at Stanford View the webinar recording>> The ability and openness to engage in the grieving process is an ancient practice that helped our ancestors survive even when the experience of death in families and communities was much more common. This ancient "app" on the "original operating system" sadly has been mostly forgotten in our modern "death-denying" culture. Join us as we "download" this ancient healing "app" in community. No two grief journeys are ever the same but there are basic foundational elements that many encounter. In this workshop, we hope to normalize the grieving process and help attendees have a sense of what to expect on their grief journey. Bring your experiences and your questions. Sunday, May 15 at 2:00 PM at Roble Arts Gym Room 137 Walking the Windhover Labyrinth for Well-being Tia Rich, PhD, Director, Stanford Contemplation by Design, School of Medicine, and Lecturer, Stanford Community Health and Prevention Research Program | The Rev. Dr. Colleen Hallagan Preuninger, Associate Dean for Religious & Spiritual Life and Director of Student Engagement Gather at ROBLE ARTS GYM Room 137 (75 Santa Teresa St) to learn the global history and diverse methods for Labyrinth walking. Then we will proceed to walk the Labyrinth together. Wednesday, May 18 at 12:30 PM The REST of Your Life: How NOT Work Leads to Smarts, Creativity, & Compassion Donnovan Somera Yisrael | Senior Health Educator, Mental Health & Well-Being View the webinar recording >> When you are not working do you feel “lazy” or that you are wasting time? Do you feel “guilty” when you are not being productive? Did you know that there is more than one type of rest and ironically, not all of them leave you feeling rested? Join us for this 2-part, interactive workshop in which we will first gain a deeper understanding of the integrative nature of wholesome time off and “deep play.” Next, together and in small groups we will seek to shift our “rest mindsets” by wrestling with our beliefs and feelings about not working. Lastly, we will schedule and experience not working in light of our new rest mindset during the week between sessions and come back together to compare notes, share success and find movement where there is stuckness. Learning how to rest and play with intention and discernment just might make you better at work while increasing the quality of the REST of your life. Wednesday, May 18 at 2:30 PM at the Papa New Guinea Sculpture Garden Physical-meets-Digital Well-Being: A Practice in Wholeness Caitlin Krause | Lecturer, Digital Wellbeing, XR Experience Designer, Author of Designing Wonder Digital wellbeing has been described as a dynamic construct that involves balance and consideration of our complex relationships with digital connectivity. We will meet in a beautiful and inspiring physical garden space to share a dialogue and practice related to how our virtual and digital experiences can be supported by foundations of wellness and connection in the physical world. This is a 45-minute session that involves light movement, meditation, and conversation. Note: Caitlin Krause will also lead the online workshop on May 23 “Mindful Metaverse: Digital Wellbeing in Social and Spatialized Contexts” Monday, May 23 at 2:00 PM Mindful Metaverse: Digital Well-Being in Social and Spatialized Contexts Caitlin Krause | Lecturer, Digital Wellbeing, XR Experience Designer, Author of Designing Wonder View the webinar recording >> This one hour session explores the future of healthy digital experiences in the context of the metaverse. We will take this concept of a shared, spatial, social environment beyond the “M” buzzword du jour and look at how intentional digital choices can lead to positive, full-life flourishing – without having to discard all forms of technology. Caitlin Krause is an award-winning experience designer in XR (extended reality), and she specializes in building and leading mindful social experiences in virtual and augmented reality. Hear Krause talk about her learnings and research involving the metaverse, demystify terms, and experience a group meditation in a digital garden. Fitness Programming Register for our special Mental Health Awareness Month standalone classes: Monday, May 9 at 7:00 PM: Roll and Restore Danielle | AOERC 111 Tuesday, May 17 at 12:45 PM: Tai Chi Lily | Ford Lawn Friday, May 20 at 12:30 PM: Yoga Nidra Dora | ACSR Milias Studio Monday, May 23 at 11:30 AM: Restorative Yoga Natalye | ACSR Milias Studio FREE Cardinal Pass classes, only for the month of May! Register here The following classes are the only classes we will be offering for free for Mental Health Awareness Month: Tuesdays at 12:30 PM: Vinyasa Yoga Dora | ACSR Milias Studio Tuesdays at 12:50 PM: Cardio Core Mitch | AOERC 111 Tuesdays at 1:30 PM HIIT30 Mitch | AOERC 111 Thursdays at 12:30 PM Gentle Yoga Dora | ACSR Milias Studio More News Outdoor Center Gear Sale Dive-In Movie: Encanto Meditations See All News Stanford Recreation and Wellness Address Arrillaga Outdoor Education and Recreation Center 285 Santa Teresa Street Stanford, CA 94305 United States Stanford Facebook Stanford Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Strava Contacts and Information Visit Campus Map Contact Us Register Here Resources for Faculty/Staff - want a personalized wellness program that you customize to meet your unique wellness needs? Students - want to be empowered to flourish through education, connection and positive culture change? Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top