Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Recreation and Wellness Search this site Submit Search Menu Home Move Virtual Fitness Faculty/Staff Free Faculty/Staff Programs Personal Training and Private Pilates Aquatics Masters Swim Membership and Dues Lane Etiquette and Equipment Announcements Resources Swim Away from Home Play Club Sports Intramural Sports Open Rec Sports Squash and Racquetball Courts Youth Programs Camp Cardinal Winter Programs Youth Camps FAQs Camp Counselors Adventure Equipment Rentals Climbing Stanford Pre-Orientation Trips (SPOT) Adventure Trips Student Opportunities Learn Physical Education Outdoor Education Recreational Classes Belay Cert CPR Certification Belong Diversity, Inclusion, and Accessibility Membership Faculty/Staff Visit Facility Hours Main Campus Stanford Redwood City SRWC Group Fitness SRWC Personal Training SRWC Aquatics SRWC Sports Stanford Red Barn Equestrian Center Stanford Horses Physical Education IEA & AEL Facilties and Boarding Pre-Collegiate Leadership Resident Trainers Riding Academy Arrillaga Recreation Center at SLAC Stanford Campus Recreation Association About Us Memberships Social Swimming Tennis Activities Rentals and Reservations Tennis & Golf Community Guidelines and Policies Connect About Us Contact Information Employment Opportunities Staff September 15 - 20 Stanford Pre-Orientation Trips Stanford Pre-Orientation Trips (SPOT) Main navigation Skip to main content Secondary Navigation Equipment Rentals Climbing Stanford Pre-Orientation Trips (SPOT) Adventure Trips Student Opportunities Main content start On this page What is SPOT? Registration Dates Welcome Packets How to Register Required Forms What is SPOT? Stanford Pre-Orientation Trips are immersive, outdoor experiences that take place the week before New Student Orientation and are designed to ease the transition of students to life at Stanford as well as foster Stanford Identity, community, and personal growth through activity, self-reflection, and mentorship. Cost: $450 with $50 due at registration. Financial aid is available. The balance will be billed to your Stanford account. SPOT 2022 Registration Dates The SPOT Lottery Application opens on Thursday, June 9 at 8:00 AM PST and closes on Wednesday, June 15 at 5:00 PM. SPOT 2022 program dates: Thursday, September 15 - Tuesday, September 20 at 7:30 am PST. Trips and Types SPOT trips are five and a half days long and are aimed at easing your transition to life at Stanford. SPOT finishes immediately before New Student Orientation. There are no experience requirements for SPOT. SPOT offerings include adventures in Basecamping and Wilderness Backpacking. They are all open to all experience levels! No experience necessary! What about physical ability, camping experience or other prep? SPOT isn’t about physical exertion, but instead the immersive experience, preparing for college and getting to know your group and leaders! Some trip types involve hiking and camping. No problem if you are new to this sort of thing — most are! That being said, all trips involve physical activities and your own human power to either carry your food/gear to a campsite or destination. SPOT leads the Stanford Experience by… Empowering personal growth through challenge, self-reflection and mentorship. Developing awareness of interconnectedness and value of community within the Stanford environment. Contributing students to the campus community prepared to actively participate and lead. Be a part of THIS Stanford tradition and have a ton of fun doing it! Welcome Packets WELCOME PACKET Point Reyes Learn more WELCOME PACKET Pinnacles Learn more WELCOME PACKET Mountains Learn more How to Register SPOT Registration opens during the summer quarter. For 2022, the dates are June 9 – 15, 2022. Placement will be decided by a lottery process in cases where the registration exceeds the number of spaces. Once your registration is confirmed and you’ve been placed on a SPOT trip, you will receive an email with details about your trip. Download and READ your welcome packet and equipment list You need to complete a Medical History form and Gear Request form and sign a waiver of liability by August 6th. Arrive on campus Wednesday, September 8th around 1 PM. Required Forms The following two forms are required for each individual to participate in SPOT. Each form must be completed fully in blue or black ink, signed and dated, with original copies returned by mail or in-person by August 6th to: SPOT, 285 Santa Teresa St, Stanford, CA 94305. Medical History Form Please double check that you have completed each and every line and include all allergies and medical information that is pertinent to your ability to participate in SPOT. Fill out the form here Assumption of Risk Form Front and back. A parent or guardian must also sign this form if you will still be under 18 when the trip begins. Fill out the form here Stanford Recreation and Wellness Address Arrillaga Outdoor Education and Recreation Center 285 Santa Teresa Street Stanford, CA 94305 United States Stanford Facebook Stanford Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Strava Contacts and Information Visit Campus Map Contact Us Register Here Resources for Faculty/Staff - want a personalized wellness program that you customize to meet your unique wellness needs? Students - want to be empowered to flourish through education, connection and positive culture change? Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top