Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Recreation and Wellness Search this site Submit Search Menu Home Move Virtual Fitness Faculty/Staff Free Faculty/Staff Programs Personal Training and Private Pilates Aquatics Masters Swim Membership and Dues Lane Etiquette and Equipment Announcements Resources Swim Away from Home Play Club Sports Intramural Sports Open Rec Sports Squash and Racquetball Courts Youth Programs Camp Cardinal Winter Programs Youth Camps FAQs Camp Counselors Adventure Equipment Rentals Climbing Stanford Pre-Orientation Trips (SPOT) Adventure Trips Student Opportunities Learn Physical Education Outdoor Education Recreational Classes Belay Cert CPR Certification Belong Diversity, Inclusion, and Accessibility Membership Faculty/Staff Visit Facility Hours Main Campus Stanford Redwood City SRWC Group Fitness SRWC Personal Training SRWC Aquatics SRWC Sports Stanford Red Barn Equestrian Center Stanford Horses Physical Education IEA & AEL Facilties and Boarding Pre-Collegiate Leadership Resident Trainers Riding Academy Arrillaga Recreation Center at SLAC Stanford Campus Recreation Association About Us Memberships Social Swimming Tennis Activities Rentals and Reservations Tennis & Golf Community Guidelines and Policies Connect About Us Contact Information Employment Opportunities Staff Stanford Horses Main navigation Skip to main content Secondary Navigation Facility Hours Main Campus Stanford Redwood City Stanford Red Barn Equestrian Center Stanford Horses Physical Education IEA & AEL Facilties and Boarding Pre-Collegiate Leadership Resident Trainers Riding Academy Arrillaga Recreation Center at SLAC Stanford Campus Recreation Association Rentals and Reservations Tennis & Golf Community Guidelines and Policies Main content start Stanford Horses Stanford University owns (or borrows) more than thirty horses. All of Stanford’s horses are donated, coming from diverse backgrounds. Their experience runs the gamut from top-rated show champions to trusted beginner mounts. Our horses are the heart of our program and are beloved by the team. We would like to thank all the horse owners who have donated horses to our program, as well as those who let us use their horses in our shows and lessons. Cassini Royal 5 (Casper) Casper, a 2007 Holsteiner gelding, was donated by Hilary Bates after wins in the WCE at the Menlo Charity Horse Show and exemplary shows from Woodside to Spruce Meadows. Bravado Bravo is a Oldenburg donated by the Kerpsack family. Bravo is a favorite in both IEA, hunt seat, and dressage team lessons and shows with his sweet personality, comfortable gaits, and smooth jump. Bravo successfully showed in all three rings with Checkmate (Rook) Rook is a 2009 Oldenburg gelding donated by the Taylor family. A wonderful equitation mount with a lovely personality in the barn. Classy’s Ghost Classy is a wonderful all-around AQHA gelding. Donated by Vicki Hoffman, Classy is a rare combination of a lovely Dressage mount, a willing Hunt Seat partner, and a fun Western Horsemanship draw. Emmie Lou Emmie is a truly talented Percheron cross mare donated by Maggie Bedecarre. Emmie is a star jumping, as well as on the flat, as witnessed by her silver medal finish at Young Riders with eventer, Piper Leddick. Fancy That (Rosy) Donated by the Gates Family, this 2005 Hanoverian mare instantly became a team favorite! Stellar over fences, as well as on the flat, she is adored by all. Greyscale (Quinn) Quinn is a 2004 Warmblood gelding donated by the Coe Family. An experienced equitation star, Quinn is a dream to ride on the flat and over fences. Well-schooled in all of the equitation tests, he is one of the Team’s best draws! Hemingway Hemy is a Holsteiner donated by the Ashton Family. He boasts being the biggest horse in the barn and you can catch him every morning taking a long snooze in his stall. Showing in all three rings with Annie Ashton, his talents shine in both dress Pistols Question (Karl) Karl (also known as Axel) is a 2012 AQHA gelding donated by the Ronn Family. Hailing from Indiana, this bundle of joy joined us on a foggy Bay Area day and was nicknamed ‘Karl’ in honor of our hometown fog: Karl the Fog! Whatever y Miesto Max is donated by Judy Gans. A big man with a big personality, Max is a great teacher in our IEA lessons while also excelling at dressage and a favorite mount for equitation flat tests. Miss Ebony Ebony is a Canadian Warmblood Welsh Pony cross donated by the Hoffman Family. A Dressage star who has won at First Level at her first IDA competition, she is beloved by our IEA and IHSA programs as well. Sinatra’s Ruhm Sinatra is a top ‘Big Eq’ horse, with wins at the PCHA Finals, who also excels at Dressage. Donated by Julia Stone, he is a favorite draw in Open flat and fences, and a barn favorite. Othena Juno is a Zweibrucker mare donated by the Jecker Family. We have known this feisty red-head for much of her life as she was bought as a young horse by one member of our IEA team and then another! Juno has shown up through the 1.20m and is a fun dr Tops Rainbow Lady (Candi) Donated by the Zaydel family, this wonderful Oldenburg mare has many miles on the show circuit in all three rings. A wonderful equitation horse, and favorite of our IHSA and IEA times, Candi is one of the sweetest horses in the Spotify This flashy KWPN gelding, donated by the Reichow Family is a true Equitation star. Ridden to most of the Big Eq Finals with Emma Reichow, Spot is a favorite draw of the collegiate team and was voted 2019 Horse of the Show at the IHSA Zone 8 Finals Stanford Recreation and Wellness Address Arrillaga Outdoor Education and Recreation Center 285 Santa Teresa Street Stanford, CA 94305 United States Stanford Facebook Stanford Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Strava Contacts and Information Visit Campus Map Contact Us Register Here Resources for Faculty/Staff - want a personalized wellness program that you customize to meet your unique wellness needs? Students - want to be empowered to flourish through education, connection and positive culture change? Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top