Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Recreation and Wellness Search this site Submit Search Menu Home Move Virtual Fitness Faculty/Staff Free Faculty/Staff Programs Personal Training and Private Pilates Aquatics Masters Swim Membership and Dues Lane Etiquette and Equipment Announcements Resources Swim Away from Home Play Club Sports Intramural Sports Open Rec Sports Squash and Racquetball Courts Youth Programs Camp Cardinal Winter Programs Youth Camps FAQs Camp Counselors Adventure Equipment Rentals Climbing Stanford Pre-Orientation Trips (SPOT) Adventure Trips Student Opportunities Learn Physical Education Outdoor Education Recreational Classes Belay Cert CPR Certification Belong Diversity, Inclusion, and Accessibility Membership Faculty/Staff Visit Facility Hours Main Campus Stanford Redwood City SRWC Group Fitness SRWC Personal Training SRWC Aquatics SRWC Sports Stanford Red Barn Equestrian Center Stanford Horses Physical Education IEA & AEL Facilties and Boarding Pre-Collegiate Leadership Resident Trainers Riding Academy Arrillaga Recreation Center at SLAC Stanford Campus Recreation Association About Us Memberships Social Swimming Tennis Activities Rentals and Reservations Tennis & Golf Community Guidelines and Policies Connect About Us Contact Information Employment Opportunities Staff Membership Main navigation Skip to main content Secondary Navigation Diversity, Inclusion, and Accessibility Membership Faculty/Staff Main content start On this page: Community Access Guest Passes Alumni and Hospital Employee Access Youth and Family Access Access to Stanford’s Recreational Facilities is available to Stanford’s Students, Faculty and Staff with valid SUID Cards. Please see detailed outline below on additional individual Rec Facility access privileges or visit your nearest Rec Center for assistance. Stanford-Affiliates AFFILIATE TYPE ACCESS Stanford Students Free with SUID Eligible Faculty/Staff Free with SUID Post Doc, Visiting Scholars, Fellows Free with SUID Plus Ones and Academic Visitors See below Dependents, Visiting Scholar/Faculty Spouses See below Stanford Retirees See below Stanford Alumni and Hospital Employees See below What Does Access Get You? If you have access to our recreation facilities, you are able to capitalize on many of our great programs and offerings on campus. Your Stanford ID or access pass is your ticket to Stanford Recreation and Wellness. Benefits that are available to most affiliates for free: Entry to our main recreation buildings (AOERC, ACSR, Stanford Redwood City Recreation & Wellness Center) Use of the Avery Recreation Pool and Avery Aquatic Center Entry to the fitness centers in the recreation buildings Locker room and day locker access Use of gymnasium space in recreation buildings for basketball, badminton, volleyball, etc. Ability to rent sports and fitness equipment Entry and use of the Climbing Wall at AOERC Invites to special events and activities throughout the year Access to our free men’s and women’s focused training sessions Entry to the Outdoor Center in the AOERC Additional benefits available with associated costs: Locker rentals at AOERC and Ford Center Group fitness passes to access our different group fitness classes each quarter. Gear rental at the Outdoor Center Swim lessons and aquatics classes Discounted rate on most recreation youth camps Fitness assessments Adventure Trips to destinations around California Personal Training sessions and Private Pilates sessions There are some fees associated with joining and participating in Club Sports and Intramurals Stanford Community Access Plus Ones and Academic Visitors: Plus Ones and Academic Visitors are able to enter Stanford Recreation Facilities with a Courtesy Card. To obtain a Courtesy Card, visit the Stanford Campus Card Office at Tressider Union. Spouse/Domestic Partners and Dependents of Hospital and Alumni members. Hospital and Alumni members are allowed to purchase spouse/domestic partner and dependent cards for an additional $30. These memberships are tied to the primary account and are terminated when the primary account ends. Dependents and Visiting Scholar/Faculty Spouses: Dependents (under 26 years old) and Visiting Scholars/Faculty Spouses are able to enter Stanford Recreation Facilities with a Recreation All Access Card. To obtain your Recreation All Access Card, visit the Stanford Campus Card Office at Tresidder Union. Children under the age of one (1) are allowed to enter the facility free of charge with valid adult access. Please reference Family Hours for specific hours for minors. Stanford Retirees: Stanford Retirees are able to enter Stanford Recreation Facilities free with a Retiree Card. To obtain your Retiree Card, visit the Stanford Campus Card Office at Tresidder Union. Membership Appointments Make an appointment for membership services Guest Passes Who Can Purchase? Guest Passes can only be purchased by: Stanford Affiliates (students, staff, faculty, etc.) Stanford Alumni (members of the SAA) Hospital Employee Conference Attendee over 18yrs old (during the official dates of the conference or program). If you have further questions about whether you can purchase passes, please visit the front desk at either the AOERC or ACSR. Who Can Use? Guest Passes can be used by guests of Stanford community members, Stanford Alumni, Stanford Hospital Employees, and Conference Attendees. Guests under the age of 18 must be accompanied at all times during Youth and Family Access Hours, and are not allowed in the Fitness Center. Pricing OPTIONS DAY 5 VISITS 10 VISITS Prices $15 $70 $140 Additional Information We encourage guests, alumni, hospital employees, and other non-affiliates to create an account in advance. Click here to learn how to create an account. Must show proof of affiliation (i.e. current SUID, SAA Membership Card/Tag/Electronic Card, Hospital Employee Badge, Conference Credential) at time of purchase. Passes may be purchased using credit card at the front desk of either Rec Center, during regular business hours. Valid for the entire day on which they are used. There is no expiration date, but passes expire when sponsor is no longer a current affiliate. Pass users over the age of 18yrs old are required to show a government issued photo ID card at all times while using the recreation facilities. ID Card Holder (Sponsor) must accompany pass user during their first visit. Max of ten (10) passes can be purchased per ten days. All pass sales are final. Persons caught misusing their pass or accessing the facility without a valid pass will be subject to immediate removal from the facility; in addition, future access may be restricted. Please contact Sherin Thankachan for any questions or inquiries about Stanford Affiliate access, bulk Guest Passes or general Rec Center access. Guest Acknowledgement Guests must register at the Membership Desk and sign the Guest Facility Usage Policy and Waiver. Guest must show proof of affiliation (i.e. current SUID, SAA Membership Card/Tag/Electronic Card, Hospital Employee Badge, Conference Credential) and valid photo ID at time of purchase. Guests must be accompanied by the Stanford member/sponsor during their first purchase. The sponsor is responsible for the behavior of their guest(s). Guest pass is valid for the entire day on which it is used. Guests must adhere to all Stanford policies and usage guidelines. A guest pass may be revoked if any of these policies are not met. Youth Guests (ages 17 & under) must have an adult (age 18 or older) remain in the Recreation Center with the youth guest at all times. We do not allow anyone under the age of 18 in the Fitness Center. There is no expiration date, but passes expire when the sponsor is no longer a current affiliate. A maximum of ten (10) passes can be purchased per ten days. Persons caught misusing their pass or accessing the facility without a valid pass is subject to immediate removal from the facility; in addition, future access may be restricted. All pass sales are final. Guest Expectations All participants and guests using a Guest Pass are expected to follow facility policies. AGGRESSIVE, UNSAFE OR RECKLESS BEHAVIOR: Aggressive, unsafe or reckless behavior is explicitly forbidden in Stanford Athletic facilities and programs. This includes, but is not limited to, the following: Promoting or engaging in physical abuse, verbal abuse, threats, intimidation, harassment, coercion, and/or other conduct which threatens or endangers the health or safety of any person. The use of “fighting words” to harass any employee or participant in connection with official University functions or University sponsored programs is also prohibited. UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY: A valid Stanford SUID card or pass is required for access to all Stanford Athletic facilities and programs. In addition, entering unauthorized areas such as offices and maintenance workshops without the express permission of Stanford Athletics will be considered trespassing. FORGERY: Sharing identification cards for access into Stanford Athletic facilities or programs is considered forgery. Forgery, altering identification cards, providing false information in connection with a membership application or program form, or unauthorized use or misuse of any University document, record, key, electronic device, or identification is strictly prohibited. SUID confiscation, additional sanctions and restrictions may apply including a loss of privileges and/or a report to the Dean of Students Office. SOLICITATION: Short Term sponsorship privileges provide our Stanford Affiliates the opportunity to share use and enjoyment of Stanford Athletic facilities with individuals with whom they have an established relationship. In the interest of the safety of all users, Stanford Affiliates should refrain from sponsoring individuals who are unknown to them and to report any solicitations to do so to Stanford Athletic staff. DISORDERLY CONDUCT: Engaging in disorderly or lewd conduct, including being under the influence of alcohol or controlled substances, is strictly prohibited. PHOTOGRAPHY AND VIDEO TAPING: Photography or videotaping of individuals in or images of the facilities must have prior Department and campus approval.UNAUTHORIZED COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY: Posting, advertising, conducting unauthorized private lessons or training, soliciting individuals in Stanford Athletic facilities for personal services, businesses, or agencies is strictly prohibited. Alumni & Hospital Employee Access Access to Stanford’s Recreational Facilities is only available to Stanford University Alumni and Hospital Employees with a 1-month pass or a Rec Access Membership. Edit MEMBERSHIP TYPES DAY PASS 1-MONTH SAA Member Available - $15 per visit. Good for the entire day. $136 GSBAA Available - $15 per visit. Good for the entire day. $136 Hospital Available - $15 per visit. Good for the entire day. $136 Hospital Employee, Resident and/or Fellow: Hospital Employees can purchase memberships at the front desk of any recreation facility. Resident and Fellows can get free access to the facilities with a Stanford ID. ==================================== Please note: Passes and memberships purchased at AOERC and ACSR must be paid by credit card or check only. All sales are final. After purchasing a membership, please schedule an appointment to pick up your new card using this link. Stanford Recreation Membership Services Card Printing hours are Tuesday – Friday, 10 AM – 1 PM at the AOERC. If you have any questions or need to reschedule your appointment please email recmembership@stanford.edu. Account Registration Tutorial for Nonaffiliates Youth and Family Access Stanford Recreation facilities offer a variety of family-friendly recreational spaces to include Avery Rec Pool @AOERC (50m pool), climbing and bouldering walls, along with access to basketball courts in ACSR, AOERC and the Ford Center. Youth and Family Access Policy: All members over 1 year old are required to have a SUID card or daily guest pass to access the recreational facilities. Children under the age of 1 year old are allowed to enter the facilities free of charge with valid adult access. Members under 18 years old may only access the recreational facilities for open recreation during Family Access Hours. Members under 18 years old must be supervised by an adult at all times. Members under 18 years old may not use the fitness center at any time, even when accompanied by an adult. The following exceptions apply: Minors aged 16 and 17 years old who are attending martial arts, squash, fencing, and other athletic camps, where the instructor serves supervisory duties. Active Stanford University students and staff members aged 16 and 17 years old. The Stanford Redwood City Recreation and Wellness Center does not offer under 18 access. FAMILY ACCESS HOURS MON-THU FRI SAT SUN Academic Years Hours Basketball Courts (ages 8-17) No Access No Access 12 PM - 5 PM 12 PM - 5 PM Aquatics (ages 0-17) No Access No Access 12 PM - 5 PM 12 PM - 5 PM Climbing Wall (ages 0-17) No Access No Access 10 AM - 4 PM 10 AM - 4 PM School Breaks and Holidays Basketball Courts (ages 8-17) All Day All Day All Day All Day Aquatics (ages 0-17) 3 PM - 6 PM 3 PM - 6 PM 12 PM - 5 PM 12 PM - 5 PM Summer Hours Baskeball Courts (ages 8-17) No Access No Access No Access No Access Aquatics (ages 0-17) 7 AM - 8 PM 7 AM - 8 PM 9 AM - 5 PM 12 PM - 5 PM Climbing No Access No Access 10 AM - 4 PM 10 AM - 4 PM Additional youth and family access hours will be held on university holidays and academic break weeks. Visit here for the complete Facility Hours schedule. Youth and Family Access (Aquatics specific): Youth and Family Access is held at the Avery Rec Pool @AOERC unless otherwise noted for holiday hours. Youth and Family Access is designated in one area of the pool and only available during Youth and Family Access hours. Participants under the age of 18 years old can only swim during designated Youth and Family Access hours. Adults with children 16 years of age and younger must supervise their children in the facility at all times, even in the changing rooms. Children over 6 years old are required to use the appropriate changing room for their gender. If assistance is needed, please speak with a lifeguard. If a child wants to swim in a lap swim lane, they must pass a swim test administered by the lifeguards. Criteria: must be able to swim 2 continuous lengths of the pool using the freestyle stroke with a strong kick and rhythmic breathing. When children 12 years of age and younger are in the water an adult must be in the water within an arm’s reach of them at all times. For every 2 children at least 1 adult should be with them at all times. Infants are allowed in the pool with swim diapers on. Youth and Family Access (Climbing specific): Children under 18 years old are allowed to climb during Family Climb time. Participants under 16 years old cannot belay and must be accompanied by a belay-certified adult at all times. Only two participants under 16 years old are allowed per certified adult. Children under 8 years old must be under direct supervision by a certified adult at all times in the Climbing Wall (within arms reach). Stanford Recreation and Wellness Address Arrillaga Outdoor Education and Recreation Center 285 Santa Teresa Street Stanford, CA 94305 United States Stanford Facebook Stanford Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Strava Contacts and Information Visit Campus Map Contact Us Register Here Resources for Faculty/Staff - want a personalized wellness program that you customize to meet your unique wellness needs? Students - want to be empowered to flourish through education, connection and positive culture change? Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top