Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Recreation and Wellness Search this site Submit Search Menu Home Move Virtual Fitness Faculty/Staff Free Faculty/Staff Programs Personal Training and Private Pilates Aquatics Masters Swim Membership and Dues Lane Etiquette and Equipment Announcements Resources Swim Away from Home Play Club Sports Intramural Sports Open Rec Sports Squash and Racquetball Courts Youth Programs Camp Cardinal Winter Programs Youth Camps FAQs Camp Counselors Adventure Equipment Rentals Climbing Stanford Pre-Orientation Trips (SPOT) Adventure Trips Student Opportunities Learn Physical Education Outdoor Education Recreational Classes Belay Cert CPR Certification Belong Diversity, Inclusion, and Accessibility Membership Faculty/Staff Visit Facility Hours Main Campus Stanford Redwood City SRWC Group Fitness SRWC Personal Training SRWC Aquatics SRWC Sports Stanford Red Barn Equestrian Center Stanford Horses Physical Education IEA & AEL Facilties and Boarding Pre-Collegiate Leadership Resident Trainers Riding Academy Arrillaga Recreation Center at SLAC Stanford Campus Recreation Association About Us Memberships Social Swimming Tennis Activities Rentals and Reservations Tennis & Golf Community Guidelines and Policies Connect About Us Contact Information Employment Opportunities Staff Swimming Main navigation Skip to main content Secondary Navigation Facility Hours Main Campus Stanford Redwood City Stanford Red Barn Equestrian Center Arrillaga Recreation Center at SLAC Stanford Campus Recreation Association About Us Memberships Social Swimming Tennis Activities Rentals and Reservations Tennis & Golf Community Guidelines and Policies Main content start Our website is public but note we are a member’s only club. Go to membership tab for information of eligibility. Lap Pool 25 yards by 25 meters with diving boards and Separate Circular Baby Pool On this page: SCRA Aquatics Staff Youth Swim Programs Adult Swim Programs Swim Lessons Lap Swimming and Lane Arrangements Pool Rules and Etiquette SCRA Aquatics Staff Daiane Becker de Oliveira daiane@stanford.edu 650-736- SCRA (7272) SCRA Aquatics: SCRA offers something for everyone! . SCRA offers swim opportunities at every age, level and interest. Please let us know if you have any questions and we look forward to seeing you at the pool! Youth Swim Programs ALL SWIM PROGRAMS ARE DESIGNATED TO MEMBERS ONLY YOUTH SWIM PROGRAMS: SCRA Swim Team is a year-round recreational program. This program is divided by season (Summer, Fall, Winter, and Spring) each season has its own duration but is always something around 7-11 weeks with 1-3 weeks break between seasons. Swimmers are divided by age into four different groups: Group 1: 6&unders Group 2: 7-8 years old Group 3: 9-11 years old Group 4: 12& Above During the Summer season, we participate in the PSA summer league where all swimmers have the opportunity to experience swim meets and a competitive environment. Participating in the competition is not required but encouraged! Requirements: 8&under: Swimmers must be able to complete at least 25yards (one length of the pool) swimming freestyle without any assistance. 9&Above: Swimmers must know the basics of the 4 swim strokes (Butterfly, Backstroke, Breaststroke, and Freestyle). Schedule: Mondays- Wednesdays - Fridays: 3:30pm to 6:30pm. 2021-22 Tentative calendar: Fall season: September 13th to December 3rd - Thanksgiving week is OFF Winter season: January 10th to March 4th Spring season: March 14th to May 23rd Summer season: June 6th to July 29th Adult Swim Programs At SCRA whether you are looking to get fit, swim competitively, improve your technique, or swim with group motivation, our Adults Swim Team is for you. Our team of swimmers is friendly and welcoming. Designed to help you improve fitness and train, we offer active support for a healthy lifestyle. Our practices are fun in a combination of endurance, speed, and technique! Our swimmers work hard and create a better version of themselves in every practice! Our workouts are 1h long and we swim around 2500 yards in a mix of technique, drills, and a lot of intensity! Beginners: In the Beginners Class, you will have the opportunity to learn the proper technique of the 4 swim strokes in a group of swimmers that have the same goal as you! On top of that, a short intense workout will be weald to make sure you train your endurance and your speed! Schedule: Fall season: October 25th to December 3rd - Mondays and Friday 12:15 to 1:15pm Requirements: Be able to swim independently at least one lap of the pool (25yards) Advanced: (this class is full – Please sign in for the waiting list) To participate in the advanced group, you must know the basics of the 4 swim strokes (butterfly, backstroke, breaststroke and freestyle). This class will mostly work on to help improve your fitness and train. The practices in this group are intense and you will feel that the workout of the day is done after this class. Be prepared to have the following swim gear: Kickboard, pull buoy, paddles, and fins. Our space is limited, and all swimmers should follow the same workout. There are no Lanes reserved for Lap swimming only. Schedule: Tuesday 6:30pm, Thursdays and Saturdays 7:00 to 8:00am Fall season: September 13th to December 3rd - Thanksgiving week is OFF Winter season: January 10th to March 4th Spring season: March 14th to May 23rd Summer season: June 6th to July 29th Swim Lessons SCRA has a year-round swim lesson program for kids and adults. All swim lessons can be booked online - Please contact us to have access to our booking page. Coaches' availability is limited and varies depending on the season. Our rates: Private lessons: $45 - 30min Shared lessons (2 swimmers) - $60 - 30min Please contact Aquatics Director for more information. Lap Swimming and Lane Arrangements Hybrid system for LAP swimming and recreational lanes. PLEASE respect the recreation and lap swimming areas. Pool hours: 5:00 am to 10:00 pm Pool/lane reservations: Please contact staff to get the scheduling page. Appointments will open within 3 days in advance (72h from the appointment time) Maximum of 2 appointments per day. - That allows more opportunities for every member to enjoy the pool. RECREATIONAL LANES: Reservations are not required for recreational lanes: 1 and diving board area (lanes 11-9) are designated for Recreation swimming. LAP SWIMMING:Reservations will still be used for LAP swimming on Lanes 3-6. Maximum of 4 swimmers per lane for Lap Swim, doing circle swimming. Lanes 2 and 7 are walk-ins LAP swimming and don't need reservations to be used. (first-come-first-serve) DIVING BOARDS: Open ONLY when Lifeguard is in on Duty and/or coaches and pool supervisors allow. NOTE: Deep end open area can be used for lap swimming and or free swim when the diving board is not in use. SWIM LESSONS: Lanes 1, 2, 7, and 8 should be shared for swim lessons but can be used for lap swimming when not in use for lessons. Pool Rules and Etiquette When lifeguards are not on duty, please note that swimming is at your own risk. Spring/Summer Lifeguards: (Seasonal) Lifeguards are in charge when on duty! SPRING: (Late April through May) pending availability of guards and weather conditions. Weekends Only 12:00 p.m. - 6:00 p.m. SUMMER: (Early June through mid August) Mon-Friday 12pm - 6:00 p.m & Weekends 12-6pm Late Summer to Early Fall: (Mid-August to Labor Day Weekend) NOTE: When possible, September weekends pending availability of guards and weather conditions. Weekends Only 12:00 p.m. - 6:00 p.m. Note: Special events and parties will have extended hours or special times for guards. See events list and calendar. Children under 10 must be accompanied by an adult while using the pool at all times, even during lifeguard hours. The pool may be used by members 14+ when no lifeguard is on duty except during posted closed hours of 10pm to 5am. Swimming is at your own risk. Children under 14 must be accompanied by an adult, and be under direct supervision of same, when lifeguards are not on duty. Children 10 through 13, swimming unsupervised during guard hours, must pass a swim test administered by a lifeguard. The test consists of jumping off the diving board, treading water for two minutes, and swimming two lengths of the pool (any stroke). No dog paddle. Lifeguards are in charge when on duty. Swimming is at your own risk. Children under 10 must be accompanied by an adult while using the pool, even during lifeguard hours. Children 10 through 13, swimming unsupervised during posted guard hours, must pass a swim test administered by a lifeguard. No sitting on or swimming on top of the lane lines. No crossing lanes in which people are lap swimming. No running on the deck, please walk. The use of fins, snorkels, masks, and swim aids are at the discretion of the lifeguards and management of pool. Note: Any floatation devices must be pre-approved before use. Diving blocks are for swim team use only. No diving in the shallow end of the pool. No pushing or throwing people into the pool. No glass or food within 10 feet of the pool. Conduct of a disorderly nature, or which restricts the enjoyment of others is not permitted. In all cases parents are responsible for the conduct and safety of their children and guests. Users are not permitted to swim repeated lengths of the pool underwater or to swim along the bottom of the pool. Priority for pool use goes to organized club activities. Everyone must shower before entering the pool. In all cases parents are responsible for the conduct and safety of their children and guests. Conduct of a disorderly nature, or which restricts the enjoyment of others is not permitted. Swimming is at your own risk. The pool will be closed in case of lighting and/or thunderstorm. Lap Swim Rules & Etiquette Please follow these simple rules to keep lap swimming flowing smoothly for everyone. Lap swimmers must share lanes when necessary. Always ask any person politely using a lane for permission to share before entering the pool. Two swimmers in a lane should either pick a side or use a circular pattern which is recommended for three swimmers. Please communicate with fellow swimmers in advance to avoid problems. If you need to pass a swimmer, please wait until they reach the closest wall and then proceed to pass. Always pass carefully and try to inform the swimmer in front of you of your intentions. Always try to share a lane with a swimmer of equal ability as you. Priority for pool use goes to organized club activities Swimming is at your own risk. NOTE: Remember this pool has to service the needs of all of its members, therefore lap lanes must be shared when necessary. Diving Board Rules: No running is allowed on the diving board. Only one person on the diving board at a time. Only one bounce before jumping off the diving board. Make sure the diving pool area is clear before you dive. Once you have completed your dive, immediately swim to the side walls to clear the area for the next diver. Swimming in the diving pool is not allowed when someone is on the board. Hanging on the diving board is not allowed. No games are allowed in the diving area that require a person to jump or dive from the board at swimmers. No diving off boards at same time. Only one diving board should be used at any given time. No Diving allowed from edge of pool only from diving board with adult supervision. Baby Pool Rules The "kiddie pool" is for babies and small children under the direct adult supervision of parents or adult guardian. Children who are water safe and older than six years should NOT play in the baby pool. Children in the baby pool area must have adult supervision at all times, even when there are life guards present. Absolutely no diving into the baby pool. Absolutely no running and jumping into the pool. Swim diapers are required on those who are not yet toilet trained. Please note: Pool closure possible for 24 hours if incident occurs. In all cases parents are responsible for the conduct and safety of their children and guests. Swimming Attire At SCRA our rules regarding swim attire are simple. Everyone must wear a swimsuit! Swim diapers are also REQUIRED for children who are not yet toilet trained. The diapers should be age/size appropriate, and should feel very snug on your child. Wearing a swimming cap or hair tie is optional – although they will keep hair out of your face during those important moments when seeing and breathing are essential. Goggles are optional, however they will help protect your eyes from becoming blurry or stinging. Stanford Recreation and Wellness Address Arrillaga Outdoor Education and Recreation Center 285 Santa Teresa Street Stanford, CA 94305 United States Stanford Facebook Stanford Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Strava Contacts and Information Visit Campus Map Contact Us Register Here Resources for Faculty/Staff - want a personalized wellness program that you customize to meet your unique wellness needs? Students - want to be empowered to flourish through education, connection and positive culture change? Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top