Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Recreation and Wellness Search this site Submit Search Menu Home Move Virtual Fitness Faculty/Staff Free Faculty/Staff Programs Personal Training and Private Pilates Aquatics Masters Swim Membership and Dues Lane Etiquette and Equipment Announcements Resources Swim Away from Home Play Club Sports Intramural Sports Open Rec Sports Squash and Racquetball Courts Youth Programs Camp Cardinal Winter Programs Youth Camps FAQs Camp Counselors Adventure Equipment Rentals Climbing Stanford Pre-Orientation Trips (SPOT) Adventure Trips Student Opportunities Learn Physical Education Outdoor Education Recreational Classes Belay Cert CPR Certification Belong Diversity, Inclusion, and Accessibility Membership Faculty/Staff Visit Facility Hours Main Campus Stanford Redwood City SRWC Group Fitness SRWC Personal Training SRWC Aquatics SRWC Sports Stanford Red Barn Equestrian Center Stanford Horses Physical Education IEA & AEL Facilties and Boarding Pre-Collegiate Leadership Resident Trainers Riding Academy Arrillaga Recreation Center at SLAC Stanford Campus Recreation Association About Us Memberships Social Swimming Tennis Activities Rentals and Reservations Tennis & Golf Community Guidelines and Policies Connect About Us Contact Information Employment Opportunities Staff Tennis Main navigation Skip to main content Secondary Navigation Facility Hours Main Campus Stanford Redwood City Stanford Red Barn Equestrian Center Arrillaga Recreation Center at SLAC Stanford Campus Recreation Association About Us Memberships Social Swimming Tennis Activities Rentals and Reservations Tennis & Golf Community Guidelines and Policies Main content start Our website is public but note we are a member’s only club. Go to membership tab for information of eligibility. On this page: Tennis Director and Head Coach Junior Tennis Program Junior Tennis Clinic Information Tennis Program Adult Tennis Clinics Lessons Tennis Director and Head Coach Jason Beardslee Tennis Director and Head Coach 650-736-7272 Ext. 2 jbeards@stanford.edu Jason has been teaching tennis for the last 20 years. He was the Tennis Director/GM at Hidden Hills Health & Racquet Club for 13 of those years. Previously, he was the Sports & Activities Director at Stonebrae Country Club. Jason brings a family-like atmosphere and a passion for tennis wherever he goes. He is very excited to bring his enthusiasm to the Stanford Campus Recreation Association. Jason joined SCRA in September 2015. NOTE: Only SCRA Tennis Instructors are allowed to teach lessons at club. Tennis Programs Junior Tennis Program The SCRA junior tennis program offers a fun, organized place for children ages 3-18. Our goal is to foster a life long love of tennis in all our students in a fun, energetic atmosphere that emphasizes sportsmanship as well as athletic and technical skills. Except where indicated in the specific program descriptions below all registration is online. In addition to the programs shown we offer private and semi-private lessons for all levels. To schedule lessons or for other information please contact the tennis office :Email Tennis Director: Jason Beardslee – Jbeards@stanford.edu or call 650-736-SCRA (7272) Junior Tennis Clinic Information The SCRA junior clinic program is a progressive plan where children move through the levels as their athletic and tennis skills develop. In all of our quick start classes we stress the A,B,C’s: agility, balance, coordination and speed. Within each age group students are placed with others at the appropriate level. Students may register for one, two, three or 4 days per week. Registering for multiple days provides for optimum learning and improvement. Tennis Program Little 10s/Pre K: Ages 3-5 (45 minute class, 1-2 times/week)An introduction to basic gross motor skill development in a relaxed environment. Our goal is to begin developing the athlete first rather than focus too much on tennis specific skills. We will teach kids how to catch, throw, track balls, and learn to move with good balance and posture. As the athlete progresses we will apply these skills in a more tennis specific way. Red Ball: Ages 4-8 (1 hour classes, 1-3 times/week)Kids are introduced to tennis in a fun and supportive way using a modified court and equipment. The Red Ball classes emphasize a fun, game based approach to learning tennis. The scaled down equipment used will allow juniors to achieve ball control and rally skills more quickly. By the time your child advances to the next level they should be able to rally consistently in a red ball court. Orange Ball: Ages 7-10 (1 hour classes, 1-3 times/week)Kids are reinforcing skills from the previous level. At the orange ball level, we are introducing a larger court and longer racquet. Instruction emphasizes a game based approach to tennis. The scaled down equipment will allow juniors to achieve ball control and rally skills more quickly. Advanced orange ball players may be invited to play in “in house” play days and then moving to local area team tennis leagues. By the time your child advances to the next level they should have a consistent serve, be able to rally consistently in the orange ball court as well as have an understanding of topspin and underspin. Green Dot Ball: Ages 9-11 (1.5 hour classes, 1-3 times/week)Kids are reinforcing skills from the previous level. At the Green Dot level, the kids are using a full size court and many are using a full size racquet. We emphasize using a game based approach to improve footwork, strokes, spins, and basic strategies for singles and doubles. . The more advanced players are offered play opportunities outside of class beginning with “in house” play days and then moving to local area team tennis leagues. When leaving Green Dot, the Yellow Ball should be an easy transition. Yellow Ball: Ages 11 & Over (1.5 hour class, 1-3 times/week)The Yellow Ball group is geared for players 11 and up with extensive match play experience. Players at this level can serve, rally, and keep score. Instruction emphasizes movement, stroke and tactical development in a games based approach. The more advanced players are offered play opportunities outside of class beginning with “in house” play days and then moving to local area team tennis leagues. USTA Junior Team Tennis SCRA plans to have competitive Junior USTA teams which will play against other clubs/facilities on Sundays afternoons. Team practice will be held on Wednesday’s from 4-5:30pm. Only those on a SCRA USTA Junior team may participate in the Wednesday practice. Those interested should contact Tennis Director, Jason Beardslee at jbeards@stanford.edu. Adult Tennis If you are a new member, or you’ve been a member for ages but have never participated in tennis at SCRA, we want to get to know you better. Call Tennis Office at 650-736-7272 option 2 or email JBeards@stanford.eduto set up a brief complimentary hitting session. We can see where you’d fit into our tennis program and help you find players at your level for social play. Our adult program offers teams and clinics for men and women of all levels, as well as mixers, private lessons and other club tennis events. Please check back regularly for current offerings. Drop-Ins Friday Mornings Ladies Drop-In- 8:30am-10am A tennis staff member will organize the drop-in. We encourage all levels and abilities to come join in the fun. If you would like to participate please just show up between 8:30am-10am offered every Friday. Wednesday Evening Men’s Drop-In 7pm-8:30pm A tennis staff member will organize the drop-in. This is a drop in for all levels. Come on down a get some sets in! This is a great way to get some exercise and meet fellow SCRA members. Just show up! Clinics Increasing your awareness on the doubles court is the goal! Learn how to move with your partner, as well as the opposing team. Know where to be standing at all times and get a grip on what each positions job description is at varying moments. Cost: $25. Minimum 3 participants. Levels: 3.0+. Instructor: Tennis Director, Jason Beardslee. Sign up by emailing jbeards@stanford.edu. Team Clinics Our tennis staff offers various team clinics to our USTA teams. Please inquire with the team captain or the Tennis Director is you’re interested in joining one of these clinics. Lessons Private and semi-private lessons are available with the SCRA professional teaching staff. You may also form your own small group and take “3 and Me” lessons with a member of our staff. These lessons are specifically designed to work on doubles strategy, skills and tactics in every lesson. Tennis Rules All activity on courts must be Tennis related. All players must wear non-marking tennis shoes. A member must accompany all guest(s) on the court. All tennis playing members and their guest(s) must sign in at the front desk upon arrival. All reservations will be on line through www.yourcourts.com You may not reserve a court for anyone but yourself. If after 10 minutes, those who have reserved a court have not appeared, the court becomes available.x Members may lose their court if not properly signed up for it. Courts can be reserved 3 days in advance. You can have one reservation per day. Club activities have priority of the courts. Tennis Director or Management must approve any activity other than Tennis related NOTE: Only SCRA Tennis Instructors allowed teaching lessons at club. Stanford Recreation and Wellness Address Arrillaga Outdoor Education and Recreation Center 285 Santa Teresa Street Stanford, CA 94305 United States Stanford Facebook Stanford Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Strava Contacts and Information Visit Campus Map Contact Us Register Here Resources for Faculty/Staff - want a personalized wellness program that you customize to meet your unique wellness needs? Students - want to be empowered to flourish through education, connection and positive culture change? Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top