Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Recreation and Wellness Search this site Submit Search Menu Home Move Virtual Fitness Faculty/Staff Free Faculty/Staff Programs Personal Training and Private Pilates Aquatics Masters Swim Membership and Dues Lane Etiquette and Equipment Announcements Resources Swim Away from Home Play Club Sports Intramural Sports Open Rec Sports Squash and Racquetball Courts Youth Programs Camp Cardinal Winter Programs Youth Camps FAQs Camp Counselors Adventure Equipment Rentals Climbing Stanford Pre-Orientation Trips (SPOT) Adventure Trips Student Opportunities Learn Physical Education Outdoor Education Recreational Classes Belay Cert CPR Certification Belong Diversity, Inclusion, and Accessibility Membership Faculty/Staff Visit Facility Hours Main Campus Stanford Redwood City SRWC Group Fitness SRWC Personal Training SRWC Aquatics SRWC Sports Stanford Red Barn Equestrian Center Stanford Horses Physical Education IEA & AEL Facilties and Boarding Pre-Collegiate Leadership Resident Trainers Riding Academy Arrillaga Recreation Center at SLAC Stanford Campus Recreation Association About Us Memberships Social Swimming Tennis Activities Rentals and Reservations Tennis & Golf Community Guidelines and Policies Connect About Us Contact Information Employment Opportunities Staff Free Faculty/Staff Programs Main navigation Skip to main content Secondary Navigation Virtual Fitness Faculty/Staff Free Faculty/Staff Programs Personal Training and Private Pilates Aquatics Main content start On this page: Registration information Registration tutorial Cancel or reschedule Fitness Assessment FAQ Personal Training FAQ Step 1: Sign the Fitness Assessment and Personal Training Waiver Step Two: Register for an in-person fitness assessment session Fitness assessment sessions are currently on Tuesday and Wednesday only. No virtual sessions are being offered. OR Register for a personal training session Virtual: Friday In-person: Tuesday – Thursday Registration Tutorial View the Registration and Cancellation Tutorial Cancel or reschedule What is the cancellation policy? You are eligible for one free fitness assessment and two free personal training sessions per calendar year. You must cancel each session 48 hours prior to the appointment time. If you cancel within the 48 hours you will forfeit the session. Fitness assessment – if you cancel your fitness assessment within the 48 hours of the appointment time you will not be able to reschedule. Personal Training – If you forfeit your first session you will be able to schedule the second free session once your attendance has been recorded. How do I cancel my appointment online? Please note that you must cancel at least 48 hours before your appointment. During registration, once you’ve booked your session but haven’t left the page, you can click the 3 dots to the right to cancel. At that point, you can reschedule or come back later to reschedule. Go to https://recwell.stanford.edu, click “login” in the upper right-hand corner. Once logged in scroll down and click the bookings icon. This will show your session, click on the three dots next to the session you want to cancel. To reschedule a session go to recwell.stanford.edu, login, scroll down, click ‘Bookings’, and click the desired session type you wish to reschedule. Fitness Assessment FAQ Session Info What safety protocols and precautions are in place? Face-coverings, building capacity and restrictions will follow all state, local and University mandates at all times. All staff and participants will complete the daily Stanford Health Check. Staff will do frequent hand sanitizing, washing, and cleaning of equipment during and in between sessions. What tests will I be doing? Fitness assessment tests could include the following activities and a personalized report based on your results: Blood pressure and resting heart rate Estimated percent body fat (measurements are done by direct contact of the skin in the upper and lower body) Aerobic fitness (three to five-minute stepping test) Back flexibility (sit and reach) Upper body strength (bicep curl). What should I wear to my fitness assessment? Please come dressed in workout attire that allows for unrestricted movement and wear closed-toed shoes. Locker rooms are closed for changing at this time. Health and Safety Resources Where will my session take place? All sessions will take place in spaces designed for the specific activity. Please check with the front desk for the exact location within the building. Valid parking permits are required. Parking is available at the following locations: Main Campus - Arrillaga Center for Sports and Recreation: Knight Management Center Garage. Please check with the staff when you check in at the recreation center front desk regarding the exact location of your session. What if I miss my session? You are eligible for one free fitness assessment every program year. If you miss your session you will not have the opportunity for another free session. How do I confirm my appointment online? Once you have signed up for a session, go to https://recwell.stanford.edu, click login in the upper right-hand corner, then using the Stanford Login enter your SUNet ID and password. Once you are logged in, scroll down and click the bookings icon. This will show the sessions you have signed up for. For more details, click your name in the upper right-hand corner and go to profile, then click booking in the left-hand side menu. Where else can I revisit my appointment information? Your session confirmation and reminder emails contain all pertinent information. What happens with my participation data? Your fitness assessment session data will be shared with you during your session. BeWell will be notified that you completed a fitness assessment for the sole purpose of awarding points. They will not receive any specific appointment-related information. Website/Technical I can’t cancel my session. If your session date and time have passed, you will NOT be able to cancel the session. To reschedule, you must cancel at least 48 hours prior to the session time. Why am I receiving multiple confirmations and reminder emails? If you use an alias email address instead of your SUNet email, you may receive multiple emails for the same action. I click the registration button but nothing happens. You may need to accept cookies for the registration page to complete its loading. How do I get back to the page where I can schedule or cancel a session? Go to recwell.stanford.edu and log in. Scroll down and click ‘Bookings,’ then click ‘BeWell Free Fitness Assessment’ How can I get back to BeWell to sign out? Go to bewell.stanford.edu. If you have any questions about free fitness assessments and personal training, please contact us at facultystaffwellness@stanford.edu. BeWell What is BeWell? To learn more about BeWell, visit https://bewell.stanford.edu/2022-bewell-program/. Who is eligible for BeWell points? Any University benefits-eligible faculty and staff. When will I get credit for my BeWell points? Please allow up to six weeks after your appointment for your points to appear. Who do I contact if I don't see my points in my account? Contact Stanford Recreation and Wellness, recreation@stanford.edu How many points will I receive for a fitness assessment? You are eligible for one free fitness assessment each year. Visit https://bewell.stanford.edu/2022-bewell-program/ to see how many points you can redeem. How do I get to the home page if I don’t come through BeWell? To get to the home page, visit rec.stanford.edu/free-facstaff-fapt. Personal Trainer FAQ Session info What happens with my participation data? Your personal training data will be shared with you during your session. BeWell will be notified that you completed a personal training session for the sole purpose of awarding points. They will not receive any specific appointment-related information. What if I miss my session? You have the opportunity for two free personal training sessions every program year. If you forfeit the first personal training session you still have the opportunity to register for the second free session. Attendance to each session will earn you points for that session. Visit https://bewell.stanford.edu/2022-bewell-program/ to see how many points you can redeem for each session attended. How many sessions can I register for at one time? You can register for one personal training at a time. Once your first personal training session has been completed you can register for the second session. What happens in a personal training session? Virtual Personal Training: You and your trainer will connect via zoom, have a conversation about your goals and they will guide you from there. Be ready to be creative and flexible throughout the process. In-Person Personal Training: You and your trainer will connect on the Fitness Floor, have a conversation about your goals and they will guide you from there. Be ready to be creative and flexible throughout the process. How do I confirm my appointment online? Once you have signed up for a session, go tohttps://recwell.stanford.edu, click login in the upper right-hand corner, then using the Stanford Login enter your SUNet ID and password. Once you are logged in scroll down and click the bookings icon. This will show the sessions you have signed up for. Where else can I revisit my appointment information? Your session confirmation and reminder emails contain all pertinent information. Where will my session take place? Virtual Personal Training sessions will take place over Zoom. You will receive an email from sparsay@stanford.edu with a link prior to your session. Make sure you are in a space where you can be physically active safely. In-Person Personal Training Sessions will take place at the Arrillaga Center for Sports and Recreation (ACSR)-- 341 Galvez Street. Where can I find the Zoom meeting password if prompted? Zoom links are all password-protected; if prompted with a password, you can find it in your Zoom meeting calendar invite. Website/Technical I can’t cancel my session. If your session date and time have passed you will not be able to cancel the session. To reschedule you must cancel at least 48 hours prior to the session time. What if I have issues with Zoom? Check out the Zoom cheat sheet or go to the UIT zoom page. Why am I receiving multiple confirmations and reminder emails? If you use an alias email address instead of your SUNet email you may receive multiple emails for the same action. I click the registration button but nothing happens. You may need to accept cookies for the registration page to complete its loading. How do I get back to the page where I can schedule or cancel a session? Go to recwell.stanford.edu and log in. Scroll down and click ‘Bookings’, then click ‘Free In-Person Personal Training (BeWell Eligible)" How can I get back to BeWell to signout? Go to bewell.stanford.edu. If you have any questions about free fitness assessments and personal training, please contact us at facultystaffwellness@stanford.edu BeWell What is BeWell? To learn more about BeWell, visit https://bewell.stanford.edu/2022-bewell-program/. Who is eligible for BeWell points? Any University benefits-eligible faculty and staff. When will I get credit for my BeWell points? Please allow up to six weeks after your appointment for your points to appear. Who do I contact if I don't see my points in my account? Contact Stanford Recreation and Wellness, recreation@stanford.edu. How many points will I receive for a personal training session? You are eligible for one free fitness assessment each year. Visit https://bewell.stanford.edu/2022-bewell-program/ to see how many points you can redeem. How do I get to the home page if I don’t come through BeWell? To get to the home page, visit rec.stanford.edu/free-facstaff-fapt. Stanford Recreation and Wellness Address Arrillaga Outdoor Education and Recreation Center 285 Santa Teresa Street Stanford, CA 94305 United States Stanford Facebook Stanford Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Strava Contacts and Information Visit Campus Map Contact Us Register Here Resources for Faculty/Staff - want a personalized wellness program that you customize to meet your unique wellness needs? Students - want to be empowered to flourish through education, connection and positive culture change? Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top