Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Recreation and Wellness Search this site Submit Search Menu Home Move Virtual Fitness Faculty/Staff Free Faculty/Staff Programs Personal Training and Private Pilates Aquatics Masters Swim Membership and Dues Lane Etiquette and Equipment Announcements Resources Swim Away from Home Play Club Sports Intramural Sports Open Rec Sports Squash and Racquetball Courts Youth Programs Camp Cardinal Winter Programs Youth Camps FAQs Camp Counselors Adventure Equipment Rentals Climbing Stanford Pre-Orientation Trips (SPOT) Adventure Trips Student Opportunities Learn Physical Education Outdoor Education Recreational Classes Belay Cert CPR Certification Belong Diversity, Inclusion, and Accessibility Membership Faculty/Staff Visit Facility Hours Main Campus Stanford Redwood City SRWC Group Fitness SRWC Personal Training SRWC Aquatics SRWC Sports Stanford Red Barn Equestrian Center Stanford Horses Physical Education IEA & AEL Facilties and Boarding Pre-Collegiate Leadership Resident Trainers Riding Academy Arrillaga Recreation Center at SLAC Stanford Campus Recreation Association About Us Memberships Social Swimming Tennis Activities Rentals and Reservations Tennis & Golf Community Guidelines and Policies Connect About Us Contact Information Employment Opportunities Staff Climbing Main navigation Skip to main content Secondary Navigation Equipment Rentals Climbing Stanford Pre-Orientation Trips (SPOT) Adventure Trips Student Opportunities Main content start On this page: Climbing Overview Youth and Family Access Climbing FAQ Climbing Overview Stanford boasts one of the highest quality collegiate climbing facilities in the nation. Climbing is open to Stanford affiliates, and routes are designed to be accessible to everyone – from beginners to experienced climbers. Our climbing facility is located within one of the two major recreation centers on campus: Arrillaga Outdoor Education & Recreation Center (AOERC). Youth and Family Access Youth and Family Access Climbing Hours are Saturday / Sunday from 10 AM – 4 PM. Children under 18 years old are allowed to climb during Youth and Family Access hours. The minimum age to climb is 4 years old. Only two participants under 16 years old are allowed per adult. Children under 16 years old must be under direct supervision by an adult at all times. Children who boulder may not exceed a height of two-times their body length. Participants under 16 years old cannot belay. In order to top-rope, children must be accompanied and belayed by a belay-certified adult. Climbing Wall FAQ and More Info ALL bags MUST be stored in lockers OUTSIDE the climbing wall. Locks are available for purchase or rent at the AOERC front desk. Rental shoes and harnesses will be available. Socks must be worn with rental shoes. Capacity: 45 climbers. Bouldering, auto-belay, and top rope usage are available at this time. Liquid chalk and powdered chalk contained in chalk socks are allowed. We are currently offering Top Rope Belay Certifications and Youth and Family Access. Stanford Recreation and Wellness Address Arrillaga Outdoor Education and Recreation Center 285 Santa Teresa Street Stanford, CA 94305 United States Stanford Facebook Stanford Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Strava Contacts and Information Visit Campus Map Contact Us Register Here Resources for Faculty/Staff - want a personalized wellness program that you customize to meet your unique wellness needs? Students - want to be empowered to flourish through education, connection and positive culture change? Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top