Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Recreation and Wellness Search this site Submit Search Menu Home Move Virtual Fitness Faculty/Staff Free Faculty/Staff Programs Personal Training and Private Pilates Aquatics Masters Swim Membership and Dues Lane Etiquette and Equipment Announcements Resources Swim Away from Home Play Club Sports Intramural Sports Open Rec Sports Squash and Racquetball Courts Youth Programs Camp Cardinal Winter Programs Youth Camps FAQs Camp Counselors Adventure Equipment Rentals Climbing Stanford Pre-Orientation Trips (SPOT) Adventure Trips Student Opportunities Learn Physical Education Outdoor Education Recreational Classes Belay Cert CPR Certification Belong Diversity, Inclusion, and Accessibility Membership Faculty/Staff Visit Facility Hours Main Campus Stanford Redwood City SRWC Group Fitness SRWC Personal Training SRWC Aquatics SRWC Sports Stanford Red Barn Equestrian Center Stanford Horses Physical Education IEA & AEL Facilties and Boarding Pre-Collegiate Leadership Resident Trainers Riding Academy Arrillaga Recreation Center at SLAC Stanford Campus Recreation Association About Us Memberships Social Swimming Tennis Activities Rentals and Reservations Tennis & Golf Community Guidelines and Policies Connect About Us Contact Information Employment Opportunities Staff Stanford Red Barn Equestrian Center Main navigation Skip to main content Secondary Navigation Facility Hours Main Campus Stanford Redwood City Stanford Red Barn Equestrian Center Stanford Horses Physical Education IEA & AEL Facilties and Boarding Pre-Collegiate Leadership Resident Trainers Riding Academy Arrillaga Recreation Center at SLAC Stanford Campus Recreation Association Rentals and Reservations Tennis & Golf Community Guidelines and Policies Main content start Today, the Stanford Red Barn is home to the Stanford Equestrian Team, the Stanford Red Barn Equestrian Center, and their affiliated programs. We invite you to learn more about our student-athletes, the internationally renowned trainers who call Stanford their home base, and the many opportunities we provide for community members of all ages and ability to enjoy horses. History In 1876 Governor Leland Stanford purchased Mayfield Grange, about 650 acres along San Francisquito Creek near Menlo Park. Over the next ten years, he continued to acquire property in the area until his holdings included over 8000 acres of orchard, vineyard, grazing land, stables, and training tracks. It was on the Palo Alto Stock Farm that Stanford would continue his experiments in the breeding and training of trotting horses. Two dozen buildings, fifty paddocks and eight tracks were on the trotting farm. At its height, the farm employed 150 workers and boarded 600 horses. Two buildings from the Stock Farm survive today. The Victorian Red Barn, built between 1878 and 1880, served as the training stable for the stock farm. The “fire-proof” brick stable Leland Stanford ordered as a replacement for a stable destroyed by fire in 1888 now houses the Equestrian Team Club House and other Equestrian Center facilities. Governor Stanford acquired the stallion Electioneer for $12,000 in 1877. Over the next 14 years this legendary horse would sire 166 colts that could trot the mile in less than 2 1/2 minutes. The statue of Electioneer and the kiosk located at the entrance to the Equestrian Center were donated by Ambassador and Mrs. L.W. “Bill” Lane, Jr. and their family in 1985. The Stock Farm was also the site of Eadweard Muybridge’s famed photographs of “horses in motion.” Governor Stanford hired Muybridge, then a well-known landscape photographer, to prove his theory that a trotter, at its fastest gait, momentarily has all four feet off the ground. Muybridge confirmed Stanford’s idea by working with railroad engineers in 1877 to develop a technique to take a sequence of images that captured a trotter’s actual movement. A plaque commemorates the role Muybridge and Stanford played in the early development of moving pictures. In an oak grove not far from the brick barn, some fifteen of Stanford’s prized horses were buried. The cemetery is marked by a bronze statue of an Arabian horse donated by Mr. and Mrs. Timothy Hopkins in 1926. The statue, imported from France in the late 1800′s, previously stood on the Hopkins estate (known as Sherwood Hall) in Menlo Park. The Stock Farm officially closed in 1903, ten years after Governor Stanford’s death. In 1946 President Donald Tresidder reopened the Red Barn as an equestrian facility, but by 1983, it was in serious disrepair. At this time, the generosity of Ambassador Bill Lane and other local equestrian visionaries intervened to enable the restoration and renovation of the building. From 1984 until 2004, Stanford contracted with the independent Equestrian Associates to oversee the Red Barn and its services. In September 2004, the University resumed direct management of the Red Barn, an action that coincided with a second major renovation. Funded by the John Arrillaga Family, this recent renewal included not only upgrades of the Red Barn and of its adjacent buildings but also the expansion and modernization of the riding arenas and of the site as a whole. The Stanford Red Barn Equestrian Center reopened in October 2005. This is where it all began: Before Stanford became a world class university, it was a horse farm that produced champion racehorses. Stanford is still affectionately called “The Farm,” and the barn still operates to this day. Stanford Recreation and Wellness Address Arrillaga Outdoor Education and Recreation Center 285 Santa Teresa Street Stanford, CA 94305 United States Stanford Facebook Stanford Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Strava Contacts and Information Visit Campus Map Contact Us Register Here Resources for Faculty/Staff - want a personalized wellness program that you customize to meet your unique wellness needs? Students - want to be empowered to flourish through education, connection and positive culture change? Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top