Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Recreation and Wellness Search this site Submit Search Menu Home Move Virtual Fitness Faculty/Staff Free Faculty/Staff Programs Personal Training and Private Pilates Aquatics Masters Swim Membership and Dues Lane Etiquette and Equipment Announcements Resources Swim Away from Home Play Club Sports Intramural Sports Open Rec Sports Squash and Racquetball Courts Youth Programs Camp Cardinal Winter Programs Youth Camps FAQs Camp Counselors Adventure Equipment Rentals Climbing Stanford Pre-Orientation Trips (SPOT) Adventure Trips Student Opportunities Learn Physical Education Outdoor Education Recreational Classes Belay Cert CPR Certification Belong Diversity, Inclusion, and Accessibility Membership Faculty/Staff Visit Facility Hours Main Campus Stanford Redwood City SRWC Group Fitness SRWC Personal Training SRWC Aquatics SRWC Sports Stanford Red Barn Equestrian Center Stanford Horses Physical Education IEA & AEL Facilties and Boarding Pre-Collegiate Leadership Resident Trainers Riding Academy Arrillaga Recreation Center at SLAC Stanford Campus Recreation Association About Us Memberships Social Swimming Tennis Activities Rentals and Reservations Tennis & Golf Community Guidelines and Policies Connect About Us Contact Information Employment Opportunities Staff Physical Education Main navigation Skip to main content Secondary Navigation Facility Hours Main Campus Stanford Redwood City Stanford Red Barn Equestrian Center Stanford Horses Physical Education IEA & AEL Facilties and Boarding Pre-Collegiate Leadership Resident Trainers Riding Academy Arrillaga Recreation Center at SLAC Stanford Campus Recreation Association Rentals and Reservations Tennis & Golf Community Guidelines and Policies Main content start Physical Education Classes The Stanford Red Barn offers multiple Physical Education classes for students (undergraduate and graduate) through Axess. For more information on individual classes, please see below. Physical Education 65 PE 65 is a 2-hour per week beginning-level class and it is designed for riders with 10 hours or less of previous time in the saddle. In PE 65 students will learn the basics of riding and horsemanship. Emphasis is placed on safety and a proper understanding of equine communication and behavior both in and out of the saddle. There is an unmounted portion of class focusing on how to safely halter, lead, groom and tack the horse before & after riding. The mounted portion of class focuses on teaching correct position while riding at the walk, proper use of the aids to communicate with the horse, as well as balance and strength-building exercises. English and Western styles of riding will be offered depending on demand, with an emphasis on western riding as this is the best style of riding for first time riders. Basic terminology, balance and strength-building exercises, horsemanship and a developing a basic understanding of equine behavior is also looked at in this class. Class fee: $500.00 as well as a $10 registration fee paid to Axess. Physical Education 66 This class is open to riders who have completed PE 65 with a passing grade or those who are comfortable at the walk, trot, and grooming and tacking up a horse independently. Those who have not completed PE 65 will need instructor approval to apply. This course will review the basics of horsemanship and provides the necessary foundation for riding. Topics that will be covered include: horsemanship and horse care; work at the walk, trot and the foundations of jumping. The class is 2 hours with time for grooming, horsemanship and riding. Class fee: $500.00 as well as a $10 registration fee paid to Axess. How to Register for out Physical Education Classes When class registration opens, students should sign-up for the waitlist online. During the first week of class the instructor will contact students on the waitlist with available class times. Once a student confirms via email they can attend the class during an available time and pays the class fee they will be given a permission code to register for the class. Questions: contact Tina Davey, by e-mail. Those currently registered in PE 65 can pay below. Do not pay until you have been contacted by your instructor. Per Semester: $500 Stanford Recreation and Wellness Address Arrillaga Outdoor Education and Recreation Center 285 Santa Teresa Street Stanford, CA 94305 United States Stanford Facebook Stanford Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Strava Contacts and Information Visit Campus Map Contact Us Register Here Resources for Faculty/Staff - want a personalized wellness program that you customize to meet your unique wellness needs? Students - want to be empowered to flourish through education, connection and positive culture change? Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top