Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Recreation and Wellness Search this site Submit Search Menu Home Move Virtual Fitness Faculty/Staff Free Faculty/Staff Programs Personal Training and Private Pilates Aquatics Masters Swim Membership and Dues Lane Etiquette and Equipment Announcements Resources Swim Away from Home Play Club Sports Intramural Sports Open Rec Sports Squash and Racquetball Courts Youth Programs Camp Cardinal Winter Programs Youth Camps FAQs Camp Counselors Adventure Equipment Rentals Climbing Stanford Pre-Orientation Trips (SPOT) Adventure Trips Student Opportunities Learn Physical Education Outdoor Education Recreational Classes Belay Cert CPR Certification Belong Diversity, Inclusion, and Accessibility Membership Faculty/Staff Visit Facility Hours Main Campus Stanford Redwood City SRWC Group Fitness SRWC Personal Training SRWC Aquatics SRWC Sports Stanford Red Barn Equestrian Center Stanford Horses Physical Education IEA & AEL Facilties and Boarding Pre-Collegiate Leadership Resident Trainers Riding Academy Arrillaga Recreation Center at SLAC Stanford Campus Recreation Association About Us Memberships Social Swimming Tennis Activities Rentals and Reservations Tennis & Golf Community Guidelines and Policies Connect About Us Contact Information Employment Opportunities Staff Camp Counselors Main navigation Skip to main content Secondary Navigation Club Sports Intramural Sports Open Rec Sports Youth Programs Camp Cardinal Winter Programs Youth Camps FAQs Camp Counselors Main content start Job Description Youth Programs prides itself on providing vibrant and creative youth programs for all ages and abilities. We offer different opportunities for youth to engage in an active lifestyle through camps, sports-based activities, field trips, and more; all while providing a safe and positive environment where children learn new skills, grow together, and play! Youth Programs, housed in the Department of Recreation and Wellness, is looking to hire seasonal part-time employees. This is a great opportunity to join a dynamic team and make a difference in a child’s camp experience. Click here to apply Youth Programs Camp Counselor Camp Counselors are the heart of Stanford Youth Programs. Under the direction of the Assistant Director of Youth Programs, counselors work to ensure that each child feels welcome, safe, and loved at camp through their daily interactions with children under their care. Counselors have a special opportunity to make a change in the life of a child while developing valuable professional skills and program planning experience. Minimum Qualifications: High school graduate or age 16 and up, preferred Experience working with youth in Grades K – 12 preferred. Passionate about working with youth and creating powerful experiences in a camp setting. Knowledge of running sports activities. Experience working in a camp setting is a plus. Essential Duties and Responsibilities include the following. Other duties may be assigned. Responsible for the emotional and physical safety of children. Know, enforce, and follow all safety guidelines associated with the camp and all program areas. Identify and respond to camper behavior issues. Resolve conflicts within the group as necessary. Planning and implementation of a variety of programs for campers Work collaboratively with other staff. Support goals and spirit of Stanford All Sports Camp programming. Uphold the mission and values of Stanford Recreation and Wellness and the University. For any questions, please email campcardinal@stanford.edu Stanford is an equal opportunity employer and all qualified applicants will receive consideration without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, veteran status, or any other characteristics protected by law. Stanford Recreation and Wellness Address Arrillaga Outdoor Education and Recreation Center 285 Santa Teresa Street Stanford, CA 94305 United States Stanford Facebook Stanford Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Strava Contacts and Information Visit Campus Map Contact Us Register Here Resources for Faculty/Staff - want a personalized wellness program that you customize to meet your unique wellness needs? Students - want to be empowered to flourish through education, connection and positive culture change? Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top