Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Recreation and Wellness Search this site Submit Search Menu Home Move Virtual Fitness Faculty/Staff Free Faculty/Staff Programs Personal Training and Private Pilates Aquatics Masters Swim Membership and Dues Lane Etiquette and Equipment Announcements Resources Swim Away from Home Play Club Sports Intramural Sports Open Rec Sports Squash and Racquetball Courts Youth Programs Camp Cardinal Winter Programs Youth Camps FAQs Camp Counselors Adventure Equipment Rentals Climbing Stanford Pre-Orientation Trips (SPOT) Adventure Trips Student Opportunities Learn Physical Education Outdoor Education Recreational Classes Belay Cert CPR Certification Belong Diversity, Inclusion, and Accessibility Membership Faculty/Staff Visit Facility Hours Main Campus Stanford Redwood City SRWC Group Fitness SRWC Personal Training SRWC Aquatics SRWC Sports Stanford Red Barn Equestrian Center Stanford Horses Physical Education IEA & AEL Facilties and Boarding Pre-Collegiate Leadership Resident Trainers Riding Academy Arrillaga Recreation Center at SLAC Stanford Campus Recreation Association About Us Memberships Social Swimming Tennis Activities Rentals and Reservations Tennis & Golf Community Guidelines and Policies Connect About Us Contact Information Employment Opportunities Staff Social Main navigation Skip to main content Secondary Navigation Facility Hours Main Campus Stanford Redwood City Stanford Red Barn Equestrian Center Arrillaga Recreation Center at SLAC Stanford Campus Recreation Association About Us Memberships Social Swimming Tennis Activities Rentals and Reservations Tennis & Golf Community Guidelines and Policies Main content start Our website is public, but note we are a member’s only club. Go to membership tab for information of eligibility. Social Activities Year Round SCRA is a hub of activity to satisfy many interests. You are encouraged to take the lead and start an activity in an arena you are passionate about. Annual Club Events include 4th of July Party, Halloween Pumpkin Patch & Party, Valentines Party, Egg Hunt, & Wine Tasting. Contact Steve Robe at steve.robe@stanford.edu On this page: Events Rental Forms Rental Policy SCRA Party Rentals Rules for Party Rentals Events: We have lots of fun stuff going on at SCRA all year round. Come join us! Movie Nights under the stars: (Summer Time) TBA Come watch a movie under the stars on the grass with popcorn. Halloween Pumpkin Patch and Party: (Late October) TBA Come take a picture with Snoopy, Charlie Brown next to The Great Pumpkin in our pumpkin patch. Valentines Party: (Early February) TBA Come celebrate valetines in our community room with arts and craft party. Egg Hunt: (Spring Time) TBA Come hunt some eggs spread out over the club looking for the golden egg for a prize. Great way to kick off the spring season. Memorial and Labor Day BBQ: (Late May and early September) TBA A BBQ Grill will be lit. Bring something to grill and come enjoy the day at the club. Tennis Socials: (All Year Round) Allez! Come play in Tennis Mixers at SCRA. Lively tennis games, formidable food and prizes for interesting play. SCRAII on Fridays (Summer Time) TBA “Braai” is a South African term for a traditional communal fire for cooking. “Scraai” is soon to become our own tradition. Grills will be lit and lifeguards on duty Friday nights during summer 5:30-8pm. Just bring your family’s uncooked dinner and enjoy an evening with friends and members! Sip n Dip Day (Summer Time) TBA Social under the trees with select wines as members enjoy a day at the club. Earthquakes at Stanford Stadium and Tailgate at SCRA (Summer Time) TBA Enjoy a casual tailgate at SCRA 5pm then head (walk as a group) to the MLS Earthquakes vs LA Team at Stanford Stadium (7 pm.) The evening ends with a fireworks extravaganza after the final whistle. SCRA has arranged a block of tickets for our members to purchase. July 4th Club Party-10am-2pm (Summer Time) Our traditional, all-time favorite event featuring Kids Carnival games 10am; Club BBQ at Noon (hot dog/ hamburgers & drinks provided) members bring their favorite sides and desserts to share pot-luck style. Annual Chili Tasting contest at 1pm. (Enter contest with 1 pint of your best chili for judges and more to share with others for People Choice Award.) Prizes given out. Ending the day enjoying pool games and just relaxing at the club. Giants & Sharks Games (Summer/Winter) TBA Enjoy a Giants Baseball or Sharks Hockey game(s) during the summer and winter months in style. Don’t worry about traffic or parking as special arrangements have been made taking a comfortable bus to the ballpark/arena together from campus. Always a fun time. We would like to build the “magic” of SCRA as a community by developing programs and events to enrich our members’ lives and nurture camaraderie. Party Rentals Rental Forms All members agree to abide by all club rules and policies. Member is responsible for everyone under their membership along with guest(s) for events and parties they bring into the club. BBQ Area Rental Form – CLICK HERE TO DOWNLOAD PDF Community Room Rental Form – CLICK HERE TO DOWNLOAD PDF Rental Policy SCRA members may sponsor parties at the club through our rental program. Member sponsors must be in attendance at, and assume responsibility for, the entire event. All fees must be paid by the Member by check made out to Stanford SCRA. Groups of 20 or more may reserve the barbecue areas and clubhouse Monday-Friday after 5pm or weekends anytime between 5am-10pm. Other, typically smaller, groups may also schedule parties during the day at the discretion of the manager. Our objective is not to interfere with member use of the facilities as little as possible. Parties share use of the pool and deck areas with other club members and their guest(s) who are present at the club. Tennis court(s) are not part of any rental. Club member must use online scheduling system to reserve a court(s). Contact our Tennis Director at 650-736-7272 (SCRA) option 2 to create login to link if not already created. To make a rental reservation, please download the SCRA Rental Agreement and send it to SCRA@Stanford.edu SCRA Party Rentals 875 Bowdoin Street Stanford CA 94305 SCRA’s Main Phone number is 650-736-SCRA (7272) option 1 if you have other questions or check on availablity. Rules for Party Rentals Scheduling a Party: First call or contact us on availability of date(s). Allow proper time for review and approval of any rental request(s) all submissions should be in minimum of two weeksprior to party rental date confirming area with any set up/break down time(s), any lifeguard(s) request, along with any other important details of the party. Read below. Any vendors servicing the party we will need copy of insurance (COI) prior to the party listing Stanford University along with Stanford Campus Recreation Association (SCRA) on their policy meeting University Requirements. Refer to link: https://web.stanford.edu/dept/Events/policies/liability.html Note: Food Trucks must follow University Policy: https://businessaffairs.stanford.edu/mobile-food-vendors-stanford Approve by management any amplified sound or music in advance with timeline listing source and type. All subject to volume control use during event by management and users of the club. Any inappropriate language or lyrics are in violation of our code of conduct. Moving of the existing furniture from its original rental space or need for additional furniture from other areas of the club must be communicated well in advance with map of setup for approval by management. Provide a list of workers for setup and breakdown in advance including vendor’s individual employee(s) names. Everyone coming for the party must come through the main gate to front desk with host (member or representative of party) checking off names of guests from list for the party. Note: Members of the club attending party must also be on party list. Access/Service gate(s) be used only to load in and unload supplies for party by pre-approved vendors and workers during approved time slot(s). Policy and procedures for parties must be followed by the primary/secondary member sponsoring/hosting party and responsible for any associates helping with the event. NOTE: Lifeguard(s) are typically available from May to September for parties but will vary from year to year. After The Party PICNIC & BBQ AREAS – Return chairs, benches, and tables to their original position. Pick up litter. Clean barbeque grills and extinguish any fires in pits. CLUBHOUSE – Check the floor surface and sweep if necessary picking up litter and put into trash cans. KITCHEN(s) – If used, all surfaces must be clean. Make sure all garbage is off the floor and counter into trashcans. POOL DECK AREA – Return chairs and tables to their original place. Remove litter from the deck area and clean up any spills. Take all trashcan bags to dumpster in parking lot or keep in a container off the ground inside the club for janitorial crew to pick up at night. Secure all access/service doors/gates to club when you leave. IN CONSIDERATION OF OTHER SCRA MEMBERS, PLEASE LEAVE SCRA NEAT AND CLEAN. FAILURE TO PERFORM NECESSARY CLEANING WILL BE GROUNDS FOR FORFEITURE OF DEPOSIT. Cleaning must be complete by 10 pm the day of the party. Facility closes at 10pm everyone should be out. Only janitorial staff, working staff, approved vendor(s) and night watchman are allowed in facility between 10pm-5am. Stanford Recreation and Wellness Address Arrillaga Outdoor Education and Recreation Center 285 Santa Teresa Street Stanford, CA 94305 United States Stanford Facebook Stanford Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Strava Contacts and Information Visit Campus Map Contact Us Register Here Resources for Faculty/Staff - want a personalized wellness program that you customize to meet your unique wellness needs? Students - want to be empowered to flourish through education, connection and positive culture change? Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top