Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Recreation and Wellness Search this site Submit Search Menu Home Move Virtual Fitness Faculty/Staff Free Faculty/Staff Programs Personal Training and Private Pilates Aquatics Masters Swim Membership and Dues Lane Etiquette and Equipment Announcements Resources Swim Away from Home Play Club Sports Intramural Sports Open Rec Sports Squash and Racquetball Courts Youth Programs Camp Cardinal Winter Programs Youth Camps FAQs Camp Counselors Adventure Equipment Rentals Climbing Stanford Pre-Orientation Trips (SPOT) Adventure Trips Student Opportunities Learn Physical Education Outdoor Education Recreational Classes Belay Cert CPR Certification Belong Diversity, Inclusion, and Accessibility Membership Faculty/Staff Visit Facility Hours Main Campus Stanford Redwood City SRWC Group Fitness SRWC Personal Training SRWC Aquatics SRWC Sports Stanford Red Barn Equestrian Center Stanford Horses Physical Education IEA & AEL Facilties and Boarding Pre-Collegiate Leadership Resident Trainers Riding Academy Arrillaga Recreation Center at SLAC Stanford Campus Recreation Association About Us Memberships Social Swimming Tennis Activities Rentals and Reservations Tennis & Golf Community Guidelines and Policies Connect About Us Contact Information Employment Opportunities Staff Activities Main navigation Skip to main content Secondary Navigation Facility Hours Main Campus Stanford Redwood City Stanford Red Barn Equestrian Center Arrillaga Recreation Center at SLAC Stanford Campus Recreation Association About Us Memberships Social Swimming Tennis Activities Rentals and Reservations Tennis & Golf Community Guidelines and Policies Main content start Our website is public but note we are a member’s only club. Go to membership tab for information of eligibility. On this page: Camp Fitness Camp Please read below for information about our summer programs for kids. (June/July) Monday-Friday from 9am-3pm In addition to our regular swim and tennis programs, we offer a camp with arts/crafts, games and activities! The SCRA “Camp Combo” will provide the quality group instruction of our Swim and Tennis staff, combined with a full day of games and activities between instructions. This is a great option for an active full day of learning & having fun! We are offering this “Camp Combo” option based on member interested and will need a minimum enrollment to run each week of camp. Please respond to express your interest and list the weeks you would like to attend. We need to reach 8 campers per week for minimum enrollment. We keep camp small around 20 kids each week ages 6 years old to 10. We encourage you to coordinate with your SCRA friends and attend a few weeks together! For more information call 650-736-SCRA (7272) or email scra@stanford.edu Fitness Fitness Room Rules Kids 13 or younger must be accompanied by an adult at all times in the fitness room. Do not slam the weights! Wipe down all equipment after use Put weights back on racks after use (Keep floor clear) Last person to use room please turn the lights off Be mindful of use of equipment when others are waiting 30 minute rule on treadmill/elliptical when someone is waiting Fitness Room Instructor RACHEL PHELPS Contact Rachel to set up a first time free consultation at rdphelps@stanford.edu Rachel’s passion is to bring exercise to people’s lives in a way that is joyful and fun. “If people love their workout, they will stay with it!” Through 13 years of teaching group exercise, she enjoys the privilege of touching this vital aspect of people’s health. A lifelong fitness enthusiast with a background in dance, Rachel is a certified Personal Trainer and group and individual exercise instructor with Jazzercise. She is very excited to work with SCRA Fitness Center members, guiding their exercise plans and fitness goals. She can designing and developing individual personalized fitness plans,combining weight training, cardio and flexibility for all fitness levels, exercise experience or physical abilities. Her personal mission when teaching is to make exercise accessible yet appropriately challenging. She has a strong interest in total health, including stress management and nutrition. Fitness Class - Tai Chi with Patrick Lau Class includes graceful, fluid movements which will greatly improve your energy level, stamina and health. Please wear loose, comfortable clothing. Where: SCRA Community Room When: Tuesday & Thursday mornings 2pm-3pm Sign up: Contact SCRA@stanford.edu (Drop ins welcome) Fit for Life - Deanna or Meredith A sitting, standing and mat exercise program designed to improve balance, to strengthen the core muscles of the back and abdomen for correct body alignment, and to gently stretch the entire body. Light hand weights (1-5 lbs) are used. Participants are encouraged to go at their own pace and adaptations are offered. Comradeship and fun are also important Where: SCRA Community Room When: Tuesday mornings 9 am-10:15 am Sign up: Contact SCRA@stanford.edu or drop-in to try it out for first time. Rediscover Movement with Tina Madison Learn to move with greater comfort and ease! We will begin the process of rehabilitating harmful posture and movement habits, re-educating the nervous system, and restoring mobility and function…and, it will be an enjoyable journey. The class incorporates the principles of yoga, Pilates and other movement therapies. Participants move at their own pace. Bring a mat, blanket or beach towel, and soft ball (if you have one). Where: SCRA Community Room When: Thursday mornings 10:30am-12pm Sign up: Contact SCRA@stanford.edu or drop-in to try it out for the first time. Stanford Recreation and Wellness Address Arrillaga Outdoor Education and Recreation Center 285 Santa Teresa Street Stanford, CA 94305 United States Stanford Facebook Stanford Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Strava Contacts and Information Visit Campus Map Contact Us Register Here Resources for Faculty/Staff - want a personalized wellness program that you customize to meet your unique wellness needs? Students - want to be empowered to flourish through education, connection and positive culture change? Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top