Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Recreation and Wellness Search this site Submit Search Menu Home Move Virtual Fitness Faculty/Staff Free Faculty/Staff Programs Personal Training and Private Pilates Aquatics Masters Swim Membership and Dues Lane Etiquette and Equipment Announcements Resources Swim Away from Home Play Club Sports Intramural Sports Open Rec Sports Squash and Racquetball Courts Youth Programs Camp Cardinal Winter Programs Youth Camps FAQs Camp Counselors Adventure Equipment Rentals Climbing Stanford Pre-Orientation Trips (SPOT) Adventure Trips Student Opportunities Learn Physical Education Outdoor Education Recreational Classes Belay Cert CPR Certification Belong Diversity, Inclusion, and Accessibility Membership Faculty/Staff Visit Facility Hours Main Campus Stanford Redwood City SRWC Group Fitness SRWC Personal Training SRWC Aquatics SRWC Sports Stanford Red Barn Equestrian Center Stanford Horses Physical Education IEA & AEL Facilties and Boarding Pre-Collegiate Leadership Resident Trainers Riding Academy Arrillaga Recreation Center at SLAC Stanford Campus Recreation Association About Us Memberships Social Swimming Tennis Activities Rentals and Reservations Tennis & Golf Community Guidelines and Policies Connect About Us Contact Information Employment Opportunities Staff Main Campus Main navigation Skip to main content Secondary Navigation Facility Hours Main Campus Stanford Redwood City Stanford Red Barn Equestrian Center Arrillaga Recreation Center at SLAC Stanford Campus Recreation Association Rentals and Reservations Tennis & Golf Community Guidelines and Policies Main content start Land Acknowledgement We start with a recognition that Stanford sits on the ancestral land of the Muwekma Ohlone Tribe. This land is of great importance to the Ohlone people and has been since time immemorial. Consistent with our values of community and diversity, we have a responsibility to acknowledge, honor, and make visible the university’s relationship to Native peoples. On this page: Arrillaga Outdoor Education and Recreation Center Arrillaga Center for Sports and Recreation LKSC Fitness Center Stanford Outdoor Fitness Court Dish Area Perimeter Trail Arillaga Outdoor Education and Recreation The Arrillaga Outdoor Education and Recreation Center (AOERC) is located at 285 Santa Teresa St. The AOERC provides 75,000 square foot of indoor recreation space, a 50-meter outdoor pool, state-of-the-art Climbing Wall and Outdoor Education Center, classroom spaces, locker rooms and showers, fitness center, and three indoor basketball courts. Take a Virtual Tour Location: 285 Santa Teresa St. Stanford, CA 94305 Contact Front Desk: (650) 498-0765 Fitness Center: (650) 498-0761 Climbing Wall: (650) 736-7768 Outdoor Center: (650) 736-7768 AOERC Facility Information The Arrillaga Outdoor Education and Recreation Center (AOERC) is located at 285 Santa Teresa St. The AOERC provides 75,000 square foot of indoor recreation space, a 50-meter outdoor pool, state-of-the-art Climbing Wall and Outdoor Education Center, classroom spaces, locker rooms and showers, fitness center, and three indoor basketball courts. Fitness Center The fitness center is located downstairs at the AOERC. Upon entering the building, head downstairs and the center is at the end of the hallway. Weights, Cardio Equipment, Top-of-the-line fitness machines Central Air Conditioning and blinds Helpful staff available for questions Indoor cycling studio (CLOSED). Free day-use lockers (bring own lock). Men’s, women’s, and all-gender locker rooms and showers. Lockers and Changing Rooms We have men’s, women’s, and all-gender locker rooms available in the downstairs area of the AOERC. In addition to the quarterly/annual lockers, the facility also houses day-use lockers which require you to bring your own lock. Day-use lockers are free of charge, and please note they will be cleared out each night at the close of business, and any left behind contents will be added to the lost and found. Parking Roble Parking Garage, Parking Structure 2, or Lot 25 (Via Ortega and Panama Street / A Permit, C Permit, and Visitor Parking) Arrillaga Center for Sports and Recreation The Arrillaga Center for Sports and Recreation (ACSR) is located at 341 Galvez St. The ACSR is a 75,000 square foot recreation facility for students, faculty and staff. It includes a 11,000 square foot fitness room with weight machines and cardio equipment, the Erickson Family Courts (three full length basketball courts), seven squash courts, the Fencing Center, and a 3,600 square foot studio. Location 341 Galvez St Stanford, CA 94305 Contact Front Desk: (650) 724-9872 Fitness Center: (650) 725-5622 ACSR Facility Information The Arrillaga Center for Sports and Recreation (ACSR) is located at 341 Galvez St. The ACSR is a 75,000 square foot recreation facility for students, faculty and staff. It includes a 11,000 square foot fitness room with weight machines and cardio equipment, the Erickson Family Courts (three full length basketball courts), seven squash courts, the Fencing Center, and a 3,600 square foot studio. Fitness Center The fitness center is located downstairs at the ACSR. When entering the building from the front doors, head downstairs and the fitness center is at the end of the hallway. Indoor Cycling Bikes • Strength Equipment • Cardio Equipment Central • Air Conditioning • Olympics Weightlifting Platforms Please refer to ACSR Facility Policies for more details. Lockers and Changing Rooms Locker rooms and changing areas are closed until further notice. LKSC Fitness Center The LKSC Fitness Center is located on the 4th floor of Li Ka Shing Center for Learning and Knowledge. This fitness facility is only open to medical students and biosciences graduate students – postdocs, faculty, staff and undergraduates are not permitted. The fitness center is equipped with ellipticals, treadmills, indoor cycling bikes, a recumbent bike, a stair stepper, a Concept 2 rowing machine, a Cybex cable stack, various Cybex resistance training machines, dumbbells up to 80lbs, fixed barbells up to 110lbs, kettlebells, a roman chair, a dip station, stretching mats, TRX suspension trainer, resistance bands, foam rollers and more. Day use lockers, changing rooms, and showers are also located on the 4th floor. Eligibility to the LKSC fitness center is accessible via Stanford Medicine ID badge access. LKSC Fitness Center • Indoor Cycling • Central Air Conditioning • Locker rooms and Showers Please refer to LKSC’s Facility Policies for more details. View Regular Facility Hours Stanford Outdoor Fitness Court The Stanford Outdoor Fitness Court, on Arguello Field (map), is an outdoor bodyweight gym featuring a seven-station circuit training system for a full-body workout. Stanford opened this fitness court as part of National Fitness Campaign, a social enterprise planning to open fitness courts in 100 cities across America in 2018. Students participate in the 2018 Murph. Photo: Nicki Falbo The Stanford Outdoor Fitness Court, on Arguello Field (map), is an outdoor bodyweight gym featuring a seven-station circuit training system for a full-body workout. Stanford opened this fitness court as part of National Fitness Campaign, a social enterprise planning to open fitness courts in 100 cities across America in 2018. Download the Fitness Court App, which includes work-out tutorials and scored, timed challenges. Here’s a fun video taken from a recent Preview event. The Dish Area The Dish is a special area to both Stanford and the surrounding communities. The Dish is a unique portion of Stanford University's Academic Reserve dedicated to field research and conservation. It is one of the last unbroken expanses of open space in the lower foothill supporting rare species, cultural resources, and academic study. The Dish is a popular area for hiking and jogging and is open to the public from approximately sunrise to sunset throughout the year. Location 400 Resevoir Rd Stanford, CA 94305 Stanford Perimeter Trail The Stanford Perimeter Trail is a multi-use path that runs along El Camino Real between Quarry Road and Stanford Avenue; Stanford Avenue between El Camino Real and Junipero Serra Boulevard; and along Junipero Serra Boulevard between Stanford Avenue and Page Mill Road. At that point, the trail links to the Matadero Creek Trail, which runs along Page Mill Road and offers extraordinary views of San Francisco Bay and the Santa Cruz Mountains. Ford/Burnham 615 Jane Stanford Way, Stanford, CA 94305 Avery Aquatic Center 235 Sam MacDonald Mall, Stanford, CA 94305 Lockers Day use lockers are available in both the AOERC and ACSR. These lockers require you to bring your own lock. Locks can be purchased at the front desk for $5 or rented for single day use. Annual and quarterly lockers can be rented in the locker rooms at the AOERC. There are no rentable lockers at the ACSR. More Details Equipment Rental Recreation Equipment may be checked out from both the Arrillaga Center for Sports & Recreation (ACSR) and the Arrillaga Outdoor Education and Recreation Center (AOERC). If you need to rent our equipment for a group event or multiple day use; or want information on payment for rental and deposit, please contact recmembership@stanford.edu. More Details Stanford Recreation and Wellness Address Arrillaga Outdoor Education and Recreation Center 285 Santa Teresa Street Stanford, CA 94305 United States Stanford Facebook Stanford Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Strava Contacts and Information Visit Campus Map Contact Us Register Here Resources for Faculty/Staff - want a personalized wellness program that you customize to meet your unique wellness needs? Students - want to be empowered to flourish through education, connection and positive culture change? Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top