Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Recreation and Wellness Search this site Submit Search Menu Home Move Virtual Fitness Faculty/Staff Free Faculty/Staff Programs Personal Training and Private Pilates Aquatics Masters Swim Membership and Dues Lane Etiquette and Equipment Announcements Resources Swim Away from Home Play Club Sports Intramural Sports Open Rec Sports Squash and Racquetball Courts Youth Programs Camp Cardinal Winter Programs Youth Camps FAQs Camp Counselors Adventure Equipment Rentals Climbing Stanford Pre-Orientation Trips (SPOT) Adventure Trips Student Opportunities Learn Physical Education Outdoor Education Recreational Classes Belay Cert CPR Certification Belong Diversity, Inclusion, and Accessibility Membership Faculty/Staff Visit Facility Hours Main Campus Stanford Redwood City SRWC Group Fitness SRWC Personal Training SRWC Aquatics SRWC Sports Stanford Red Barn Equestrian Center Stanford Horses Physical Education IEA & AEL Facilties and Boarding Pre-Collegiate Leadership Resident Trainers Riding Academy Arrillaga Recreation Center at SLAC Stanford Campus Recreation Association About Us Memberships Social Swimming Tennis Activities Rentals and Reservations Tennis & Golf Community Guidelines and Policies Connect About Us Contact Information Employment Opportunities Staff Arrillaga Recreation Center at SLAC Main navigation Skip to main content Secondary Navigation Facility Hours Main Campus Stanford Redwood City Stanford Red Barn Equestrian Center Arrillaga Recreation Center at SLAC Stanford Campus Recreation Association Rentals and Reservations Tennis & Golf Community Guidelines and Policies Main content start Arrillaga Recreation Center at SLAC Located at the SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory, this 17,600-square-foot facility contribute to the health and wellness of the laboratory’s employees and visiting scientists. Fitness Classes at SLAC Approved onsite SLAC employees can register for Group Fitness Classes at ARCAS. Location 2575 Sand Hill Road Building 55 (Eastern SLAC, on Pep Ring Road north of Building 901) Menlo Park, CA 94025 Contact Front Desk: (650) 926-3313 Fitness Center: (650) 926-3314 COVID-19 Policies and Guidelines All personnel must fill out a liability waiver form prior to using the Recreation Center. No guests are allowed at this time. A SLAC Badge is required to get to the Recreation Center, and must be swiped on the badge reader upon entering. No one under the age of 18 is allowed in the facility. Staffed Hours ARCAS is open 24/7 for approved onsite SLAC employees, the schedule is our staffed hours. Lockers Available to rent front the front desk, $10/quarter $30/year. Facility Rental For facility rental inquiries, please contact Alisha Garcia at alishag@stanford.edu. Stanford Recreation and Wellness Address Arrillaga Outdoor Education and Recreation Center 285 Santa Teresa Street Stanford, CA 94305 United States Stanford Facebook Stanford Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Strava Contacts and Information Visit Campus Map Contact Us Register Here Resources for Faculty/Staff - want a personalized wellness program that you customize to meet your unique wellness needs? Students - want to be empowered to flourish through education, connection and positive culture change? Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top