Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Recreation and Wellness Search this site Submit Search Menu Home Move Virtual Fitness Faculty/Staff Free Faculty/Staff Programs Personal Training and Private Pilates Aquatics Masters Swim Membership and Dues Lane Etiquette and Equipment Announcements Resources Swim Away from Home Play Club Sports Intramural Sports Open Rec Sports Squash and Racquetball Courts Youth Programs Camp Cardinal Winter Programs Youth Camps FAQs Camp Counselors Adventure Equipment Rentals Climbing Stanford Pre-Orientation Trips (SPOT) Adventure Trips Student Opportunities Learn Physical Education Outdoor Education Recreational Classes Belay Cert CPR Certification Belong Diversity, Inclusion, and Accessibility Membership Faculty/Staff Visit Facility Hours Main Campus Stanford Redwood City SRWC Group Fitness SRWC Personal Training SRWC Aquatics SRWC Sports Stanford Red Barn Equestrian Center Stanford Horses Physical Education IEA & AEL Facilties and Boarding Pre-Collegiate Leadership Resident Trainers Riding Academy Arrillaga Recreation Center at SLAC Stanford Campus Recreation Association About Us Memberships Social Swimming Tennis Activities Rentals and Reservations Tennis & Golf Community Guidelines and Policies Connect About Us Contact Information Employment Opportunities Staff IEA & AEL Main navigation Skip to main content Secondary Navigation Facility Hours Main Campus Stanford Redwood City Stanford Red Barn Equestrian Center Stanford Horses Physical Education IEA & AEL Facilties and Boarding Pre-Collegiate Leadership Resident Trainers Riding Academy Arrillaga Recreation Center at SLAC Stanford Campus Recreation Association Rentals and Reservations Tennis & Golf Community Guidelines and Policies Main content start IEA & AEL High School & Middle School Teams Riders do not need to have experience competing in the IEA or any other horse shows to participate on our IEA Teams. The IEA team is led by Head Coach Katie Steiner and our IEA Emerging Team is led by Coach Tina Davey (bios here). The Stanford Red Barn is proud to host two Interscholastic Equestrian Association (IEA) Teams as well as an IEA Emerging Team. The Stanford Red Barn Teams are open to riders in grades 4th to 12th who are comfortable riding at the walk, trot and canter in a group setting up through riders competing at the highest levels of competition. Our Stanford Red Barn IEA Teams are an opportunity for riders to learn more about the catch riding format of IEA and improve their equitation skills by riding different horses in lessons, scrimmaging on our team’s horses, and traveling away to competitions throughout the fall, winter, and spring. Interscholastic Equestrian Association (IEA) Teams The IEA is comprised of riders from local high schools and middle schools from throughout the Bay Area. Tryouts are held in May for our summer IEA program and in August for our regular season. Practices take place on Monday and Wednesday nights, with riders taking lessons once a week. The IEA is based on a system of “catch riding” where athletes compete on horses they are riding for the first time. This ensures a level playing field, with each rider being judged on how they ride the horse they are on, with credit given for those who demonstrate good equitation and solid horsemanship. Riders compete as individuals as well as with their team. To tryout, riders should be able to ride in a group at the walk, trot, and canter and may also be asked to jump a course. Riders must also be able to groom, tack-up and properly care for their assigned horse before and after lessons. Our two IEA teams, The Red Barn Team and The Woodside Team, compete against teams from throughout California. Both teams are active in the ribbons. In 2019, our teams took home High Point Team at the Zone Finals and went on to finish in the Top Ten at the IEA National Finals. For more information on the IEA please visit: rideiea.org. IEA Emerging Team The IEA Emerging Team at the Red Barn is for riders who are taking steps towards being on our IEA Team. Riders are a part of the Red Barn Teams which includes the Emerging Team (ET) and our two IEA teams, Red Barn and Woodside. The ET is for riders in fourth grade and up who are able to ride in a group at the walk, trot and canter on a variety of horses. While riders are not required to compete, if they are interested in showing in IEA there may be opportunities for some riders to show in 1-2 IEA shows each season (though not guaranteed). ET riders can also attend Red Barn Team scrimmages with other Red Barn Team members. Like IEA Team lessons, the ET lessons focus on developing solid foundations in equitation and catch riding skills. Riders must also be able to groom, tack-up and properly care for their assigned horse before and after lessons. Find payment tabs for current riders/boarders below! Summer Once a Week Lesson Regular Season Coaching Fee Regionals Coaching Fee Zones Coaching Fee Nationals Coaching Fee Summer 2x a Week Lesson Contact Tina Davey for more information on IEA or AEL: Tina Davey Stanford Recreation and Wellness Address Arrillaga Outdoor Education and Recreation Center 285 Santa Teresa Street Stanford, CA 94305 United States Stanford Facebook Stanford Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Strava Contacts and Information Visit Campus Map Contact Us Register Here Resources for Faculty/Staff - want a personalized wellness program that you customize to meet your unique wellness needs? Students - want to be empowered to flourish through education, connection and positive culture change? Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top