Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Recreation and Wellness Search this site Submit Search Menu Home Move Virtual Fitness Faculty/Staff Free Faculty/Staff Programs Personal Training and Private Pilates Aquatics Masters Swim Membership and Dues Lane Etiquette and Equipment Announcements Resources Swim Away from Home Play Club Sports Intramural Sports Open Rec Sports Squash and Racquetball Courts Youth Programs Camp Cardinal Winter Programs Youth Camps FAQs Camp Counselors Adventure Equipment Rentals Climbing Stanford Pre-Orientation Trips (SPOT) Adventure Trips Student Opportunities Learn Physical Education Outdoor Education Recreational Classes Belay Cert CPR Certification Belong Diversity, Inclusion, and Accessibility Membership Faculty/Staff Visit Facility Hours Main Campus Stanford Redwood City SRWC Group Fitness SRWC Personal Training SRWC Aquatics SRWC Sports Stanford Red Barn Equestrian Center Stanford Horses Physical Education IEA & AEL Facilties and Boarding Pre-Collegiate Leadership Resident Trainers Riding Academy Arrillaga Recreation Center at SLAC Stanford Campus Recreation Association About Us Memberships Social Swimming Tennis Activities Rentals and Reservations Tennis & Golf Community Guidelines and Policies Connect About Us Contact Information Employment Opportunities Staff Membership and Dues Main navigation Skip to main content Secondary Navigation Virtual Fitness Personal Training and Private Pilates Aquatics Masters Swim Membership and Dues Lane Etiquette and Equipment Announcements Resources Swim Away from Home Main content start The Stanford Masters Swimming team is open to swimmers of all ability levels from the Stanford community and beyond. Membership Dues Stanford Masters Swimming bases its fee structure on the individual's affiliation. All memberships are annual (will expire 12 months after the registration date) and include a $75 non-prorated registration fee. This fee is included in the total of all posted membership rates. Standard and Discounted structures are listed below. If you belong to any of the qualifying discount groups listed below, please indicate your affiliation during the online registration. Discounted memberships are subject to verification. Membership dues are non-refundable and non-transferable. Please review our Billing Policy for complete details. All members of Stanford Masters Swimming must be registered with Pacific Masters Swimming/United States Masters Swimming(USMS) as members of Stanford Masters Swimming (club code STAN). Request Your Membership Here Stanford Masters Swimming Pricing All memberships run Jan 1-Dec 31. Rates prorated based on registration date: Membership Type Annual (Jan-Dec) Community Member No Stanford Affiliation $900 Stanford Alumni / Stanford Hospital Employees Must have SAA email account or proof of employment $552 Stanford Affiliated & Courtesy Card Holders Faculty, Staff, Visiting Scholars, Fellows, Medical Center Staff, Dependent, Benefited Retiree $504 Stanford Undergrad, Graduate or Postdoc Student Masters, PhD, postdoc, medical students, medical residents $240 Discounts If you are eligible in any of the following categories, please contact Tim Edmonds at tedmonds@stanford.edu to verify your eligibility and confirm your discount. Professional Triathlete with a USAT ELITE License Number Olympian Former Stanford 4 Year Varsity Athlete (Block S Member) Military personnel (Active, Reserve or Retired Duty) Multiple family member discount (partners, or children within a single residence – first family member at the regular rate, each additional membership is discounted) Stanford Recreation and Wellness Address Arrillaga Outdoor Education and Recreation Center 285 Santa Teresa Street Stanford, CA 94305 United States Stanford Facebook Stanford Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Strava Contacts and Information Visit Campus Map Contact Us Register Here Resources for Faculty/Staff - want a personalized wellness program that you customize to meet your unique wellness needs? Students - want to be empowered to flourish through education, connection and positive culture change? Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top