Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Recreation and Wellness Search this site Submit Search Menu Home Move Virtual Fitness Faculty/Staff Free Faculty/Staff Programs Personal Training and Private Pilates Aquatics Masters Swim Membership and Dues Lane Etiquette and Equipment Announcements Resources Swim Away from Home Play Club Sports Intramural Sports Open Rec Sports Squash and Racquetball Courts Youth Programs Camp Cardinal Winter Programs Youth Camps FAQs Camp Counselors Adventure Equipment Rentals Climbing Stanford Pre-Orientation Trips (SPOT) Adventure Trips Student Opportunities Learn Physical Education Outdoor Education Recreational Classes Belay Cert CPR Certification Belong Diversity, Inclusion, and Accessibility Membership Faculty/Staff Visit Facility Hours Main Campus Stanford Redwood City SRWC Group Fitness SRWC Personal Training SRWC Aquatics SRWC Sports Stanford Red Barn Equestrian Center Stanford Horses Physical Education IEA & AEL Facilties and Boarding Pre-Collegiate Leadership Resident Trainers Riding Academy Arrillaga Recreation Center at SLAC Stanford Campus Recreation Association About Us Memberships Social Swimming Tennis Activities Rentals and Reservations Tennis & Golf Community Guidelines and Policies Connect About Us Contact Information Employment Opportunities Staff Aquatics Main navigation Skip to main content Secondary Navigation Virtual Fitness Personal Training and Private Pilates Aquatics Masters Swim Main content start On this page: WOW Workouts Stanford Rec Swim WOW Workouts WOW Workouts are designed to keep you challenged and motivated whether you are a beginner or an experienced swimmer. Swim to win from Monday, March 28 - Friday, June 10 How to participate: Visit the Avery Rec Pool @ AOERC during your swim and ask a lifeguard for a WOW Workout when turning in your swim card. Workouts stay the same for an entire week. Each Monday, a new workout will be put out. Complete a workout and you will be entered to win Stanford gear or a grand prize gift certificate to Swim Outlet. See you at the pool! Rec Swim Classes Spring Quarter Registration for Rec Swim Classes are now open and running. Take classes such as Beginner – Advanced Swim, Aqua Fitness, and Stroke Refinement. View the Rec Swim Class Schedule>> Register for Spring Quarter Rec Swim Stanford Aquatics Stanford Aquatics provides a safe and inclusive environment for all, and we promote private swim lessons, recreation classes, special events, open rec swim, as well as job opportunities. Rec Swim is usually offered at two outdoor locations, on the Stanford campus; the Avery Recreation Pool is located on the west side of campus at the Arrillaga Outdoor Education and Recreation Center and the Avery Aquatic Center is located on the east side of campus. Due to COVID-19, Rec Swim is only offered at the Avery Rec Pool at the AOERC. View the Pool Rules Avery Aquatic Center 235 Sam MacDonald Mall, Stanford, CA 94305 (CLOSED) Contact: (650) 498-0756 AOERC Avery Recreation Pool 285 Santa Teresa Street, Stanford, CA 94305 (OPEN) Contact: (650) 498-0756 The Avery Recreation Pool is a 50-meter pool setup in short course yards. The Avery Aquatic Center is a 50-meter pool setup in long course meters or short course yards depending on availability and circumstances. Offerings and programs can change each quarter so be sure to check back frequently for any additions or changes. Stanford Recreation and Wellness Address Arrillaga Outdoor Education and Recreation Center 285 Santa Teresa Street Stanford, CA 94305 United States Stanford Facebook Stanford Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Strava Contacts and Information Visit Campus Map Contact Us Register Here Resources for Faculty/Staff - want a personalized wellness program that you customize to meet your unique wellness needs? Students - want to be empowered to flourish through education, connection and positive culture change? Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top