Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Recreation and Wellness Search this site Submit Search Menu Home Move Virtual Fitness Faculty/Staff Free Faculty/Staff Programs Personal Training and Private Pilates Aquatics Masters Swim Membership and Dues Lane Etiquette and Equipment Announcements Resources Swim Away from Home Play Club Sports Intramural Sports Open Rec Sports Squash and Racquetball Courts Youth Programs Camp Cardinal Winter Programs Youth Camps FAQs Camp Counselors Adventure Equipment Rentals Climbing Stanford Pre-Orientation Trips (SPOT) Adventure Trips Student Opportunities Learn Physical Education Outdoor Education Recreational Classes Belay Cert CPR Certification Belong Diversity, Inclusion, and Accessibility Membership Faculty/Staff Visit Facility Hours Main Campus Stanford Redwood City SRWC Group Fitness SRWC Personal Training SRWC Aquatics SRWC Sports Stanford Red Barn Equestrian Center Stanford Horses Physical Education IEA & AEL Facilties and Boarding Pre-Collegiate Leadership Resident Trainers Riding Academy Arrillaga Recreation Center at SLAC Stanford Campus Recreation Association About Us Memberships Social Swimming Tennis Activities Rentals and Reservations Tennis & Golf Community Guidelines and Policies Connect About Us Contact Information Employment Opportunities Staff Virtual Main navigation Skip to main content Secondary Navigation Virtual Fitness Personal Training and Private Pilates Aquatics Main content start On this page Virtual Fitness Drop-in Meditation Virtual Recreation Virtual Fitness We are hosting online zoom classes throughout the week to help keep you moving from the comfort of your own home! Summer Quarter Classes: June 20, 2022 – August 28, 2022 Schedule: Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Total Body Bootcamp with Lori 7:30 AM Total Body Bootcamp with Lori 7:30 AM Pre/Post Natal Fitness with Linda 11:00 AM Pre/Post Natal Fitness with Linda 11:00 AM Barre Sculpt with Carmen 12:00 PM Total Body Workout with Kyle 12:00 PM Yogalates with Annie 12:00 PM Strength Fusion with Linda 5:00 PM Zumba with Christina 5:00 PM Mat Pilates with Kirsten 5:00 PM Before booking a Virtual Fitness Class, you will first need to apply a new membership to your account called “Virtual Recreation Access Membership.” The membership is free and also available through the portal. Click below to view the membership and registration tutorial. Registration Page for Virtual Rec Membership Register for a virtual rec membership Remember to log in with your SUID in the upper right corner. Membership & Registration Tutorial Checkout Tutorial Here Registration Page for Virtual Fitness Register for virtual fitness BeWell BeWell eligible participants may earn 15 points if you complete a minimum of eight virtual fitness classes during a quarter (limit two quarters per year for a maximum of 30 points each year). Please allow up to four weeks after the end of the quarter for this activity to show as completed. Miss a class? We live stream our classes onto our Facebook, where they are available for 24 hours after the class! 20 Minute Drop-in Meditation with Sarah! We have partnered with HHP to bring you 20-minute drop-in meditation at 11:30 am every Monday, Wednesday, and Friday! Click below to register. Drop-in Meditation Virtual Recreation for all Prerecorded Workout Videos Check out our Youtube Channel Rec & Well Strava Club Check out our Strava Club YogaX Recorded Movement Practices YogaX Practice YogaX Live-Streamed Classes YogaX Live-Stream YogaX Youtube Channel YogaX Youtube ConnectSU Connect Stanford University Students Health and Human Performance Learn More Virtual Well-Being Learn More Cardinal Nights - Non-Alcoholic Social Programming Learn More Vaden Health Services Learn More Faculty/Staff Faculty/Staff Help Center Learn More Healthy Living Learn More BeWell's Remote Participation Options Learn More Stanford Recreation and Wellness Address Arrillaga Outdoor Education and Recreation Center 285 Santa Teresa Street Stanford, CA 94305 United States Stanford Facebook Stanford Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Strava Contacts and Information Visit Campus Map Contact Us Register Here Resources for Faculty/Staff - want a personalized wellness program that you customize to meet your unique wellness needs? Students - want to be empowered to flourish through education, connection and positive culture change? Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top