Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Recreation and Wellness Search this site Submit Search Menu Home Move Virtual Fitness Faculty/Staff Free Faculty/Staff Programs Personal Training and Private Pilates Aquatics Masters Swim Membership and Dues Lane Etiquette and Equipment Announcements Resources Swim Away from Home Play Club Sports Intramural Sports Open Rec Sports Squash and Racquetball Courts Youth Programs Camp Cardinal Winter Programs Youth Camps FAQs Camp Counselors Adventure Equipment Rentals Climbing Stanford Pre-Orientation Trips (SPOT) Adventure Trips Student Opportunities Learn Physical Education Outdoor Education Recreational Classes Belay Cert CPR Certification Belong Diversity, Inclusion, and Accessibility Membership Faculty/Staff Visit Facility Hours Main Campus Stanford Redwood City SRWC Group Fitness SRWC Personal Training SRWC Aquatics SRWC Sports Stanford Red Barn Equestrian Center Stanford Horses Physical Education IEA & AEL Facilties and Boarding Pre-Collegiate Leadership Resident Trainers Riding Academy Arrillaga Recreation Center at SLAC Stanford Campus Recreation Association About Us Memberships Social Swimming Tennis Activities Rentals and Reservations Tennis & Golf Community Guidelines and Policies Connect About Us Contact Information Employment Opportunities Staff Community Guidelines and Policies Main navigation Skip to main content Secondary Navigation Facility Hours Main Campus Stanford Redwood City Stanford Red Barn Equestrian Center Arrillaga Recreation Center at SLAC Stanford Campus Recreation Association Rentals and Reservations Tennis & Golf Community Guidelines and Policies Main content start Community Guidelines and Policies Community Guidelines To ignite a culture of belonging and well-being, we strive to ensure that a diversity of cultures, races and ethnicities, genders, political and religious beliefs, physical and learning differences, sexual orientations and identities is thriving. Acts contrary to this do not meet our community standards. By using Stanford Recreation and Wellness facilities and programs, you agree to comply with the community standards and cooperate with staff. Entering and exiting facilities must be done through the designated main entrance. For both security and utilization tracking, all participants using a Recreation and Wellness facility must check in at the front desk and present their valid SUID card or Guest Pass upon entering all recreational facilities. Safe attire that will not get caught in moving parts, and closed-toed shoes are required. No person under 18 years old is allowed into the facility outside of Youth and Family Access hours (unless you are a Stanford student or staff member). All non-participants under 18 years old must be supervised by an adult at all times. Participants renting spaces are prohibited from using the Fitness Center, varsity athlete equipment, basketball courts, squash/racquetball courts, and the climbing wall. Report all injuries or incidents immediately to staff on duty. Beverages must be in a non-glass, spill-proof container. Food is allowed only in designated spaces. Smoking is not permitted in the facility. Please refrain from loud/excessive talking on cell phones while in recreation spaces. Physical and verbal abuse is not permitted. Skateboards, scooters, roller skates/blades, or bikes are not permitted inside the recreation facilities. Alcoholic beverages, smoking or illegal drugs are not allowed in this facility. Unauthorized commercial activity, posting, advertising, or private lessons/training is prohibited. Pets, other than Service Animals, are prohibited in all facilities. The Recreation and Wellness Staff is not responsible for lost or stolen items. No bags or backpacks are permitted on the Fitness Center floor. Locks are available for sale and annual or quarterly lockers are available for rent. No external personal trainers are permitted AUDIO/VISUAL: To avoid unwanted noise and for safety purposes, ONLY personal headphone audio systems are allowed. AOERC and ACSR Facilities Facility schedules are subject to change for special events. All users must be 18 years old or be a matriculated Stanford student. Please refrain from talking on cell phones in the Fitness Center. Please keep beverages in a spill-proof container. No glass containers. For participant safety, please store all personal items (bags, coats, etc.) in a locker. The Fitness Center and its employees are not responsible for lost or stolen property. Safe attire that will not get caught in moving parts, and closed-toed shoes are required. Please clean all equipment after each use including mats. Please re-rack all bars, weights, and dumbbells and return all equipment back to its proper place after use. Use safety clips/collars on all free weight bars. Only Stanford Recreation and Wellness approved Personal Trainers are allowed to conduct training sessions. Report all injuries or incidents to staff on duty. Stanford Recreation and Wellness reserves the right to change or amend these policies as deemed necessary for the safety and functionality of the facility, program or activity. Compliance with staff is expected at all times. LKSC Facility Policies Exercise at your own risk. You must be at least 18 years old to use the LKSC Fitness Center. The LKSC Fitness Center and its employees are not responsible for lost or stolen property. Proper workout attire including a shirt, shoes, shorts or pants, and closed toe/heel shoes are to be worn in the Fitness Center at all times. Jeans, cargo pants, slacks, skirts, dresses, sport bras alone, speedos, open toe/heel shoes, scrubs or bare feet are not permitted. Martial Arts Mat Studio and Exercise Studio Use Policies When our studios are not in use by a scheduled class they are open for individuals to exercise in or groups to reserve for events, rehearsals, etc. Any individual or group using any of our group exercise studios must adhere to these policies: Non-marking, closed-toe shoes must be worn at all times. Heels, tap shoes, and cleats are prohibited on the hardwood floors. Safe attire is required. All space reservations must be scheduled through Membership Services. Audio equipment may only be used by Stanford Recreation and Wellness Staff. Photo/Video Photography and videography are permitted in Recreation and Wellness facilities, but you may not photograph or video other people without express permission. All photography and videography is strictly prohibited in the pool, restrooms, locker rooms, and classes unless written permission is granted by Recreation and Wellness. Facility Policies Participant Expectations Aggressive, unsafe or reckless behavior is explicitly forbidden in Stanford Athletic facilities and programs. This includes, but is not limited to, the following: Promoting or engaging in physical abuse, verbal abuse, threats, intimidation, harassment, coercion and/or other conduct which threatens or endangers the health or safety of any person. The use of “fighting words” to harass any employee or participant in connection with official University functions or University sponsored programs is also prohibited. UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY A valid Stanford SUID card or pass is required for access to all Stanford Athletic facilities and programs. In addition, entering unauthorized areas such as offices and maintenance workshops without the express permission of Stanford Athletics will be considered trespassing. FORGERY Sharing identification cards for access into Stanford Athletic facilities or programs is considered forgery. Forgery, altering identification cards, providing false information in connection with a membership application or program form, or unauthorized use or misuse of any University document, record, key, electronic device, or identification is strictly prohibited. SUID confiscation, additional sanctions and restrictions may apply including a loss of privileges and/or a report to the Dean of Students Office. SOLICITATION Short Term sponsorship privileges provide our Stanford Affiliates the opportunity to share use and enjoyment of Stanford Athletic facilities with individuals with whom they have an established relationship. In the interest of the safety of all users, Stanford Affiliates should refrain from sponsoring individuals who are unknown to them and to report any solicitations to do so to Stanford Athletic staff. DISORDERLY CONDUCT Engaging in disorderly or lewd conduct, including being under the influence of alcohol or controlled substances, is strictly prohibited. PHOTOGRAPHY AND VIDEO TAPING Photography and videography are permitted in Recreation and Wellness facilities, but you may not photograph or video other people without express permission. All photography and videography is strictly prohibited in the pool, restrooms, locker rooms, and classes unless written permission is granted by Recreation and Wellness. UNAUTHORIZED COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY Posting, advertising, conducting unauthorized private lessons or training, soliciting individuals in Stanford Athletic facilities for personal services, businesses, or agencies is prohibited. Participant Expectations: Starting Monday, October 11: Upon entry, guests, alumni, hospital employees, and other individuals entering a Recreation and Wellness facility who are not faculty, staff, or a student, must submit this Health Attestation form. Learn more>> FORGOTTEN ID: If you have forgotten your Stanford issued ID card, the front desk staff will use a 3-strikes system to check you in. Each quarter, a patron may enter the facility up to 3 times without a Stanford issued ID card; they will receive a “strike,” and after 3 strikes, they will no longer be let into the building without their Stanford issued ID card. AGGRESSIVE, UNSAFE OR RECKLESS BEHAVIOR: Aggressive, unsafe or reckless behavior is explicitly forbidden in Stanford Athletic facilities and programs. This includes, but is not limited to, the following: Promoting or engaging in physical abuse, verbal abuse, threats, intimidation, harassment, coercion and/or other conduct which threatens or endangers the health or safety of any person. The use of “fighting words” to harass any employee or participant in connection with official University functions or University sponsored programs is also prohibited. UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY: A valid Stanford SUID card or pass is required for access to all Stanford Athletic facilities and programs. In addition, entering unauthorized areas such as offices and maintenance workshops without the express permission of Stanford Athletics will be considered trespassing. FORGERY: Sharing identification cards for access into Stanford Athletic facilities or programs is considered forgery. Forgery, altering identification cards, providing false information in connection with a membership application or program form, or unauthorized use or misuse of any University document, record, key, electronic device, or identification is strictly prohibited. SUID confiscation, additional sanctions and restrictions may apply including a loss of privileges and/or a report to the Dean of Students Office. SOLICITATION: Short Term sponsorship privileges provide our Stanford Affiliates the opportunity to share use and enjoyment of Stanford Athletic facilities with individuals with whom they have an established relationship. In the interest of the safety of all users, Stanford Affiliates should refrain from sponsoring individuals who are unknown to them and to report any solicitations to do so to Stanford Athletic staff. DISORDERLY CONDUCT: Engaging in disorderly or lewd conduct, including being under the influence of alcohol or controlled substances, is strictly prohibited. PHOTOGRAPHY AND VIDEO TAPING: Photography or videotaping of individuals in or images of the facilities must have prior Department and campus approval. UNAUTHORIZED COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY: Posting, advertising, conducting unauthorized private lessons or training, soliciting individuals in Stanford Athletic facilities for personal services, businesses, or agencies is strictly prohibited. *Refund, Cancellation & Switching Policy for Rec Programs If you request a refund before the start of the program, you will receive a full refund. Within the first week of classes all cancellations or class switching will be subject to a $10 administration fee and a prorated refund can be requested if you wish to cancel. Refunds after the first week of the class/program will NOT be granted. Refund, Cancellation & Switching Policy for Outdoor Adventure Programs and Classes No refunds, switching or credits. Stanford Recreation and Wellness Address Arrillaga Outdoor Education and Recreation Center 285 Santa Teresa Street Stanford, CA 94305 United States Stanford Facebook Stanford Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Strava Contacts and Information Visit Campus Map Contact Us Register Here Resources for Faculty/Staff - want a personalized wellness program that you customize to meet your unique wellness needs? Students - want to be empowered to flourish through education, connection and positive culture change? Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top