Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Recreation and Wellness Search this site Submit Search Menu Home Move Virtual Fitness Faculty/Staff Free Faculty/Staff Programs Personal Training and Private Pilates Aquatics Masters Swim Membership and Dues Lane Etiquette and Equipment Announcements Resources Swim Away from Home Play Club Sports Intramural Sports Open Rec Sports Squash and Racquetball Courts Youth Programs Camp Cardinal Winter Programs Youth Camps FAQs Camp Counselors Adventure Equipment Rentals Climbing Stanford Pre-Orientation Trips (SPOT) Adventure Trips Student Opportunities Learn Physical Education Outdoor Education Recreational Classes Belay Cert CPR Certification Belong Diversity, Inclusion, and Accessibility Membership Faculty/Staff Visit Facility Hours Main Campus Stanford Redwood City SRWC Group Fitness SRWC Personal Training SRWC Aquatics SRWC Sports Stanford Red Barn Equestrian Center Stanford Horses Physical Education IEA & AEL Facilties and Boarding Pre-Collegiate Leadership Resident Trainers Riding Academy Arrillaga Recreation Center at SLAC Stanford Campus Recreation Association About Us Memberships Social Swimming Tennis Activities Rentals and Reservations Tennis & Golf Community Guidelines and Policies Connect About Us Contact Information Employment Opportunities Staff Recreational Classes Main navigation Skip to main content Secondary Navigation Physical Education Outdoor Education Recreational Classes Belay Cert CPR Certification Main content start Announcements Registration for Summer Fitness opens on Tuesday, June 7 at the following times: Recreational and Rec Swim Classes - registration opens at 9:00 AM PST Group Fitness - registration opens at 10:00 AM PST Stay tuned, schedules are coming soon! Registration for Spring Quarter Fitness Classes is now open. Register for Rec Classes On this page: Rec Classes Recreational Swim Classes Private Swim Lessons Recreation Classes Our diverse range of Recreational Classes taught by experienced, certified instructors provides the opportunity to learn a new activity, no matter your skill level. Purchasing a Recreational Class in an activity gives access to all classes in that category. Registration Tutorial If you visit the registration portal via any button on this page, start the tutorial on step 6 and remember to login with your SUID in the upper right corner. Check out Tutorial Here Purchase a Rec Class Register Here Recreational Class Schedule BeWell For benefits-eligible Stanford University employees, this offering is eligible for points toward your BeWell incentive. Learn more about the program and sign in to your account to get started. Rec Swim Classes Register Recreational Swim Classes Spring Quarter Dates: Monday, March 28 – Friday, June 3 Regardless of what level swimmer you are, all our Stanford Aquatics programs are beneficial to each participant’s health and well-being. Spring Quarter Registration for Rec Swim Classes is now open! Members can purchase individual classes such as Beginner – Advanced Swim, Swim Conditioning, and Stroke Refinement. Eligibility Stanford Students, Faculty/Staff, Fellow/Visitng Scholar/Post Doc Private Swimming Lessons If you prefer one-on-one attention or would like an individualized program We are not offering private lessons at this time. Learn to swim for the first time or refine your technique with private swim lessons at Stanford. We offer private lessons to a wide range ages and ability levels under experienced swim instructors and certified lifeguards. Private swim lessons are for Stanford Affiliates that are 4 years and up. Due to popularity, there is currently a waitlist for lessons. To add yourself to this waitlist, please fill out the form below. Add Yourself to the Waitlist for Private Swim Lessons Private Swim Lesson Pricing Information NUMBER OF LESSONS STUDENT FELLOW/VISITING SCHOLAR/POST DOC FACULTY/STAFF STANFORD COMMUNITY 1 Private Lesson $35 $35 $40 $40 3 Private Lessons $100 $100 $115 $115 5 Private Lessons $150 $150 $175 $175 Private Swim Lesson Policies Youth private swim lessons must be completed during Family Swim Hours only. Private swim lessons are only offered at the Avery Rec Pool. Stanford Recreation and Wellness Address Arrillaga Outdoor Education and Recreation Center 285 Santa Teresa Street Stanford, CA 94305 United States Stanford Facebook Stanford Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Strava Contacts and Information Visit Campus Map Contact Us Register Here Resources for Faculty/Staff - want a personalized wellness program that you customize to meet your unique wellness needs? Students - want to be empowered to flourish through education, connection and positive culture change? Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top