Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Recreation and Wellness Search this site Submit Search Menu Home Move Virtual Fitness Faculty/Staff Free Faculty/Staff Programs Personal Training and Private Pilates Aquatics Masters Swim Membership and Dues Lane Etiquette and Equipment Announcements Resources Swim Away from Home Play Club Sports Intramural Sports Open Rec Sports Squash and Racquetball Courts Youth Programs Camp Cardinal Winter Programs Youth Camps FAQs Camp Counselors Adventure Equipment Rentals Climbing Stanford Pre-Orientation Trips (SPOT) Adventure Trips Student Opportunities Learn Physical Education Outdoor Education Recreational Classes Belay Cert CPR Certification Belong Diversity, Inclusion, and Accessibility Membership Faculty/Staff Visit Facility Hours Main Campus Stanford Redwood City SRWC Group Fitness SRWC Personal Training SRWC Aquatics SRWC Sports Stanford Red Barn Equestrian Center Stanford Horses Physical Education IEA & AEL Facilties and Boarding Pre-Collegiate Leadership Resident Trainers Riding Academy Arrillaga Recreation Center at SLAC Stanford Campus Recreation Association About Us Memberships Social Swimming Tennis Activities Rentals and Reservations Tennis & Golf Community Guidelines and Policies Connect About Us Contact Information Employment Opportunities Staff Equipment Rentals Main navigation Skip to main content Secondary Navigation Equipment Rentals Climbing Stanford Pre-Orientation Trips (SPOT) Adventure Trips Student Opportunities Main content start On this page: Outdoor Center Equipment Rentals Overview Memberships Policies Outdoor Center Equipment Rentals Overview Stanford affiliates and members alike are welcome to rent from our equipment rental services at the AOERC Outdoor Center. The Outdoor Center has what you need to keep you going on your trip or vacation, from tents and backpacks to paddleboards and kayaks. Whether you are looking for gear to enjoy some easy hikes in the area or something more adventurous, you'll find all the equipment you need at great prices. Memberships Student Membership – $20.00 Lasts one calendar year from the date of purchase First access to trip sign ups Special member pricing for gear rentals Rent for yourself and up to one other person Staff and Faculty Membership – $30.00 Lasts one calendar year from the date of purchase Special member pricing for gear rental Rent for yourself and the members of your household* *Does not apply to roommates: must be a domestic partnership or spouse, and dependent children are you a grad student with a family? We have an option for you! Family Membership – $30.00 Lasts one calendar year from the date of purchase Special member pricing for gear rental Rent for yourself and the members of your household* *Does not apply to roommates: must be a domestic partnership or spouse, and dependent children Policies: Equipment Rentals Equipment rental is open to students, alumni, staff, faculty, and all Stanford affiliates with access to the Arrillaga Outdoor Education & Recreation Center. Remember to bring your University SUNet ID and a debit card, VISA, MasterCard, Discover, or Apple Pay when you check out. The Stanford Outdoor Center does not accept cash or checks. Equipment rental is available on a first-come, first-serve basis. - Adventure Program members and non-members are allowed to rent a maximum of 2 items per category, per order (i.e. 2 backpacks, 2 tents, 2 kayak packages, etc). Any equipment rental requires the completion of the Gear Rental Agreement, which can be filled out at the time of check out. It is the responsibility of the renter to check the condition of the equipment at the time of check out. Equipment Returns All rental equipment is due 30 minutes before closing time on the return date. Rental equipment brought in half an hour or less before closing time will be asked to return the following business day and will be subject to late fees if applicable. Equipment must be returned clean and dry upon inspection. Equipment returned soiled or damaged will be charged a cleaning and/or damage fee. Cleaning and damage fees will be determined by Outdoor Center Staff on a case-by-case basis. Cleaning expectations will vary depending on the item - please ask a staff member if you have questions. Lessee is responsible for the full cost of replacement if gear is damaged, lost, or stolen. Equipment rentals must be returned by the lessee whose account the equipment is under. Tent Rental: Tent rentals are required to be set up at the Outdoor Center upon return by the lessee. All tent components are to be in good condition upon staff inspection. Lessee will not be permitted to return tents that they do not set up, and late fees will accrue. Water Equipment Rental: All equipment rentals under the water category must be rinsed with fresh water before being returned by the lessee. Remove any mud, sand, or vegetation when you leave the water. All water components are to be clean, dry, and in good condition upon staff inspection. Equipment Available Gear will be rented on a first-come, first-serve basis. Quantities may be limited. Cost of a rental item is calculated by taking the Base Price and multiplying it by the Rate "multiplier" Weekend (3-5 days): Base Price X 2 Weeklong (6-13 days): Base Price X 3 2-Week (14-20 days): Base Price X 4 For each additional week after 20 days, add 2 to the multiplier. View our available equipment! Rental Cleaning and Sanitation We thoroughly clean and treat all rental gear with CDC-recommended cleaning solutions. We are continuously monitoring for updated recommendations and guidelines from the CDC and will update our processes accordingly. All sleeping bags go through our commercial laundry systems and are treated with laundry additives to fight viruses and bacteria. Gear such as tents, backpacks, and sleeping pads are hand-washed, dried, and stored for 48 hours before returning to the rental inventory. All product surfaces are cleaned with CDC-recommended disinfectants. All staff who handle gear are required to use disposable gloves and use sanitizer in between stations. We have extremely high standards regarding warehouse cleanliness and ensuring these standards are maintained to the highest degree. We are frequently sanitizing all surfaces throughout the warehouse. Stanford Recreation and Wellness Address Arrillaga Outdoor Education and Recreation Center 285 Santa Teresa Street Stanford, CA 94305 United States Stanford Facebook Stanford Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Strava Contacts and Information Visit Campus Map Contact Us Register Here Resources for Faculty/Staff - want a personalized wellness program that you customize to meet your unique wellness needs? Students - want to be empowered to flourish through education, connection and positive culture change? Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top