Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Recreation and Wellness Search this site Submit Search Menu Home Move Virtual Fitness Faculty/Staff Free Faculty/Staff Programs Personal Training and Private Pilates Aquatics Masters Swim Membership and Dues Lane Etiquette and Equipment Announcements Resources Swim Away from Home Play Club Sports Intramural Sports Open Rec Sports Squash and Racquetball Courts Youth Programs Camp Cardinal Winter Programs Youth Camps FAQs Camp Counselors Adventure Equipment Rentals Climbing Stanford Pre-Orientation Trips (SPOT) Adventure Trips Student Opportunities Learn Physical Education Outdoor Education Recreational Classes Belay Cert CPR Certification Belong Diversity, Inclusion, and Accessibility Membership Faculty/Staff Visit Facility Hours Main Campus Stanford Redwood City SRWC Group Fitness SRWC Personal Training SRWC Aquatics SRWC Sports Stanford Red Barn Equestrian Center Stanford Horses Physical Education IEA & AEL Facilties and Boarding Pre-Collegiate Leadership Resident Trainers Riding Academy Arrillaga Recreation Center at SLAC Stanford Campus Recreation Association About Us Memberships Social Swimming Tennis Activities Rentals and Reservations Tennis & Golf Community Guidelines and Policies Connect About Us Contact Information Employment Opportunities Staff Fitness Main navigation Skip to main content Secondary Navigation Virtual Fitness Faculty/Staff Personal Training and Private Pilates Aquatics Main content start Announcements Registration for Summer Fitness opens on Tuesday, June 7 at the following times: Recreational and Rec Swim Classes - registration opens at 9:00 AM PST Group Fitness - registration opens at 10:00 AM PST Stay tuned, schedules are coming soon! Registration for Spring Quarter Fitness Classes is now open. Register for Group Fitness On this page: Group Fitness Cardinal Pass Platinum Pass EVGR Pass SRWC Cardinal Pass MindBody FAQ Faculty/Staff Classes Fitness 101 We strive to offer challenging and fun group fitness and recreation classes for everyone. Whether you are looking to try something new or you’re wanting to push it to the limits, we have something for every level of fitness. Sharpen your basketball skills, enjoy morning yoga sessions, build muscle with our personal trainers, or learn how to cartwheel in gymnastics. Our talented staff is here to help you through every step of your fitness journey. 5 Steps to Success Take a look at these five steps to help you prepare for registration day Group Fitness Learn How to Register for Fitness Passes If you visit the registration portal via any button on this page, start the tutorial on step 6 and remember to login with your SUID in the upper right corner. Group Fitness Pass Registration Tutorial Purchase a Group Fitness Pass Purchase Your Group Fitness Pass Here Group Fitness Program Overview Stanford Recreation and Wellness offers different pass options available through the Group Fitness Program. Cardinal Pass The Cardinal Pass gives access to a variety of fitness classes (reservations preferred, drop-ins allowed) at both the main campus and Redwood City. Register for the Cardinal Pass Cardinal Pass Schedule Platinum Pass The Platinum Pass gives access to all classes available on the Cardinal PLUS additional reservation-based F45 classes for an add-on fee of $60 per quarter. This pass is only available at the main campus. Register for the Platinum Pass Platinum Pass Schedule EVGR Pass The EVGR Pass gives access to all classes available on the EVGR Pass Schedule. This pass is only available at the Escondido Village Graduate Residences. Cardinal Passes do not give access to EVGR classes. Register for the EVGR Pass EVGR Pass Schedule SRWC Cardinal Pass The SRWC Cardinal Pass gives access to all non-reservation-based (drop-in) classes at Stanford Redwood City Recreation and Wellness Center. Experience our wide range of classes for free! From Monday, June 13 - Friday, June 17, we will hold classes from the Summer Quarter schedule for free. No need to register or reserve, just walk in! Register for the SRWC Cardinal Pass SRWC Cardinal Pass Schedule Pass Information All participants pay a quarterly fee for each of the passes to access group fitness classes taught by experienced, certified instructors. Your pass allows you to take as many classes as you want during the quarter, so you can change up your schedule each week or pick a few favorites. MindBody FAQ Quarterly Pricing: WHO CARDINAL PASS PLATINUM PASS EVGR PASS Student/Post Doc/Visiting Scholars $70 $130 $50 Faculty & Staff $70 $130 N/A Stanford Community $140 $200 N/A Faculty/Staff Classes Purchasing a Faculty/Staff Class in an activity gives access to all classes in that category. These classes are targeted for Faculty/Staff. Register for Faculty/Staff Classes Faculty/Staff Fitness Schedule Safety Precautions All of our programs will ensure a minimum of 6-feet of physical distancing between individuals is maintained at all times. Please take the Stanford Health Check 1-2 hours before arriving at class. Eligibility Passes are only available to those with access to our Recreation Facilities. To check your eligibility, please visit this page. These are non-credit classes provided by Stanford Recreation Fitness Programs. BeWell Information Learn more about the BeWell program Evaluations and Contact For inquiries related to group fitness offerings, recreation classes, and any other program-related questions, please contact recprograms@stanford.edu. For inquiries related to general eligibility, affiliation, membership, and BeWell pricing, please contact recmembership@stanford.edu. Fitness 101 New to the gym and/or Stanford Recreation & Wellness facilities? Come to Fitness 101 to learn more about our fitness center’s equipment, amenities, and more! Email recprograms@stanford.edu to make a reservation. BeWell Program For benefits-eligible Stanford University employees, this offering is eligible for points toward your BeWell incentive. Learn more about the program and sign in to your account to get started. Stanford Recreation and Wellness Address Arrillaga Outdoor Education and Recreation Center 285 Santa Teresa Street Stanford, CA 94305 United States Stanford Facebook Stanford Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Strava Contacts and Information Visit Campus Map Contact Us Register Here Resources for Faculty/Staff - want a personalized wellness program that you customize to meet your unique wellness needs? Students - want to be empowered to flourish through education, connection and positive culture change? Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top