Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton A-Z Index Search Search Domains Search this site or CSUF general sites Search Type Site CSUF Search Site Menu Division of Academic Affairs Registration and Records Main Navigation REGISTRATION Show Extended Registration Guides Calendars Early Start Program FORMS & RECORDS Show Extended Academic Transcripts Articulations & Transfer Credits California Promise Enrollment Verifications Final Exam Schedule Forms Leave of Absence Petitions Special Programs Titan Degree Audit GRADUATION Show Extended Commencement Graduation Deadlines Diploma Pay for Graduation SCHEDULING Show Extended Important Dates 25Live Training Materials Final Exam Schedule OFFICE OF THE REGISTRAR Show Extended FERPA Meet the Team Registration Guides Regulations University Catalog Veterans' Services RE-ENROLLMENT INFORMATION CONTACT US Academic Transcript Articulation & Transfer Credits California Promise Enrollment Verifications Final Examinations Forms Leave of Absence Petitions Special Programs Titan Degree Audit Special Programs Cross Enrollment This program is for enrollment for undergraduate students between CSU and the University of California or California community colleges. No post baccalaureate or graduate students are eligible. Applications and additional information about these programs are available from the Records Office. The Cross Enrollment Program is only available during the regular sessions of the academic year and specifically excludes Summer Session and Winter Session. In addition, Matriculated CSU, UC, or community college students, in good standing, may enroll on a "space available" basis for one baccalaureate-level course per term at another CSU, UC, or community college, and request that a transcript of record be sent to the home campus It is the student's responsibility to make sure the credits have been incorporated into the official records of the home institution A $10 course fee is required plus a *consolidated course fee and *student ID card fee. *These fees are subject to change Cross Enrollment (PDF 187KB) Intrasystem Concurrent Students enrolled at any CSU campus will have access to courses at other CSU campuses on a space available basis, unless those campuses or programs are impacted. This access is offered without students being required to be admitted formally to the host campus and sometimes without paying additional fees. Although courses taken on any CSU campus will transfer to the student’s home CSU campus as at least elective credit, students should consult their home campus academic advisors to determine how such courses may apply to their degree programs before enrolling at the host campus. Application deadlines vary by campus. Students are encouraged to contact the host CSU campus for specific application deadlines. Undergraduate eligibility requirements for Intrasystem Concurrent and visitor enrollment 1. Student has completed at least one term and earned at least 12 units at the home campus as a matriculated student. 2. Student has attained a grade point average of 2.0 in all work completed at the home campus and is in good standing. 3. Student is enrolled at home campus during the period of concurrent enrollment and has paid tuition and fees as a full-time student. Graduate eligibility requirements for Intrasystem Concurrent and visitor enrollment 1. Student has completed at least one term at the home campus as a matriculated student and will be enrolled concurrently in such status. 2. Student has been admitted to or is enrolled in an authorized graduate program at the home campus. 3. Student was in good standing at the last college attended. CSU Intrasystem Concurrent Enrollment Matriculated students in good standing may enroll at both their home CSU campus and a host CSU campus during the same term. Credit earned at the host campus is reported at the student’s request to the home campus to be included on the student’s transcript at the home campus. See FAQ below CSU Intrasystem Concurrent ICE (PDF 411KB) CSU Intrasystem Visitor Enrollment Matriculated students in good standing enrolled at one CSU campus may enroll at another CSU campus for one term. Credit earned at the host campus is reported at the student’s request to the home campus to be included on the student’s transcript at the home campus. See FAQ below CSU Intrasystem Visitor IVE (PDF 116KB) FAQ FOR CSU CONCURRENT AND VISITOR ENROLLMENT Where do I pay my fees as an Intrasystem Visitor student? What about a Concurrent student? Visitor students pay all fees at the host campus. Concurrent students pay fees at their home campus and fee payment must be verified before the Intrasystem Concurrent application is forwarded to the host campus. How can I receive my Financial Aid? What about my Veterans Educational benefits? All Financial Aid is handled through the student’s home campus. Please contact the Financial Aid office for more information. Students eligible for veterans, rehabilitation, social security and other federal, state or county benefits must secure eligibility certification through the home campus. Are all CSU campuses participating in Intrasystem Concurrent and Visitor enrollment? Intrasystem Visitor and Concurrent enrollment at other CSU campuses is on a space available basis. If a campus is impacted, they may not be accepting Intrasystem applications. Students are advised to verify that the host campus is accepting Visitor and Concurrent students for the specified term. When are Intrasystem applications due? Applications for Intrasystem Concurrent and Visitor enrollment are generally due at least four (4) weeks before the start of the term, however, deadlines may differ by campus. Students are advised to verify with the host campus when applications are due for the specified term. How many terms can I attend as a Visitor or Concurrent student? Approval of visitor enrollment is valid for one term only and for the term specified. Approval of concurrent enrollment is for the term specified, any additional term would require a separate application and approval. CSU Fully Online Courses - Cross Campus Enrollment CSU Fully Online Courses (formerly known as CourseMatch) Students now have access to more online courses at other CSU campuses. To participate in this program during the regular academic year (fall and spring), undergraduate students must have: Completed at least one term and earned at least 12 units at CSUF as a matriculated student Earned at least a 2.0 GPA at CSUF Enrolled at CSUF during the period of concurrent enrollment, and Paid tuition fees as a full-time student To learn more about this program, the courses offered, and to apply, see the CSU Fully Online website. Students should consult with an academic advisor to determine if the course(s) will apply to degree requirements. This site is maintained by CSUF Registration and Records. Last Published 4/13/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact arwebmaster@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.