Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton A-Z Index Search Search Domains Search this site or CSUF general sites Search Type Site CSUF Search Site Menu Division of Academic Affairs Registration and Records Main Navigation REGISTRATION Show Extended Registration Guides Calendars Early Start Program FORMS & RECORDS Show Extended Academic Transcripts Articulations & Transfer Credits California Promise Enrollment Verifications Final Exam Schedule Forms Leave of Absence Petitions Special Programs Titan Degree Audit GRADUATION Show Extended Commencement Graduation Deadlines Diploma Pay for Graduation SCHEDULING Show Extended Important Dates 25Live Training Materials Final Exam Schedule OFFICE OF THE REGISTRAR Show Extended FERPA Meet the Team Registration Guides Regulations University Catalog Veterans' Services RE-ENROLLMENT INFORMATION CONTACT US Academic Transcript Articulation & Transfer Credits California Promise Enrollment Verifications Final Examinations Forms Leave of Absence Petitions Special Programs Titan Degree Audit Transfer Credit Information Undergraduate students transfer into Cal State Fullerton may be awarded credit for courses completed at other regionally accredited colleges and universities. Student must submit an official transcript from each institution where they completed courses. Please submit the official transcript to the Office of Admissions . Transfer courses are applied toward degree requirements and are based on factors such as articulation agreements, unit limitation and General Education certification. For specific transfer credit information, please see the links below. Articulation Agreements Articulation agreements identify individual courses from transfer institutions that are comparable to, or "acceptable in lieu of" corresponding courses at Cal State Fullerton (CSUF). Successful completion of an articulated course assures that students will receive appropriate course credits after transferring to CSUF. Articulation Agreements with California Public Institutions The ASSIST website is the official statewide repository of articulation information that includes UC Transferable Course Agreements (TCA), IGETC lists, CSU Baccalaureate lists, CSU GE Breadth lists, Course to Course Articulation, and Major Preparation Articulation for the Universities of California and the California State Universities. Go to the ASSIST website agreements between Cal State Fullerton and the California Community Colleges. Some course-to-course articulations with other CSUs are also available on ASSIST. ARTICULATION AGREEMENTS WITH PRIVATE AND OUT-OF-STATE INSTITUTIONS In addition to ASSIST, course articulation (course to course equivalencies) for some private and out-of-state institutions are available through the CollegeSource Transfer Evaluation Sytem (TES) site. Articulations for the CSU CourseMatch and Fully-Online courses are also available on TES. Students can view how other CSU online courses will be accepted at Cal State Fullerton. <p>Your browser does not support frames.</p> Additional Articulation Agreements for Private/Foreign Institutions Hope International University (PDF 91KB) * SKEMA, France, Articulation Agreement (PDF 393KB) * Transferology is a nation-wide network designed to help students explore their college transfer options. You can use this site to find out if your courses will transfer to CSUF. Please follow the link below for more information or to see how your classes will transfer. (Please note that not all institutions may be included, only those who have subscribed to Transferology.) Articulation Agreements for External Examinations External Examinations (AP, IB, CLEP) (PDF 341KB) * * Articulation Resources Accreditation Associate Degree for Transfer (ADT) CSU Associate Degrees for Transfer Information CSU Fully Online Courses/CourseMatch Information CSU Student Transfer Information CSU Executive Orders Online Catalogs Database (CollegeSource) Please note that the course equivalencies provided in TES are subject to revisions. New institutions and additional courses may be added regularly. Final decision regarding all transfer course equivalencies remains with the Evaluations Office and the Articulation Office, in consultation with individual Colleges and Department Chairs. This site is maintained by CSUF Registration and Records. Last Published 5/9/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact arwebmaster@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.