Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton A-Z Index Search Search Domains Search this site or CSUF general sites Search Type Site CSUF Search Site Menu Division of Academic Affairs Registration and Records Main Navigation REGISTRATION Show Extended Registration Guides Calendars Early Start Program FORMS & RECORDS Show Extended Academic Transcripts Articulations & Transfer Credits California Promise Enrollment Verifications Final Exam Schedule Forms Leave of Absence Petitions Special Programs Titan Degree Audit GRADUATION Show Extended Commencement Graduation Deadlines Diploma Pay for Graduation SCHEDULING Show Extended Important Dates 25Live Training Materials Final Exam Schedule OFFICE OF THE REGISTRAR Show Extended FERPA Meet the Team Registration Guides Regulations University Catalog Veterans' Services RE-ENROLLMENT INFORMATION CONTACT US Academic Transcript Articulation & Transfer Credits California Promise Enrollment Verifications Final Examinations Forms Leave of Absence Petitions Special Programs Titan Degree Audit Leave of Absence / Stop-Out Policy For GRADUATE AND CREDENTIAL STUDENT leave of absence, please go to the Graduate Studies website Undergraduate and Second Bachelor Students What does Stop-Out policy have to do with my request for a leave of absence? Undergraduate and post-baccalaureate second bachelor's students who need to be absent from the University should first make use of a stop-out semester before seeking to use the leave of absence policy, as explained below. Important - Are all students elgible for using the Stop-Out policy? Not eligible for a stop-out semester: Academically disqualified students Foreign visa students Graduate students Credential students Students who have been on an approved leave of absence for two semesters or more cannot add a stop-out semester at the end of their approved leave period in an effort to extend their period of absence from the university. Stop-Out Policy Pertains to Spring and Fall semesters only (Summer Session and Intersession do not count as terms that are a part of the stop‐out policy) No form to fill out (can be non-enrolled for one semester) Must return to enrolled status in the semester immediately following a stop-out semester Registration information will be automatically available for the term following stop-out Can be used more than once, but not for two semesters in a row (students are not permitted to use stop-out policy for consecutive semesters) Cannot be used the first semester you are admitted to CSUF Example: (please note: Intersession and Summer Session do not pertain to stop-out policy) Example of Stop-Out Policy Spring 2009 Fall 2009 Spring 2010 Fall 2010 Spring 2011 Fall 2011 Spring 2012 Enrolled On Stop-Out Must Enroll (or request Leave of Absence) Enrolled Enrolled On Stop-Out Must Enroll (or request Leave of Absence) WARNING: If the student does not enroll in the semester immediately following a stop-out semester, the student is discontinued and must apply for readmission to Cal State Fullerton should the student wish to return as a matriculated student. Leave of Absence If the student has used a stop-out semester, but still needs to be absent from the university, the student can submit a request for a leave of absence if the reason for the request is one of the circumstances listed on the leave of absence request form that follows these instructions. Leave of Absence requests are reviewed and can either be granted or denied. When submitting a leave of absence request: Make sure you first make use of a stop‐out semester (if eligible to use stop‐out, as explained above) Make sure the reason for your leave request is one of the reasons listed on the form Complete and sign the 'Request for Leave of Absence' form Attach documentation as explained below. Documentation for a Leave of Absence request It is important to provide appropriate documentation for your leave of absence request: An attached statement from the student describing the reason for requesting a leave of absence is not considered documentation. Documentation must be from a source other than the student to verify the reason for the request (example: verification letter from a health care provider, military orders, study abroad contract, etc). If your Leave of Absence request is submitted without any documentation, your form will be returned to you without processing. The form can only be resubmitted when appropriate documentation is attached. Medical Leave of Absence: If you intend to submit a Medical Leave of Absence, you must upload credible medical documentation with your request. Failure to submit proper medical documentation for a medical request will result in your form being rejected. Medical charts, notes, lab results, x-rays, hospital records, discharge papers, police reports and medically related pictures/images are not sufficient medical documentation for a medical leave of absence petition. DO NOT UPLOAD these items. Two options meet the medical documentation requirement. Students can submit a Medical/Mental Health Professional Form OR Students can submit a letter from student's health care provider*. If a student decides to submit a letter from their health care provider, that letter must include all of the following: Official letterhead including name/title/medical license of attending health care provider with phone number and address of medical or mental health facility General description of the student's medical condition; why/how it prevents them from completing their coursework and verification of the time frame for the leave PLEASE NOTE: Medical/Mental Health Professional Form is sufficient medical documentation in lieu of a letter from the medical provider. View samples of sufficient medical documentations/letters Sample of documentation from medical provider for Partial Medical Withdrawal Sample of documentation from medical provider for Full Medical Withdrawal Consult with your doctor or counselor about your Medical or Mental Health Withdrawal request and show them this document for clarification. Request appropriate documentation. Request for Leave of Absence * Note About PDF If you encounter trouble opening the PDF file above in Internet Explorer right click on the link and select Save Target As... and save the file to your local drive for opening. This site is maintained by CSUF Registration and Records. Last Published 4/13/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact arwebmaster@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.