Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton A-Z Index Search Search Domains Search this site or CSUF general sites Search Type Site CSUF Search Site Menu Division of Academic Affairs Registration and Records Main Navigation REGISTRATION Show Extended Registration Guides Calendars Early Start Program FORMS & RECORDS Show Extended Academic Transcripts Articulations & Transfer Credits California Promise Enrollment Verifications Final Exam Schedule Forms Leave of Absence Petitions Special Programs Titan Degree Audit GRADUATION Show Extended Commencement Graduation Deadlines Diploma Pay for Graduation SCHEDULING Show Extended Important Dates 25Live Training Materials Final Exam Schedule OFFICE OF THE REGISTRAR Show Extended FERPA Meet the Team Registration Guides Regulations University Catalog Veterans' Services RE-ENROLLMENT INFORMATION CONTACT US Apply for Graduation Commencement Graduation Deadlines Diploma Pay for Graduation Commencement What is the difference between graduation and commencement? Graduation Graduation is the official awarding of your degree. There are three graduation terms each year: Fall, Spring, and Summer. Students should contact the Graduation Unit with questions regarding completion of degree requirements, degree conferral, and diplomas. Commencement Commencement is the optional event which celebrates the completion (or anticipated completion) of degree programs. Commencement is held once a year in the spring, for the three graduation terms of the preceding academic year: Fall, Spring, and Summer. Students should refer to the commencement website (link below) and/or the commencement office (or the appropriate contact stated on the website) for details and questions about the ceremonies. Once you have completed the graduation check process, whether graduate or undergraduate, you are eligible to participate in the commencement ceremony appropriate to your graduation date: If you graduated in Fall 2020 (January 2021) or become a candidate for Spring (May) 2021 or Summer (August) 2021 graduation, you will be eligible to participate in the Spring 2021 commencement ceremonies. If you graduate in Fall 2021 (January 2022) or become a candidate for Spring (May) 2022 or Summer (August) 2022 graduation, you will be eligible to participate in the Spring 2022 commencement ceremonies. For further ceremony infomation, please see the COMMENCEMENT WEBSITE This site is maintained by CSUF Registration and Records. Last Published 4/13/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact arwebmaster@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.