Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton A-Z Index Search Search Domains Search this site or CSUF general sites Search Type Site CSUF Search Site Menu Division of Academic Affairs Registration and Records Main Navigation REGISTRATION Show Extended Registration Guides Calendars Early Start Program FORMS & RECORDS Show Extended Academic Transcripts Articulations & Transfer Credits California Promise Enrollment Verifications Final Exam Schedule Forms Leave of Absence Petitions Special Programs Titan Degree Audit GRADUATION Show Extended Commencement Graduation Deadlines Diploma Pay for Graduation SCHEDULING Show Extended Important Dates 25Live Training Materials Final Exam Schedule OFFICE OF THE REGISTRAR Show Extended FERPA Meet the Team Registration Guides Regulations University Catalog Veterans' Services RE-ENROLLMENT INFORMATION CONTACT US Academic Transcript Articulation & Transfer Credits California Promise Enrollment Verifications Final Examinations Forms Leave of Absence Petitions Special Programs Titan Degree Audit Records Department Any fees for the services that Records and Registration provides will now be added after processing. Please fill out and scan the appropriate form and if there is a charge associated with that service, we will notify Student Business Services to add the charge to your (the student’s) account. These fees will be due two weeks from the day that the fee gets posted to your account. Failure to pay any university-issued fee can result in a diploma/enrollment hold. Use the navigation bar on the left-hand side to make your selection This site is maintained by CSUF Registration and Records. Last Published 4/13/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact arwebmaster@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.