Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton A-Z Index Search Search Domains Search this site or CSUF general sites Search Type Site CSUF Search Site Menu Division of Academic Affairs Registration and Records Main Navigation REGISTRATION Show Extended Registration Guides Calendars Early Start Program FORMS & RECORDS Show Extended Academic Transcripts Articulations & Transfer Credits California Promise Enrollment Verifications Final Exam Schedule Forms Leave of Absence Petitions Special Programs Titan Degree Audit GRADUATION Show Extended Commencement Graduation Deadlines Diploma Pay for Graduation SCHEDULING Show Extended Important Dates 25Live Training Materials Final Exam Schedule OFFICE OF THE REGISTRAR Show Extended FERPA Meet the Team Registration Guides Regulations University Catalog Veterans' Services RE-ENROLLMENT INFORMATION CONTACT US Academic Transcript Articulation & Transfer Credits California Promise Enrollment Verifications Final Examinations Forms Leave of Absence Petitions Special Programs Titan Degree Audit The California Promise Program (California State University’s “Degree Pledge” program) Please be aware that the CSUF CA Promise Program does not provide tuition assistance or tuition reimbursement. The "California Promise" is a guarantee from the California State University system that a first-time freshman can earn a degree in no more than four years (or two years, for transfer students having earned an Associate Degree for Transfer- ADT) if you pledge to, and follow, specific requirements. Graduating in four years (or two, as an ADT Transfer) will save you tuition and books/materials costs. It also will increase your earning potential by enabling you to enter the workforce sooner rather than later. Students who elect to participate in California Promise receive special academic advisement and priority registration. The California Promise program will support two student populations: Entering First-time freshmen students interested in completing their baccalaureate degrees in four years as a major in one of the approved CA Promise degree programs. Please read a list of approved CA Promise Degrees for First Time Freshman. Transfer students entering with a completed Associate Degree for Transfer (ADT), interested in completing their remaining requirements for the baccalaureate degree in the same area, in two years, are encouraged to participate in the California Promise Program. Please be aware that transfer student pursuing the online degree programs in Sociology, Business Administration, and Humanities and Social Sciences are not eligible for the CA Promise program since these online programs are three year programs. Interested students will be expected to: Be eligible to enroll in College Level Math and College Level English courses prior to the first semester of enrollment at CSUF. Complete a minimum of 30 academic units in a college year based on term of entry, including summer and winter session. Maintain at least a 2.00 grade point average in all academic work completed. Submit an educational plan to complete a declared major program within the specified timeframe to the designated academic advisor. Review and modify the academic plan as needed with the designated academic advisor at least once each term. Enroll in classes during the established priority registration period and pay fees by the required deadlines. This site is maintained by CSUF Registration and Records. Last Published 4/13/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact arwebmaster@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.