Skip to main content Search form Search This Site Cornell Cornell Recreational Services Wellness Program menu Home & Events Hours & Facilities Bowling Fitness Centers Intramurals Noyes Wellness Program Home Wellness Program Wellness Recreation Membership Member Perks Sailing Center & Lessons Merrill Family Sailing Center Seasonal Membership Information - 2022: Sailing Memberships are open to the public. A Seasonal Membership to Cornell Community Sailing allows you access* to the sailboats during open hours. Wellness Recreation Members who attend a three day class will receive a 20% discount on Sailing Seasonal Memberships of 2 or more months. This reduced rate is only available to individuals who have a 1-year Wellness Recreation or CPHL Wellness Recreation Membership - not available to 4-month Wellness Recreation Membership holders. Sailing Seasonal Memberships can be purchased for 2 months or 3 months or the full season. If you have questions about Sailing Seasonal Memberships, contact Greg Brown by email at ggb26@cornell.edu. *You must be signed off on your ability to sail different lengths of boats before you can take them out on Cayuga Lake. If you register for one of the sailing classes, by the end of the class, you should be signed off on at least one size of boat. Sailing Lessons - 2022: Cornell Wellness is excited to announce sailing lessons open to the entire Cornell community. There will be Five classes offered. Each class will consist of three lessons held on consecutive days. A class will cost $200 per person. A small participant to instructor ratio of 2:1 per boat will ensure a great experience while social distancing. If you are looking to learn all about sailboat safety, getting a boat ready to sail, and controlling the sailboat in the water - this class is for you! Instruction will be given on 19-26' keel boats. Boats and PFDs (life preservers) are provided. You just bring yourself and wear comfortable weather appropriate clothing. Registration is required. You must be 16 yrs. or older to participate. Five classes are listed below - sign up for one only - remember each class has three lessons on consecutive days. To register or ask questions, contact Greg Brown directly at the Sailing Center by email ggb26@cornell.edu. Class 1: May 25, 26, 27 (Wed-Fri) 3:00-5:30 pm. Class 2: June 1, 2, 3 (Wed-Fri) 3:00-5:30 pm. Class 3: June 8, 9, 10 (Wed-Fri) 3:00-5:30 pm. Class 4: June 15, 16, 17 (Wed-Fri) 3:00-5:30 pm. Class 5: June 22, 23, 24 (Wed-Fri) 3:00-5:30 pm. Note: classes must have 4 people minimum to run; maximum capacity 10. Classes maximum capacity numbers are based on the number of instructors available to teach and the number of boats. In this section Accessibility Balance Training Programs Fitness Consultation Flexibility Training Programs Functional Movement Screen General Fitness And Nutrition Education Session Golf Course & Lessons Lindseth Climbing Wall Pass Metabolic Testing Nutrition Consultation Physical Fitness Testing Reis Tennis Center Running Programs Sailing Center & Lessons Strength Training Programs Wellness Recreation Membership Wellness Recreation Memberships are available to staff, faculty, retirees, and their spouses/partners. Students purchase CFC memberships. Purchase a Wellness Recreation Membership What You Get With Your Wellness Recreation Membership Fitness Center Hours CFC Group Fitness Classes - Virtual & In-Person Pool Hours Wellness' Healthy Living Program Group Fitness Classes and more Short Duration Small Group Exercise Classes Contact Cornell University Wellness Program 305 Helen Newman Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 Phone: (607) 255-5133 wellness@cornell.edu Admin office hours: M-F 9am-2pm; 3:00pm-5:00pm Cornell Wellness Staff Listing Cornell University ©2021 Links Athletics Cornell Outdoor Education Physical Education Recreational Services Staff Listing Web Accessibility If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. About Us Learn more about Cornell Wellness, our staff and how to stay in touch with us. Did you know that you can request a Flexible Work Arrangement to help with your Wellness and Wellbeing needs?