Skip to main content Search form Search This Site Cornell Cornell Recreational Services Hours & Facilities menu Home & Events Hours & Facilities Bowling Fitness Centers Intramurals Noyes Wellness Program Home Hours & Facilities Learn more about what's available in each of our facilities. Find out information on who can reserve rooms, courts, and pools and how to do it. Check out when we're open (see links below), and how to get equipment (ex. volleyballs, tennis racquets, outdoor basketballs, etc.) Wanting to purchase a Day Pass? Bringing a guest or a child to the facilities? Please review our guest/day pass and child/dependent policies (Guest/Day Passes and the option to bring guests/dependants to the facilities is currently unavailable due to COVID-19). Attending a conference and wanting to use the facilities? Review conference pass policies. In this section Cornell University Emergency: CFC Operations Pool Hours Equipment Facilities Reservations & Rentals Conference Pass Policies Guest and Child Policies HNH Building & Gymnasium Hours Teagle Building Hours Of Operation Facility Accessibility Information on accessibility of fitness centers to persons with mobility impairment. Cornell's statement on Restroom/Facilities Use Guidelines. Map of the locations of all-gender facilities. Hours Cornell Fitness Centers CFC Group Fitness Classes Noyes Community Recreation Center Helen Newman Hall Pool & Teagle Hall Pool Open Hours Helen Newman Hall Building & Gymnasium Open Hours Teagle Hall Building Open Hours Locations Access the Cornell University map to see locations of central campus Fitness Centers. These will be highlighted on the map when you select fitness centers on the left hand bar. Contact Cornell Recreational Services 305 Helen Newman Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 Phone: (607) 255-5133 Cornell University ©2018 Links Athletics Cornell Outdoor Education Physical Education Recreational Services Staff Listing Web Accessibility If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. Employment Working for Cornell Recreational Services–one of the largest employers of students on campus–is just plain fun. Work for the Cornell Fitness Centers as a Fitness Monitor, a Group Fitness Instructor, Personal Trainer; or be an Intramural official or a Lifeguard. Learn more.