Skip to main content Search form Search This Site Cornell Cornell Recreational Services Fitness Centers menu Home & Events Hours & Facilities Bowling Fitness Centers Intramurals Noyes Wellness Program Home Cornell Fitness Centers With five sites of operation across campus and a multitude of equipment and exercise options, the Cornell Fitness Centers are the places to be to fulfill your need for movement, wellness, and recreation. We offer options for informal fitness, informal recreation, group fitness, and consultation for personal training... whether in-person or virtual. Our professional and student staff are more than happy to assist you to ensure that you have a quality experience and to answer any questions about our facilities and programs. Check out our links below to get more information about the Cornell Fitness Centers, and how we can help you with your recreation needs! Operating Hours CFC Facility Sites Hours Pool Hours - Helen Newman Hall and Teagle Hall Building Hours - Helen Newman Hall Informal Recreation Building Hours - Noyes Community Rec Center Informal Recreation Locker Room Use Hours - Teagle Hall Membership Pass Information CFC Membership - Students & Student Spouses/Partners CFC Membership - Staff, Faculty, Retirees, and their Spouses/Partners Students - Day Guest Passes Please read the Day Pass eligibility and policy statement before purchase. NOTE: Due to COVID policy on campus, day passes are currently unavailable for purchase. Individual & Group Fitness CFC Group Fitness Classes - Virtual & In-Person CFC to Go: Fitness Anywhere You Are FAQ CFC Spring 2022 FAQ - Updated March 11, 2022 CFC COVID-19 Compliance Information CFC Locations on Campus Maps - Select the 'Fitness Center' Filter Employment CFC Student Jobs Follow Us on Social Media! Questions? Contact us via phone at (607) 254-2824 Email us: fitness@cornell.edu Visit Us 319 Helen Newman Hall Office hours are Monday through Friday between 9:00am to 2:00pm and 3:00pm to 5:00pm In this section About Cornell Fitness Centers Fitness Education Fitness for Free Group Fitness Classes - Virtual & In-Person Membership And Guest/Day Pass Information Personal Trainer Services CFC to Go: Fitness Anywhere You Are Highlights We're Waiting For You! Today's Classes Class Time Fitness Instructor Location Virtual Yoga - Kripalu 7:00AM to 8:15AM Diane Virtual Yoga - Vinyasa 12:15PM to 1:15PM Linda Teagle Multipurpose Room ZUMBA® 4:15PM to 5:00PM Livia Helen Newman Hall Dance Studio Contact Cornell Fitness Centers 319 Helen Newman Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 Phone: (607) 254-2824 Email: fitness@cornell.edu Cornell University ©2018 Links Athletics Cornell Outdoor Education Physical Education Recreational Services Staff Listing Web Accessibility If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. Employment Working for Cornell Recreational Services–one of the largest employers of students on campus–is just plain fun. Work for the Cornell Fitness Centers as a Fitness Monitor, a Group Fitness Instructor, Personal Trainer; or be an Intramural official or a Lifeguard. Learn more.