Skip to main content Search form Search This Site Cornell Cornell Recreational Services Wellness Program menu Home & Events Hours & Facilities Bowling Fitness Centers Intramurals Noyes Wellness Program Home Wellness Program Cornell Wellness Outreach Wellness For Your Department Cornell Wellness staff are available to provide workshops, lectures, clinics, and demos on many different topics to your department, unit or division by request. Most offerings run 30-60 minutes. A minimum of 10 registrants are requested but exceptions can be made. Workshops provided in-person or through Zoom. Submit requests and questions to wellness@cornell.edu. On-Demand Department Work For Winter/Spring 2021-2022 BRAND NEW FOR SPRING: What Can I Do In This Moment To Care For Myself? – Spring Flourishing Wellness Edition Spring is a moment of awakening and growth for our natural world. Perhaps it can be a moment of flourishing for us too? Join Wellness staff for a conversation about wellness practices that can nourish our bodies, minds and spirits. You will experience a sampler of short mindfulness practices and gentle mobility movements. You will also gain all sorts of knowledge, pro-tips, and ideas for making small moments of wellness behaviors into a flourishing habit. What Can I Do In This Moment To Care For Myself? – Small Bites of Movement for busy people Even during our busiest work moments, we have an opportunity to care for our physical bodies. But what do we do? What is worth it when you only have a minute or two? What do you do when your body hurts from too much sitting, even though you have work to get through? Join Wellness staff for a discussion and “sampler” of short, bite sized movement-based practices you can do at any time. You’ll experience a few mobility movements and stretches for cranky body parts, learn how to thread in postural changes to help with prolonged sitting and learn tips to make caring for your physical body more approachable. You will leave with resources and knowledge to help you feel organized and empowered to care for yourself even during your busiest work moments. What Can I Do In This Moment To Care For Myself? – Small Bites of Mindfulness for busy people Mindfulness has made its way onto self care lists, along with moving our bodies, eating healthy, managing stress, etc. But, what is worth the time? How do you get started? When work is busy, why take the time to practice mindfulness? Join Wellness staff for a candid conversation about mindfulness practices and how to make it more approachable. You will experience a few short, mindfulness practices, and share pro-tips and resources to make mindfulness work for you. Reset, Recharge, Refocus: How Can Wellness Support You Learn about the many ways Cornell Wellness can help you re-fill your wellness cup. Wellness staff will share with you the many opportunities and services Wellness provides not only for you individually but for your department as well. Hear about the pillars of physical wellness and much more. You’ll leave this workshop feeling confident that you have the skills and support to be successful with your physical wellness. Fitness Fact Check Information is easier than ever to access in our online world, but how do we know what information is accurate? For example, have you wondered if it is true that lifting heavy weights makes you less flexible or if squats are bad for your knees? Join wellness staff to debunk five persistent fitness myths. We'll cover their origins, why they stick around, and up-to-date research findings. Curious about something we didn’t cover? Ask us on the spot. You'll leave this workshop with the knowledge to feel more confident making the best fitness choices that are right for you. Stretching Session for Your Team – Customized To Your Team! Join fitness professionals from Wellness for an interactive moment to stretch and refresh with your team. Prior to the session, Wellness will survey your group to understand where people are most tense and uneasy, then offer a customized, unique stretching session to meet your team’s needs. You will leave feeling relaxed and refreshed, and also have tools to use on your own. Mindfulness Meditation for Your Team Join a wellness facilitator for a mindfulness moment, customized just for your group. The theme or tone can be chosen to meet your needs. For example, you might want a sip and relax session, or a breath focused meditation, or a session to invoke reflection and many more. We will spend about 20-30 minutes practicing mindfulness as a way to recharge in the moment. You will be given resources, tips and suggestions to take with you so your team can begin a mindfulness practice of their own. Get A Quick Fix Of Wellness Experience 4 quick and easy wellness techniques that bring instant relaxation, stress reduction, and joy to yourself and your work team. You will be guided through each of these techniques by a wellness expert. 5 min Spreading positive thoughts 5 min Guided progressive muscle relaxation 5 min Self-massage for the typically cranky spots 5 min What brings you joy Exercises to Improve Posture While Working Hybrid During the past 18 months, have you found yourself working from both a home environment and office environment? Do you find yourself having a “make-shift” work station in your living room, dining room, attic, etc? Chances are these make-shift work stations still aren't as ergonomically correct for our bodies as our office work stations. Switching back and forth between them to work in this hybrid fashion, you may be experiencing an uptick in discomfort and weakening in your postural muscles. Join Cornell Wellness for this workshop where we will dive into how to strengthen your major postural muscles and decrease your risk for musculoskeletal injuries resulting from poor postural practices. Coping When Work and Life Ramp Up When work and life demands get hard, how do you handle it? In this workshop we'll go over some of the best practices of how to manage when work and life situations may not temporarily be ideal. We will talk about what to do in those moments when it feels like you are in the heat of it all, including relaxation tips to help you keep your cool. Resource information for additional Cornell departments that can be helpful during challenging times will also be provided. Contact Cornell University Wellness Program 305 Helen Newman Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 Phone: (607) 255-5133 wellness@cornell.edu Admin office hours: M-F 9am-2pm; 3:00pm-5:00pm Cornell Wellness Staff Listing Cornell University ©2021 Links Athletics Cornell Outdoor Education Physical Education Recreational Services Staff Listing Web Accessibility If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. About Us Learn more about Cornell Wellness, our staff and how to stay in touch with us. Did you know that you can request a Flexible Work Arrangement to help with your Wellness and Wellbeing needs?