Skip to content Search Rec Sports... Search for: Home Facilities & Hours Facility Reservations Things To Do Aquatics Certification Courses Drop-In Recreation Fitness & Wellness Indoor Climbing Intramural Sports Outdoor Adventures Sport Clubs Strength & Conditioning and Personal Training Membership Services Disability Services Equipment Rental Guest Passes Lockers & Towels Lost & Found Resource Tables Partner With Us! Development Employment About Us Search for: Home Facilities & Hours Facility Reservations Things To Do Aquatics Certification Courses Drop-In Recreation Fitness & Wellness Indoor Climbing Intramural Sports Outdoor Adventures Sport Clubs Strength & Conditioning and Personal Training Membership Services Disability Services Equipment Rental Guest Passes Lockers & Towels Lost & Found Resource Tables Partner With Us! Development Employment About Us Home Facilities & Hours Facility Reservations Things To Do Aquatics Certification Courses Drop-In Recreation Fitness & Wellness Indoor Climbing Intramural Sports Outdoor Adventures Sport Clubs Strength & Conditioning and Personal Training Membership Services Disability Services Equipment Rental Guest Passes Lockers & Towels Lost & Found Resource Tables Partner With Us! Development Employment About Us Sport Clubs2022-05-09T10:42:49-05:00 Overview Sport Clubs Events Officer Resources FAQ Accomplishments Overview Texas A&M Sport Clubs Association The Texas A&M Sport Clubs Association presents a unique opportunity for students to develop both athletic and leadership abilities. It affords the opportunity to be competitive against clubs from other collegiate institutions at the state, regional or national level in 37 sport clubs. Most provide opportunities to learn or enhance skills in a recreational setting. Each club is responsible for all aspects of operating and managing their organization. The Department assists with advising, facilities, event planning, and finances, while providing some monetary support. Clubs can subsidize the cost of their club activities, by charging dues or participating in fundraising activities. Become a Club The Department of Recreational Sports acknowledges other sport-related clubs might wish to seek recognition in the Sport Clubs Association. Due to the limited resources available to the Sport Clubs Association, it may not be feasible to add new clubs. Therefore, student organizations must meet and maintain the following minimum criteria before applying for Sport Club status: Must be a recognized student organization and meet the above requirements for a minimum of 2 consecutive years. (Current year of application DOES NOT COUNT) Must demonstrate leadership transition beyond founding members (Will not accept applications if a club has not gone through multiple officer elections and service) Must have a returning officer as part of the officer group during the transition year if accepted ·Must be an active member of a National Governing Organization Must have regularly scheduled practices and club meetings, EXCLUSIVE TO CLUB MEMBERS Must compete in a minimum of 3 collegiate division competitions per year, and actively pursue other competitions Maintain financial stability. Every club must have a yearly operating budget, AND NOT BUDGET TO BE IN THE NEGATIVE. Clubs must be able to fund own club for 1 year without assistance, AND Must fundraise outside of club dues. Represent Texas A&M University at events hosted by other collegiate institutions Routinely follow Sport Clubs and University policies and procedures Must have a minimum of 10 active members, unless in team sports where the minimum number required to compete is larger than 10. Then the club must maintain that requirement. MUST have at least 25% of the active membership compete and travel to events. MUST comply with ALL paperwork submittal deadlines on consistent basis. Inappropriate conduct or actions while participating in any Sport Clubs related activity will jeopardize the club’s continued status as a recognized Sport Club.Furthermore, club members who participate in inappropriate activity which violates University Student Rules, University policies, campus regulations, or state or federal laws will be subject to disciplinary action by the Department of Recreational Sports, Texas A&M University, and/or appropriate legal authorities Sport Club Executive Committee The Sport Clubs Executive Committee consists of five members as elected by the Sport Clubs Association during the April sport club meeting. These individuals serve as the leadership of the Sport Clubs Association. Some of their responsibilities are as follows: Act as a liaison between the sport clubs and the Sport Club Staff Make recommendations for annual funding to each of the eligible sport clubs Provide a forum for clubs to discuss concerns without intervention by the Sport Club Staff Review applications for new sport clubs and make recommendations for the acceptance or decline of new organizations into the Sport Clubs Association Organize the Sport Clubs Canned Food Drive Act as mediator for clubs with internal conflicts Create and program the semester and end of the year event 2021 – 2022 Sport Club Executive Committee Members Kaylee Connolly – Gymnastics Sarah McQuaid – Crew Bryce Hann – Men’s Ultimate Kassi Porche – Triathlon Michael Lewandowski – Men’s Water Polo Visiting Team Guide 2021 – 2022 Visiting Team Guide (PDF) Concussion Information for Student Athletes Concussion Information for Student Athletes (PDF) Sport Clubs Sport Clubs Archery A&M Target Archers assist members in improving their shooting abilities and provides opportunities for team members to represent Texas A&M at local, regional, national and international archery tournaments. They have won 11 National Championships. All levels of experience are welcome. Past Accomplishments National Champions: 21-time Outdoor National Champions Contact Nick Swidryk nswidryk@gmail.com Social Media Facebook: Texas A&M University Target Archers Twitter: @TAMUArchery Affiliations National Archery Association (NAA) USA Archery Baseball Club baseball arrived at Texas A&M in 2000, joined the National Club Baseball Association (NCBA) in the 2001-2002 season, and since has become one of the most distinguished and storied teams in the League. In 2002, the first year the club team participated in league play, they won the national title in Colorado. Ever since, winning has been a team tradition. The success of the student-athletes from Aggieland is a tribute to their hard work and dedication to the game. The club provides the opportunity to play baseball at a highly competitive level and compete for national championships yearly. Past Accomplishments National Champions: 2002 Regional Champions: 2002, 2003, 2004, 2010, 2019 Conference Champions: 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2010, 2011 Regional Wild-Card: 2006, 2007 Contact Hunter Smith hunterbsmith@tamu.edu Social Media Facebook: TAMU Club Baseball Instagram: @tamuclubbaseball Twitter: @AgsClubBaseball Affiliation National Club Baseball Association Basketball The basketball club was formed as a competitive outlet for basketball players to continue their passion in the sport. The club currently practices twice a week, and plays in the Lone Star Conference as well as the HCSBC Club conference against other universities in the state. Additionally they participate in the NIRSA regional basketball tournaments each year. The club was started on campus in 2013. Past Accomplishments NIRSA National Champions: 2017, 2018 Contact Brian Wolfe brianwolfe@tamu.edu Social Media Facebook: TAMU Club Basketball Instagram: @tamubball Twitter: @TAMUclub_bball Affiliation NIRSA Bowling The Texas A&M Bowling Club was formed to promote student participation in intercollegiate bowling at the recreational and competitive level. The club participates in collegiate and local leagues and supports two competitive teams: men’s and women’s. Contact Bruce Kelly brukelly@tamu.edu Social Media Facebook: Texas A&M Bowling Club Twitter: @TAMUBowling Affiliation Southwest Intercollegiate Bowling Association Cheer Squad The Texas A&M Cheer Squad is an all-girl competitive cheerleading squad established in 2001 to promote the Spirit of Aggieland through college competition. Cheer Squad competes at several competitions each spring. As such, the organization will not cheer at any athletic department events nor represent itself as an official spirit organization of the university. The purpose of the organization is to provide the participants with the opportunity to compete in the All-star/Open Division of state and national competitive cheerleading competitions. Tryouts are held each fall for new members. All new and returning members must tryout each year. Past Accomplishments NCA All-Girl Intermediate Collegiate National Champions: 2018, 2019 American Spirit Championships (ASC) Southern National Champions: 2007, 2008 NCA College Nationals Challenge Cup Champions: 2011 Contact Marissa Ramsey marissa.ramsey@tamu.edu Social Media Facebook: Texas A&M Cheer Squad Instagram: @TAMU_cheer Twitter: @TAMUCheerSquad Affiliations National Cheerleaders Association (NCA) Universal Cheerleaders Association (UCA) Climbing Team The purpose of the organization is to participate in indoor rock climbing competitions, meet fellow A&M climbers, and promote the sport of climbing. The club practices at the Indoor Climbing Facility in the Rec Center, and competes across the state in both the fall and spring semesters. The club is open and welcomes any and all skill level of climbers. The club was started on campus in 2004. Past Accomplishments CCS Regional Champions: 2018 Contact Sam Hicks samantha.hicks06@gmail.com Social Media Facebook: Texas A&M Climbing Team Instagram: @tamuclimbing Twitter: @tamu_rock Affiliation Collegiate Climbing Series Crew The Texas A&M University Crew Club was established in 2001 by Greg Wood, a transfer student from our sister school in Galveston, who had experience with the sport. Due to the complexity of building a team from the ground up, the team did not compete in the first year of its existence. The next year, he led the new team to their first race, the Head of the Colorado Regatta in Austin, Texas, where the Mixed 8 boat placed first—a great start to any team! We continue to pursue new regattas, and we are always up to race. Our success is due in part to the hard work and dedication of our rowers, as the team is a completely student-run organization with a passion for rowing. Contact Sarah McQuaid smcquaid@tamu.edu Social Media Facebook: Texas A&M Crew Instagram: @tamucrew Twitter: @tamucrew Affiliation US Rowing Cycling There is a place on the team for every level of cyclists. The team accepts as much, or as little, time a member is able to commit to the club. Training rides leave every day at 3:45pm from the flagpole in front of the academic building. The team is composed of men and women and promotes road and mountain bike racing, as well as any type of recreational riding. The competitive season runs from February through November. Past Accomplishments South Central Collegiate Cycling Conference Champions – Mountain Bike: 2010, 2018 South Central Collegiate Cycling Conference Champions: 2007, 2018 USA Cycling’s #1 Collegiate Club of the Year: 2002, 2003 Contact Evan Kemppainen ekemppainen@tamu.edu Social Media Facebook: Texas A&M Cycling Team Instagram: @tamucycling Twitter: @tamucycling Affiliation South Central Collegiate Cycling Conference Fencing The Texas A&M Fencing Club competes against other collegiate clubs regionally and nationally in all three weapons: Foil, Epee, and Saber. The club offers skill development both for beginners and experienced fencers, but no prior experience or equipment is necessary to join. Past Accomplishments USACFC Nationals: Men’s Foil Team National Champions: 2012, 2013 Women’s Foil Team National Champions: 2012, 2013 Contact Alannah Blank ablank@gmail.com Social Media Facebook: Texas A&M Fencing Club Instagram: @aggiefencing Twitter: @TAMUfencing Affiliations United States Fencing Association (USFA) Southwest Intercollegiate Fencing Association (SWIFA) United States Association of Collegiate Fencing Clubs (USACFC) Golf The club provides a commonplace for students who seek to play golf in a competitive atmosphere at a state and national level as sanctioned through the National Collegiate Club Golf Association as well as striving to gather students who commit themselves in keeping the history and tradition of the game of golf. The Club Golf team practices at the Campus Course at Texas A&M weekly, and plays in several tournaments each semester. The club was started on campus in 2012. Contact Chesley McDonald chesmcdonald@tamu.edu Social Media Facebook: TAMU Club Golf Twitter: @TAMUClubGolf1 Affiliation National Collegiate Club Golf Association Gymnastics The Gymnastics Club is open to students of any skill level who are interested in gymnastics. The club supports the men’s and women’s competitive team as well as accommodates those people with recreational needs. The club supervises facilities for workouts and provides an opportunity for intercollegiate competition. Past Accomplishments NAIGC Women’s National Champions: 1996, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2013, 2017, 2019 NAIGC Men’s National Champions: 1996, 2000, 2002, 2011, 2012, 2013 Contacts Kaylee Connolly kconnolly567@tamu.edu Social Media Facebook: Texas A&M Gymnastics Instagram: @tamugymnastics Snapchat: @tamugymnastics Twitter: @TAMU_Gymnastics Affiliation National Association of Intercollegiate Gymnastics Clubs Conference Texas Gymnastics Conference Ice Hockey The Texas A&M Men’s Ice Hockey team competes in Division II level games in Texas and across the nation. All home games and practices are held at the Arctic Wolf Ice Center in College Station. The team holds tryouts in late August continuing through the beginning of September. Tryouts are open to all A&M students of any skill level. In season games take place October thru March. Recruiting information can be found on the team website. Contact Jacob Norwood jwnorwood1@tamu.edu Social Media Facebook: TAMU Ice Hockey Instagram: @tamuicehockey Twitter: @tamuicehockey Affiliations American Collegiate Hockey Association (Division II, West) Southern Collegiate Ice Hockey Association (SCIHA) Judo The Texas A&M Judo Team was founded in 1963 and is open to all A&M students. Judo, a grappling sport, uses throws, pinning combinations and submission holds. No experience is necessary but, the main focus of the team is to support competition. As members of the National Collegiate Judo Association and U.S. Judo Inc., the team is eligible to compete in numerous tournaments throughout the year. The team consists of roughly 40 members, 15-20 of whom compete on a regular basis. The team attends approximately 20 tournaments per year, traveling to cities around the US. Past Accomplishments Texas Collegiate Conference Champions: 1990, 1992-1997, 2000-2012, 2017, 2018 Contact Dario Maaskant dariomaaskant@tamu.edu Social Media Facebook: Texas A&M Judo Team Instagram: @aggiejudo Twitter: @TexasAggieJudo Affiliation National Collegiate Judo Association Men's Lacrosse The team welcomes beginners to its fall practices, which are essential in preparing the team for the spring conference schedule. Some of the Texas A&M Men’s Lacrosse teams’ non-conference games have been scheduled in California, St. Louis, Arizona, Atlanta and Minneapolis. The team has won the Lone Star Alliance the past 2 years with an undefeated record. Past Accomplishments Conference Champions: 1991, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2007, 2008, 2018 Contact Joshua Fox josh8fox@gmail.edu Social Media Facebook: Texas A&M Men’s Lacrosse Instagram: @TexasAggieLax Twitter: @TexasAggieLax Affiliation Men’s Collegiate Lacrosse Association, Lone Star Alliance Women's Lacrosse The Texas A&M Women’s Lacrosse Team was founded in the Fall of 1993. They compete against other collegiate and club teams from Texas, Oklahoma, California and Nebraska. In addition, they host a Fall Invitational that brings women’s teams to the A&M campus for a weekend of competition. No previous experience is necessary and individuals interested in learning a new sport are encouraged to attend practice. Past Accomplishments Conference Champions: 2008 Contact Molly Johnson mollyjohnson9@tamu.edu Social Media Facebook: Texas A&M Women’s Lacrosse Instagram: @tamuwlax Twitter: @tamuwlax Affiliations US Lacrosse Women’s Division Intercollegiate Associates Texas Women’s Lacrosse League Pistol The Texas A&M Pistol Team assists its members in improving their shooting skills and provides opportunities for team members to represent Texas A&M at local, regional, and national tournaments. Competitive events include standard pistol, free pistol, and air pistol. The club holds try-outs early in the fall semester and then again in the spring semester. Contact Georgia Eddy spur-saddle59@tamu.edu Social Media Facebook: Texas A&M Pistol Team Instagram: @TAMUpistol Snapchat: @tamupistolteam Twitter: @TAMUpistol Affiliation National Rifle Association Collegiate Polo The Texas A&M Polo Club, founded in 1967, assists both men and women in learning and refining the basic skills of polo so that they can compete at a local, regional, and national level. Intra-club games are scheduled to provide experience for the novice members. The club has a string of about 20 polo ponies, so owning a horse is not a prerequisite for membership. All members are expected to assist in their daily care and feeding. The club is dedicated to introducing polo to anyone interested in learning about the “Sport of Kings”, to produce winning athletes, and to strive to win the coveted USPA Intercollegiate National Championship. Past Accomplishments Men’s Team National Champions: 1996-98, 2007, 2008, 2010, 2018, 2019 Women’s Team National Champions: 1994-95, 2018, 2019 Contact Whitney Walker whitneywalker@tamu.edu Social Media Facebook: Texas A&M Polo Instagram: @TAMUpolo Affiliation United States Polo Association Powerlifting Texas A&M Powerlifting offers a hard core lifting environment to lifters of different skill levels. It provides the opportunity for members to compete in intercollegiate powerlifting competitions within the collegiate division of the USAPL, the premier drug-free federation in the United States. Powerlifting demands great focus, strength, and endurance—with a team to support you, all of these things will be within your grasp. Past Accomplishments Collegiate National Powerlifting Champions: 1983, 1991–93, 2010, 2015 Collegiate National Powerlifting Champions – Women’s Team: 2010, 2019 Contact Carter Wheat bigc77@tamu.edu Social Media Facebook: Texas A&M Powerlifting Instagram: @aggiepowerlifting Twitter: @AggieLifting Affiliation USA Powerlifting Racquetball The Texas A&M Racquetball Club offers a full range of opportunities for the competitive and recreational player. Benefits include skill development and discounts on equipment as well as financial assistance for the members of the men’s and women’s intercollegiate teams. Contact Billy Stalder stalderbilly@gmail.com Affiliation USA Racquetball Men's Rugby Do you miss the camaraderie and the thrill of victory of high school sports? The nationally ranked Texas A&M Rugby team looks for experienced and inexperienced players to compete around Texas and the rest of the country. The team strives for high standards of competitive play and sportsmanship. The fall semester is open to anyone, consisting of three sides depending on skill levels. At the end of the fall, try-outs will narrow the team down to two sides for the spring competition season. The team is coached by two full-time volunteers. Contact Preston Patterson dutchpatterson@tamu.edu Social Media Facebook: Texas A&M Rugby Instagram: @aggierugbyfc Twitter: @aggierugby Affiliations Allied Rugby Conference USA Rugby Women's Rugby Texas A&M Women’s Rugby Team is part of a growing union of women ruggers. Active throughout the year, the team competes against other collegiate and club teams. Annual competitions take place in Austin, New Mexico, Houston and New Orleans. Spring break tours have included Southern California and Ireland. No experience is necessary. We will provide coaching in the basic skills of rugby. Past Accomplishments Elite Eight Nationals: 2008 Sweet Sixteen Nationals: 2007, 2009-2010 Sweet Sixteen: 2007, 2008 and 2009 Contact Wendy Zimmerer gwendolyn.zimmerer@tamu.edu Social Media Facebook: Texas A&M Women’s Rugby Team Instagram: @tamuwrfc Twitter: @tamuwrfc Affiliations Texas Rugby Union Western Rugby Union USA Rugby Sailing Texas A&M Sailing Team exists to promote competitive sailing to its members. The team competes regularly in regattas throughout Texas, Louisiana, Alabama, Oklahoma, and Florida. There are weekly meetings to discuss techniques, upcoming events, and administrative matters, as well as dinghy practices on Tuesdays and Thursday at Lake Bryan. We compete in the Southeastern Intercollegiate Sailing Association (SEISA) which includes such schools as University of Texas, University of Kansas, Oklahoma State, University of Oklahoma, Texas A&M Galveston, and University of South Alabama. We encourage all who want to join to contact a team member and come out to the lake to sail. Contact Katie Parnell katieparnell1@tamu.edu Social Media Facebook: Texas A&M Sailing Instagram: @TAMUSailing Twitter: @TAMUSailing Affiliation Southeastern Intercollegiate Sailing Association Men's Soccer The Men’s Soccer Club provides Texas A&M students with an opportunity to play intercollegiate soccer. Competition includes a fall and spring season. The club competes against schools from Texas and Louisiana. Anyone with an interest in playing competitive soccer is encouraged to seek membership in the club. This club is extremely successful at the national level. Past Accomplishments Region IV Champions: 2010 National Champions Finalist: 1999 NIRSA Champions: 2003, 2005 Contact Jacob Manley jacob.manley00@gmail.com Social Media Facebook: Texas A&M Men’s Club Soccer Instagram: @aggiemenssoccer Twitter: @TAMUMensSoccer Affiliations Texas Collegiate Soccer League NIRSA – National Intramural Recreational Sports Association Women's Soccer The Women’s Soccer Club provides Texas A&M students with an opportunity for intercollegiate soccer competition. The team competes against other collegiate clubs from Texas. Anyone with an interest in developing their soccer skills and/or playing competitive soccer is encouraged to seek membership in the club. Past Accomplishments Region IV Champions: 2010 NIRSA National Championships – Semi-finalist: 2010 Colorado Invitational – 2nd Place: 2007 NIRSA National Championships – Quarter-finalist: 2006 Contact Madison Korb mkorb1218@tamu.edu Social Media Facebook: TAMU Women’s Club Soccer Instagram: @tamuwomensclubsoccer Twitter: @tamuclubsoccer Affiliations Texas Collegiate Soccer League NIRSA- National Intramural Recreational Sports Association Swimming The Aggie Club Swim Team is built of all levels of swimmers from recreational to national competitors. The majority of our team are swimmers looking to continue their previous competitive swimming careers. The club helps students to further develop their swimming skills, enhance performance techniques and foster a love for competition and sportsmanship. The goal of the club is to create a supportive, friendly, all-inclusive team while prioritizing team unity and emphasizing student excellence. The Aggie Club Swim Team travels to meets across the state and nation competing within College Club Swimming nationally, and locally within the Southwest Swim League. Past Accomplishments 2021 Virtual College Club Nationals: 8th (Combined) Women’s – 7th, Men’s – 8th 2019 Southwest Swim League Champions (Combined) 2019 College Club Nationals – 9th (Men’s) Contact Rachel Sweeney rachel.sweeney23@tamu.edu Social Media Facebook: tamuclubswim Instagram: @TAMUClubSwim Twitter: @tamuclubswim Affiliations Southwest Swim League College Club Swimming https://www.collegeclubswimming.com/ Taekwondo The Texas A&M Taekwondo team is a competitive student run organization that trains students to compete at both the local and national level. The team competes in many local and national competitions including the Fort Worth International, the U.S. Open, U.S. National Taekwondo Championships, and Collegiate Nationals. In addition to sparring competition, the club also competes in forms competition and offers instruction in Taekwondo and promotions up to and including black belt. The club accepts all levels of experience from none at all to world champions. Past Accomplishments National Championship, 2nd place: 2005 Contact Will Johnson willjohnson2000@tamu.edu Social Media Facebook: Texas A&M Taekowndo Instagram: @tamu_taekwondo Twitter: @TAMU_TKD Affiliation National Collegiate Taekwondo Association Trap and Skeet The Texas A&M Trap & Skeet Club serves students and faculty/staff by providing skill development to newcomers in safety, range etiquette and the fundamentals of trap and skeet shooting. In addition, the club provides an avenue for individuals to compete in trap and skeet shooting on an intercollegiate level, in state and national competitions and possibly the Olympics. Past Accomplishments ACU-I National Clay Target Champions: 1978, 1982, 2019 Contact Cara Maxwell maxwcara@tamu.edu Social Media Facebook: Texas A&M Trap & Skeet Instagram: @tamutrapskeet Triathlon The Texas A&M Triathlon Team was founded in the Fall of 2003 with a membership of just over 10 students. Since then, we have grown steadily into one of the largest collegiate triathlon teams in the nation with over 160 yearly members. Members include both undergraduate and graduate students with a love for the sport of triathlon. Our athletes compete all over the United States at all levels of ability. Some members join the team without ever having raced a triathlon, while others are veterans with Ironman finishes. Whatever your experience, we have the resources to make you better and faster. And most importantly, there’s no shortage of good times. We offer beginner-friendly coached clinics and practices. No bike? No problem! We have a lot of knowledgeable members who will gladly help you with obtaining a bike. The club admits members continuously throughout the year and also promotes the healthy lifestyle associated with participation in the sport of triathlon. Contact Mason Greenblatt mason.greenblatt@tamu.edu Social Media Facebook: Texas A&M Triathlon Instagram: @aggie_tri Affiliations USA Triathlon (USAT) USAT Collegiate Triathlon Association USAT South Midwest Collegiate Conference Men's Ultimate Frisbee The Texas A&M Ultimate Frisbee Club is a competitive team that competes in tournaments throughout the South. The team places emphasis on skill development, fellowship, and competition. Any Texas A&M student is welcome to come out and play; no prior experience is required. Contact Bryce Hann brycehann@tamu.edu Social Media Facebook: Texas A&M Men’s Club Ultimate Twitter: @DozenUltimate & @DozenMatterUlti Affiliation USA Ultimate Women's Ultimate Frisbee The Texas A&M Ultimate Frisbee Club is a competitive team that competes in tournaments throughout the South. The team places emphasis on skill development, fellowship, and competition. Any Texas A&M student is welcome to come out and play; no prior experience is required. Contact Aimee Graham aeg88@tamu.edu Social Media Facebook: Stacked (@TAMUStacked) Instagram: @stackedultimate Twitter: @StackedUlti Affiliation USA Ultimate Men's Volleyball Yes, there is men’s volleyball at Texas A&M. The team practices twice a week and plays most weekends throughout the academic year. The club supports an A & B team. Some out of conference travel includes tournaments in Indiana and Las Vegas. The club also travels to the National Intramural Recreational Sports Association Volleyball Championships each year. Past Accomplishments NIRSA Championships, National Champions: 2010 SIVA Conference Champions: 2005-2009 NIRSA Championships, 1st: 2003 NIRSA Championships, 3rd: 2002 Contact Lukas Boeck ltbdog3@tamu.edu Social Media Facebook: Texas A&M Men’s Volleyball Instagram: @tamumensvolleyball Affiliations NIRSA Southern Intercollegiate Volleyball Association Women's Volleyball The Women’s Volleyball Club provides a competitive atmosphere of volleyball by competing against other collegiate volleyball clubs from across the nation. The club carries an A and B team that travels mainly throughout Texas, competing during the fall and spring semesters. The club competes in weekend tournaments, and normally travels out-of-state twice a year. Tryouts are at the beginning of each fall semester. Past Accomplishments NCVF National Champions: 2019 NIRSA Championships, Gold Division – National Champions: 2010 NIRSA Championships, Division II – National Champions: 2010 Contact Allie Goff agoff28@tamu.edu Social Media Facebook: Tamu WCV Instagram: @tamuwcv Twitter: @tamuwcv Affiliations NIRSA NCVF Southern Intercollegiate Volleyball Association Wakeboarding The Wakeboarding Club provides Texas A&M students with the opportunity to wakeboard and wakeskate with fellow enthusiasts, and to compete against students from other schools across the nation. Texas A&M Wake is open to anyone with an interest in wakeboarding, from the newest of beginners who want to learn to the most seasoned of veterans interested in competing or taking their riding to the next level. Past Accomplishments National Champions: 2015 Contact Quint Pincelli quintpincelli@tamu.edu Social Media Facebook: TAMU Wake Instagram: @tamuwake Twitter: @tamuwake Affiliation USA WakeBoarding Men's Water Polo Water polo is a fast paced, exciting sport that requires proficient swimming ability, agility, good ball sense and handling skills. In addition, stamina, resilience, and sheer strength make it a physically demanding sport. The team competes in competitions throughout the state and nation. Contact Tyler Thames tylerthames2018@tamu.edu Social Media Facebook: Texas A&M Men’s Water Polo Instagram: @tamu_waterpolo Twitter: @tamuwp Affiliation Collegiate Water Polo Association, Texas Division Women's Water Polo Established in the spring of 1997, the introduction of women’s water polo provides one of the few competitive, aquatic activities available to the student body. The competitive season is predominately in the spring but fall practice is essential for conditioning and skill development. Contact Julia Klein kleinjul000@tamu.edu Social Media Facebook: Texas A&M Women’s Water Polo Team Instagram: @aggiewwp Twitter: @aggiewwp Affiliation Collegiate Water Polo Association, Texas Division Water Ski If you love the water, the sun, fun, and boats, then the Water Ski Club is for you. Any A&M student may join the club and have access to our private ski lake and boat. No experience or personal equipment is necessary. Anything you enjoy on the water we can provide; water skis, wakeboards, jumpers, wake skates, kneeboards, wake surfs, tubes, barefoot, trick skis, etc. We have a slalom course, jump ramp, and experienced skiers that are available to coach you. So grab some sun tan lotion and we will see you at the lake. Be sure to visit our website to check our weekly schedules and upcoming events. Past Accomplishments Division II National Champions: 2005 Contact Zachary Butterfield zach.bfield02@tamu.edu Social Media Facebook: Texas A&M Waterski Club Instagram: @tamu_waterski Twitter: @tamu_waterski Affiliation National Collegiate Water Ski Association Wrestling The A&M Wrestling Club is dedicated to providing Texas A&M with a quality wrestling program as well as promoting the sport of wrestling throughout the state. Past Accomplishments National Champions: 1998 Contact Sophie Stegenga sophie.steg@tamu.edu Social Media Facebook: Texas A&M Wrestling Instagram: @tamuwrestling Twitter: @tamuwrestling Affiliation National Collegiate Wrestling Association, Southwest Division Events Calendar of Events Officer Resources Sport Clubs Forms Participant Forms Assumption of Risk/Standard of Conduct Form – Each participant MUST complete one of these PRIOR to participating with ANY Sport Club related activity. Travel Forms Trip Request Form – Must be completed ANY TIME club members are leaving campus to attend an event representing Texas A&M. Forms must be submitted NO LATER than 1 week prior to departure. Driver’s Agreement – Must be completed and submitted no later than 5pm on Wednesday, week of travel. (Tip: fill out at team meeting or practice.) Student Information Release Form – In the event that grade verification and enrollment verification is needed to participate in tournaments or events, this form must be completed. Each member must complete and all must be returned to the registrar’s office at least 2 weeks prior to event. Event Planning/Facility Forms Event Planning Packet – MUST be submitted at LEAST 1 month in advance through individual club’s Maroonlink page. Equipment Request Form – 1st come, 1st served on equipment. Complete and submit as soon as possible to secure proper equipment for your event. Event Expectations Facility Reservation Event Request – Complete and submit to Jessica Konetski at jkonetski@rec.tamu.edu. Facility Reservation Practice Request – Complete and submit to Jessica Konetski at jkonetski@rec.tamu.edu. Concessions Permit – Must be completed, signed by president and advisor, and submitted to Student Activities AT LEAST 48 hours prior to the start of your club event. Food Distribution – If supplying, serving, or selling food at your event, please follow these procedures. Food Distribution Form must be completed and submitted to ehsd-food@tamu.edu. Post Event Evaluation University Youth Programs Application – If hosting any events involving minors (under 18), these forms must be completed at least 8 weeks prior to the event. Budget/Financial Forms SOFC Check Request – These must have an organization officer (who is on the signature card) and sport clubs staff signature. Documentation must accompany this form when submitting to the SOFC. SOFC Credit Card Payment Request Form – In order to utilize the SOFC’s credit card for club purchases, these must have an organization officer (who is on the signature card) and sport clubs staff signature. Documentation must accompany this form when submitting to the SOFC. SOFC Cash Advance Form Allocation Request Forms – Complete and submit to Courtney Collard at ccollard@rec.tamu.edu on specified date. Allocation Reimbursement Request Form – This form is used to reimburse individuals for pre-approved purchases from the club allocation. Complete and submit to your primary advisor. Marketplace Setup Information Marketplace Agreement Form In-Kind Exchange of Goods/Services Form Miscellaneous Info/Forms Results Form – Should be completed and emailed to Jessica Konetski at sportclubs@rec.tamu.edu no later than 5pm on Monday following weekend’s events. Coach’s Agreement – ALL individuals who will be coaching a Texas A&M Sport Club MUST complete and submit to Keith Joseph at kjoseph@rec.tamu.edu prior to the start of the club season. Firehouse Subs (Meals for Events) – If your club is hosting an event and wants to provide food for your workers and officials, fill this form out and submit to Keith Joseph at kjoseph@rec.tamu.edu AT LEAST 1 week prior to event. Rec Sports Logo – Maroon Rec Sports Logo – Black Texas A&M University Brand Guide 2021 – 2022 Guidebook Table of Contents Table of Contents (PDF) Sport Clubs Association 2021 - 2022 Calendar Sport Clubs Association 21-22 Calendar (PDF) Important Contact Information Important Contact Information (PDF) Chapter 1: Introduction & General Information Chapter 1: Introduction & General Information(PDF) Sport Clubs Program Overview The Sport Clubs Association Sport Clubs Categorization Annual Recognition Requirements Sport Clubs Association Requirements for Clubs Chapter 2: Administration & Leadership Chapter 2: Administration & Leadership (PDF) Division of Student Affairs Department of Student Activities The Department of Recreational Sports Sport Clubs Advisors Sport Clubs Advisors – Campus Security Authority (CSA) Sport Clubs Graduate Assistant Sport Clubs Program Assistant Supervisors & Event Assistants Sport Clubs Student Leadership Sport Clubs Executive Committee Sport Clubs Student Leaders Coaches & Instructors Chapter 3: Membership Guidelines & Standard of Conduct Chapter 3: Membership Guidelines & Standard of Conduct (PDF) Membership Guidelines Associate Members Minors Personal Medical Insurance Event Insurance Competitions Intramural Sports Eligibility Sport Clubs Standards of Conduct Expectations Member GPR Requirements Alcohol Hazing Discipline Infractions Appeal Process Chapter 4: Office Services, Advertising & Promotions Chapter 4: Office Services, Advertising, & Promotions (PDF) Department of Recreational Sports Office Services Sport Clubs Mailboxes Copy & Fax Services Sport Clubs Computers Web Pages & Social Media Mailing Services Sport Clubs Awards Sport Club of the Year Sport Clubs Cup Outstanding Sport Clubs Leaders Officer Group of the Year Male/Female Athletes of the Year Advertisting & Promotions Flyers Distribution Promotional Print Materials in the Student Recreation Center RecTV Concessions Guidelines Collegiate Licensing Contracts Partnerships Chapter 5: Facilities & Equipment Chapter 5: Facilities & Equipment (PDF) Recreational Sports Facilities Facility Use Policies Required Identification Facility Rentals Hosting National Competitions Scheduling Facility Reservations Sponsoring Outside/Non-University Affiliated Groups/Organizations Inclement Weather & Outdoor Facilities Lightning Prediction System Facility Inspections Event Planning Online Registration Events Involving Minors Equipment Chapter 6: Finances Chapter 6: Finances (PDF) Types of Accounts Department of Recreational Sports Allocation Student Organization Finance Center Accounts Endowments Department of Recreational Sports Allocation Allocation Request Procedures Budgeting Suggestions Methods of Payment Department of Recreational Sports Credit Card Rec Sports Credit Card Usage Policy SOFC Credit Card Usage Policy Invoiced Payments Reimbursement Cash Advances Donations Monetary Donations Equipment & Livestock Donations Fundraising Sport Clubs Former Students Chapter 7: Travel Guidelines Chapter 7: Travel Guidelines (PDF) Student Travel Guidelines Trip Planning Driver Selection Alertdriving.com Driver Training Class Absence Requests Travel Options International Travel Eligibility Checks Expectations During the Trip Emergency Procedures Chapter 8: Risk Management & Safety Chapter 8: Risk Management & Safety (PDF) Elements of Risk Management Critical Incident Response Team (CIRT) Weapons Policy Sport Clubs Safety Officer First Aid Kits Medics/Athletic Trainers Concussions/Head Injuries Emergency Procedures Emergency Contact Protocol Chapter 9: Sport Clubs Manager Chapter 9: Sport Clubs Manager (PDF) Overview of the Manager Accessing the Manager System Assumption of Risk Form Driver’s Agreement Form Home Event Submission Form Trip Event Submission Form Viewing Club Information FAQ Common Questions Following is a list of questions commonly asked by students, as well as parents/guardians, who are interested in learning more about Sport Clubs. If you have additional questions that are not addressed here, please contact Sport Clubs at sportclubs@rec.tamu.edu or 979.862.1996. Please review the Sport Clubs Guidebook on the officer resource page to learn more about Sport Clubs policies and procedures. What is a Sport Club? A Sport Club is an affiliated student organization at Texas A&M University that participates in collegiate level sports competitions against other collegiate institutions. Participation in sport clubs is voluntary. Sport clubs are sponsored by the University through the Department of Recreational Sports. Student leaders are directly responsible for all aspects of operating and managing their organization. Clubs practice 2-4 days a week and compete regionally and nationally. What is the difference between Sport Clubs and Intramural Sports? Sport Clubs and Intramural Sports are both housed under the Department of Recreational Sports. However, the main difference is that Sport Clubs compete against other college and university sport clubs whereas Intramural Sports are Texas A&M students forming teams to compete in a structured league against other Texas A&M students. All sport clubs compete within a governing body. Can Sport Club members participate in Intramural Sports? Yes, but there are limitations for those participating in intramural sports with a correlating sport club. In the intramural sports below, no team shall have more than two “restricted” players on its roster. (Exception: Sand Volleyball teams cannot have more than one) Teams with competitive club members must play in competitive. Restrictions are for fall and spring semesters. Questions regarding competitive sport club members and Intramural Sports guidelines contact: Intramural Help Desk at 979.862.1884 or im@rec.tamu.edu. Sport Club | Associated Intramural Sport Baseball = Softball Golf = Golf Soccer = Indoor and Outdoor Soccer Ultimate Frisbee = Ultimate Frisbee Volleyball = Volleyball and Sand Volleyball Racquetball = Racquetball Swimming = Swim Meet What is the difference between sport clubs and varsity sports? Sport Clubs are student-run organizations. Club teams compete against other college or university club teams around the country. Sometimes they even compete against NCAA varsity teams. Varsity sports are housed by Texas A&M University Athletics Department and compete within the NCAA. What are the current clubs offered? The Department of Recreational Sports currently offers over 35 different Sport Clubs ranging from Archery to Wrestling. A list of currently offered sport clubs can be found on the Sport Clubs tab on this page. How do I join a Sport Club? The best way to join a Sport Club is to contact a club representative directly. Club contact information can be found on each club’s listing on the Sport Clubs tab on this page. An Assumption of Risk form is required through the Sport Clubs Manager site at sportclubs.tamu.edu for each club you would like to join. How much does it cost to join a sport club? Most clubs have dues that are required. In addition, each club receives limited funding from the Department of Recreational Sports, but this does not subsidize all club expenses. Sport Club dues help reduce the costs incurred by the club. Dues help subsidize travel, equipment, league dues, etc… Dues are determined by club officers and can range up to $3,300 per club. Please contact the club directly concerning the dues that are required for that club. Who is eligible to participate in sport clubs? Each participant must be enrolled as a student at Texas A&M University, and have a minimum overall GPA of 2.0. Each Sport Club will determine its own membership guidelines, but they must be free of any restriction based on race, color, national or ethnic origin, religion, gender, disability, age, or sexual orientation. Participants may be subject to further governing body or league guidelines for participation. In order to compete in competitions and represent Texas A&M University as part of a sport club, enrolled students must be taking a minimum of 6 credit hours or 3 credit hours if the member is enrolled with Blinn-team or in a co-curricular program, and 6 credit hours for graduate students. Minors who are Texas A&M students, and have their guardian’s consent and signature on the Assumption of Risk Form may participate. Full Time Blinn College students ARE NOT ELIGIBLE TO PARTICIPATE. Can Blinn-TEAM students participant in sport clubs? Blinn-Team and other university recognized Co-curricular program students are eligible for participation in sport clubs because they pay fees that give them access to certain services of the University, including Recreational Sports. They are considered students at Texas A&M University. Further governing body and league restrictions may apply for club competitions. Blinn-Team students must maintain an overall Texas A&M GPA of 2.0 to participate fully and take a minimum of 3 credit hours at Texas A&M. Where is the Sport Clubs Office? The Sport Clubs office is located in room 250 on the second floor in the Student Recreation Center. Do I have to try-out to be a member of a Sport Club? Some clubs do hold try-outs for membership. The sport clubs that currently hold try-outs are Men’s and Women’s Volleyball, Men’s & Women’s Soccer, Men’s Rugby, Ice Hockey, Baseball, Basketball, Cheer Squad, Pistol, Powerlifting. Other Clubs will hold try-outs and separate into an A & B team. These clubs are Women’s Volleyball, Ultimate Frisbee, Men’s & Women’s Water Polo, and Men’s Lacrosse. Furthermore, some clubs may have further cuts to limit the number of people for travel. For information on try-out dates and times, please visit either each club’s individual website or the sport clubs calendar of events. What is the benefit of joining a Sport Club? Sport Clubs offers the opportunities for skill development, recreation, and intercollegiate competition to participants of all skill levels and interests. In addition, it presents a unique opportunity for students to develop both athletic and leadership abilities. Not to mention, it’s fun and keeps you active. I have tried to contact a club; why have I not received a response? If you have not heard back from a club, please contact the Sport Club Office at sportclubs@rec.tamu.edu or at 979-862-1996. Can I be a member of more than one Sport Club? Of course; however, each club requires a different time commitment. All you have to do is complete an Assumption of Risk form through the Sport Clubs Manager site at sportclubs.tamu.edu for each club you would like to participate in. Do Sport Clubs offer scholarships? Yes, some sport clubs offer competitive scholarships that may range from $250 – $4,000 per year. Each scholarship criteria is different. To be eligible you must be a member of the Sport Club and complete the application given out by the club. The following clubs currently offer scholarships: Archery, Judo, Polo, Men’s Rugby, Men’s Soccer, and Wrestling. Do I need health insurance to participate in a sport club? Texas A&M University does not insure students who are injured during participation in extracurricular activities, such as sport club competitions, practices, travel and other club activities. The Department of Recreational Sports strongly recommends that all sport club members have adequate medical insurance coverage. Visit University Insurance for more information. Is there a minimum GPA (grade point average) to participate in Sport Clubs? All Sport Club participants must maintain an overall GPA of 2.0 to remain fully eligible for sport club participation. Club participation can be limited if the participant falls below a GPA of 2.0. Only officially posted grades are reviewed and considered. Mid-term grades are not recognized as officially posted grades. Only academic grades from Texas A&M are reviewed and/or considered for eligibility. The participant can be subject to any or all of the following: The club member may not compete in any conference, regional, or national competitions until the overall GPA meets the minimum 2.0 requirement. The club member may compete in any non-conference home or in-state competitions or events. The club member may not travel to or compete in any out-of-state competitions. The club member may participate in all non-competitive club functions including fundraising activities, meetings, etc. The club member will still pay all dues to the club, unless the club officers and the member agrees upon an alternate plan. The number of practices the member competes in may be limited per week. What is the level of time commitment needed? The level of commitment will vary with each sport club. All the sport clubs within the Department of Recreational Sports have a competitive aspect and compete within a league or conference and are a member of a national governing body. I am an incoming freshman or transfer student coming to A&M, where can I learn more about Sport Clubs? A great place to learn more about Sport Clubs is the new student conferences held during the summer months prior to the fall semester. A list can be found here. http://newaggie.tamu.edu/ Students can also learn more during Rec-a-Palooza that is held prior to MSC Open house in the Rec Center. Individual Sport Clubs will have tables available with a representative and information. Check the Rec Sports website frequently during the summer for a list of sport club meetings and try-outs. Some clubs are also represented at the MSC Open house usually hosted on the first Sunday after the Fall semester has begun. Who should I contact to find out more about a specific Sport Club? It is best to contact the club president directly for specific information about the club. Club contact information can be found under the Sport Clubs tab on this page. Do Sport Clubs have coaches? Some clubs do have volunteer coaches. The coaches are not employees of the Department of Recreational Sports and do not have offices within the Rec Center. Any compensation for coaching is decided upon between the club and the coach. University funds are not used to pay coaches. We encourage the student to make first contact with a club officer prior to contacting a coach. Coaches are not always easily accessible for questions. The Department of Recreational Sports sees the club officers as the primary contact for each club because they are student-run organizations. How often do Sport Clubs travel to competitions? Club travel is dependent on each sport. Some travel all year or just during their competitive season. Please contact the club for more specific information. What modes of transportation do the clubs use to travel? Clubs can take several modes of transportation. The most common mode of transportation is vehicle rentals through Enterprise. The Sport Clubs office assists the clubs with securing rental vehicles. Other modes of transportation can include flights, personal vehicles, or charter buses. The Sport Clubs office reviews each mode of transportation with the clubs while they are planning their trips to ensure safe travels. We do not permit clubs to travel between the hours of 12am – 6am. Are athletic trainers and/or medical staff available at practices and competitions? Athletic Trainers are present at select Sport Clubs games and tournaments held at various facilities. They are only present at practices held at the Penberthy Rec Sports Complex. The Athletic Trainers work closely with the TAMU EMS who are also present for most sport clubs home activities. For those events where Athletic Trainers are present, participants must supply their own tape. Accomplishments Sport Clubs Results & Accomplishments The Texas A&M Sport Clubs Association provides the opportunity to compete against clubs from other collegiate institutions at the state, regional, or national level in over 35 different sports. Each club has memberships in conferences and/or a national governing body lending the participants the prospect to excel to the highest form of competition available at the collegiate club level. Since 1974 the Sport Clubs program has captured over 300 overall team and single-event national championships and hundreds of conference championships. 2020 - 2021 Archery USA Archery Overall Team National Champions (22nd Overall – most in collegiate Archery history) Archery Men’s Recurve Team ( T. Cowles, Alex Gilliam, Skyler Rosenberg) Archery Women’s Recurve Team (Riley Marx, Abigail Rutledge, Hannah Flores) Archery Barebow Men’s Team (Logan Sampsel, David Woodlief, Carson Shaw) Archery Mixed Team- Recurve (Trenton Cowles, Riley Marx) Archery Mixed Team -Barebow (Logan Sampsel, Brooke Dew) Pistol SASP/SSSF Open Standard- Team National Champions Trap & Skeet Overall 2021 ACUI Team National Champions Trap & Skeet Meagan Harrington – ACUI Overall Women’s National Champion 2019 - 2020 Wrestling NCWA Men’s National Champion 149lb Weight Class – (Ty’rae Carter) – Most Outstanding Wrestling of the Tournament – All-American 2018 - 2019 Archery USA Archery Collegiate National Overall Team Champions (21st) Archery Keri Speller – Women’s Barebow- Gold Archery Archery Andrea Zenger – Women’s Bowhunter – Gold – All-American Archery Archery Women’s Team Recurve – Gold – (Ariel Gibilaro, Michelle Gilbert, Karissa Yamaguchi) Archery Archery Men’s Team Bowhunter – Gold – (Judson Riley, Cody May, Devin Patin) – All-Americans Judo Patricia Randall – 78kg Standard 1st Judo Emma Whitlock – 78kg Novice 1st Cheer Squad D1A – All-Girl Intermediate – National Championship Gymnastics NAIGC Women’s Level 9 Team National Championship ((Emily Scott, Taylor McDoniel, Renee Woodruff, Lauren Porter, Kelly Faught, Isabel Mlo) Gymnastics Taylor McDoniel- 1st – Level 9 Women’s Vault, Floor Gymnastics Renee Woodruff – 1st– Level 9 Women’s Bean, All-Around Gymnastics Anna Lightfoot- 1st– Level 8 Women’s Floor Gymnastics Jared Miscisin- Men’s All-Around Champion Gymnastics Regional Club of the Year Award for South Central Region Polo Men’s Intercollegiate National Championship Polo Women’s Intercollegiate National Championship Powerlifting Women’s Equipped Team National Championships – (Kyra Rodriguez 47kg, Eliana Umbach 47kg, Elma Lopez 52kg, Leena Salinas 57kg, Shelby Gray 63kg, Robyn Ramon 63kg, Victoria Torres 72kg, Cassidy Estrada 84+kg) Powerlifting Kyra Rodriguez – Gold, 49kg Equipped Female – All-American Deadlift Record at 160kg/353lbs Powerlifting Elma Lopez – Gold, 52kg Equipped Female – All-American Powerlifting Arnold Delgadillo – Gold, 59kg Equipped Male – All-American Powerlifting Josh Brown – Gold, 105kg Equipped Male – All-American Trap & Skeet Meagan Harrington – Female High Overall National Champion Trap & Skeet Hunter Eitze – International Skeet National Champion Trap & Skeet Sporting Clays Team National Champion – (Brandon Schmidt, Dominic Gross, Will Van Dusen, Hunter Eitze, and Greg Garrett) Wrestling NCWA Men’s National Champion 149lb Weight Class – (Ty’rae Carter) – Most Outstanding Wrestling of the Tournament – All-American 2017 - 2018 Archery USA Archery Collegiate National Overall team Champions (20th) Archery Mixed team Bowhunter – (May/Zenger) – Gold Archery Mixed team Compound – (Rousseau/Allie Blazek) – Gold Archery Men’s Recurve team (Coby Moscowitz, Gus Braendle, Robert Hogan) – Gold Archery Women’s Recurve team (Michelle Gilbert, Ariel Gibilaro, Karissa Yamaguchi) – Gold Archery Men’s Bowhunter team (May, Devin Patin, Judson Riley) – Gold Archery Women’s Bowhunter team (Zenger, Courtney Carver, Catherine Franklin) – Gold Basketball NIRSA – Club Division National Champions Cheer D1A – All girl 1 Intermediate – National Champions Gymnastics Connor Tobias – Men’s all-around National Champion Gymnastics Connor Tobias – 1st – High bar Gymnastics Anna Lightfoot – 1st – floor Gymnastics Taylor McDoniel – 1st – Vault, Floor Judo Max Pelech – 90kg Standard 1st – All American Judo Justine Carrasco – 57kg Novice 1st Judo Patricia Randal – 78kg Novice – 1st place Polo Men’s National Champion Polo Women’s National Champion Powerlifting Kyra Rodriguez – Gold, 47kg Powerlifting Sarah Davis – Gold, 84kg Racquetball Jeremey Ruggiero – 1st place Mens No 3 Singles – White Div Taekwondo Adrian Villalobos – Gold Men’s Red Belt – Middle/Heavy Weight Taekwondo Audrey Altnether – Gold Women’s Green Belt- Middle/Heavy Weight Taekwondo Rachel Cener – Gold Women’s Green Belt- Light/Welter Weight Taekwondo Tanner Lievois – Gold Men’s Green Belt Fin/Fly Weight Taekwondo Anthony Mendez-Gold Men’s Blue Belt- Light/Welter Weight 2016 - 2017 Archery 1st place: Mixed Bowhunter (Tyler Tucker, Carly Warren) Archery 1st place: Women’s Bowhunter (Carly Warren, Andrea Zenger, Nicole Schultz) , Ian Tank) Archery 1st place Allie Blazek – Women’s Compound Archery 1st place Simon Rousseau – Men’s Compound Archery 1st place Nicole Schultz – Women’s Bowhunter Archery 1st place Tyler Tucker – Men’s Bowhunter Archery World University Games Members: Archery Ariel Gibilaro – Women’s Recurve Archery Allie Blazek – Women’s Compound Gymnastics NAIGC Women’s Level 9 – Team National Champions Powerlifting Blake Lehew – 74kg – National Champion Powerlifting Sarah Davis – 84kg – National Champion Powerlifting Viviana Flores – 84+kg – National Champion Water Ski NCWSA – Jade Hanson – D2 Overall women’s champion, trick champion, slalom champion Water Ski Cullen Parker – D2 Overall men’s champion Water Ski Ryan Brigford – D2 slalom champion 2015 - 2016 Archery USA Archery – U.S. National Outdoor Collegiate Championships Archery Overall Team National Championship Archery Men’s Compound Team Archery Women’s Compound Team Archery Women’s Recurve Team Archery Men’s Bowhunter Team Archery Women’s Bowhunter Team Archery Michelle Gilbert, Women’s Recurve Archery Joel Taylor, Men’s Bowhunter Polo USPA Men’s Intercollegiate National Champions Powerlifting Viviana Flores 84kg+ Powerlifting Blake Lehew 74kg Powerlifting Jesse Burttschell 120kg Trap & Skeet ACUI D2 Team National Champions Trap & Skeet TJ Bayer – Individual Overall National Champion Texas A&M University College Station, Texas 77843 - Accessibility - Security & Privacy Policy - Webmaster - Give to Student Affairs - Division of Student Affairs, Texas A&M University. Hosted by the Department of IT, Division of Student Affairs Page load link Go to Top