Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Student Affairs » Recreational Sports Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Member Services Fitness & Wellness Sports Adventure Facility Rentals Certifications Facilities About Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Member Services Fitness & Wellness Sports Adventure Facility Rentals Certifications Facilities About Masks are welcome but not required at OSU and Rec Sports Facilities. For the latest safety and success updates, visit covid.oregonstate.edu. Shop Hours Schedule Jobs Contact Recreational Sports Wellness. Leadership. Community. Join Us Membership Benefits Membership Types Recreational Sports is more than just a gym. Here, adventure and opportunity await. Membership gives you access to Dixon Recreation Center and McAlexander Fieldhouse and a chance to be part of a community that actively pursues happiness and well-being. Become a certified mountaineer, a Zumba expert or the star quarterback of your Intramural Football Team. Fitness & Wellness Group Fitness Training Abundant options to train your way. Enjoy unlimited access to weekly group fitness classes with a Group Fitness Pass. Register for DAM Fit and participate in three sessions, three days per week for structured training. Sports Sign Up for IntramuralsJoin a Club Team up for fitness and fun. Intramural Sports. A perfect balance of community and competition. With a variety of sports to choose from, there’s no shortage of fun to be had. Grab a team and sign up! Adventure What is the ALI? Join the Club My classroom just got a whole lot bigger. The classroom isn't always indoors. At the Adventure Leadership Institute™, we love to explore. Imagine taking a class where you'll learn canyoneering, rafting or ice climbing. For your next outing you can rent a kayak, skis, tents and more! Your next adventure starts at the ALI. Contact Info Physical Address: Dixon Recreation Center 425 SW 26th St. Oregon State University Corvallis OR 97331-3301 Phone number: 541-737-3748 Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer