Skip to content Search Rec Sports... Search for: Home Facilities & Hours Facility Reservations Things To Do Aquatics Certification Courses Drop-In Recreation Fitness & Wellness Indoor Climbing Intramural Sports Outdoor Adventures Sport Clubs Strength & Conditioning and Personal Training Membership Services Disability Services Equipment Rental Guest Passes Lockers & Towels Lost & Found Resource Tables Partner With Us! Development Employment About Us Search for: Home Facilities & Hours Facility Reservations Things To Do Aquatics Certification Courses Drop-In Recreation Fitness & Wellness Indoor Climbing Intramural Sports Outdoor Adventures Sport Clubs Strength & Conditioning and Personal Training Membership Services Disability Services Equipment Rental Guest Passes Lockers & Towels Lost & Found Resource Tables Partner With Us! Development Employment About Us Home Facilities & Hours Facility Reservations Things To Do Aquatics Certification Courses Drop-In Recreation Fitness & Wellness Indoor Climbing Intramural Sports Outdoor Adventures Sport Clubs Strength & Conditioning and Personal Training Membership Services Disability Services Equipment Rental Guest Passes Lockers & Towels Lost & Found Resource Tables Partner With Us! Development Employment About Us Facilities2022-05-26T16:04:10-05:00 Rec Center Polo Road Natatorium/Pools OA & ICF PEAP Penberthy Tennis Center Rec Center Student Recreation Center Summer 2022 Hours* Monday – Friday: 6am – 9pm Saturday: 9am – 9pm Sunday: 12pm – 9pm Sunday, July 3 & Monday, July 4: 12pm – 6pm *Hours are subject to change. **The South entrance will be CLOSED for the duration of Summer 2022. The Student Recreation Center is our flagship facility. With more than 400,000 square feet of recreation space, there is something for everyone! Facility Features Archery Room Room 243, known as the Archery Room, has a capacity of 450 for banquets, and for archery can accommodate 60 shooters/150 spectators with 14 archery target stands, four bow racks, one archery net, shooting lines. Classrooms Rec Sports has two classrooms: Large classroom (capacity 130) has 87-seat retractable amphitheater style seating, and a wood floor for multi-purpose use Pool classroom (capacity 45) doubles as swim meet management room Equipment Desk The Equipment Etc. Desk, (845-4917) assists guests with retail sales, equipment checkout, towel service, day locker rentals, handball, racquetball and squash court reservations. Group Activity Rooms There are four dance/activity rooms for Group RecXercise and Specialty Programs. Gymnasiums There are now 3 Gymnasium areas that can be used for basketball, volleyball, indoor soccer, and badminton. Gymnasium space can be divided into four basketball, four volleyball or 12 badminton courts. The gyms feature three regulation size indoor soccer courts with rounded corners, dasher boards and Plexiglas. These courts are used for open recreation and intramurals. Heavy & Speed Bag Room This room houses 3 heavy bags, 3 speed bags, and a BoxMaster training station. It is typically open for drop-in recreation but is periodically used for boxing related specialty classes. Indoor Climbing Facility The Indoor Climbing Facility (44′ high) has approximately 3,500 sq. ft. of climbing area and combines integral rock and moveable hand and foot holds. It also features 10 top ropes and hosts instructional courses from beginner to advanced. Group facility and private party rentals are available. Indoor Lap Pool This 8-lane, 25-yard shallow water indoor lap pool provides an additional option for our members and guests to meet their recreational swimming needs, especially when we host large swim meets. Locker Rooms Men’s and women’s locker rooms have over 2,300 lockers in three sizes, private shower areas, hair dryers and vanity areas with electricity. Lounges The Lounge and eating area has tables and chairs, lounge furniture, couches, television, vending machines and great observational area for many activities including indoor climbing area. Member Services Desk The Member Services Desk (845-7826) assists guests with membership sales, intramural and program entries, locker rentals, lost and found, and guest services. Multi Purpose/Activity Rooms Each of the multi-purpose/activity rooms are outfitted with high-end audio video systems and wi-fi and can be set up in a multitude of ways for a wide variety of uses. Room 1130 – This 3,500 square foot multi-purpose room is utilized for events, small to moderate sized banquets and gatherings, group fitness and specialty classes, departmental events, programs and presentations. This room has a nice outdoor patio space with views into Blue Bell Park. Room 1132 – This room is set up in a fixed auditorium style seating fashion an can seat up to 80 people. It is primarily used for departmental and student meetings and presentations. Rooms 2221 & 2225 – These activity/fitness rooms are approximately 2,000 square feet each and are primarily used for group fitness classes, specialty classes, and Wellness Works classes, but are also periodically utilized for a variety of other activities. These rooms share a small, adjoining outdoor patio space overlooking Blue Bell Park. Rooms 2229A & 2229B – This large banquet room, when joined, is approximately 6,000 square feet, and when divided, is two separate 3,000 square foot rooms. These rooms are primarily used for large banquets, gatherings, workshops, and presentations and include upscale amenities such as a clouded ceiling, specialized lighting, and a large outdoor patio space overlooking Blue Bell Park. Natatorium The Natatorium features competitive swimming pool with two movable bulkheads, competitive diving pool including a special needs accessible chair lift. Shallow water instructional pool has sloped entry and measures 20 yards with five lanes. There are also two spas, men’s and women’s varsity and visiting team locker rooms. Outdoor Area The Outdoor Activity Area (Backyard) features four sand volleyball courts, three outdoor basketball courts, a resort-style outdoor pool, outdoor locker rooms, and an outdoor pavilion with picnic tables and grills. Outdoor Terrace The Outdoor Terrace was created to provide a partially shaded area for Rec patrons and includes outdoor furniture, outdoor kitchen space, and restrooms. The 15,000 square foot terrace is located directly on the roof of the expanded Strength and Conditioning Room. Personal Training Suite Inside the recently renovated and expanded Strength & Conditioning Room is the new Personal Training Suite, fully dedicated to our personal training program and clientele. Personal training clients will no longer face waiting in line for access to equipment or struggling to find space to complete their workouts efficiently and effectively. With our new Personal Training Suite, clients will have access to an exclusive, exciting training environment with some of the best equipment in the industry, including Technogym Kinesis, TRX suspension units, customized rack systems, Power Block dumbbells, Skillmills, InclineTrainers, kettle bells, medicine balls and more! In addition, personal training clients will still have full access to our entire Strength & Conditioning Room and equipment during sessions with their trainers and when they come in to use the facility on their own. Racquetball Courts We have fourteen racquetball/handball/squash courts. Smoothie King Smoothie King offers a variety of healthy options including smoothies, breakfast tacos, burgers, sandwiches, quesadillas, specialty items, yogurt, salads, fruits, soft drinks, sports drinks, bottled water and much more! South Entrance Located on the southwest side of the Rec Center near Olsen Field and adjacent parking lots, this entrance is open during all operating hours and provides our members and guests a convenient alternative to the main entrance. Strength & Conditioning Room The Strength & Conditioning Room is now over 32,000 square feet. The free weight area is +10,000, the selectorized/machine strength equipment area is approximately 5,500 square feet, and the cardio equipment area houses over 80 pieces of cardio equipment. Inside the Strength and Conditioning Room is a small, indoor turf area for warm-up, movement training, and stretching. A personal training suite is also located in the room. Restrooms are located in the front entrance of the space. Walking and Running Track The Walking and Running track is located on the third floor. It is approximately 1/4 mile, with area for stretching, stability balls and mats. Polo Road Polo Road Rec Center Summer 2022 Hours* Monday – Friday: 11am – 2pm Saturday & Sunday: CLOSED Sunday, July 3 & Monday, July 4: CLOSED *Hours are subject to change. Natatorium/Pools Rec Center Pools Summer 2022 Hours* Indoor Pools Monday – Thursday: 6am – 8:30pm Saturday: 9am – 8:30pm Sunday: 12pm – 8:30pm Sunday, July 3 & Monday, July 4: 12pm – 5:30pm *See head guard or weekly pool schedule for pool availability; not all pools will be available. Please see Weekly Pool Schedules for more information. Cain Outdoor Pool Monday – Sunday: 12 pm – 6pm Sunday, July 3 & Monday, July 4: 12pm – 5:30pm *Hours are subject to change. **Open weather permitting The Texas A&M Natatorium is a world-class swimming facility. We host numerous tournaments throughout the years and in 2009 we were the proud host of the NCAA men’s and women’s diving and swimming championships. To receive updates and information about Natatorium facilities, programs and/or events please contact Carlos Garcia at carlos_garcia@rec.tamu.edu or CJ Stancheski at cstancheski@rec.tamu.edu. Facility Features 50-Meter Pool 50 meters + eight feet long, 75 feet wide Two moveable bulkheads each 4 feet wide One inch ceramic tile throughout (white field with black markers) One underwater viewing window Below deck lane line storage Seven feet deep at ends and nine feet deep in middle 80 x 160 tri-color full matrix scoreboard/message center Dive Pool 25 meters long 58 feet wide (eight 7-foot wide lanes) Two 1-meter and two 3-meter springboards and 1, 3, 5, 7.5 and 10 meter platforms with rough-tex surfaces One inch ceramic tile throughout (blue field with white markers) One underwater viewing window Sparger bubbler system under all platforms and three meter springboards Bubble and spray surface agitation systems Trampoline room and separate Port-A-Pit area Hydrolic self-operated handicap lift Adjacent eight person in-ground hot tub 16-17 feet deep 24 x 80 tri-color full matrix scoreboard/message center Instructional Pool 60 feet long 42 feet wide (five lanes) Handicap ramp One inch ceramic tile throughout 4-4.5 feet deep Adjacent ten person in-ground hot tub Cain Outdoor Pool 75 feet long in lap area 50 feet wide in lap area (six lanes) Zero-depth entry in leisure area Raindrop fountain Current channel Underwater seating area Three stream bubble fountain Kool-Deck brand heat reducing deck Handicap ramp Additional Features 1,100 Armchair Stadium seats + 700 bleacher seats + 24 handicap spaces + 700 spaces for folding chairs for a total of 2,524 total seats Poolside classroom/Event Operations Room Computers and event software for Swimming, Diving, Water Polo and Syncro Poolside offices for Aquatics and Athletics staffs Event drug testing room SCUBA room with compressor and all equipment OA & ICF Outdoor Adventures (OA) & Indoor Climbing Facility (ICF) Summer 2022 Hours* Rental Center Monday: 12pm – 7pm Tuesday & Wednesday: CLOSED Thursday: 12pm – 7pm Friday: 9am – 7pm Saturday: 9am – 2pm Sunday: 12pm – 7pm Sunday, July 3 & Monday, July 4: 12pm – 6pm *Hours are subject to change. Indoor Climbing Facility (ICF) Monday – Friday: 3pm – 9pm Saturday & Sunday: 1pm – 5pm Sunday, July 3 & Monday, July 4: 1pm – 5pm *Hours are subject to change. Outdoor Adventures is home to our adventure trip and clinic programs, our outdoor equipment rental and sales center, and the Indoor Climbing Facility. Visit the Outdoor Adventures page for more information. Outdoor Adventures Locations Map to Outdoor Adventures Facilities Indoor Climbing Facility and Resource Desk (979.845.4511), located in the Student Recreation Center Bouldering Wall, located in the Student Recreation Center Rental Center (979.845.7035), located in the Student Recreation Center near the South Entrance at Lot 100J. Pick up and return outdoor equipment rentals here. For more information, call the Outdoor Adventures Resource Desk at 979.845.4511. PEAP PEAP Building Summer 2022 Hours* CLOSED *Hours are subject to change. Located at the corner of Penberthy Road and John Kimbrough Boulevard, the PEAP (Physical Education Activity Program) Building is a partnership between the Department of Health and Kinesiology and Rec Sports that replaces G. Rollie White Coliseum and the Read Building. Penberthy Penberthy Rec Sports Complex Summer 2022 Hours* North Sunday – Thursday: 6pm – 9pm Friday & Saturday: 5pm – 8pm Sunday, July 3 & Monday, July 4: CLOSED South CLOSED *Hours are subject to change. The Penberthy Rec Sports Complex is the Rec Sports department’s outdoor field facility. Located at the corner of George Bush Dr. and Penberthy Blvd., Penberthy has artificial turf and natural grass playing areas available for drop-in recreation, intramural sports, sport clubs, and special events. The phone number for the Penberthy pavilion is (979) 862-3426. Calls will only be answered during hours that the complex is open for operations. For updated field status information related to inclement weather, please call the rain line at (979) 845-2625. Find/Contact Us Phone Penberthy Complex pavilion: (979) 862-3426. Calls will only be answered during hours that the complex is open for operations. Rain line: (979) 845-2625. If fields are closed related to inclement weather, the message on the rain line will be updated. Reservations: (979) 862-1322. If you are interested in reserving field space, the meeting room, or the pavilion, please contact Tawyna Elliott. Additional forms and pricing information are available on the Facility Reservations page. Location Facility Features Penberthy has approximately 50 acres of play space available, consisting of both artificial turf and natural grass fields. The fields are not all the same size, so not every field can be utilized for every sport. Some of the fields can be easily subdivided into smaller play spaces. There are: 4 artificial turf fields 6 natural grass fields 2 softball fields with dirt infields All fields are lit after sundown. We utilize the ThorGuard lightning prediction system for assistance in determining whether the complex will be open during inclement weather. At the center of the Penberthy Rec Sports Complex is a central headquarters building. The features of the building include: Covered pavilion area/lightning shelter with outdoor picnic tables and seating for over 200 people Meeting room with seating for approximately 75 people Restrooms with shower areas Control room for event management Complex Rules Use of Penberthy is restricted to Texas A&M students and authorized users. Fields may only be used when supervised by Rec Sports staff. If gates are locked, the complex is closed; unauthorized access may be considered trespassing. All participants should be prepared to present current, valid picture identification The following are not allowed in the complex: Pets Alcoholic Beverages Vehicles Glass Containers Bicycles Tobacco Products Skateboarding Metal Cleats Scooters Drones Hoverboards FOOD, SUNFLOWER SEEDS and GUM are not allowed on artificial turf playing areas. Participants engaging in recreational activity on the sports fields must wear athletic footwear. Equipment may not be moved without permission of Rec Sports staff. Individuals who move the large soccer goals may be removed from the facility at the discretion of the facility supervisor. Serving or cooking of food is only allowed with advance written permission of Rec Sports Rec Sports staff have final decision-making authority regarding behavior not explicitly covered in the rules and the authority to remove patrons who do not abide by their decisions. For information about field status as a result of inclement weather, call (979) 845-2625. Tennis Center Omar Smith Instructional Tennis Center Summer 2022 Hours* CLOSED *Hours are subject to change. The Omar Smith Instructional Tennis Center is located on West Campus, directly behind the Texas A&M Varsity Tennis Center. Included in this facility are 18 state-of-the-art tennis courts—12 of which have lights—for Health and Kinesiology classes and recreational use by Rec members. Texas A&M University College Station, Texas 77843 - Accessibility - Security & Privacy Policy - Webmaster - Give to Student Affairs - Division of Student Affairs, Texas A&M University. Hosted by the Department of IT, Division of Student Affairs Page load link Go to Top