Skip to content Search Rec Sports... Search for: Home Facilities & Hours Facility Reservations Things To Do Aquatics Certification Courses Drop-In Recreation Fitness & Wellness Indoor Climbing Intramural Sports Outdoor Adventures Sport Clubs Strength & Conditioning and Personal Training Membership Services Disability Services Equipment Rental Guest Passes Lockers & Towels Lost & Found Resource Tables Partner With Us! Development Employment About Us Search for: Home Facilities & Hours Facility Reservations Things To Do Aquatics Certification Courses Drop-In Recreation Fitness & Wellness Indoor Climbing Intramural Sports Outdoor Adventures Sport Clubs Strength & Conditioning and Personal Training Membership Services Disability Services Equipment Rental Guest Passes Lockers & Towels Lost & Found Resource Tables Partner With Us! Development Employment About Us Home Facilities & Hours Facility Reservations Things To Do Aquatics Certification Courses Drop-In Recreation Fitness & Wellness Indoor Climbing Intramural Sports Outdoor Adventures Sport Clubs Strength & Conditioning and Personal Training Membership Services Disability Services Equipment Rental Guest Passes Lockers & Towels Lost & Found Resource Tables Partner With Us! Development Employment About Us Intramural Sports2022-05-02T19:22:15-05:00 General Info and Schedule Contact Info and Rainout Line FAQs & Rules Work for Intramural Sports General Info and Schedule Welcome to Intramural Sports! Each year, more than 13,000 students participate in the intramural program at Texas A&M. We want you and your friends to be a part of it! Rec Sports offers dozens of intramural activities each semester, and in a wide range of skill levels. Maybe you’re a star athlete looking to relive the glory days. Possibly you’re looking to meet new people and make some friends. It could simply be you’re looking for a quick one-hour study break to relieve stress each week. Whatever your reason might be, Intramural Sports has something for you! What is Intramural Sports? Rec Sports offers dozens of intramural activities each semester, and in a wide range of skill levels. Below is some information about participating in Intramural Sports at Texas A&M: Whether you’re a star athlete looking to relive the glory days, a beginner out to try something new, or something in between, Intramural Sports has something for you! Most activities offer competitive and recreational skill levels, and some naturally lend to a more competitive environment than others. Unlike Sport Clubs, Intramural Sports are less formal in that all games are played on Texas A&M’s campus, most teams don’t hold practices, and the cost to join is minimal. Participants often report many benefits of joining, including improvements in physical, social, and mental health. Participating takes up less of your time than you might think! For most activities, each team you join only takes about an hour of time commitment each week. How To Participate Registration, game schedules, and roster management are all completely online through the Texas A&M IMLeagues page. To play Intramural Sports for the first time, please follow the instructions below: Step 1 – Create an account on IMLeagues Visit imleagues.com/tamu. Click “Create Account” (green button at the top of the page). Log in to the Texas A&M network using your NetID and password Complete the required information for your account. Step 2 – Purchase your Intramural Sports Unlimited Play Pass Click on “Intramural Sports” or the A&M logo on IMLeagues (near the top left of the page). Click on the icon in the middle of the page that says “Click here to purchase your Intramural Sports Unlimited Play Pass.” Click “Buy PayPackage.” Complete your purchase. Step 3 – Create or Join a Team To Create a Team: Click your desired sport and league from the options displayed and “+Create team.” Agree to sport waiver and fill in your team information as prompted. Submit your team. From your team page, invite friends or accept invites from friends to join your team. To Join a Team: Accept a request from the captain to join his/her team through email or IMLeagues OR Find the team and captain name on the division/league page and request to join. Don't Have a Team? If an individual needs help finding a team to join, the free agent program can provide assistance in getting that person placed on a team that is looking for players. To begin the process of officially becoming a recognized free agent, first go to http://imleagues.com/tamu and create an account, if you have not done so already. From there, choose the sport you wish to join. Then, you can show as a free agent in as many divisions within a league as you’d like. For example, you might want to list yourself as available in four different Coed Competitive Sand Volleyball divisions, because they work in your schedule – CC01 Monday 6:30, CC04 Tuesday 7:20, CC06 Wednesday 9:00, and CC07 Thursday 9:50. Choose one of those divisions and click on the green button that says “Register/Signup.” You will sign up as a free agent and can provide further information on your background in that sport, if you wish to do so. You can also check additional divisions in this league from this same page. Ultimately, following this process helps team captains as they seek out players to add to their roster, if they so choose. The Intramural Sports Office tries to facilitate matches between free agents and teams seeking free agents prior to the start of each season. Understand that there is sometimes no perfect solution, so there are also no guarantees about being placed on a team. Feel free to contact the Intramural Office at (979) 862-1884 for additional information. Intramural Sports Eligibility Effective beginning with the Fall 2021 semester, any person with an active Rec Sports membership is eligible to purchase an Intramural Sports Unlimited Play Pass. The Intramural Sports Unlimited Play Pass is required for participation in Intramural Sports. Day, week, and month-long guest passes are not considered Rec Sports memberships. More information regarding Rec Sports memberships can be found at https://recsports.tamu.edu/membership. If you have a Rec Sports membership, you can purchase your Play Pass at www.imleagues.com/tamu. Purchasing Play Passes for a Group Are you part of an organization or a group, and want to purchase Play Passes for more than one person? If so, please follow these steps: 1.) Ensure the purchaser has created an account at www.imleagues.com/tamu. 2.) Ensure that all participants for whom you wish to purchase a Play Pass have created accounts at www.imleagues.com/tamu. 3.) Once you have confirmed that steps one and two are complete, send an email to Nick Heiar at nheiar@rec.tamu.edu. That email should include the full names and UIN’s for all students for whom you wish to purchase a Play Pass. 4.) Once received, the Intramural Sports Office will send instructions, including your total charge and how to complete your payment. When Are Intramural Sports Played? Intramural sports are typically played Sundays through Thursdays, and the time frame is usually 5:45 pm to midnight. Sunday play typically starts earlier in the afternoon for most sports. Need Officials For a Special Event? Please contact the Intramural Sports Office at (979) 862-1884 or im@rec.tamu.edu (preferred method) for more information. Contact Info and Rainout Line Contact Us Intramural Sports Office Hours*: Monday – Thursday: 9 am – 6 pm Friday: 9 am – 5 pm Sunday: 12 pm – 3 pm *Hours are only in effect while school is in session. Hours are available in a reduced capacity on non-holiday business days during breaks from school. Room 114 in the Student Recreation Center (979)-862-1884 im@rec.tamu.edu Rain-Out Information Intramural games may occasionally be canceled due to inclement weather. If this happens, participants may find out the status of games via the Rain Out Information Number – (979)-845-2625 – and choosing option 1. FAQs & Rules Intramural Sports FAQs Below is some important information pertaining to Intramural Sports policies and procedures. Participants should consult the full, detailed handbook for more thorough answers to questions. For a complete list of rules for each sport, visit imleagues.com/tamu and click on the Handbooks and Manuals section on the left side of the page. Intramural Handbook 2021-22 Intramural Sports Eligibility Effective beginning with the Fall 2021 semester, any person with an active Rec Sports membership is eligible to purchase an Intramural Sports Unlimited Play Pass. The Intramural Sports Unlimited Play Pass is required for participation in Intramural Sports. Day, week, and month-long guest passes are not considered Rec Sports memberships. More information regarding Rec Sports memberships can be found at https://recsports.tamu.edu/membership. If you have a Rec Sports membership, you can purchase your Play Pass at www.imleagues.com/tamu. How many teams can I play on? Contestants may only represent one team in any league (for example, Men’s Recreational, Women’s Competitive, Fraternity, etc.). An individual may play on as many as two single-gender, two coed, and two open teams on which he/she is eligible to participate. A participant playing on a Corps of Cadets or a Fraternity team is counted as playing on one of their two allowable single-gendered teams. Example – In sand volleyball, Steve could legally play on the Birds in men’s competitive and the Tigers in men’s recreational, plus the Eagles in coed competitive and the Lions in coed recreational. Steve cannot play on both the Birds and the Wolves in men’s competitive.” If a sport has a regulation of six (6) or more players on the field/court, there may be a maximum of three (3) players common to the same rosters in different leagues. If a sport has a regulation of between three (3) and five (5) players on the field/court, there may be a maximum of two (2) players common to the same rosters in different leagues. Do I need an ID to play? Yes! All intramural participants must show a form of photo ID prior to each and every game. The identification must be a government issued ID. A driver’s license or student ID card are the most used and accepted forms of ID. Can I wear jewelry when I play? Some sport rules specifically outlaw jewelry for the game for safety reasons; others do not have the same limitations regarding jewelry. You should check the specific rules for your sport at imleagues.com/tamu and clicking on the Handbooks and Manuals section on the left side of the page. Note that recreational facilities are possible theft areas. Please secure your belongings in lockers or leave them at home. Intramural sports is not responsible for lost or stolen items. Will games be played tonight because of the weather? Intramural games may occasionally be canceled due to inclement weather. If this happens, participants may find out the status of games via the Rain Out Information Number – (979)-845-2625 – and choosing option 1. Can we reschedule a game? Yes! For many sports, and assuming a spot is available, we will allow teams to reschedule their assigned game. Team captains are encouraged to act early if they cannot make a game. Reschedule spots are first come, first served. All reschedules must be completed by 4pm the day of the game. For Sunday contests, the reschedule must be completed by 2pm. Reschedules are not official until they are approved by the Intramural Office. NOTE: The time of your game is official in IMLEAGUES. Unless your schedule is changed online, the reschedule is not complete. Do not trust the word of the opposing team. We can't reschedule our game; what happens? Teams are expected to show up to their assigned game times. If a team cannot make a game time, the intramural office can help you possibly reschedule your game. If a game cannot be rescheduled, teams have the choice of defaulting or forfeiting the game. What is the difference between a forfeit and a default and why do they matter to my team? If your team doesn’t have enough players to play in your game, you can call or email the intramural office prior to 4:00 pm the day of your game. Doing this allows you to DEFAULT your game, meaning you will receive the loss, but you will not be charged a fee. If you do not call the office and choose to not show up to your game, your team will be charged with a forfeit. This means you will receive a loss, a reduced sportsmanship rating (impacting playoff eligibility), and each player on your team that does NOT sign in will be charged a $5 forfeit fee.* All players being charged that forfeit fee will be suspended from all Intramural activity until they have completed that payment through IMLeagues, which will lift their suspension. *Individual players that attend their team’s game should ALWAYS check-in, regardless of whether or not the rest of their team is going to make it to the game. All players that check in to a game will not be suspended or charged the $5 forfeit fee. How are playoff times decided? Once a team advances to playoffs, it is not certain that you will play on the same day and time as your regular season games are scheduled. A team that plays on Mondays at 7:45 may be playing a team that plays on Thursdays at 9:45. Therefore, it’s impossible to have the games at the same time for every team. Many sports have “playoff bracket selection” nights, in which you are able to choose your spot in the bracket in a predetermined order based on the regular season standings. This allows teams to more intentionally choose their playoff game times. Please be on the lookout for an email with more information regarding this process. When are rosters locked? Throughout the regular season of a sport, team captains may add and accept players on their team at any time. All players must be on the online roster prior to the game they want to play in. At 4:00 pm on the day playoffs begin, your team’s rosters are “frozen.” Anyone planning to participate on your team for any game after that time must be added to your roster in advance. Work for Intramural Sports Work for Intramural Sports Like the idea of working in sports? Intramural Sports hires over 200 students each year! Our department hires for positions as referees and scorekeepers. We also offer many opportunities to advance in our program through promotions and merit raises. Officials are needed for almost all intramural team sports including flag football, volleyball, soccer, basketball, softball, and cricket. Paid training sessions are held in the weeks prior to the beginning of each respective season. Intramural Sports Officials will start at $10.60/hour. Officials Orientation Meetings Intramural sports does not take applications. Please do not fill out the Rec Sports job application! If you are interested in being an intramural official, you MUST attend the orientation meeting for the sport you are interested in officiating. You may attend as many orientation sessions as you wish, and some officials do get hired for more than one sport. All orientations are drop-in, and feel free to bring your friends! Orientation Meeting Dates All Sports – Soccer, Basketball, Flag Football, Softball, Cricket, and Volleyball Monday, May 2 | 6:00pm | SRC Room 2229 There will be 1-2 orientations offered in August of 2022. If you cannot attend the May session, please check back in July for information on those future orientations. Attending this orientation does not guarantee your hiring – it is solely to provide you information about the hiring process, which will take place in August. Job Details Intramural officials are the entry-level position available in Intramural Sports. All intramural officials must be a student (Blinn College students are eligible to work). Officials work approximately 6-12 hours a week; however, some work more or less. Your schedule depends on your availability, and Intramural Sports understands that you are a student FIRST! Intramural sports officials may be scheduled Sundays through Thursdays from 5:30 pm to midnight. Sometimes Sunday starts as early at 3:30 pm and is our most demanding day for staff and requires some availability. While there are no intramural events scheduled for Fridays and Saturdays, intramural officials can also earn extra cash by being available for special events on those days. Being an intramural official is seasonal and officials are only required while games are being played. Intramural sports are not played over semester breaks or when school is not in session. Hourly wage rate begins at $9.00/hour and officials are eligible for merit increases in pay after 6 months from initial hire and every semester afterwards. New intramural officials are not required to know the rules of the sport as those are taught during the training session; however, a basic understanding of the sport is preferred and will assist in getting hired. Once hired, intramural officials are required to attend 8-10 hours of training that occur over two weeks before the season starts. This training is paid and must be attended in order to continue working. Key qualities of desired staff include a willingness to learn, positive attitude, hustle, ability to accept feedback, and a willingness to improve through the season. Need Officials For a Special Event? Please contact the Intramural Sports Office at (979) 862-1884 or im@rec.tamu.edu (preferred method) for more information. Texas A&M University College Station, Texas 77843 - Accessibility - Security & Privacy Policy - Webmaster - Give to Student Affairs - Division of Student Affairs, Texas A&M University. Hosted by the Department of IT, Division of Student Affairs Page load link Go to Top