Ohio State nav bar Skip to main content The Ohio State University Help BuckeyeLink Map Find People Webmail Search Ohio State Office of Student Life Recreational Sports Creating The Extraordinary Student Experience Check out what's happening in Student Life Menu Search Experience Home About Us Employment Student Employment Administrative Operations Aquatics Community and Campus Programs Facilities and Customer Service Fitness Programs and Services Intramurals and Sport Clubs Outdoor Adventure and Bike Hub Graduate Assistantships Donors Scholarships Student Professional Development Association (SPDA) University Recreational Sports Committee (URSC) Recreational Sports Staff Membership/Access Buy a membership Student Fee Guest Passes Babysitting/Kid Zone Accomodations Locker and Towel Services Family Hours Facilities Adventure Recreation Center (ARC) Aquatic Center RPAC Aquatic Center Aquatic Center Rules and Guidelines Jesse Owens North Jesse Owens South North Recreation Center Outdoor Adventure Center Climbing Guidelines Outdoor Parks Recreation and Physical Activity Center (RPAC) Services/Outreach Safety Training and Certifications Personal Training Exercise Program Design Become a Personal Trainer InBody Assessment Fitness In Motion Buckeye Bike Hub Bike Sale The Ohio State University is a Silver Level Bicycle Friendly University Programs Fitness and Wellness Group Fitness Group Fitness Schedule Become an Instructor Fitness Special Programs Fitness Resources Community Programs Learn to Swim School Year Camps Summer Camp 2022 Camp Day and Structure 2022 Camp Registration and Important Dates Outdoor Recreation Adventure Trips and Clinics Outdoor DIY Create your Outdoor Adventure! Camping Canoeing and Kayaking Caving Hiking Mountain Biking Rock Climbing, Rappelling and Ice Climbing Skiing and Snowboarding Swimming Hole Education and Safety Whitewater Kayaking and Rafting Outdoor Adventure Equipment Rentals Competitive Sports Intramural Sports How to Join Intramural Sports Intramural Sports Schedule Become an Official Sport Clubs Our Clubs Do Sports Easy Sport Club Champions Student Leadership Emerging Leadership Institute (ELI) Buckeyes Inspire Dunn Sport and Wellness Scholars Space Reservations Available Spaces Rental Policies Recognized Student Groups Rental Policies University Department Rental Policies General Public Rental Policies Rental Pricing Aquatic Rental Pricing Reserve a Space Make a Payment Pay an EMS Invoice Group Equipment Check Out Recreation and Physical Activity Center (RPAC) 05/29 - 06/04 Ohio State’s largest recreation facility, the RPAC, is a multi-purpose facility complex that combines innovative fitness spaces, versatile event areas and an active atmosphere, located in the heart of campus, southeast of Ohio Stadium. RPAC Amenities Sport Shop Located on the ground floor of the RPAC between the men's and women's locker rooms, the Sport Shop is your source for equipment check out, fitness gear purchases and court space and golf station reservations. Welcome Center The Welcome Center is the main information center in the RPAC. Purchase fitness passes, guest passes and find any information you need. Family Hours Anyone holding a current membership can bring their spouse/partner and dependent children (under 18) who have been declared on their membership application for no additional charge during family hours on Friday, Saturday and Sunday at the RPAC and ARC. Family members must stay with their designated Rec Sports member at all times. Scarlet Skyway The Scarlet Skyway connects the RPAC with the Department of Human Sciences academic building. There is a swipe access point from the Physical Activity and Education Services (PAES) building into the RPAC. Lost and Found RPAC lost and found is located at the Welcome Center. Lockers and Locker Rooms RPAC locker rooms are fully accessible with private showers and dressing rooms (soap and shampoo are not provided). Private changing rooms are also available. The RPAC features complimentary day-use lockers and a locker rental program. Fitness Space The RPAC offers approximately 27,500 square feet of fitness space featuring state-of-the-art cardio and weight equipment. Activity Space The RPAC contains four gyms with 12 multipurpose wood courts including the Tom W. Davis Special Events Gym, four squash courts with moveable side walls and glass back walls, 10 racquetball courts, an indoor jogging/walking track and five multipurpose rooms. Spaces are available for rental to student organizations and outside groups. Lactation Room The RPAC features a lactation room. Located in the fitness suite on the lower level near the main fitness floor, the room features a recliner, music and a hand washing station. The room is open to any student or faculty/staff member. To use the room, please inquire with the RPAC Welcome Center or a facility manager. Aquatic Center Please visit the McCorkle Aquatic Pavilion and Recreation Natatorium sections for complete details regarding the RPAC's state-of-the-art aquatic center. Personal Training The RPAC hosts a staff of certified personal trainers ready to help meet member fitness goals. Specialty classes, individualized sessions, and trainer certification workshops are offered on a regular basis. Dining in the RPAC Visitors to the RPAC can dine at the Courtside Cafe or Juice 2 locations in the RPAC lobby. Mary A. Daniels Wellness Suite The Mary A. Daniels Wellness Suite is home to the Student Wellness Center. 337 Annie &John Glenn Avenue , Columbus, OH 43210 614-292-7671 View Event Schedule Upcoming Events at this Facility 05/29 - 06/04 The Ohio State University © 2020 The Ohio State University - Recreational Sports B106 Recreation and Physical Activity Center, 337 Annie & John Glenn Avenue, Columbus, OH 43210 Phone: 614-292-7671 | recsports@osu.edu If you have trouble accessing this page, request an alternate format. Cookie Settings