Skip to main content Main Menu Facilities Facilities Court Reservations Accessibility Facility Rentals Reservations for Recreation Inclement Weather Membership & Services Member Benefits Rules & Regulations Programs & Activities Adventure Program Aquatics Esports Club Sports Fitness Golf Intramural Sports Youth & Community Programs Safety & Wellness Athletic Training Covid Safety & Guidelines Instructional Classes & Certifications Wellness About Us Contact Us Campus Rec Advisory Board Staff Directory Student Employment Support RecWell About Us Stay cool with RecWell! Make it your goal to move more today - in any way that feels good for your body and mind. RecWell is here to get you on the path to success and well-being. We'll be cheering you on the whole way! Facility Hours RecWell Alerts COVID Related Policies & Procedures Facility Hours Contact Us Summer Student Memberships Gain access to RecWell facilities this summer with a student membership. Summer session 1 from 5/30 - 7/8 is $30 and $60 for the entire summer (summer session 1 and 2, 7/9 - 8/28). Access group fitness classes, intramural sports, the outdoor aquatic center, climbing wall, and more! Purchase can be made through the Member Services desk or online through activeterp.umd.edu Summer Group Fitness Schedule Stay cool with us this Summer! Whether you're in summer classes or working a summer job, find time to incorporate movement and self care into your routine so you can sharpen your focus, boost your mood, and improve your sleep. Our Summer Fitness Schedule goes live May 31 - August 19. Between zumba, dancefit, cycle, and more, click here to explore both in person and virtual options to choose from. Introducing Esports We are proud to introduce Esports at RecWell, a developing premier BIG10 competitive esports and recreational gaming program at the University of Maryland flagship campus. With 5 premier teams, 11 club teams, and 1,500+ members, we are excited to also introduce RecWell's new incoming Director of Esports, Sergio Brack. Learn more about the new and developing esports program at RecWell. Being active will help you thrive in college Enjoy unlimited access to all campus gyms, the indoor and outdoor pools, intramural sport leagues and tournaments, the climbing wall, bike shop, and over 100 drop-in group fitness classes every week! State of the Art Facilities University Recreation & Wellness provides safe, clean, and inviting spaces that are available for all to engage in recreational activity at the University. The Department is entrusted with 400, 872 square feet of indoor recreation facility space, including the Eppley Recreation Center, Ritchie Coliseum, Regents Drive Garage, Reckord Armory, and more. Additionally, RecWell manages 192 acres of outdoor recreation space, including: the artificial turf fields, LaPlata Beach, turf volleyball court at Washington Quad, the Engineering Fields, Fraternity Row Field, the Chapel Field, Leonardtown Park, and the University Golf Course (UGC). Click here to learn more about our facilities. Play with us Play in seasonal intramural sports leagues and tournaments, join 1 of over 40 student-led club sports, play for a discounted rate at the 18-hole University of Maryland Golf Course, or just drop in on courts and fields across campus to play basketball, volleyball, squash, racquetball, tennis, kickball, soccer, Frisbee, and more. Learn more about intramural sports, club sports, and golf. Get fit with us Get motivated to move in group fitness classes like Zumba, Barre, or Cycling. Take advantage of discounted personal training to set goals and design a workout plan, or just swipe your ID and get ready to work up a sweat in our weight rooms, fitness centers, and functional training spaces. Learn more about our fitness programs. Work with us We’re one of the largest student employers on campus - and a job with us is more than just a paycheck … you’ll learn and grow alongside hundreds of other awesome Active Terps. You can even become a lifeguard, pool operator, trip leader, bike mechanic, challenge course facilitator, group fitness instructor, personal trainer, referee, and so much more. Click here to learn more about student employment. Support RecWell Contact Get Moving @ Maryland Newsletter Active Terps Live Well 1115 Eppley Recreation Center, College Park, MD 20742 (301) 226-4400 · recwell@umd.edu Visit our Twitter Visit our Facebook Visit our Instagram Visit our Youtube Contact Us Privacy Notice Web Accessibility Back to Top