Skip to content Skip to navigation Search Tool Submit Search Toggle navigation Menu Home About About Us Contact Us Reports Data Requests Enrollment and Term End Reports UCC Special Reports Frequently Asked Questions Programs & Policies Academic Programs Catalog Course Descriptions Education Abroad Partner Programs Student Privacy Rights Policies Attendance Policy Grief Absence Policy Religious Observance Policy Hold Policy Final Exam Policy Regulations for Qualifying for In-State Tuition Visitor Status Late Drop/Add and Section Changes Minimum/Maximum Registration Changes or Discontinuation of Programs Withdrawal Policy Online and Off-campus Programs Michigan Transfer Agreement (MTA) MiTransfer Pathways State Authorization Student Consumer Information Enrollment & Registration Academic Calendar Enrollment and Registration Lifelong Education Readmission Summer Study Veterans Certification Schedule of Classes Graduation & Honors Graduation Application Commencement and Ceremonial Events Dean's List Degree Verification Purchase Certified Electronic Diploma Duplicate/Replacement Diploma Order Form Graduation Honors Media Graduate List Student Resources Student Information System (SIS) Transcripts Confidential Message Center Continuing Education Unit Participant Records Forms Enrollment Verification Student-Instructor Forms Satisfactory Academic Progess Forms Grief Absence Request Form Guest Application for Another Institution Reverse Transfer Transfer MSU Faculty & Staff Faculty/Staff Systems Menu Electronic Student Academic Folder Instructor Systems Continuing Education Units (CEUs) Course Scheduling Academic Room Scheduling (25Live) Student-Instructor Forms University Curriculum and Catalog Enrollment and Registration Enrollment Enrollment for students is available at student.msu.edu. Each April, enrollment begins for the following fall classes. Each October, enrollment begins for the following spring and summer classes. Visit the SIS website sis.msu.edu for information about training, resources and help using the Student Information System. Additional Enrollment Information Before enrolling, see your advisor and plan a schedule. Be sure to plan alternate courses. You must know your MSU NetID and password. Activate your MSU NetID If you wish to enroll in a course subject with enrollment restrictions, contact the teaching department for assistance. You cannot access the enrollment system until your assigned enrollment appointment begins. You can find your appointment information in student.msu.edu – select the ‘Classes’ tile, then ‘Enrollment Dates’ in the left-hand navigation menu. Per the Hold Policy, you will not be allowed to enroll until all holds are cleared. You can check for holds by selecting the ‘Tasks’ tile in student.msu.edu. IT IS THE RESPONSIBILITY OF EACH STUDENT TO BE AWARE OF AND UNDERSTAND UNIVERSITY REGULATIONS AS PUBLISHED. Academic Programs and Course Descriptions are the primary sources for University regulations, policies, procedures, costs, and academic program requirements. Links to other General Regulations: Attendance Changes, Elimination or Curtailment of Programs Enrolling as a Visitor (Auditor) Enrollment Minimum/Maximum Final Examinations Late Enrollment Fees (see Operational Policies) Privacy Guidelines Withdrawal from the University MSU does not discriminate against qualified individuals with disabilities in admissions or in access to programs. If you need help or have questions about enrollment, contact the Registrar's Office. Late Enrollment Fees Continuing students who do not enroll prior to the initial enrollment deadline will be charged a $50 late enrollment fee. Students who initially enroll after the start of classes will be charged a $100 late enrollment fee. Please visit the Controller's Office Student Accounts and Cashier Services web site for information about: Tuition and Housing Fees Billing and Due Dates Deferred Payment Plan and Operational Policies Payment Information Late Payment Charges Bad Check Charges Refunds If you have additional questions about tuition, billing of fees, please contact Student Accounts. General Regulations Administrative Fee for Sponsored International Students Organizations sponsoring international students will be charged a per semester administrative fee for services and support rendered. The fee of $350 is assessed during the Fall and Spring semesters for International Sponsored Students who are registered during those semesters. The fee is not charged during Summer semester. Enrolling and Registering as a Visitor A person may be permitted to enroll in credit courses as a visitor on a non-credit basis. Credit may not be earned in courses taken as a visitor except by reenrollment for credit in the course and completion of the course with a satisfactory grade. To be enrolled as a visitor, a student must enroll in the same manner as for credit courses and pay the same tuition and fees as for a credit registration. Choice of enrollment in a credit course as a visitor on a non-credit basis must be made by the fifth day of the semester of instruction and may not be subsequently changed. Arrange visitor enrollment in 150 Administration Building, or call 517-355-3300. Students enrolled as visitors are expected to attend classes regularly. Those so enrolled who do not attend regularly may be dropped from the classes at the request of the instructor. MSU ID Office Hold Policy Fee Classification If there is a question on a student's right to an in-state fee classification, it is the student's responsibility to discuss it with the Associate Registrar for Enrollment and Registration (150 Administration Building, 432-3488) at least one month before registering. Out-of-State Tuition Regulations for Michigan State University are listed in the Academic Programs section of the University catalog on the Web at www.reg.msu.edu Graduate Students All doctoral students must register and pay for a minimum of 24 credits of doctoral dissertation research. If a graduate student has previously registered for the minimum number of credits required for master's thesis or doctoral dissertation research, but has not completed the other requirements for the degree and continues to study using University facilities and/or faculty service to take examinations, complete the thesis or dissertation requirements, etc., the student must enroll and pay for at least one credit hour and appropriate fees. Late Adds, Section Changes, and Drops After the fifth day of the semester, students must process adds and section changes at the teaching department and obtain approval from authorizing officers as required. After the middle of the semester, late drops must be initiated by the college Assistant Dean or UUD advisor. The last day for dropping courses with no grade reported is the middle of the semester of instruction. See the University Calendar. Minimum Registration All students using University services (faculty consultation included) must be registered each semester. Minimum registration consists of one course, one credit. A student enrolling for one or more credits is assessed the matriculation fees. Campus Information Visit the following sites for further information on MSU services. Addresses Changes Career Services and Placement Final Examination Policy and Schedules Financial Aid International Student Mandatory Health and Accident Insurance Lifelong Education Regulations and Application MSU Campus Map MSU Library Distance Learning Services Office of the Registrar Readmission Student Health Services - Olin Health Center University Housing Vehicle, Moped and Bicycle Registration at MSU Withdrawal from the University Call us: (517) 355-3300 Contact Information Site Map Privacy Statement Site Accessibility Call MSU: (517) 355-1855 Visit: msu.edu MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer. | Notice of Nondiscrimination Spartans Will. © Michigan State University