Skip to main content Office of the University Registrar Transcripts About Us Help Guides Forms Search Search Menu Calendars & Key Dates Academic Calendar Current Academic Calendar Future Academic Calendar Exam Schedules Registration Dates Graduation Dates Processing Calendars Registration About Registration Special Registrations Registration Help Guides Registration Policies Enrollment Statistics Courses & Classrooms Courses Reserve A Classroom Student Records & Resources New Student Orientation Student Resources FERPA GPA Academic Honors and Recognition Transfer Credit Transcripts and Verifications Transcript FAQs Replacement Diplomas Letters of Degree/Diploma/Transcript Authentication Biographical and Demographic Changes Student Forms Student Policies Veterans Veterans Education Benefits Important Dates Military Call-Up Policy Staff Directory Veterans at Duke Other Resources Faculty & Staff Resources Announcements and Important Dates Grading DukeHub Data Requests Class Scheduling Course Catalog 25Live New Faculty and Staff Orientation Faculty and Staff Policies Majors/Minors/Certificates University Bulletins Current Bulletins Divinity School Fuqua School of Business Graduate School Nicholas School of the Environment Pratt Professional Programs Sanford School of Public Policy School of Law School of Medicine School of Nursing Undergraduate Instruction Duke Community Standard Summer Bulletins Archive Bulletin Policies Welcome to the Office of the University Registrar The Office of the University Registrar provides a variety of academic services to members of the Duke community. The office supports the overall educational goals of the university by providing critical components in the academic support structure. Learn more about our services, or request a transcript. The Office of the University Registrar in the Bevan Building is now OPEN to visitors. Our new office hours are 9:00 AM - 4:30 PM Monday - Friday. If you can't visit, please send a detailed message to registrar@duke.edu, and we will respond as quickly as possible. Announcements Summer and Fall 2021 Registration Information Posted DukeHub 2.0 Goes Live! Fall 2020 Class Schedule Availability See all Announcements Important Dates Last Day to Withdraw with W from Summer Term 1 Classes (Undergraduates) June 8, 2022 Summer Term 1 classes end. June 17, 2022 Juneteenth celebrated. No classes are held. June 20, 2022 View Academic Calendar Transcripts For information on transcripts, including ordering, delivery, and processing information, visit our Transcripts page. Current students are able to use the Parchment ordering system to order transcripts via DukeHub. Those students who have graduated in the past year should also use DukeHub to order transcripts. Need help? Read this guide. Go to DukeHub Duke alumni and former students should order transcripts via Parchment storefront. Order Transcript Graduates of Duke University School of Medicine must order transcripts through the Office of the SoM Registrar. Twitter @DukeRegistrar Registration for #DukeSummer is now open! Missing the 2021 Summer terms in #DukeHub? Make sure you’ve been marked… https://t.co/LlMV1gT0Gs 1 year 3 months ago Resources DukeHub Bursar Enrollment Statistics Financial Aid Continuing Studies Commencement Duke Campus Maps Contact 1121 West Main Street, Suite 1200 Bevan (Coca-Cola) Building Durham, NC 27701 919-684-2813 (phone) 919-684-4500 (fax) registrar@duke.edu Office Hours Mon-Fri: 9am-4:30pm Sat, Sun: closed Links Staff Directory Contact Us Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Duke University Durham, NC 27708 (919) 684-8111