Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site Student Services Academic Record Change Cognates Graduation and Diplomas Registration Transcripts Verification and Certification Classroom Management Course and Curriculum Testing and Evaluation Veterans Services General Information About Us Contact Us Organizational Chart Policies Student Services Classroom Management Course and Curriculum Testing and Evaluation Veterans Services General Information Search Student Services Academic Record Change Cognates Graduation and Diplomas Registration Transcripts Verification and Certification Classroom Management Course and Curriculum Testing and Evaluation Veterans Services General Information About Us Contact Us Organizational Chart Policies Classroom Management Course and Curriculum Testing and Evaluation Spring 2019 Faculty Evaluations Training and Documentation Student Services Classroom Management Course and Curriculum Testing and Evaluation Veterans Services General Information Home Testing and Evaluation AAA Testing and Evaluation NEED HELP? 1 Help With ... 2 Submit Case 3 Contact Us NEED HELP? 1 Help With ... 2 Submit Case 3 Contact Us Testing and Evaluation coordinates machine scanning and scoring of tests and surveys, online administration of faculty/course evaluation, and other measurement services. Faculty/Course Evaluations Colleges and schools at the University of Miami may administer faculty/course evaluations efficiently on the web using CoursEval™ from Campus Labs. Along with IT, the Testing and Evaluation Services group provides central support, including survey form design, personalized e-mail invitations and reminders, and summary report access. There is no direct cost to the school. Faculty may view their end-of-semester reports via myUM. Faculty/course evaluation results for the previous term will be available each year in the middle of September and the middle of February. Custom report features are available to designated administrators in the colleges and schools. Students complete surveys at their convenience online or via their smart phones or mobile devices without any special set-up. Survey responses are anonymous. Student names or e-mail addresses cannot be connected to any survey data. No survey results are released to faculty until after final grades are posted. Now Available You can now see all the faculty and courses that were evaluated in the previous term via the CoursEval portal. Sign on to ce.miami.edu and do as follows: 1. From the Reports menu, select Search Results 2. In the Search For box, you may search by entering a course number, a name, or an instructor’s name and then click the Search button. You may also enter a new search criteria by clicking on the Change Filter located on the upper right side of the screen. Test Scoring Testing and Evaluation Services operates optical mark sense readers for scoring multiple choice (single-response) tests. The standard UM test scoring forms allow up to 200 test items with a maximum of five choices per item. Scanning Procedures Scanning Procedures Information Header Sample Key Sample Request for Scantron Form Scantron Bubble Sheet Request Form Contact Phone: 305-284-2450 Email: onlineevals@miami.edu (Faculty/Course Evaluations) Email: testeval@miami.edu (Scanning and Scoring) University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Office of the University Registrar 1306 Stanford Drive The University Center, Room 1230 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-2294 305-284-2294 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices