Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home Office of the Registrar Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin Office of the Registrar Texas One Stop Contact Search Search Search Search Faculty & Staff Expand Catalogs, Course Inventory, and Credentials (Official Publications) Class Rosters CLIPs Course Schedule Update FERPA and Privacy Final Exams Grade Reporting Prerequisite Check Room Scheduling Standards Student documents online Training Using Waitlists Course Schedules Expand Fall 2022 Summer 2022 Spring 2022 Course Schedule Archive Catalogs Expand General Information Undergraduate Graduate Law School Medical School Calendars Expand 2021-2022 Long Session Upcoming Calendars Academic Calendar Archive Services Expand About Expand How to contact us Administration Athletic Eligibility Course Schedule Production Certification Degree Audit Diploma Services Document Imaging Catalogs, Course Inventory, and Credentials (Official Publications) Records Registration Room & Exam Scheduling Training Transcripts Students, please visit the Texas One Stop website for assistance. For all other Registrar-related questions, please contact us. We're here to help. Connect to Texas One Stop Home Long Session 2020–2021 Long Session 2020–2021 COVID-19 related changes to the Academic Calendar for Long Session 2020-2021 are reflected with strikethroughs and *asterisks*. July 22 Wednesday Last day during the summer session that new summer session students, continuing students, readmitted students, and new graduate students can register for the fall semester. *NEW* July 23-31 Thursday Extended registration period during summer session available for all students registered prior to July 23 to make changes to their fall class schedule. July 28 Tuesday Tuition bills for the fall semester distributed to students electronically. Notice is sent to the e-mail address on the student’s record. *NEW* August 6 Thursday New International Student Virtual Orientation Program. August 14 Friday Tuition payment deadline is 5:00 pm for undergraduate students who registered for the fall semester by Friday, July 31. Tuition may be paid in full or in installments. *NEW* The university has implemented a tuition payment deadline grace period until August 25, 2020 for undergraduate students registered for the fall 2020 semester. Tuition may be paid in full or in installments. New International Student Orientation Part I.(*New International Student Orientation date changed to August 6.) August 17 Monday New International Student Orientation Part II.(*New International Student Orientation date changed to August 6.) August 18 Tuesday University required Orientation for new undergraduate transfer students; *delivered online only*. August 19 Wednesday University required Orientation (*delivered online only*) and testing begin for new freshmen students. Fall Semester 2020 *NEW* August 20 Thursday University residence halls open at 7:00 a.m. August 21 Friday Registration for the fall semester for new undergraduate students and all graduate students who have not yet registered. To complete registration, undergraduate students must pay tuition by 5:00 p.m. on Tuesday, August 25; graduate and law students must pay tuition by 5:00 p.m. on Monday, August 31. Last day a graduate student may register in absentia. University residence halls open at 9:00 a.m.(*Date changed to August 20 at 7:00 a.m.) University Health Services benefits become available to registered students. August 24 Monday Registration for the fall semester for new, readmitted, and continuing students who have not yet registered. To complete registration, undergraduate students must pay tuition by 5:00 p.m. on Tuesday, August 25; graduate and law students must pay tuition by 5:00 p.m, on Monday, August 31. Add/drop for the fall semester for students who registered and paid their tuition and fees by Friday, August 14. August 25 Tuesday Registration and add/drop for the fall semester for all students. Tuition payment deadline for undergraduate students who registered after Wednesday, July 22 prior to August 21, 2020. Payments are due by 5:00 p.m. CST. August 26 Wednesday Classes begin. August 31 Monday Fourth class day; Last day of the official add/drop period; after this date, changes in registration may require the approval of the department chair and usually the student's dean. Last day undergraduate students may register and pay tuition without the approval of the registrar. (See General Information, Academic Policies and Procedures, for details). Last day graduate students may register and pay tuition without the approval of the graduate dean. Last day law students may register and pay tuition without the approval of the dean. Tuition payment deadline is 5:00 p.m. for undergraduate, graduate, and law students. Tuition may be paid in full or in installments. September 7 Monday Labor Day holiday. September 11 Friday Twelfth class day; this is the date the official enrollment count is taken. Payment for added classes (add bill) due by 5:00 p.m. Last day an undergraduate student may add a class except for rare and extenuating circumstances. Last day to drop a class for a possible refund. (See General Information, Academic, Policies and Procedures and Registration, Tuition, and Fees for details.) Last day a graduate student may, with the required approvals, add a class. Last day a law student may add a class. Last day a law student may drop a class without the approval of the dean. September 25 Friday Second tuition payment due for students who selected the installment plan. October 14 Wednesday Intrasemester reports due in the deans’ offices. October 21 Wednesday Last day to apply for a law degree. Last day a law student may register in absentia. October 22-23, 26-28 Thursday-Friday, Monday-Wednesday Academic advising for continuing and readmitted students for the spring semester. October 23 Friday Final tuition payment due for students who selected the installment plan. October 29 Thursday Last day an undergraduate student may, with the dean’s approval, withdraw from the University or drop a class except for urgent and substantiated, nonacademic reasons. Last day an undergraduate student may change registration in a class to or from the pass/fail basis. Last day a law student may change registration in a class to or from the pass/fail basis. Last day to apply for an undergraduate degree. October 26-November 6 *NEW* November 2-13 Daily Registration for the spring semester for continuing and readmitted students. November 13 Friday Last day to apply for a graduate degree. *NEW* November 10 17 Tuesday Tuition bills for the spring semester distributed to students electronically. Notice is sent to the e-mail address on the student’s record. November 20 Friday Last day a doctoral candidate may hold a dissertation defense for the fall 2020 semester. November 23 Monday Last day a graduate student may change registration in a class to or from the credit/no credit basis. November 25-28 Wednesday-Saturday Thanksgiving holidays. *NEW* November 30-December 7 Monday-Monday Classes continue remotely. Students should consult their course syllabus to determine how their instructor plans to use this period. December 4 Friday Last day to submit master’s report, recital, thesis, doctoral dissertation, or treatise to the graduate dean. December 5 Saturday Fall graduation ceremonies in some of the colleges and schools. December 7 Monday Last class day. Last day a graduate student or a law student may, with the required approvals, drop a class or withdraw from the University. Last day an undergraduate may register in absentia. December 8 Tuesday Reading day in the School of Law. *NEW* December 9 Wednesday Last day an undergraduate, with the required approvals, may request a non-academic Q-drop. December 8-9, 13 Tuesday-Wednesday, Sunday No-class days. December 9-12, 14-18 Wednesday-Saturday, Monday-Friday Fall semester final examinations in the School of Law. December 10-12, 14-16 Thursday-Saturday, Monday-Wednesday Fall semester final examinations except in the School of Law. December 17 Thursday University residence halls close at 9:00 a.m. December 18 Friday Commissioning of ROTC graduates. December 19 Saturday Official graduation date. (No public exercises.) Spring Semester 2021 *NEW* January 6 Wednesday Undergraduate students may choose to have a total of three (3) classes graded on a Pass/Fail basis (COVID-19 Pass/Fail Exceptions) without penalty for fall 2020 and spring 2021. Students may submit their request through May 28, 2021. January 7 Thursday Tuition payment deadline is 5:00 p.m. for undergraduate students who registered for spring semester by Friday, November 6 13. Tuition may be paid in full or in installments. (*Date changed to January 15, 2021 by 5:00 p.m.) January 8 Friday New International Student Orientation. January 11 Monday Orientation and testing begin for new undergraduate students. Registration for the spring semester for continuing and readmitted students who have not yet registered. To complete registration undergraduate students must pay tuition by 5:00 p.m. on Friday, January 15; graduate students and law students must pay tuition by 5:00 p.m. on Friday, January 22. Add/drop for the spring semester for students who have already registered. and paid their tuition by Thursday, January 7. January 12 Tuesday Registration for the spring semester for new and readmitted students who have not yet registered. To complete registration, undergraduate students must pay tuition by 5:00 p.m. on Friday, January 15; graduate and law students must pay tuition by 5:00 p.m. on Friday, January 22. Add/drop for the spring semester for students who have already registered. and paid their tuition by Thursday, January 7. January 13-15 Wednesday-Friday Registration for the spring semester for new, readmitted, and continuing students who have not yet registered. To complete registration, undergraduate students must pay tuition by 5:00 p.m. on Friday, January 15; graduate and law students must pay tuition by 5:00 p.m. on Friday, January 22. Add/drop for the spring semester for students who have already registered. and paid their tuition by Thursday, January 7. January 15 Friday Tuition bills due by 5:00 p.m. for undergraduate students who have registered but not paid. Tuition may be paid in full or in installments. *The tuition bills for undergraduates who have registered but not paid has been extended to Friday, January 22 at 5:00 p.m. Tuition may be paid in full or installments. University residence halls open at 9:00 a.m. University Health Services benefits become available to registered students. January 18 Monday Martin Luther King Jr. Day holiday. January 19 Tuesday Classes begin (*Except School of Law which begins January 25 and a few classes given special approval to start as early as January 4). January 22 Friday Fourth class day; Last day of the official add/drop period; after this date, changes in registration may require the approval of the department chair and usually the student’s dean. Last day undergraduate students may register and pay tuition without the approval of the registrar. (See General Information, Academic Policies and Procedures, for details.) Last day graduate students may register and pay tuition without the approval of the graduate dean. Last day law students may register and pay tuition without the approval of the dean. Tuition payment deadline is 5:00 p.m. for undergraduate, graduate, and law students. Tuition may be paid in full or in installments. *NEW* January 25 Monday First class day in the School of Law. February 3 Wednesday Twelfth class day; this is the date the official enrollment count is taken. Last day an undergraduate student may add a class except for rare and extenuating circumstances. Payment for added classes (add bill) due by 5:00 p.m. Last day to drop a class for a possible refund. (See General Information, Academic Policies and Procedures and Registration, Tuition, and Fees for details.) Last day a graduate student may, with the required approvals, add a class. Last day a law student may add a class. Last day a law student may drop a class without the approval of the dean. February 19 Friday Second tuition payment due for students who selected the installment plan. March 6 Saturday Intrasemester reports due in the deans' offices. March 15-20 Monday-Saturday Spring break. March 26 Friday Final tuition payment due for students who selected the installment plan. March 29 Monday Last day to apply for a law degree. Last day a law student may register in absentia. April 5 Monday Last day an undergraduate student may, with the dean’s approval, withdraw from the University or drop a class except for urgent and substantiated, nonacademic reasons. (*Date changed to May 11, 2021.) Last day an undergraduate student may change registration in a class to or from the pass/fail basis. Last day a law student may change registration in a class to or from the pass/fail basis. (*Variable date. Please visit Law School Academic Services for more information.) Last day to apply for an undergraduate degree. April 10 Saturday 73rd Annual Honors Day Program. April 14-16, 19-23 Wednesday-Friday, Monday-Friday Academic advising for continuing and readmitted students for the summer session and the fall semester. April 16 Friday Last day to apply for a graduate degree. April 19-30 Daily Registration for the summer session and the fall semester for continuing and readmitted students. April 23 Friday Last day a doctoral candidate may hold a dissertation defense for the spring 2021 semester. April 26 Monday Last day a graduate student may change registration in a class to or from the credit/no credit basis. *NEW* April 30 Friday Last class day in the School of Law. Last day a law student may change registration in a class to or from the pass/fail basis. Visit Law School Academic Services for more information. May 3 Monday Last class day in the School of Law.(*Date changed to April 30.) Last day a law student may, with the required approvals, drop a class or withdraw from the University. *NEW* May 3-4 Monday-Tuesday Reading days in the School of Law. (*Added May 3 as an additional day.) May 4 Tuition bills for the summer session distributed to students electronically. Notice is sent to the e-mail address on the student’s record. May 5-8, 10-14 Wednesday-Saturday, Monday-Friday, Spring semester final examinations in the School of Law. May 7 Friday Last class day except in the School of Law. Last day to submit master’s report, recital, thesis, doctoral dissertation, or treatise to the graduate dean. Last day a graduate student may, with the required approvals, drop a class or withdraw from the University. Last day an undergraduate student may register in absentia. *NEW* May 11 Tuesday Last day an undergraduate may, with the required approvals, withdraw from the University or request a non-academic Q-drop. May 10-11, 16 Monday-Tuesday, Sunday No-class days. May 12-15, 17-18 Wednesday-Saturday, Monday-Tuesday Spring semester final examinations except in the School of Law. May 19 Wednesday University residence halls close at 9:00 a.m. (except for graduating students). May 20 Thursday Tuition payment deadline is 5:00 p.m. for undergraduate students who registered for the summer session during the spring. May 21-22 Friday-Saturday Graduation ceremonies in the colleges and schools. May 21 Friday Commissioning of ROTC graduates. May 22 Saturday Commencement (official graduation date). May 23 Sunday University residence halls close at 9:00 a.m. for graduating students. *NEW* May 28 Friday Last day undergraduate students may submit requests for their total of three (3) classes graded on a Pass/Fail basis (COVID-19 Pass/Fail Exception) without penalty for fall 2020 and spring 2021. Calendars 2021-2022 Long Session Upcoming Calendars Academic Calendar Archive Office of the Registrar Our mission is to create, maintain, certify, and protect University records of courses, degrees, and students. 1616 Guadalupe, 4th Floor Contact us UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022