Skip to main content Florida State University This is your Donation message. Log In This Site FSU Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Submit Submit Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Giving University Registrar Toggle navigation Site Menu Current Records Overview Status & Retention Drop/Add Service Indicators Enrollment Cancellation Grade Services Deans' Directory Publications Overview Bulletin Info Registration Guide Info Campus Map Info Course Descriptions Calendars Graduation Overview Graduation Checklist Ceremony Information Diplomas Degrees of Distinction Update Expected Grad Term FAQ Student Services Overview Graduation Transcripts Certification State Employee Fee Waiver FERPA Course Descriptions Scheduling Overview Curriculum Academic Space Class Search Archive Bulletin Undergraduate Graduate Registration Guide Past Editions Certification Home Records Certification The Registrar's Office has transitioned to a remote work environment. We encourage you to seek your answers online here at registrar.fsu.edu. If you have specific questions, we ask that you reach out to us via email at registrar@fsu.edu. Emails are more easily answered remotely than phone calls. We promise to respond just as quickly as we possibly can to all inquiries. Please check here: https://news.fsu.edu/tag/coronavirus/ for the latest university information as we continue to adjust to new developments and recommendations from the CDC, WHO, and the Florida Department of Health. Helpful Links Current Records Graduation Appeals Certification Transcripts Status and Retention Enrollment Cancellation Grade Services Drop/Add Excess Credit Hours Excess Credit Hours FAQ FERPA Employee Fee Waivers General Bulletin Registration Guide Class Search Snapshots Services Forms Certifications Currently enrolled students may request an enrollment, degree, or GPA verification by logging into my.fsu.edu, navigating to the Academics tab, and selecting Enrollment Verification from the drop-down box. Requests made during the term are processed and mailed the next business day. NOTE: Please be aware that we cannot send enrollment verification requests prior to the fifth day of classes. All requests made prior to the fifth day of classes are processed during the second week of classes. Former students or outside agencies may request an enrollment verification or degree verification from the National Student Clearinghouse at http://www.degreeverify.org. Additionally, former students may submit the Certification Request form directly to the Office of the University Registrar. The request must include: an EMPLID, the student's date of birth, any other names the student has gone by (e.g., maiden name), the address to which we should mail the certification, and the student's signature. Requests may be faxed to (850) 644-1597 or mailed to: Office of the University Registrar Florida State University A3900 Champions Way 282 Champions Way P.O. Box 3062480 Tallahassee, FL 32306-2480 Please email questions to the Office of the University Registrar at registrar@fsu.edu, or call (850) 644-1050. Mailing Address A3900 University Center 282 Champions Way Tallahassee, FL 32306-2480 Email Registrar - registrar@fsu.edu Phone 850.644.1050 Hours Monday - Friday, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Eastern Time Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright