Skip to content Skip to navigation SUNetID Login SUNetID Login Registrar's Office Student Affairs Search form Search Navigation menu Main menu Students Faculty Staff Everyone Resources and Help You are here Home » Resources and Help » Stanford Academic Calendar, 2021-22 Resources and Help Stanford Academic Calendar, 2021-22 Stanford Academic Calendar, 2020-21 Previous Academic Calendars Future Academic Calendars Academic Calendar Feeds Student Forms Axess for Faculty, Advisors, and Grade Proxies Axess for Students Publications and Online Guides Office of the University Registrar Contacts Academic Calendar Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Resources and Help Stanford Academic Calendar, 2021-22 Stanford Academic Calendar, 2020-21 Previous Academic Calendars Future Academic Calendars Academic Calendar Feeds Student Forms Axess for Faculty, Advisors, and Grade Proxies Axess for Students Publications and Online Guides Office of the University Registrar Contacts Stanford Academic Calendar, 2020-21 Stanford Academic Calendar, 2020-21 Due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, academic dates and deadlines published here may differ from the practices of previous year and they are subject to change. Specifically, Autumn Quarter starts one week earlier than usual with classes ending before Thanksgiving; Winter Quarter also starts one week later than usual. The Academic Senate has decided that there will be no final exams in 2020-21 for undergraduates and graduate students; the professional schools may make different decisions concerning final examinations which are reflected below. Autumn Quarter • Winter Quarter • Spring Quarter • Summer Quarter The University bill is issued on or around the 20th of the month (whichever business day comes closest). Billed charges are due by the 15th of the following month. For more information, see the Student Financial Services site. See the R&DE Student Housing site for additional information on Housing deadlines. Key undergraduate dates are included below. Legal-size Printable Calendar • Letter-size Printable Calendar Issued July 20, 2020; updated February 25, 2021. All dates are subject to change at the discretion of the University. AUTUMN QUARTER 2020-21 August 17 (Mon) Stanford Bulletin publishes academic year 2020-21 degree requirements; ExploreCourses opens with Autumn class offerings August 17 (Mon) Axess opens for course enrollment for M.D. and M.S.P.A. students. August 17 (Mon) Axess opens for course enrollment for J.D., J.S.M., L.L.M. and J.S.D. students. August 24 (Mon) M.D. and MSPA first and second-year students, first day of instruction. See the School of Medicine academic calendar website. August 31 (Mon) Law School instruction begins for 1st-year J.D. students, J.S.M. and L.L.M. students. See the Law School academic calendar website. September 1 (Tues) Axess opens for course enrollment. September 4 (Fri, 5:00 p.m.) At-status enrollment deadline in order to receive stipend or financial aid refund within the first week of term. September 4 (Fri) M.B.A. 1st-year instruction begins. September TBD New undergraduates arrive. Convocation. Undergraduate housing opens for new students; see Residential & Dining Enterprises Calendar. September TBD Undergraduate housing opens for returning students; see Residential & Dining Enterprises Calendar. September 14 (Mon) First day of quarter; instruction begins. September 14 (Mon, 5:00 p.m.) Preliminary Study List deadline. Students must be "at status"; i.e., students must have a study list with sufficient units to meet requirements for their status, whether full-time, 8-9-10 units (graduate students only), or approved Undergraduate Special Registration Status or Graduate Special Registration Status. September 14 (Mon, 5:00 p.m.) Deadline to submit Leave of Absence for full refund (see undergraduate leaves of absence and graduate leaves of absence). See Tuition and Refund Schedule for a full refund schedule. September 14 (Mon) Law School instruction begins for 2nd/3rd-year J.D. and advanced degree students. See the Law School academic calendar website. September 15 (Tue) Autumn Quarter Cardinal Care Waiver Deadline; see the Cardinal Care website. September 21 (Mon) M.B.A. 2nd-year instruction begins. September 21 (Mon) Stanford Teacher Education Program (STEP) instruction begins. September 24 (Thu) Conferral of degrees, Summer Quarter 2019-20. October 2 (Fri, 5:00 p.m.) Final Study List deadline, except GSB. Last day to add or drop a class; last day to adjust units on a variable-unit course. Last day for tuition reassessment for dropped courses or units. Students may withdraw from a course until the Course Withdrawal deadline and a 'W' notation will appear on the transcript. October 23 (Fri, 5:00 p.m.) Term withdrawal deadline; last day to submit Leave of Absence to withdraw from the University with a partial refund. November 6 (Fri, 5:00 p.m.) Change of grading basis deadline, except GSB. November 6 (Fri, 5:00 p.m.) Course withdrawal deadline, except GSB, Law, and M.D. November 6 (Fri, 5:00 p.m.) Application deadline for Autumn Quarter degree conferral. November 13 (Fri) Last day of Law classes for 2nd-year, 3rd-year J.D.,and advanced degree students. November 14-17 (Sat-Tue) Law School 2nd-year, 3rd-year J.D., and advanced degree students Reading Period. November 18-24 (Wed-Tue) Law School 2nd-year, 3rd-year J.D., and advanced degree students Law School examinations. See the Law School academic calendar website. November 20 (Fri) Last day of Law classes for 1st-year J.D. students. See the Law School academic calendar website. November 20 (Fri) Last day of classes (unless class meets on Sat.), except Law. November 20 (Fri) Last opportunity to arrange Incomplete in a course, at last class. November TBD Undergraduate housing closes for Winter Break; see Residential & Dining Enterprises Calendar. November 23-27 (Mon-Fri) Thanksgiving Recess (no classes). November 28 - December 3 (Sat-Thu) Law School 1st-year J.D. students Reading Period. See the Law School academic calendar website. November 30 - December 4 (Mon-Fri) End-Quarter Period for M.D. and MSPA students. See the School of Medicine academic calendar website. November 30 - December 4 (Mon-Fri) GSB End-Quarter examinations. December 4 (Fri, noon) University thesis, D.M.A. final project, or Ph.D. dissertation, last day to submit. December 4 (Fri, 5:00 p.m.) Late application deadline for Autumn Quarter degree conferral ($50 fee). December 4-11 (Fri-Fri) Law School 1st-year J.D. students examinations. See the Law School academic calendar website. December 7-11 (Mon-Fri) End-Quarter examinations for M.D. and MSPA students. See the School of Medicine academic calendar website. December 7-11 (Mon-Fri) Programming for M.B.A. students. December 8 (Tues, 11:59 p.m.) Grades due. December TBD Undergraduate housing closes for Winter Break; see Residential & Dining Enterprises Calendar. December 10 (Thu, noon) Final Recommending Lists due. (Date changed due to the University's decision to close from December 14.) December 15 (Tues): Autumn Quarter Cardinal Care Petition for Early Cancellation due to Degree Conferral Deadline; see the Cardinal Care website and Student Health Matters for more information December 14-January 1 (Mon-Fri) Winter Closure; the University is closed. January 7 (Thu) Conferral of degrees, Autumn Quarter. Top of page WINTER QUARTER 2020-21 December 6 (Sun) Axess opens for course enrollment. December 15 (Tues) Winter Quarter Cardinal Care Waiver Deadline; see the Cardinal Care website. January 1 (Fri) At-status enrollment deadline in order to receive stipend or financial aid refund within the first week of term. January 4 (Mon) Law School instruction begins. See the Law School academic calendar website. January 4 (Mon) M.D. and MSPA instruction begins. See the School of Medicine academic calendar website. January 4 (Mon) M.B.A. instruction begins. See the full Graduate School of Business academic calendar. January TBD Undergraduate housing opens for Winter Quarter; see Residential & Dining Enterprises Calendar. January 8 (Fri) GSB course add/drop deadline. See the full Graduate School of Business academic calendar. January 11 (Mon) First day of quarter; instruction begins for all students. January 11 (Mon, 5:00 p.m.) Preliminary Study List deadline. Students must be "at status"; i.e., students must have a study list with sufficient units to meet requirements for their status, whether full-time, 8-9-10 units (graduate students only), or approved Undergraduate Special Registration Status or Graduate Special Registration Status. January 18 (Mon) Martin Luther King, Jr., Day (holiday, no classes). January 19 (Tue, 5:00 p.m.) Deadline to submit Leave of Absence for full refund (see undergraduate leaves of absence and graduate leaves of absence). See Tuition and Refund Schedule for a full refund schedule. January 29 (Fri, 5:00 p.m.) Final Study List deadline, except GSB. Final day to add or drop a class; last day to adjust units on a variable-unit course. Last day for tuition reassessment for dropped courses or units. Students may withdraw from a course until the Course Withdrawal deadline and a 'W' notation will appear on the transcript. February 15 (Mon) Presidents' Day (holiday, no classes; Law does hold classes). February 19 (Fri, 5:00 p.m.) Term withdrawal deadline; last day to submit Leave of Absence to withdraw from the University with a partial refund. February 26 (Fri, 5:00 p.m.) Application deadline for Winter Quarter degree conferral. March 5 (Fri, 5:00 p.m.) Change of grading basis deadline, except GSB. March 5 (Fri, 5:00 p.m.) Course withdrawal deadline, except GSB, Law, and M.D. March 8 (Mon) Last day of Law classes. See the Law School academic calendar web site. March 8 (Mon) Last day of M.D. and M.S.P.A. classes. See the School of Medicine academic calendar website. March 8-12 (Mon-Fri) End-Quarter Period for M.D. and M.S.P.A. students. See the School of Medicine academic calendar website. March 9-11 (Tue-Thu) Law School Reading Period. See the Law School academic calendar web site. March 12 (Fri, 5:00 p.m.) Late application deadline for Winter Quarter degree conferral ($50 fee). March 12-19 (Fri-Fri) Law School examinations. See the Law School academic calendar website. March 15-19 (Mon-Fri) GSB End-Quarter examinations. March 15-19 (Mon-Fri) End-Quarter examinations for M.D. and M.S.P.A. students. See the School of Medicine academic calendar website. March 19 (Fri) Last day of classes (unless class meets on Sat.) March 19 (Fri) Last opportunity to arrange Incomplete in a course, at last class. March 19 (Fri, noon) University thesis, D.M.A. final project, Ph.D. dissertation, last day to submit. March TBD Undergraduate housing move-out; see Residential & Dining Enterprises Calendar. March 23 (Tues, 11:59 p.m.) Grades for graduating students due. March 26 (Fri, 5:00 p.m.) Final Recommending Lists due. March 29 (Mon, 11:59 p.m.) Grades for non-graduating students due. April 1 (Thu) Conferral of degrees, Winter Quarter. April 15 (Thu): Winter Quarter Cardinal Care Petition for Early Cancellation due to Degree Conferral Deadline; see the Cardinal Care website and Student Health Matters for more information Top of page SPRING QUARTER 2020-21 March 7 (Sun) Axess opens for course enrollment. March 15 (Mon) Spring Quarter Cardinal Care Waiver Deadline; see the Cardinal Care website. March 19 (Fri) At-status enrollment deadline in order to receive stipend or financial aid refund within the first week of term. March TBD Undergraduate housing move-in date for Spring Quarter; see Residential & Dining Enterprises Calendar. March 29 (Mon) First day of quarter; instruction begins for all students. March 29 (Mon, 5:00 p.m.) Preliminary Study List deadline.Students must be "at status"; i.e., students must have a study list with sufficient units to meet requirements for their status, whether full-time, 8-9-10 units (graduate students only), or approved Undergraduate Special Registration Status or Graduate Special Registration Status. March 29 (Mon, 5:00 p.m.) Deadline to submit Leave of Absence for full refund (see undergraduate leaves of absence and graduate leaves of absence). See See Tuition and Refund Schedule for a full refund schedule. April 1 (Thu) GSB instruction begins (MBA and MSx courses only). See the full Graduate School of Business academic calendar. April 6 (Tue) GSB course add/drop deadline. See the full Graduate School of Business academic calendar. April 9 (Fri, 5:00 p.m.) Application deadline for Spring Quarter degree conferral. April 16 (Fri, 5:00 p.m.) Final Study List deadline, except GSB. Last day to add or drop a class; last day to adjust units on a variable-unit course. Last day for tuition reassessment for dropped courses or units. Students may withdraw from a course until the Course Withdrawal deadline and a "W" notation will appear on the transcript. May 7 (Fri, 5:00 p.m.) Term withdrawal deadline; last day to submit Leave of Absence to withdraw from the University with a partial refund. May 21 (Fri, 5:00 p.m.) Change of grading basis deadline, except GSB. May 21 (Fri, 5:00 p.m.) Course withdrawal deadline, except GSB, Law, and M.D. May 27 (Thu) Last day of Law classes. See the Law School academic calendar website. May 27 (Thu) Last day of M.D. and M.S.P.A. classes. See the School of Medicine academic calendar website. May 28 (Fri, 5:00 p.m.) Late application deadline for Spring Quarter degree conferral ($50 fee). May 28-31 (Fri-Mon) Law School reading Period. See the Law School academic calendar web site. May 28-June 3 (Fri-Thu) End-Quarter Period for M.D. and MSPA students. See the School of Medicine academic calendar website. May 31 (Mon) Memorial Day (holiday, no classes). June 1-5 (Tues-Sat) Law School examinations. See the Law School academic calendar web site. June 2 Last day of GSB classes; GSB Monday classes meet June 4-9 (Fri-Wed) GSB End-Quarter examinations. June 4-9 (Fri-Wed) End-Quarter examinations for M.D. and MSPA students. See the School of Medicine academic calendar website. June 4 (Fri) Last day of classes. June 4 (Fri) Last opportunity to arrange Incomplete in a course, at last class. June 4 (Fri, noon) University thesis, D.M.A. final project, or Ph.D. dissertation, last day to submit. June 8 (Tuesday, 11:59 p.m.) Grades for graduating students due. June 11 (Friday, noon) Final Recommending Lists due. June 12 (Sat) Senior Class Day. June 12 (Sat) Baccalaureate Saturday. June 12 (Sat) Law School Diploma Ceremony. See the Law School academic calendar website. June 12 (Sat) GSB Diploma Ceremony. June 12 (Sat) Medical School Commencement Ceremony. June 13 (Sun) Commencement. June TBD Undergraduate Housing move-out date (for graduates and others involved in Commencement with permission); see Residential & Dining Enterprises Calendar. June 15 (Tue, 11:59 p.m.) Grades for non-graduating students due. June 16 Posting of degrees; degrees will be awarded with a confer date of Commencement. Top of page SUMMER QUARTER 2020-21 May 23 (Sun) Axess opens for course enrollment. June 11 (Fri) At-status enrollment deadline in order to receive stipend or financial aid refund within the first week of term. June 15 (Tues) Summer Quarter Cardinal Care Waiver Deadline; see the Cardinal Care website. June 21 (Mon) First day of quarter; instruction begins. June 21 (Mon, 5:00 p.m.) Preliminary Study List deadline. Undergraduates enrolling in this quarter must be “at status”; i.e., have a study list with sufficient units to meet requirements for their status, whether full-time or approved Undergraduate Special Registration Status. June 21 (Mon) Deadline to submit Leave of Absence for full refund (see undergraduate leaves of absence and graduate leaves of absence). See Tuition and Refund Schedule for a full refund schedule. July 5 (Mon) Independence Day celebrated (holiday, no classes). July 9 (Fri, 5:00 p.m.) Final Study List deadline.Final day to add or drop a class; last day to adjust units on a variable-unit course. Last day for tuition reassessment for dropped courses or units. Students may withdraw from a course until the Course Withdrawal deadline and a 'W' notation will appear on the transcript. July 18 (Sun) UIT Extended Maintenance Window; Axess and other ERP systems may be unavailable. July 30 (Fri, 5:00 p.m.) Term withdrawal deadline; last day to submit Leave of Absence to withdraw from the University with a partial refund. August 13 (Fri, 5:00 p.m.) Change of grading basis deadline. August 13 (Fri, 5:00 p.m.) Course withdrawal deadline. August 13 (Fri, 5:00 p.m.) Application deadline for Summer Quarter degree conferral. August 27 (Fri) Last day of classes. August 27 (Fri) Last opportunity to arrange Incomplete in a course, at last class. August 27 (Fri, noon) University thesis, D.M.A. final project, or Ph.D. dissertation, last day to submit. August 27 (Fri, 5:00 p.m.) Late application deadline for Summer Quarter degree conferral ($50 fee). September 7 (Tue, 11:59 p.m.) Grades due. September 10 (Fri, 5:00 p.m.) Final Recommending Lists due. September 23 (Thu) Conferral of degrees, Summer Quarter. Top of page 2021-22 First Day of Classes and End of Term These dates are subject to change at the discretion of the University. Autumn 2021-22: September 20 and December 10 Winter 2021-22: January 3 and March 18 Spring 2021-22: March 28 and June 8 (Commencement June 12) Summer 2021-22: June 20 and August 13 Student Affairs The Registrar's Office is proud to be part of Student Affairs, which educates students to make meaningful contributions as citizens of a complex world. Student Services Center 459 Lagunita Drive (Tresidder Memorial Union) Stanford, CA, 94305 Phone: 650-723-7772 Submit a SU Services & Support Request Campus Map Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.