Skip to main content Florida State University This is your Donation message. Log In This Site FSU Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Submit Submit Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Giving University Registrar Toggle navigation Site Menu Current Records Overview Status & Retention Drop/Add Service Indicators Enrollment Cancellation Grade Services Deans' Directory Publications Overview Bulletin Info Registration Guide Info Campus Map Info Course Descriptions Calendars Graduation Overview Graduation Checklist Ceremony Information Diplomas Degrees of Distinction Update Expected Grad Term FAQ Student Services Overview Graduation Transcripts Certification State Employee Fee Waiver FERPA Course Descriptions Scheduling Overview Curriculum Academic Space Class Search Archive Bulletin Undergraduate Graduate Registration Guide Past Editions 2021-2022 Undergraduate Bulletin Home Bulletin Undergraduate Departments & Programs Public Administration Helpful Links Graduate Bulletin Policies & Information Colleges Departments & Programs Bulletin PDF Undergraduate Bulletin Policies & Information Colleges Departments & Programs Bulletin PDF Archive of Previous Editions Fall Registration Guide Spring Registration Guide Summer Registration Guide Class Search Snapshots Reubin O’ D. Askew School of Public Administration and Policy Undergraduate Programs College of Social Sciences and Public Policy Website: https://coss.fsu.edu/askew/ Director: Keon-Hyung Lee; Professors: Berry, Brower, Lee, Reid, VanLandingham, Yang; Associate Professors: Berlan, Fay; Assistant Professors: Bell, Campos, Ikpebe, Tang, Wright; Visiting Professors and Adjunct Faculty: Banner, Dilling, Duggleby, Ferreros, Gleason, Grant, Heffron-Casserleigh, Lavin, Long, McDaniel, Merrick, Schrader, Skillman, Smith; Professors Emeriti: Bowman, Chackerian, deHaven-Smith, Grizzle, Klay The Reubin O’D. Askew School of Public Administration and Policy is one of the most highly ranked schools of its type in the nation. The school does not offer a major to undergraduate students, but it does offer a minor and/or a certificate as well as a concentration in the interdisciplinary program in social science (ISS). The school also offers a five-year combined bachelor’s/professional master’s pathway. Qualified undergraduate students in any major may begin graduate studies in the professional Master of Public Administration (MPA) degree and apply those credits toward their bachelor’s degree as well. Combined BA or BS and Master of Public Administration (MPA) Pathway Qualified students in any undergraduate major may use up to twelve hours of free electives to take graduate courses in public administration that will count for completion of both the bachelor’s degree and the professional MPA degree. Completion of graduate courses through the joint bachelor’s/master’s pathway will also count for completion of an undergraduate minor in public administration. Qualified undergraduates who take public administration courses to satisfy major requirements in the bachelor’s degree programs in either political science, interdisciplinary social science, international affairs, or any other major that accepts PAD coursework may take up to twelve hours of graduate credit that will be counted for completion of both their bachelor’s degree major and the MPA degree. In addition, undergraduate students who take the PAD 3941, Public Service Internship course may waive the graduate internship course requirement. Normally, for inexperienced students, the MPA degree requires completion of forty-five graduate credit hours following receipt of a bachelor’s degree. Students in the joint bachelors/master’s pathway who complete twelve graduate credits and the undergraduate internship course prior to receipt of their bachelor’s degree will only need to complete thirty additional graduate credits to receive the MPA degree. Acceptance to this pre-graduate program is competitive. Applications will only be considered from undergraduates who are entering their senior year, or who are honor students with junior status, and who have a cumulative undergraduate grade point average of at least 3.2 in all prior studies at FSU. Application forms are to be submitted to the School’s academic program specialist. Accepted undergraduates may then enroll for up to six credit hours per semester, or up to twelve credit hours total, in graduate courses that are either core or elective courses in the MPA program. Students accepted to the pre-graduate program should subsequently make formal application for admission to the graduate school during their senior year. Acceptance and successful completion of the pre-graduate program does not guarantee admission into the graduate MPA program. For more information, refer to the Graduate Bulletin and the Askew School’s website at https://coss.fsu.edu/askew/. Requirements for a Minor and Undergraduate Certificate in Public Administration A minor in public administration is available to students in all majors except political science, where undergraduate courses in public administration are applied directly to the political science major. For other students, the minor in public administration consists of any four (4) PAD courses, totaling twelve (12) credit hours passed with a grade of “C” or better. For the minor, one of the PAD courses may be substituted with a Department of Political Science course from the following list: State Politics (POS 3122), Urban Politics (POS 3142), Florida Government (POS 3182) and The American Presidency (POS 4413). Courses should be approved in advance by the School in consultation with the student. Topics in regularly scheduled undergraduate classes include: Administrative Law American Public Service Budgets and Finances in Managing Public Affairs Civic and Non-profit Management Local Government Administration Emergency Management Public Administration in American society Selected Topics in Public Administration Students pursuing an undergraduate minor in Public Administration may elect to concurrently complete the undergraduate certificate in Public Administration. In order to qualify for the certificate, student must apply to the certificate program prior to the completion of the sixth (6) credit hour towards the certificate. Courses may double count between the minor and the certificate program, however, courses may not double count between different certificate programs. Each certificate program must be completed independently. All courses in the certificate program must be letter graded. Pass/Fail (S/U) grades will not count toward the certificate. Students completing the certificate may not elect to substitute any PAD courses as mentioned for the minor above. The certificate consists of twelve (12) credit hours of PAD courses with a grade of “C” or better. The certificate credential is not intended as a diploma or degree. It is recommended that the student check with the School to be sure courses taken will apply to the certificate. The school also offers undergraduate certificates in Emergency Management and Homeland Security, Application of Unmanned Aircraft Systems, and U.S. Intelligence Studies. Courses in emergency management are foundational courses for careers in emergency management and are useful for students entering careers in the management of business, government, and non-profit organizations. Both degree-seeking and non-degree students are eligible for the undergraduate certificates. Please contact the School for further details. Certificate in Emergency Management and Homeland Security The undergraduate Certificate in Emergency Management and Homeland Security includes a variety of skill and knowledge concentrations appropriate for practicing managers and others interested in the field. To earn the certificate, two required courses and two additional ones selected from those offered by the Askew School must be completed. The undergraduate Certificate in Emergency Management and Homeland Security is twelve (12) credit hours total. A grade of “C” or higher must be earned in all certificate courses. Students interested in the Certificate program must apply before the completion of the sixth (6) credit hour, or second course, in the Certificate program. Required Courses PAD 4391 Foundations of Emergency Management (3) PAD 4393 Emergency Management Programs, Planning and Policy (3) Elective Courses PAD 3931 Selected Topics in Public Administration (3) PAD 4075 Unmanned Aircraft Systems in Emergency Management (3) PAD 4084 International Terrorism Policy (3) PAD 4301 Disaster Management Planning for Urban Poor Communities (3) PAD 4372 Emergency Management Leadership and Communications (3) PAD 4374 Introduction to Terrorism: Preparedness and Response (3) PAD 4375 Advanced Topics in Terrorism (3) PAD 4380 Disasters: From Shock to Recovery (3) PAD 4382 Disaster Recovery and Mitigation (3) PAD 4395 Disaster Systems (3) PAD 4833 International and Comparative Disaster Management (3) PAD 4841 U.S. Intelligence Analysis and Communication (3) PAD 4842 U.S. Intelligence Policy (3) PAD 4843 U.S. Intelligence Community (3) PAD 4844 Public Health and Emergency Management (3) PAD 4890 Homeland Security Policy and Practice (3) PAD 4891 NGOs and Disasters (3) PAD 4897 Global Security and Fusion (3) PAD 4936r Seminar in Public Administration: Selected Topics (3) [Cities at Risk] Certificate in Application of Unmanned Aircraft Systems The undergraduate Certificate in Application of Unmanned Aircraft Systems provides students with practical ‘hands on’ usage of the technology as well as the regulatory frameworks, requirements, and realities of using this data in a variety of fields. To earn the certificate, two required courses and two additional ones selected from those offered by the Askew School and the Geography, Urban and Regional Planning, and Geology departments must be completed. The undergraduate Certificate in Application of Unmanned Aircraft Systems is twelve (12) credit hours total. A grade of “C” or higher must be earned in all certificate courses. Students interested in the Certificate program must apply before the completion of the sixth (6) credit hour, or second course, in the Certificate program. Required Courses PAD 4072 Application on Unmanned Aircraft Systems (3) PAD 4075 Unmanned Aircraft Systems in Emergency Management (3) Elective Courses PAD 4391 Foundations of Emergency Management (3) PAD 4395 Disaster Systems (3) PAD 4936 Seminar in Public Administration: Selected Topics (3) [Policy and Implementation of Unmanned Aircraft Systems] GEO 3015 Map Analysis (3) GEO 4162 Geospatial Data and Analysis (3) GIS 4035 Introduction to Remote Sensing (3) GIS 4043 Geographic Information Systems (3) GIS 5400 GIS Applications for Social Sciences (3) URP 3000 Introduction to Planning and Urban Development (3) URP 4423 Introduction to Environmental Planning and Resource Management (3) Certificate in U.S. Intelligence Studies The undergraduate Certificate in U.S. Intelligence Studies gives students in just about any program of study a way to stand out from the crowd and learn real world approaches to solving complicated problems. The concepts and methods are as relevant in business, psychology, and the arts as they are to national security. To earn the Certificate, two required courses and two additional ones selected from within one of the elective groups in the list below must be completed. The undergraduate Certificate in U.S. Intelligence Studies is twelve (12) credit hours total. A grade of “C” or higher must be earned in all certificate courses. Students interested in the Certificate program must apply before the completion of the sixth (6) credit hour, or second course, in the Certificate program. Required Courses PAD 4841 U.S. Intelligence Analysis and Communication (3) PAD 4842 U.S. Intelligence Policy (3) Elective Group: General PAD 4084 International Terror Policy (3) PAD 4374 Introduction to Terrorism (3) PAD 4375 Advanced Topics in Terrorism (3) PAD 4843 U.S. Intelligence Community (3) PAD 4831 International Conflicts and Terrorism (3) PAD 4890 Homeland Security Policy and Practice (3) PAD 4897 Global Security and Fusion (3) IDS 3358 Making the Argument: Symbolic Logic and the Forms of Good Reasoning (3) INR 4102 American Foreign Policy (3) INR 4334 American Defense Policy (3) SYD 3530 Social Classes and Inequality (3) SYD 4700 Race and Minority Group Relations (3) CPO 4057 Political Violence (3) Elective Group: Regional Specialization in Eastern Europe, the former Soviet Union, and Russia ECS 4333 Transition of Soviet and Eastern European Economies (3) GEA 4554 Russia and Southern Eurasia (3) RUT 3504 Modern Russian Life (3) CPO 3615 Post-Soviet Politics (3) RUS 4XXX 4000-level Russian language course (3) Elective Group: Regional Specialization in the Middle East ECS 4504 Economics of the Middle East (3) GEA 4635 Geography of the Middle East (3) CPO 3403 Comparative Government and Politics: The Middle East (3) INR 4274 Studies in International Politics: The Middle East (3) REL 3363 The Islamic Tradition (3) REL 3367 Islamic Traditions II: Islam up to the Modern World (3) ARA 4XXX 4000-level Arabic language course (3) Elective Group: Regional Specialization in East Asia, specifically China ECS 3200 Economics of Asia (3) CPO 3520 Emerging Democracies in Northeast Asia: Korea, Taiwan, Japan (3) CPO 3541 Politics of China (3) REL 2350 Religions of East Asia (3) CHI 4XXX 4000-level Chinese language course (3) Other regional specializations may be permitted with program director approval. Each admitted student will develop a course of study covering all requirements. This course of study will be approved by the certificate program director or associate director prior to the student beginning coursework. Any changes to the course of study must be approved by the certificate program director or associate director. Graduate Programs Graduate study provides professional preparation for careers in government, higher education, private consulting, and nonprofit organizations, and can be pursued in several ways. The school offers two graduate degree programs: the fully-accredited Master of Public Administration (MPA) and the Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) in Public Administration. The MPA program prepares students for professional management and policy roles in a variety of public sector, nonprofit, and international/NGO environments. The doctorate is a research degree designed to prepare students for college and university teaching, advanced research, and advanced administrative practice. The school also offers joint graduate pathways with the College of Law (MPA/JD), the College of Social Work (MPA/MSW), the College of Criminology and Criminal Justice (MPA/MS), and the Department of Urban and Regional Planning (MPA/MSP). Consult the Graduate Bulletin for details of the programs and courses offered. Public administration courses often serve well as an area of specialization within other degree programs. The study of public administration builds career competencies, enhancing the student’s career mobility, flexibility, and opportunities. Additional information is available on the Askew School’s website at https://coss.fsu.edu/askew/. Definition of Prefixes PAD—Public Administration POS—Political Science Undergraduate Courses PAD 3003. Public Administration in American Society (3). This introductory course in public administration studies the management of large-scale government bureaucracies including organization, career systems, and financing. It also focuses on the role of bureaucracies in modern society in the formalization and implementation of public policy. PAD 3012. Mayhem Media: Aliens, Zombies, and Human Error (3). This course uses literature and film to analyze examples of emergency and disaster management, assisting students in understanding the complexities of this world through a lens of American media. The course focuses on narrative frameworks and historic significance of both nonfictional and fictional events, examining the setting, characters, plot, and moral framing of the stories presented. The course exhibits nonfiction and fiction literature, podcasts and contemporary film. PAD 3013. Futures Studies (3). This course applies futures studies perspectives and methods to the study of societal trends and conditions. Emphasis is on the development of anticipatory public policy. PAD 3233. Social Entrepreneurship and Innovation (3). This course facilitates socially significant innovation through the development of tools, skills, and knowledge. Students examine social entrepreneurship through nonprofit (and public) organizational examples and interactions with social entrepreneurs within their own community. PAD 3931r. Selected Topics in Public Administration (1–6). Topics may vary. May be repeated to a maximum of nine semester hours. PAD 3941r. Public Service Internship (3–6). (S/U grade only.) Prerequisite: PAD 3003 or equivalent. This course consists of participant observation of the administration of policy in public service organizations. Internship with faculty supervision, on-campus seminars, discussion papers. May be repeated to a maximum of six semester hours. PAD 4015. Cities at Risk (3). This course uses multiple case studies to examine the state of today’s major cities, particularly when it comes to disasters. In big city environments numerous factors can increase the potential for loss of life, property, and environmental resources: unplanned increased population, poor management of industries and manufacturing, increased greenhouse emissions, poor housing conditions, poor building regulations, and poor management of city growth, among many others. All these conditions can converge to create increased consequences in megacities in the developed and developing world. In this course, students explore how rising megacities in developed and developing countries can address their vulnerability and protect their citizens with policy, disaster management, and urban management practices. PAD 4072. Applications of Unmanned Aircraft Systems (3). Prerequisite: PAD 4075. This course educates students on the applications of UAS in emergency management and other aspects of public management. The course includes flight time with a variety of multi-rotor UAS and provides in-depth discussion and experiences with this technology. Topics include data processing and analysis, crew resource management, and planning of flight operations. This class is offered as a ‘weekend intensive’; class meetings happen on three designated weekends throughout the semester. PAD 4074. Professional Pathways in Emergency Management (1). Prerequisite: PAD 4391. This course explores best practices and theories regarding emotional intelligence, communication, behavior and ethics in professional emergency management. Students gain the knowledge and skills necessary to be successful in a professional emergency management setting. PAD 4075. Unmanned Aircraft Systems in Emergency Management (3). This course is designed to give students an overview of what UAS can do to support the phases of emergency management (response, recovery, planning, preparedness, and mitigation). The course includes the core concepts and theory behind UAS use, and exposure to regulations, guiding policies, limitations and exclusions. PAD 4084. International Terrorism Policy (3). Pre- or corequisite: PAD 4374. This course examines international relationships between terrorists and governments in the context of global relations, politics, policy and finance. Terrorism is examined as a global phenomenon in order to understand how new policies are being developed to combat the threat it poses. PAD 4120. Managing Florida’s Government and its Key Policy Issues (3). This course studies and analyzes management systems, institutions, and dynamics in Florida agencies, with emphasis on legislative-executive relations. PAD 4144. Managing the Nonprofit Organization (3). This course provides an introduction to the central theories of non-profit enterprise, and the implications of various management practices for nonprofit organizations. The course also introduces students to the major aspects of nonprofits and voluntary organizations that distinguish them from public and private organizations – i.e. mission/vision; legal definitions/IRS rulings; voluntary governance structures and a social change agenda. PAD 4170. Nongovernmental Organizations in Development (3). This survey course is about international development NGOs. The course presents contemporary perspectives about NGOs, describes how NGOs operate, and introduces the challenges that their managers face and potential solutions for them. PAD 4203r. Financial Management for the Nonprofit Organization (3). This is an introductory online course in nonprofit financial management. Students learn the principles and tools to use in budgeting and accounting for not-for-profit organizations. May be repeated to a maximum of six semester hours. PAD 4223. Budgets and Finances in Managing Public Affairs (3). This course focuses on concepts and practices in budgeting and financial processes such as planning, goal setting, and implementation. This course emphasizes budgeting for federal, state, and local government. PAD 4301. Disaster Management Planning for Urban Poor Communities (3). This course discusses the elements that intensify risk where informal and non-permanent settlement housing is prevalent. Government interventions, especially those involving urban planning and policy will be studied and their repercussions to the social, economic and cultural networks of these communities analyzed. PAD 4372. Leadership and Communication in Emergency Management (3). This course is designed to introduce students to the fundamental concepts, theories, principles, and practices of public information and communication in a risk environment as well as effective leadership principles in an emergency management shared power context. PAD 4374. Introduction to Terrorism: Preparedness and Response (3). This course introduces students to the fundamental concepts, theories, principles, and practices of terrorism and terrorist events. PAD 4375r. Advanced Topics in Terrorism (3). Prerequisite: PAD 4374. This course reviews the contemporary evolution of terrorism and the current direction of global terrorism with regards to domestic policies and programs. May be repeated to a maximum of six semester hours. PAD 4380. Disasters: From Shock to Recovery (3). This course utilizes multiple case studies to examine the complexity of disaster situations in the United States and internationally. The course covers a different disaster case study every week, focusing on event-specific conditions that created/contributed to the disaster, local preparedness, response and recovery in the aftermath of the event. PAD 4382. Disaster Recovery and Mitigation (3). This course is designed to provide an overview of recovery and mitigation activities in the post-disaster environment. Focusing on the “Recovery Phase” initially, course materials examine the policy and planning mechanisms involved in short and long term rehabilitation of distressed communities. A similar examination from the “Mitigation Phase” is also made. PAD 4391. Foundations in Emergency Management (3). This course is designed to introduce students to the fundamental concepts, theories, principles, and practices of emergency management. PAD 4393r. Emergency Management Programs, Planning, and Policy (3). This course examines functional demands that emergency managers should be aware of in crafting emergency management programs. Students investigate how public policy choices impact emergency planning and the consequences of a disaster event. May be repeated to a maximum of six semester hours. PAD 4395. Disaster Systems (3). Prerequisite: PAD 4391. This course introduces students to the fundamental concepts, theories, principles, and practices of the role of Incident Command (ICS) as an organizational structure, Emergency Operations Centers (EOC) in coordinating response and recovery to crises, and information and knowledge management systems that support disaster management. PAD 4414. American Public Service (3). This course studies the structure and political role of the civil service, evolution of government employment, current personnel policies, rights and responsibilities of public servants, and labor management relations. The impact of the public service on American society is explored. PAD 4432. Public Program Evaluation (3). Prerequisite: Approval of the Jim Moran School of Entrepreneurship or instructor permission. This course provides students with a basic understanding of the methods used to analyze public programs and assess their effectiveness. The course discusses the history of evaluation, the different types of evaluative inquiry, key issues in designing and carrying out evaluation studies, and the strategies that are important to promoting use of research findings. PAD 4433. Women, Disasters, and Conflict (3). This course examines the role of women in disasters. The course also evaluates the role that women play in conflict and peace building. The course covers topics to include gender mainstreaming, LGBTQ issues, UNSCR 1325, gender based violence, and human trafficking. PAD 4596. The Spy Lit Review: Intelligence in Narration (3). This course explores the Intelligence Community policy and operations through literature and film. Students examine both contemporary and classic novels and films through narration features. PAD 4603. Administrative Law (3). This course studies the constitutions, statutes, executive orders, and procedures that control the administrative authorities of government. (Also offered by the Department of Political Science.) PAD 4604. Legal and Administrative Issues in America (3). This course is a basic introduction to law with a focus on some of the current key issues confronting America. Examples of potential topics are immigration, free speech, capital punishment, life without parole for juveniles, physician-assisted suicide, hate crimes, and affirmative action. PAD 4750. Applied Intelligence Analysis (3). Prerequisite: PAD 4841. This course puts students in the role of analysts in a simulated intelligence requirement. This course combines classroom and online delivery methods to allow students the necessary instruction to complete the semester-long simulation as well as freedom to work collectively and individually as analysts on a product. PAD 4831. International Conflicts and Terrorism (3). This course introduces students to historical and ongoing conflicts around the world. Students understand how these conflicts have created terrorism and various tools to end both the conflict and the resulting terrorism. Students examine the drivers of conflict such as relative deprivation, dehumanization, and various politics. Students also understand how conflict resolution tools such as Peacekeepers, political revolution/evolution, autonomy/sovereignty, and violence can bring peace and end terrorism. PAD 4833. International and Comparative Disaster Management (3). This course discusses practical and theoretical issues associated with international disaster management. Risk, hazards, and disasters are addressed from a global perspective with particular emphasis placed on the differences in key issues between developing and developed countries. PAD 4841. Intelligence Analysis and Communication (3). This course explores the variety of intelligence analysis tools and techniques common to U.S. federal, state, and local agencies, using simulations and activities to understand how raw information is transformed and presented as intelligence. Emphasis is placed on OSINT analysis, but other-source intelligence is included based upon industry needs. Additionally, plain language writing and intelligence presentations is included in learning materials. PAD 4842. U.S. Intelligence Policy (3). This course is an introduction to the United States Intelligence Community (IC), its significant role within the U.S. government and how intelligence informs and shapes U.S. policy. This course prepares students interested in national security for additional education in intelligence studies, homeland security, and international affairs. Through lecture, assigned readings, classroom discussion, and guest speakers, the course addresses the IC and its preeminent role and effect on U.S. policy both domestically and internationally. Students explore the intersections of the IC with Congress, the DNI, the Executive branch, national security law, finance and intelligence sharing. PAD 4843. U.S. Intelligence Community (3). This course familiarizes students with the U.S. Intelligence community, the processes and platforms for information/data gathering and analysis, and how the subsequent “intelligence” is used by policy/decision-makers. Throughout the course, students are given opportunities to gather, analyze, and report their findings to case-studies and then compare their conclusions to real-world outcomes. Students gain a broad knowledge of U.S. Intelligence operations and the social, economic, military, and covert actions resulting from Intelligence recommendations. PAD 4844. Public Health and Emergency Management (3). This course is designed to provide an overview of international public health events that have either evolved into disasters or are born of disasters. In addition, this course looks at preventing and preparing for public health disasters. A variety of threats and case studies are reviewed with an evaluation of future threats. Additionally, epidemiology and the discovery and reporting of events are reviewed. PAD 4880. Advanced Intelligence Analysis (3). Prerequisite: PAD 4841. This course examines intelligence analysis through case studies of more advanced techniques in structured analysis, where students focus more on developing intelligence products based on these techniques as incorporated in the intelligence process including collection. In this course, critical thinking plays a key role in the readings and work. PAD 4890. Homeland Security: Policy and Practice (3). This course is designed to introduce students to the concept and application of homeland security policies and their influence on U.S. domestic policy. PAD 4891. Non-Profits, NGO’s and Disaster (3). This course is designed to introduce students to the fundamental concepts, theories, principles, and practices in emergency management relationships with NGO’s and non-profit organizations. PAD 4897. Global Security and Fusion (3). This course examines how the nations of the world unite for a common cause, outlining geo-political and strategic relationships that serve to streamline and facilitate such relationships, the critical importance of U.S. security and intelligence cooperation with our partners and allies, and how our military supports our civilian authorities in a variety of ways toward this end. PAD 4905r. Directed Individual Study (1–3). May be repeated to a maximum of twelve semester hours. PAD 4936r. Special Topics in Public Administration (3). This course serves to acquaint students with special topics in the field of Public Administration, the processes and platforms for information/data gathering and analysis and how it is used by policy/decision-makers. Throughout the course students are given opportunities to gather, analyze, and report their findings to case-studies and then compare their conclusions to real-world outcomes. May be repeated to a maximum of twelve (12) credit hours; repeatable within the same term. POS 4413. The American Presidency (3). This course focuses on the roles of the American president, especially their relationship to government administration. (Also offered by the Department of Political Science.) Graduate Courses PAD 5035. Policy Development and Administration (3). PAD 5041. Public Service Ethics (3). PAD 5050. The Profession of Public Administration (3). PAD 5057. Managing the Performance of Public Agencies (3). PAD 5061. Cities at Risk (3). PAD 5076. Professional Pathways in Emergency Management (1). PAD 5078. Applications of Unmanned Aircraft Systems (3). PAD 5079. Unmanned Aircraft Systems in Emergency Management (3). PAD 5106. Public Organizations (3). PAD 5121. Managing Florida Government and Key Policy Issues (3). PAD 5142. Managing the Nonprofit Organization (3). PAD 5173. Nongovernmental Organization (3). PAD 5174. The Independent Sector (3). PAD 5206. Fundraising and Fund Development (3). PAD 5208. Budget and Finance in Nonprofit Organizations (3). PAD 5216. Health Care Finance (3). PAD 5227. Managing Public Financial Resources (3). PAD 5327. Public Program Evaluation (3). PAD 5373. Leadership and Communication in Emergency Management (3). PAD 5376. Introduction to Terrorism: Preparedness and Response (3). PAD 5377r. Advanced Topics in Terrorism (3). PAD 5378. Disaster Systems (3). PAD 5388. Disaster Recovery and Mitigation (3). PAD 5389. Disasters: From Shock to Recovery (3). PAD 5397. Fundamentals of Emergency Management (3). PAD 5398. Emergency Management Programs, Planning, and Policy (3). PAD 5417. Human Resource Management (3). PAD 5475. Women, Disasters, and Conflict (3). PAD 5599. The Spy Lit Review: Intelligence in Narration (3). PAD 5700. Research Design in Public Administration (3). PAD 5701. Quantitative Analysis in Public Administration (3). PAD 5708. Qualitative Methods in Policy Research (3). PAD 5755. Applied Intelligence Analysis (3). PAD 5809. Local Government Administration (3). PAD 5828. The Third Sector: Non-Profits, Non-Governmental Organizations, and Disaster (3). PAD 5835. International and Comparative Disaster Management (3). PAD 5836. International and Comparative Administration (3). PAD 5837. International Terrorism Policy (3). PAD 5838. Terrorism and Security in Africa (3). PAD 5839. International Conflicts and Terrorism (3). PAD 5845. Public Health and Emergency Management (3). PAD 5848. U.S. Intelligence Community (3). PAD 5849. U.S. Intelligence Policy (3). PAD 5859. Managing Public Procurement (3). PAD 5884. Health Care Management (3). PAD 5885. Advanced Intelligence Analysis (3). PAD 5895. Homeland Security; Policy and Practice (3). PAD 5896. U.S. Intelligence Analysis and Communication (3). PAD 5898. Global Security and Fusion (3). PAD 5907r. Directed Individual Study (1–3). (S/U grade only.) PAD 5935r. Seminar in Public Administration: Selected Topics (1–3). PAD 5946. Public Service Internship (3). (S/U grade only.) PAD 6025. Theoretical Perspectives in Public Policy (3). PAD 6054. Intellectual History and Future of Public Administration (3). PAD 6102. Administrative Behavior in Public Organizations (3). PAD 6103. Cultural Analysis and Organizations (3). PAD 6109. Institutions and Society (3). PAD 6136. Seminar: Management Studies in Government (3). PAD 6207. Financial Resources Administration (3). PAD 6226. Public Budgeting Simulation and Issues (3). PAD 6300. Governmental Administration in Florida (3). PAD 6705. Analytic Techniques for Public Administrators (3). PAD 6707. Logics of Inquiry (3). PAD 6721. Policy Analysis Research Seminar (3). PAD 6908. Capstone Project (3). PAD 6915r. Supervised Research (1–5). (S/U grade only.) PAD 6930r. Professional Topics in Public Administration (0). (S/U grade only). For listings relating to graduate coursework for thesis, dissertation, and master’s and doctoral examinations and defense, consult the Graduate Bulletin. PUBLIC RELATIONS: see Communication Mailing Address A3900 University Center 282 Champions Way Tallahassee, FL 32306-2480 Email Registrar - registrar@fsu.edu Phone 850.644.1050 Hours Monday - Friday, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Eastern Time Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright