Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Office of the Registrar Main Menu In this section Academic Calendar Commencement Apply toGraduate CommencementInformation Forms Transcripts Order Transcripts Transcript FAQs Official TranscriptDetails University Catalog University Catalog Catalog Archives Home Banner for Students Proxy Access (for Students) Banner for Students Registration Student Profile The Portal Viewing My Class Schedule View Grades Exams Short "How To" Videos Common Registration Issues Registration and Transcript Holds Proxy Access Information Waitlisting FAQs for Students Contact Office of the Registrar322/324 Student Union, Stillwater OK 74078(405) 744-6876registrar@okstate.edu Self-Service Proxy Access (for Students) Students can grant parents or others view-only access to select pages of their student records via the Proxy Access tab in Self-Service. They can also use the Proxy Access tab to provide consent for University officials to discuss with the Proxy any and all of their education records. Click a link below for more information. For the student: Create a new proxy Change pages a proxy can view, or remove proxy Change my proxy’s passphrase Reset my proxy’s PIN How can I grant access for my parent/proxy to view my billing information? What if I want to allow my parent/proxy to discuss with University officials any and all details of my student education records? For the parent or other proxy: How does a proxy login to view student records New proxy identity activation (How a new proxy activates his/her account) Reset my proxy PIN For the student Create a New Proxy Students can create a new proxy from within Self-Service by following these steps: Click on the Proxy Access tab, then click on the Proxy Management link. Click on the Add Proxy link at the bottom of the page: Enter the name and email address of your new proxy in the fields provided, then click the Add Proxy button: Now your proxy should display in your Proxy List. Click on your proxy’s name to expand the proxy and complete the Profile. Select a Relationship from the drop-down list and enter a Passphrase. Click the Email Passphrase link just below the Proxy Profile (see image of link below) to send the Passphrase to your proxy. The Passphrase is important to share with your proxy, as it can be used by University officials to confirm the identity of your proxy for inquiries made over the phone. Your proxy will be required to provide the Passphrase when requesting information outside of Self-Service. Click on the Authorization tab, then check the boxes next to the items you wish to authorize for your proxy. Note that the first item in the list (University officials may discuss all education records …) is different from the others – you can click on that item to access a website with details on what checking that box authorizes. All other items provide view-only access to specific pages within Self-Service. If you don’t see anything displaying on the Authorization tab, it’s likely because you haven’t selected a Relationship on the Profile tab. Your proxy will receive an email message with information on how to activate his/her Proxy Access account. Until your proxy has followed the instructions in the email message, you will see notices like the ones below indicating that the proxy hasn’t yet verified his/her email address or set a PIN: After your proxy has activated his/her account, you will see messages like the ones below: Change pages a proxy can view, or remove proxy After logging into Self-Service, click on the Proxy Access tab, then click on the Proxy Management link. Click on your proxy’s name to expand the proxy details, then click on the Authorization tab. Check the boxes next to the items you wish to authorize for your proxy. You can de-authorize access by unchecking the box next to that page. Note, if you don’t see anything to authorize on the Authorization tab, it is likely because you haven’t selected a Relationship from the drop-down list on the Profile tab. To remove all access for your proxy, simply deselect all items on this page. Change my proxy’s Passphrase After logging into Self-Service, click on the Proxy Access tab, then click on the Proxy Management link. Click on your proxy’s name to expand the proxy details. Update the Passphrase in the field provided, then click the Email Passphrase link: It is important for you to email the Passphrase to your proxy, as he/she can’t view it online. Reset my proxy’s PIN If your proxy is having trouble logging into the Proxy Access tab due to an unknown or expired PIN, you can help reset your proxy’s PIN. By following the steps below, an email will automatically be sent to your proxy with a “Temporary Action Password” and instructions on how to create a new PIN and access your records. After logging into Self-Service, click on the Proxy Access tab, then click on the Proxy Management link. Click on your proxy’s name to expand the proxy details. Click on the Reset PIN link. This action sends your proxy an email with instructions on how to reset his/her PIN. How can I grant access for my parent/proxy to view my billing information? Billing information is only available via the Touch Net Student Account Suite, and students can create Authorized User accounts within the Touch Net system to grant parents and others with access to view billing information and submit payments. Click here for information on creating Authorized Users. Please note that Proxy Access and Authorized User accounts are not connected in any way. What if I want to I allow my parent/proxy to discuss with University officials about any and all details of my student education records? While the majority of the options on the Proxy Access Authorizations tab allow you to grant a parent/proxy view-only access to specific Self-Service pages, checking the first option (University officials may discuss all education records with proxy) authorizes your proxy to discuss any student educational records with University officials. It does NOT permit parents to request official documents, make changes to records, or otherwise conduct educational business on the student’s behalf. View more details here. The “University officials may discuss all education records with proxy” option replaces the old parental FERPA form. For the parent or other proxy How does a proxy login to view student records? As soon as a new proxy is added, an email is automatically sent to the proxy notifying him/her that the student has added him/her as a proxy in the OSU Student Self-Service system. It contains a link/URL for the proxy to click on, and a Temporary Action Password they will need to establish their account. New proxies must follow the instructions in the email to activate their account and create a PIN. More details are provided in the “New Proxy identity activation” section. Active proxies can login to Proxy Access at any time by clicking on the Proxy Access Login link. Proxies can only view Self-Service pages that have been authorized by the student. New Proxy identity activation (How a new proxy activates his/her account) When a student adds a new proxy, the proxy will receive an email (with a subject of New proxy identity) that contains information needed to activate the account and login to Proxy Access. New proxies can follow the steps below to activate their account: Click the link in the email labeled Proxy Access Activation Link, and find the Temporary Action Password (directly below the activation link). Your browser will open to a page similar to the one below. Enter the Temporary Action Password from your email into the Action Password field, then click Submit. Next you will be asked to enter/verify your email address, and create a new PIN. You will enter the Temporary Action Password from the email where it asks for the Old PIN, then enter a new PIN (6-15 characters). Click Save when you’re done. You will need to remember your new PIN; it is required for you to log in to your Proxy Access account. After successfully verifying your email address and creating a new PIN, you will be taken to the Proxy Access Home page. First you will need to verify/update your profile information and click Save. To view authorized pages, click on the tab with your student’s name. Here you will see the item(s) that have been authorized by your student for you to view. Click on any of the items to view. All pages will open in a new, dedicated Proxy Access window. To close a proxy page, click the EXIT link in the upper right corner. Reset my Proxy PIN If you are having trouble logging into Proxy Access due to an unknown or expired PIN, you can reset your proxy PIN. By following the steps below, an email will automatically be sent to you with a “Temporary Action Password” and instructions on how to create a new PIN. Using this Self-Service link, click on the Proxy Access Login link. Enter the email address associated with your Proxy account, then click the Forgot PIN button. You should receive an email with a Temporary Action Password and instructions on how to set a new PIN. Once logged into Proxy Access, you can change your PIN at any time by clicking the “Click here to change your PIN” link on your Profile page. Back To Top Back To Top Office of the Registrar 322/324 Student Union Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 (map) (405) 744-6876 | Contact Us Follow US Social Media Directory Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Snapchat Oklahoma State University Campus & Parking MapsAll OSU InstitutionsCareers @ OSUHire OSU Grads© Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks MENUCLOSE ©