Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Office of the Registrar Main Menu In this section Academic Calendar Commencement Apply toGraduate CommencementInformation Forms Transcripts Order Transcripts Transcript FAQs Official TranscriptDetails University Catalog University Catalog Catalog Archives Home Major Change Requests Home Academic Advising Academic Calendar Future or Prior Term Calendars Drop/Add and Withdraw Deadline Details Drop/Add Deadline Details Banner for Advisors Banner Advisor Holds Banner FAQs for Advisors Grades and GPA (for Advisors) Maintain Academic Advisors Maintain Academic Advisors Maintain Student Attributes Online Curriculum/Major Change System (for Advisors) Progress Report/Academic Alert System Registration Permits/Overrides (for Advisors) Requesting Access to Banner (for Advisors) Searching for Classes (for Advisors) Student Profile (for Advisors) The Portal (for Advisors) Training for Advisors and Departments Understanding Proxy Access (for Advisors) View My Class Schedule (for Advisors) Banner for Department Heads Registration Student Profile Grade Entry Waitlisting Class List/Roster 9.9 The Portal Browse Class Schedule Registration Permits/Overrides Maintain Academic Advisors Requesting Access to Banner Understanding Proxy Access Degree Works Degree Works Advisor FAQs Degree Works FAQs for Students Degree Works Videos What's New with Degree Works Repeated Courses in Degree Works FAQs for Department Heads Grades and GPA Academic Alert System Exams Banner for Faculty Registration Student Profile Faculty Grade Entry 9.9 Final and Midterm Grades Browse Class Schedule Class Rolls Exams SFASTCA Registration Audit Trail Training Videos Progress Report/Academic Alert System Registration Permits/Overrides The Portal FAQs for Faculty Waitlist Requesting Access to Banner (for New Faculty) Banner for Students Registration Student Profile The Portal Viewing My Class Schedule View Grades Exams Short "How To" Videos Common Registration Issues Registration and Transcript Holds Proxy Access Information Waitlisting FAQs for Students Catalog Archives Certifications Chosen, Legal and Diploma Names Class List/Roster 9.9 Class Schedule/Short Courses Course Management & Classroom Scheduling Exams General Education Codes/Days of the Week Abbreviations Prerequisites and Corequisites Room Reservations Short Courses with Unique Drop/Add Deadlines Commencement Degree Requirements Degree Works Discussion of Education Records with Student Proxy Frequently Asked Questions For Advisors Certifications Enrollment/Registration Graduation and Commencement Incomplete Grade Policy - Students Incomplete Grade Policy - Faculty Thesis/Dissertation Grade Policy Transcripts and Academic Records Tuition and Fee Adjustments Veteran Services Military Leave of Absence/Withdrawal FERPA FERPA - General Information FERPA - For Students FERPA - For Parents FERPA - For Faculty FERPA - For Staff FERPA - Tutorial for Faculty and Staff Forms Grade Reporting/Faculty Grade Entry Major Change Requests Meet the Team Quiet Classrooms Registration/Enrollment Enrollment Guides OSU Registration System Registration/Enrollment Holds Common Registration Issues Viewing my Class Schedule Maximum Credit Hour Load Military Leave of Absence/Withdrawal Registration/Transcript Holds Residency Status Reverse Transfer Short Courses Transcripts Official Transcript Details Transcript FAQs Unofficial Transcripts Veteran Benefit Services Contact Office of the Registrar322/324 Student Union, Stillwater OK 74078(405) 744-6876registrar@okstate.edu Self-Service Major Change Requests (for Advisors) The Curriculum/Major Change Request Application System is used by OSU academic advisors to request changes to a student’s curriculum on behalf of the student. The student's consent should be obtained before submitting the request. Curriculum change requests will go through a series of checks and approvals before being routed to the Office of the Registrar for processing, and students will receive an email confirming the change request details. Browser Recommendations for Online Major Change System Student Emails from Online Major Change Access to the Online Major Change Application Menu Items Status Definitions How to Look Up a Request How to Approve, Deny or Cancel a Request Submitting a Request Browser Recommendations for Online Major Change System It is recommended to use Chrome, Firefox or Safari when using the Online Major Change System. If you must use Internet Explorer, please contact tech-registrar@okstate.edu for the appropriate browser settings to ensure the system works properly. Student Emails from Online Major Change The student will receive two emails from the Online Major Change application during the process. The Online Major Change application will send an email to the student at the point an initial request is submitted on their behalf to let the student know the major change process has been started. This email also provides the student with the opportunity to review the change and contact their advisor if there is any discrepancy. The student will also receive an email at the point all approvals are received and the Registrar’s office completes the major changes in Banner. This email message lets the student know the process is complete and they can confirm the changes in their Student Profile. Access to the Online Major Change Application Access to the Online Major Change Application for advisors is automatically granted based on the Academic Advisor Query security group in Banner. As an advisor, you will find the link to access the new Online Curriculum/Major Change system under the Advisor tab of the portal as well as in the menu of the student profile. You can find additional information for requesting Banner Access on our website here. College Coordinators, Athletics and University College Advising are special roles within the application that are set up by the Registrar’s office. Additional questions on this access should directed to tech-registrar@okstate.edu. Menu Items Submit New Request – Use this menu item to create a new major change request for a student. NOTE: A student can only have one active request at a time. Student Search – Use this menu item to lookup a request and view the current status of the request or determine if a request has been submitted for a student. Athlete Request Lookup – Use this menu item to lookup athletes who have had a request submitted. You can search by Requested Primary College, Requested Primary Major and/or Request Status. Request Lookup - Use this menu item to lookup requests by Requested Primary College, Requested Primary Major and/or Request Status. Pending Requests – If you are an advisor or college coordinator, use this menu item to view the list of requests that are in your queue for approval. Logout – Use this item to logout of the application. Status Definitions Approved – All appropriate advisors, college coordinators, athletics, and UCA approvals have been granted and the request is ready for the Registrar’s office to review and apply the changes in Banner. Canceled – Requests can be canceled at the request of a student to their advisor or if it is determined there is something missing or incorrect in the request. If a request is canceled, a new request will need to be submitted for the student. Completed – Requests are marked as completed once the Registrar’s office completes the updates in Banner. Denied – Requests can be denied during the approvals process by advisors or college coordinators. If a request is denied by anyone during the approvals process, a new request will need to be submitted for the student. Pending – The request is still in the approvals process for approval by advisor(s) and/or college coordinator(s). How to Look Up a Request In order to look up a request for a specific student, click on the Student Search menu link. Then enter the student name and/or Banner ID, click search. Click the radio button for the student you are looking up and then click the Select button. This will show summary information as shown below. Click the View link to display the details of the request. How to Approve, Deny, or Cancel a Request In order to approve, deny or cancel a request in your queue, click on the Pending Requests menu link. This is a list of Requests Pending Your Approval awaiting your decision with the oldest on the top of the list. Select the student you would like to review and enter a decision for by clicking the radio button and then click the Select button. After reviewing the student’s request, at the bottom of the request, select the radio button for the decision you would like to enter and click the Submit Action button. Using Comments If you need to request a 3rd or 4th program, major or minor, please use the comments to detail the requested changes. If submitting a request for a student who is either entering or leaving University College, enter a comment to indicate the attributes to be added/removed. Primary Advisor The Online Major Change application will route the request to the primary advisor listed in Banner as of the time the initial request is submitted for approval. Changes to the primary advisor in Banner made after the initial request is submitted will not update in the major change request application. However, it is also important to note the Online Major Change application will not update the student’s advisor either thus advisor changes should not be included in an Online Major Change request as they will not be processed. To update an advisor, please contact the appropriate college student services office. Submitting a Request To submit a request, click the Submit New Request link from the menu. Enter the student’s name and/or ID, click Search. Select the radio button for the student you are entering the request then click the Confirm button. Use the links to select the portions of the curriculum are being updated and click save. The new curriculum will show in the right column beside the current curriculum as shown below. Use the links to make any additional updates to the curriculum. Once all changes have been entered, enter any comments as appropriate and click Submit Changes. The request will then route through an approvals workflow for the new curriculum. These approvals do include University College and Athletics as appropriate for those student populations. Once all the pieces of the new curriculum are approved, the request is then routed to the Registrar’s office queue for processing in Banner. Make these anchor links to the sections of content below, and re-order the content to match the order provided here. Add “Back to Top” links in the lower right of each sub-section, similar to how we’ve formatted other similar pages on our website. Back To Top Back To Top Office of the Registrar 322/324 Student Union Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 (map) (405) 744-6876 | Contact Us Follow US Social Media Directory Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Snapchat Oklahoma State University Campus & Parking MapsAll OSU InstitutionsCareers @ OSUHire OSU Grads© Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks MENUCLOSE ©