Skip to main navigation Skip to content Protect Texas. Stay Informed. Covid-19 Updates University of Texas at Austin University of Texas at Austin logo Forms About Us Contact Student FAQs MyUT Academic Calendar CASH FAFSA Registration and Degree Planning Everything you need to plan and register for classes. Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Everything you need to know about costs, bills and financial aid. Cost & Tuition Rates Paying Your Tuition Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits Student Records Your grades, degree, transcripts and all your personal information. Transcripts & Other Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning MENUMENU Texas OneStop Registration and Degree Planning Undergraduate Degree Planning Course Schedules Registering for Classes Add/Drop a Course Late Registration Clearing Bars Registration Times Taking a Course Pass/Fail University Catalogs Final Exam Information Withdraw from the University Education Abroad Managing Costs Cost & Tuition Rates Tuition Rates Tuition Rebates Tuition Reductions Compare UT Tuition Determining Texas Residency Cost of Attendance Summer 2022 Tuition Learn More About Tuition How Tuition is Set How Tuition is Used Tuition Set-Aside Information Sources of Revenue Student Services Budget Committee Paying Your Tuition Payment Deadlines Tuition Bills Paying Your Enrollment Fee Payment Verification and Refunds Issues with Your Payment Financial Aid & Scholarships Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships Apply Scholarship Finder FAFSA Verification Understanding Your Aid Managing Aid Special Situations Maintaining Eligibility Withdrawal and Its Impact on Financial Aid Adding/Dropping a Course and Its Impact on Financial Aid Managing your Money Revising Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Appeals Revising Loans Managing Your Work-Study Award Financial Aid Offer Timeline Financial Aid Forms Veteran Education Benefits GI Bill® Benefits Hazlewood Exemption Student Records Transcripts & Other Records Official Transcripts Enrollment Certifications Unofficial Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Keep Learning Contact CASH MyUT Academic Calendar FAFSA Transcripts & Other Records Official Transcripts Enrollment Certifications Unofficial Records Personal Information Grades Degrees and Diplomas Student Record Forms Student Records Personal Information Update Your Address Update Your Address By: Making an online Address Change. Sending a letter—indicating that the change is to your local address, your permanent address or both—that includes your name, signature and EID or date of birth, to: University of Texas at Austin Office of the Registrar: Records P.O. Box 7216 Austin TX 78713-7216 Faxing the letter described above to 512-475-7515. Visiting Texas One Stop on the ground floor of the Main Building in person. You need to show your photo ID. Designate a Chosen Name The University is committed to using a student chosen name wherever possible. Implementation of chosen name across our university systems is being rolled out and more of our student-facing services will begin to utilize chosen name throughout future semesters. Effective fall 2021, if you designate a chosen name it will be displayed on the following, including: Class rosters ID cards Canvas UT Directory On various student systems including Interactive Degree Audit (IDA) and Registration Information Sheet (RIS). Student Emergency Contact Information Please note, UT Student Emergency Services will use your legal name when contacting your designated emergency contact(s) unless you have selected a chosen name at UT. To view your current emergency contact(s) information, please visit Student Emergency Contact Information. Third Parties (e.g., ride share, public transportation, etc.) If you need instructions on updating your current UT email address to show your Chosen Name, please visit the ITS website and click “Manage Account” to begin. A student’s chosen name should not be used for any purpose of misrepresentation, and the University reserves the right to revert chosen or diploma name to legal name if: Name contains foul or inappropriate language Name is used for purposes of misrepresentation or avoidance of legal obligations You may designate accent marks as part of your chosen name, but please note not all university systems are able to display accent marks. Currently, your legal name as indicated on your student record, will continue to be used on: Transcripts (both official and unofficial) Academic Summaries Degrees Awarded Bulletins Within the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid Reporting to the National Student Clearinghouse and National Student Loan Data System Dates attended and degrees awarded website Enrollment and degree verifications Apostilles and notarizations Payroll (Please note, if you are a student-employee you will need to make a chosen name change in the Name Management System and Workday (workday instructions). Employment documentation Background checks Public Information Requests Subpoenas Designate a Chosen Name Make a Legal Name Change All legal name change requests must be submitted with supporting documentation. Changes to the first, middle and/or last name, suffix or sequence of legal names will require the original or a certified copy of one of the following: Government-issued ID (driver’s license, state ID card, valid passport) Birth certificate (U.S. only) Marriage Certificate (U.S. only) Court order (must show change to new legal name) Divorce decree (must show change to new legal name) Certificate of Naturalization/Green Card Documentation of common law marriage/civil union Please visit Texas One Stop in the Main Building (MAI 1) to change your legal name in person. Bring an original or certified copy of any document listed above. We do not require documentation to add/delete a hyphen, space, and apostrophe, or to abbreviate a middle name to an initial. If you are unable to make the change in person, please contact Student Academic Records in the Office of the Registrar at studentacademicrecords@austin.utexas.edu for steps on scanning or mailing your documents. All requests must include a request letter with ink signatures. Update Your Social Security Number Visit the Texas One Stop in person at the Main Building (MAI) to update your social security number. Bring your actual Social Security card, signed for verification. If you are not able to come in person, please email Registration for assistance at registration@austin.utexas.edu. Update Your Emergency Information Update Emergency Information Log in with your UT EID FERPA and Privacy FERPA, the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974, is a federal law that pertains to the release of and access to educational records. The law, also known as the Buckley Amendment, applies to all schools that receive funds under an applicable program of the U.S. Department of Education. FERPA applies to personally identifiable information in educational records. This includes items such as the student’s name, names of family members, addresses, personal identifiers such as Social Security numbers and personal characteristics or other information that make the student’s identity easily traceable. The University may disclose personally identifiable information from an education record only under the condition that all requirements are met in 34 CFR Part 99, Family Education Rights and Privacy. Redisclosure of this information may only occur under the condition that all requirements are met in in 34 CFR Part 99.33, Family Education Rights and Privacy. FERPA Information Learn more about FERPA and educational records. Restrict Your Information (for current students only) Our Restrict My Info system lets you decide where your directory information appears so it isn’t seen by the public. The university keeps data about you that can be shown to the public, by federal law, without your permission. We call this directory information. (The public includes your parents, friends, employers, insurers and people checking on your degrees.) Other data the university has about you is not made public and is only seen by authorized staff members. This student record information is detailed in the General Information Catalog. Restrict My Info Contact Us Main Building (MAI), Room 16 studentacademicrecords@austin.utexas.edu Back To Top Still Need Help? We’re here for you. Visit Hours of Operation Monday–Friday 8:30 a.m.– 4:30 p.m. Visit Texas One Stop › MAI 1 (Ground Floor of UT Tower) 110 Inner Campus Dr. Austin, TX 78712 – To submit paper documents (such as appeals or applications), please scan a PDF of your document and email directly to Texas One Stop at onestop@utexas.edu. Call (512) 232-6988 (myUT) Hours of operation for phone calls are 8:30 a.m.- 5:00 p.m. Call volumes may be higher during peak times. Call Us Email onestop@utexas.edu 2 business day response time email FEEDBACK feedback survey Contact My UT CASH Code of Conduct Policies Emergency Information FAFSA #003658 SMS Terms and Conditions Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Consumer Information Disclosures Further Information and Disclosures utexas.edu