Skip to main content Florida State University This is your Donation message. Log In This Site FSU Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Submit Submit Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Giving University Registrar Toggle navigation Site Menu Current Records Overview Status & Retention Drop/Add Service Indicators Enrollment Cancellation Grade Services Deans' Directory Publications Overview Bulletin Info Registration Guide Info Campus Map Info Course Descriptions Calendars Graduation Overview Graduation Checklist Ceremony Information Diplomas Degrees of Distinction Update Expected Grad Term FAQ Student Services Overview Graduation Transcripts Certification State Employee Fee Waiver FERPA Course Descriptions Scheduling Overview Curriculum Academic Space Class Search Archive Bulletin Undergraduate Graduate Registration Guide Past Editions Curriculum Home Curriculum Helpful Links Current Records Graduation Graduate Bulletin Undergraduate Bulletin Fall Registration Guide Spring Registration Guide Summer Registration Guide Class Search Snapshots Staff Jeremy Johnson, Associate Registrar Sunny Houston, Coordinator of Curriculum Procedures for Creating or Altering Curriculum FSU's University Curriculum Committee (UCC) must review all additions, changes, or deletions to university curriculum. The UCC is a standing committee of the Faculty Senate, which works in conjunction with the Office of Faculty Development and Advancement. Requests to change any course element, or to create a new course, must be submitted through the curricular request application. Course elements include: prefix, course number, title, credit hours, grade type, repeat rules, delivery method, prerequisites, co-requisites, and description. To access the curricular request application, go to http://facsenate.fsu.edu/curriculum-resources. This brings you to the Faculty Senate page. Click the Curricular Request Application link, log on with your FSUID and password, and follow the instructions found on the Curricular Request page. Curriculum Sweep and Purge Every year during spring semester, a report is generated that captures the courses that haven't been taught in the last five years. Departments are notified by email if any of their courses appear on this "purge" report. Unless the department specifies otherwise, the course or courses are removed from the master curriculum file (MCF). Courses purged from the MCF are also removed from the appropriate edition of the Bulletin, the Statewide Course Numbering System (SCNS), and the Statewide Course Numbering Field Reviews. The SCNS conducts periodic field reviews to correct statewide curriculum issues, which result in changes to course prefixes and/or numbers. If the field review affects courses at FSU, staff update the Course Catalogue, the Bulletin, and notify departmental contacts. While changes entered in the Course Catalogue take place immediately, edits to Undergraduate and Graduate Bulletin content are published in accordance with those particular publication cycles. Mailing Address A3900 University Center 282 Champions Way Tallahassee, FL 32306-2480 Email Registrar - registrar@fsu.edu Phone 850.644.1050 Hours Monday - Friday, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Eastern Time Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright