Skip to main content Florida State University This is your Donation message. Log In This Site FSU Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Submit Submit Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Giving University Registrar Toggle navigation Site Menu Current Records Overview Status & Retention Drop/Add Service Indicators Enrollment Cancellation Grade Services Deans' Directory Publications Overview Bulletin Info Registration Guide Info Campus Map Info Course Descriptions Calendars Graduation Overview Graduation Checklist Ceremony Information Diplomas Degrees of Distinction Update Expected Grad Term FAQ Student Services Overview Graduation Transcripts Certification State Employee Fee Waiver FERPA Course Descriptions Scheduling Overview Curriculum Academic Space Class Search Archive Bulletin Undergraduate Graduate Registration Guide Past Editions Degrees of Distinction Home Graduation Distinction Graduation Information Overview Graduation Checklist Important Dates Cap and Gown Information Ceremony Information Parking Information Commencement Schedule by College Guest Tickets & Grad Passes Degrees of Distinction Diploma Information Certified Electronic Diploma CeDiploma Diploma Validation Transcripts Commencement Program as a PDF Update Expected Grad Term Frequently Asked Questions Degrees of Distinction Only undergraduate students are eligible for degrees of distinction. Every level of degree distinction requires you to meet the qualifications for BOTH Cum GPA AND Combined Cum. Both GPA calculations have the same qualifying value range into which your average must fall to earn the specified degree of distinction. The following table illustrates the required value range combinations. Range for Cum GPA Range for Combined Cum Degree of Distinction Earned 3.500 - 3.699 & 3.500 - 3.699 = CUM LAUDE 3.700 - 3.899 & 3.700 - 3.899 = MAGNA CUM LAUDE 3.900 or higher & 3.900 or higher = SUMMA CUM LAUDE Levels of degree distinction are calculated based on all attempted college-level work, regardless of how many years have elapsed since the hours were earned. IMPORTANT: All attempted college-level work comprises transfer credit, high school dual enrollment credit, and all credit earned at FSU. Remedial and vocational hours do not factor into the calculation. At least forty letter-graded hours, including the final term's hours, must be taken at FSU. Definitions Cum GPA = the average of the hours you've taken ONLY at FSU. No transfer hours alter this average. Combined Cum = the average of BOTH the Cum GPA AND the Transfer Cum GPA Transfer Cum GPA = the average of your transfer hours, high school-dual enrollment hours, and the current term's completed, degree-required hours You may review your Cum GPA, Transfer Cum GPA, and Combined Cum by accessing your unofficial transcript, or by going to Student Center and viewing your Student Services Center page. NOTE: Your anticipated level of degree distinction may vary after the final graduation check is completed. Mailing Address A3900 University Center 282 Champions Way Tallahassee, FL 32306-2480 Email Registrar - registrar@fsu.edu Phone 850.644.1050 Hours Monday - Friday, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Eastern Time Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright