Skip to main content University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Students Staff & Faculty Registration Classrooms Curriculum About OUR (OUR) Menu Students Staff & Faculty Registration Classrooms Curriculum About OUR Home (OUR) Services and Resources for Students Tuition Waivers Tuition Waivers Close Menu Home Services and Resources for Students Apostille Baccalaureate Honor GPA Requirements Certified Electronic Diploma (CeDiploma) CeDiploma FAQs CeDiploma Purchase Credential Validation Current Quarter Drop CQD Adviser-Assisted Drop Request Form CQD FAQs DARS for Students English Language Proficiency Requirement ELPR Contact Information – UW Seattle Students Enrollment Confirmation System Enrollment Confirmation Deposit Frequently Asked Questions New Student Enrollment and Orientation Fees Refund Policy Enrollment Verification and Degree Certification Fee-Based Programs Fee-Based Programs FAQs FERPA for Students Disclosure Exceptions Release of Records Request Former Quarter Drop Former Quarter Drop FAQs Forms for Students Grading Option Changes Extraordinary Circumstances Quarter Late Grading Option Change Request Late Grading Option Change Petition Graduation and Diplomas Incomplete Grades Loan Deferment Personal Data Address Date of Birth & Social Security Number Gender Identity Names Preferred Names FAQs Pronouns Race/Ethnicity Quarterly Dean’s List Bothell Recipients Seattle Recipients Tacoma Recipients Religious Accommodations Request Residency for Tuition Purposes Medical Student Applicants Residency Application and Paperwork Submissions Residency Coronavirus FAQs Residency Requirements Financially Dependent Students Financially Independent Students Application Process Affidavit of Residency American Indian Students Current and Former US Military Personnel, Spouse, and Children Eligible Non-Citizens Graduate and Professional Students Qualifying Visas Reciprocity Exchange Program Questions Residency Contact Information – UW Seattle Students Residency FAQ Tuition Reduction for Non-Resident Refugees and Asylees Washington Residents Absent from State Returning Student Process Returning Student Checklist Reverse Transfer Program FAQs Status Definitions Student Fees Taking Planned or Unexpected Time Off, or Transferring from UW Time Schedule FAQ Title IX Notice Transcripts Transcript FAQs Transcript Legend Tuition Waivers Undergraduate Class Standings Withdrawal, Quarter-Off, and On-Leave Policies Checklist to Withdraw Waivers, Exemptions, Reductions This page provides an overview of tuition waivers and reductions currently implemented by the UW. Each waiver item includes links to the authorizing state statute in the Revised Code of Washington (RCW), which outlines any requirements for receiving a tuition waiver. Additional requirements and limitations can be found in relevant sections of the Washington Administrative Code (WAC), UW Administrative Policy Statements (APS), and other resources. Many of these waivers are applied only in specific situations for students who meet specific eligibility requirements and therefore do not have formal application processes. As applicable, contact information is provided for each waiver. This page is not exhaustive and may not include certain grant-funded or departmental waivers or scholarship programs. Contact your academic department for any questions. Washington State Authorization The University’s Board of Regents is authorized to grant tuition and fee waivers to students pursuant to RCW 28B.15.910 and the laws identified therein. A number of these statutes authorize, but do not require, the Board of Regents to grant waivers for different categories of students and provide for waivers of different fees. For these permissive waivers, that are authorized but not required by state law, the Board of Regents must affirmatively act to implement the legislature’s grant of authority under each individual law. These permissive waivers can be found in WAC 478-161-020. Certain waivers of tuition or fees are required by Washington State laws for specific student populations and do not require the Board of Regents’ action to implement. The Office of the Registrar and the UW’s Office of Planning & Budgeting coordinate updates to this page in response to changes in state law or implementation of waivers. Tuition Waivers UW Faculty/Staff, Washington State Employee Tuition Exemption Program WAC 478-161-020 provides the statutory requirements of the waiver program; however, additional restrictions regarding program eligibility, admission, registration, and information on excluded courses can be found in APS 22.1 and the Registrar’s Tuition Exemption Program webpage. UW Seattle UW Bothell UW Tacoma Non-UW Schools Office of the University Registrar 2nd Floor Schmitz Hall 206-543-8580 regoff@uw.edu Office of the Registrar Husky Hall Welcome Center 425-352-5240 uwbreg@uw.edu Office of the Registrar MAT 253 253-692-4913 reguwt@uw.edu Professional and Organizational Development 206-543-1957 pod@uw.edu Authorizing Statute: RCW 28B.15.558 Exemption from Non-Resident Tuition Fees Differential TAs/RAs, Faculty and Staff and their Spouses and Dependents, and Immigrant Refugees and their Spouses and Dependents The University is authorized to waive the non-resident portion of tuition for a person residing in the state of Washington if they hold a graduate service appointment (as a teaching assistant or research assistant) or are employed by an academic department for not less than twenty hours per week, are a University employee who is recruited for employment from another state to work at the University or that employee’s spouse or dependent child, or are an immigrant refugee or the spouse or child of a refugee. Review WAC 478-161-020 for restrictions on duration of eligibility for faculty, staff, and refugees. TAs & RAs Staff & Immigrant Refugees Faculty Employment Unit Academic Department Graduate School G-1 Communications 206-543-7152 gradappt@uw.edu Office of Residency Classification 226 Schmitz Hall resquest@uw.edu Academic Human Resources 240 Gerberding Hall 206-221-8927 acadpers@uw.edu Authorizing Statute: RCW 28B.15.014 Exemption from Resident Operating Fees and Technology Fees Persons Holding Graduate Service Appointments As part of the compensation package for resident students that work as teaching assistants (TAs) and research assistants (RAs), all or part of the operating fee component of tuition is waived. The University fulfills its research mission with the innovation and work of its graduate students and considers waiving all or portion of their tuition a critical part of their compensation for their service to the University. Review also RCW 28B.15.014 for exemptions from the non-resident tuition differential. TAs & RAs Employment Unit Academic Department Graduate School G-1 Communications 206-543-7152 gradappt@uw.edu Authorizing Statute: RCW 28B.15.615 Students Registered in Excess of 18 Hours if Registered in Certain Professional Programs The University’s School of Pharmacy, School of Dentistry, School of Medicine, and School of Law students are sometimes required by their programs to take over 18 credits in a given quarter. The University is authorized to exempt these students from the normal mandatory tuition surcharge for additional credits. Contact your admitting academic unit for more information. Authorizing Statute: RCW 28B.15.100 Non-Resident Exemption for Medical Students in the WWAMI Program In an interstate agreement, the University of Washington serves as the medical school for students from Washington, Wyoming, Alaska, Montana, and Idaho (WWAMI). Students from these states pay resident tuition rates and their home states pay the balance of the cost of instruction directly to the University’s School of Medicine. UW School of Medicine – WWAMI Office of Academic Affairs A300 Health Sciences 206-543-5560 Authorizing Statute: RCW 28B.15.225 Tuition Exemption for Children and Surviving Spouses of Certain Law Enforcement Officers, Firefighters, State Patrol Officers, and Highway Workers Certain children and surviving spouses of law enforcement officers, firefighters, highway workers and Washington state patrol officers who lost their life or became totally disabled in the line of duty are exempt from tuition and services and activities fees. Office of Student Financial Aid 105 Schmitz Hall 206-543-6101 finaid@uw.edu Authorizing Statute: RCW 28B.15.380 Waiver of Tuition and Fees for Wrongly Convicted Persons and their Children The University is required to waive all tuition and fees for wrongly convicted persons and their children who meet certain eligibility requirements as outlined in RCW. Office of Student Financial Aid 105 Schmitz Hall 206-543-6101 finaid@uw.edu Authorizing Statute: RCW 28B.15.395 Western Interstate Commission for Higher Education (WICHE) WICHE is an interstate agreement and supports University graduate and professional students from 16 participating western states by offsetting part or all of the non-resident tuition differential. Washington residents also benefit from this program when enrolling in a participating program in a WICHE state. These waivers apply only to participating programs. Review the WICHE website for more information. Student Fiscal Services 129 Schmitz Hall 206-543-4694 sfshelp@uw.edu Authorizing Statute: RCW 28B.15.544. Review also RCW 28B.70.050. Students of Foreign Nations in Exchange Programs In certain programs, University students studying abroad are matched by their host institution sending a student to this University. Each student involved in these exchanges can benefit from paying resident tuition rates while each institution supports the visiting student by subsidizing the non-resident tuition differential. The University of Washington is authorized to support up to 100 students with this waiver. Study Abroad 453 Schmitz Hall 206-543-9272 studyabroad@uw.edu Authorizing Statute: RCW 28B.15.555 through RCW 28B.15.556 Waiver of Tuition and Fees for Eligible Veterans and National Guard Members and their Families The University may waive all or a portion of tuition and fees for an “eligible veteran or national guard member” who meets certain criteria of service. WAC 478-161-020 further limits eligibility, credit limits, and eligibility to graduate students. Required forms are on the University’s Veterans Education Benefits webpage. The University is required to waive all tuition and fees for children, spouses, and domestic partners, of an “eligible veteran or national guard member” who became totally disabled as a result of their service, lost their life while engaged in active service, or is determined by the federal government to be a prisoner of war or missing in action. Required forms are on the University’s Veterans Education Benefits webpage. Veterans Education Benefits 520 Schmitz Hall 206-543-6122 veteran@uw.edu Authorizing Statute: RCW 28B.15.621 Sections (2) and (4) Intercollegiate Athletics Gender Equity Waivers Federal law requires that the participation of women in intercollegiate athletics programs be proportionate to the percentage of women in the student population. Providing waivers to certain women athletes assists the University in meeting this federal requirement. Review also: RCW 28B.15.455 through 28B.15.460. Student Athlete Academic Services 206-543-0611 Authorizing Statute: RCW 28B.15.740 Need and Merit Waivers The University withholds a certain percentage of gross tuition operating fee revenue to distribute as tuition waivers for low-income and outstanding students at the graduate and undergraduate levels. These amounts are distributed through the aid awarding process and do not require a separate application. Student Fiscal Services 129 Schmitz Hall 206-543-4694 sfshelp@uw.edu Office of Student Financial Aid 105 Schmitz Hall 206-543-6101 finaid@uw.edu Authorizing Statute: RCW 28B.15.740 Other Tuition Waivers In addition to waivers granted under the authority of RCW 28B.15.910, the University may waive all or a portion of the operating fees for any student, but may not use state general fund support to do so. Graduate Merit WSS & WAVE Active Duty Military Contact the Graduate School for more information. Award recipient under the Washington State Scholars and Washington Award for Vocational Excellence (WAVE) programs. Active duty military assigned to Washington and their children and spouses. Graduate School G-1 Communications 206-543-7152 gradappt@uw.edu Office of the University Registrar 2nd Floor Schmitz Hall 206-543-8580 regoff@uw.edu Office of Residency Classification 226 Schmitz Hall resquest@uw.edu Authorizing Statute: RCW 28B.15.012 Home Services and Resources for Students Apostille Baccalaureate Honor GPA Requirements Certified Electronic Diploma (CeDiploma) CeDiploma FAQs CeDiploma Purchase Credential Validation Current Quarter Drop CQD Adviser-Assisted Drop Request Form CQD FAQs DARS for Students English Language Proficiency Requirement ELPR Contact Information – UW Seattle Students Enrollment Confirmation System Enrollment Confirmation Deposit Frequently Asked Questions New Student Enrollment and Orientation Fees Refund Policy Enrollment Verification and Degree Certification Fee-Based Programs Fee-Based Programs FAQs FERPA for Students Disclosure Exceptions Release of Records Request Former Quarter Drop Former Quarter Drop FAQs Forms for Students Grading Option Changes Extraordinary Circumstances Quarter Late Grading Option Change Request Late Grading Option Change Petition Graduation and Diplomas Incomplete Grades Loan Deferment Personal Data Address Date of Birth & Social Security Number Gender Identity Names Preferred Names FAQs Pronouns Race/Ethnicity Quarterly Dean’s List Bothell Recipients Seattle Recipients Tacoma Recipients Religious Accommodations Request Residency for Tuition Purposes Medical Student Applicants Residency Application and Paperwork Submissions Residency Coronavirus FAQs Residency Requirements Financially Dependent Students Financially Independent Students Application Process Affidavit of Residency American Indian Students Current and Former US Military Personnel, Spouse, and Children Eligible Non-Citizens Graduate and Professional Students Qualifying Visas Reciprocity Exchange Program Questions Residency Contact Information – UW Seattle Students Residency FAQ Tuition Reduction for Non-Resident Refugees and Asylees Washington Residents Absent from State Returning Student Process Returning Student Checklist Reverse Transfer Program FAQs Status Definitions Student Fees Taking Planned or Unexpected Time Off, or Transferring from UW Time Schedule FAQ Title IX Notice Transcripts Transcript FAQs Transcript Legend Tuition Waivers Undergraduate Class Standings Withdrawal, Quarter-Off, and On-Leave Policies Checklist to Withdraw Search OUR Search for: Submit a Question Topic of Inquiry, Request, or Comment* Let us know what your question or request is about and we'll make sure it's routed to the appropriate office and generate a ticket. - Choose a Topic -Academic Data ManagementDean's List LetterDegree AuditEnrollment VerificationPayment of ECD/NSEOFGraduation & DiplomasRegistration Process/Issue/ErrorResidencyTime ScheduleTranscriptsUWNetID RequestWebsite Issue: registrar.washington.eduOther/not sure For Residency contact information please visit the Residency Contact Page Your answer may be found by checking out how to ORDER TRANSCRIPTS, reviewing the TRANSCRIPT FAQS, or looking up the TRANSCRIPT LEGEND . Name* Email Address* Inquiry, Request, or Comment* Type your question or comment below. Comments This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Holiday Closures Spring 2022 Mon, May 30 (Memorial Day) University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA