Skip to main content Florida State University This is your Donation message. Log In This Site FSU Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Submit Submit Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Giving University Registrar Toggle navigation Site Menu Current Records Overview Status & Retention Drop/Add Service Indicators Enrollment Cancellation Grade Services Deans' Directory Publications Overview Bulletin Info Registration Guide Info Campus Map Info Course Descriptions Calendars Graduation Overview Graduation Checklist Ceremony Information Diplomas Degrees of Distinction Update Expected Grad Term FAQ Student Services Overview Graduation Transcripts Certification State Employee Fee Waiver FERPA Course Descriptions Scheduling Overview Curriculum Academic Space Class Search Archive Bulletin Undergraduate Graduate Registration Guide Past Editions 2021-2022 Undergraduate Bulletin Home Bulletin Undergraduate Departments & Programs Sport Management Helpful Links Graduate Bulletin Policies & Information Colleges Departments & Programs Bulletin PDF Undergraduate Bulletin Policies & Information Colleges Departments & Programs Bulletin PDF Archive of Previous Editions Fall Registration Guide Spring Registration Guide Summer Registration Guide Class Search Snapshots Undergraduate Department of Sport Management College of Education Website: https://education.fsu.edu/degrees-and-programs/undergraduate-programs/sport-management Chair: Jeffrey D. James; Associate Chair: Joshua Newman; Professors: Giardina, James, Newman; Associate Professor: Kim, Rodenberg; Assistant Professors: Du, Xue; Teaching Faculty III: Nobles; Teaching Faculty II: Flanagan, Pappas; Teaching Faculty I: O’Daniel The Department of Sport Management offers a Bachelor of Science (BS) in Sport Management. Students seeking admission to the Sport Management major must hold a 2.75 GPA in all college coursework and a “C” in all math and English courses. A minimum grade of “C–” or better must be earned in each prerequisite course to be eligible for admission into the program. A minimum grade of “C–” or better must be earned in each departmental core course, in each departmental elective course, and in each non-departmental elective course. If at any point a student has a combination of three or more “D” and/or “F” grades in departmental core, departmental elective, or non-departmental elective courses, the student may be dismissed from the Sport Management program and required to change their major. Students admitted to the program must maintain a cumulative GPA of 2.75 or higher. If the cumulative GPA falls below 2.75, the student has one subsequent semester to raise the cumulative GPA to 2.75 or higher. If the cumulative GPA is below 2.75 after two semesters, the student will be dismissed from the Sport Management program. Prior to admission to the program, the department utilizes centralized advising procedures and all entering students must be advised by the designated coordinator of undergraduate studies. The Sport Management undergraduate academic advisor works with undergraduate students admitted to the bachelor’s degree program in conjunction with the Office of Academic Services and Intern Support in the College of Education. Computer Skills Competency All undergraduates at Florida State University must demonstrate basic computer skills competency prior to graduation. As necessary computer competency skills vary from discipline to discipline, each major determines the courses needed to satisfy this requirement. Undergraduate majors in Sport Management satisfy this requirement by earning a grade of “C–” or higher in CGS 2060, CGS 2100, or EME 2040. State of Florida Common Program Prerequisites The state of Florida has identified common program prerequisites for this University degree program. Specific prerequisites are required for admission into the upper-division program and must be completed by the student at either a community college or a state university prior to being admitted to this program. Students may be admitted into the University without completing the prerequisites, but may not be admitted into the program. At the time this document was published, some common program prerequisites were being reviewed by the state of Florida and may have been revised. Please visit https://dlss.flvc.org/admin-tools/common-prerequisites-manuals for a current list of state-approved prerequisites. The following lists the common program prerequisites or their substitutions, necessary for admission into this upper-division degree program: Sport Management FIN XXXX or MAR XXXX or GEB XXXX MAN XXXX or BUL XXXX or CGS XXXX or STA XXXX or ACG XXXX or REE XXXX HFT XXXX or RMI XXXX or ECO XXXX or SDS XXXX or COM XXXX PET X303C or BSC X085/X085L SPM X000 Limited Access Programs No student, transfer or otherwise, may be admitted to limited access College of Education programs without first completing the general education and program prerequisites. Eligible courses will be determined by the community college or university where the student currently is earning the AA or baccalaureate degree and will be published in the institution’s catalog and in the Community College Counseling Manual. Sport Management Program The Sport Management program provides academic coursework necessary to prepare students to pursue a graduate degree in Sport Management or entry-level employment in a variety of work environments. The course of study leading to a baccalaureate degree with a major in Sport Management encompasses three areas of work: (1) required block and foundation courses; (2) business practices; and (3) electives. The undergraduate major in Sport Management is designated Limited Access and applicants must meet the following eligibility requirements for formal admission to the upper-division program: Certification to upper-division OR conferral of the Associate of Arts degree from a Florida public postsecondary institution; Completion of a minimum of sixty semester hours prior to admission for the Fall term; Completion of the statewide common prerequisite courses for the program area; Hold a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.75 on all attempted college credits; Submission of the program-specific application package to the Department of Sport Management on or before March 1 of the Spring term preceding Fall admission to the major. Combined Bachelors/Master’s Pathway The combined Bachelor of Science (BS)/Master of Science (MS) degree pathway in Sport Management provides an opportunity for academically talented students to complete graduate Sport Management courses (12 credit hours) that will be counted toward fulfillment of the BS degree requirements, and also toward fulfillment of the MS degree requirements. With the competitive nature of the sport industry, graduates increasingly are expected to have a higher level of training, and to compete for more than an entry-level position must already have some practical work experiences. The non-thesis Master’s degree includes service learning hours, requires completion of practicum hours, and provides additional training and instruction to position students for positions in the sport industry beyond the entry level. In a highly competitive industry, the combined degree provides an option for students seeking more than entry level jobs. In an industry where having a Master’s degree does provide a competitive advantage, a combined pathway is expected to be a viable option for undergraduate Sport Management students. Students interested in the combined pathway should schedule a meeting with the undergraduate academic advisor to discuss the program. The advisor will work with the student to ensure the application form is properly completed, and all application materials are submitted. The advisor will work with students to plan completion of the 12 credit hours included in the combined degree pathway. An undergraduate student seeking to enroll in and complete the combined degree pathway must: Be a junior in good standing, or an upper-division Honors student. Have a cumulative FSU GPA of at least 3.0 at the time of application. Earn a grade of a B or better in a graduate level course in order to have a course counted toward the Bachelor’s and Master’s degrees. To continue in the combined degree pathway program, students must maintain an overall minimum FSU GPA of 3.0, and carry a course load of no more than fifteen (15) hours in a semester. Sport Sales Initiative The Sport Sales Initiative is a partnership with the Department of Marketing that allows Sport Management students to complete courses through the FSU Sales Institute along with special offerings in the Department of Sport Management. Students will be able to acquire the additional skills and training needed to better prepare them for positions in the sport industry. For many positions in the sport industry, whether working for a sports league, a professional sports team, within intercollegiate athletics, or corporations that work with sport partners, there is a continuing demand for individuals with exceptional skills in interpersonal communication and personal selling. The Department of Sport Management and the Department of Marketing are working together to provide students a unique opportunity to learn and develop the skills necessary to be successful in the sport industry. The Sport Sales Initiative includes specific course work in the Department of Marketing and the Department of Sport Management, participation in professional development activities, and opportunities for networking with sport industry personnel. Coursework is completed through a fall-spring-fall cycle, with other activities and opportunities offered during each semester. Enrollment in the initiative is space limited; students interested in participating should contact the undergraduate academic advisor for Sport Management with any questions and to indicate their interest in being part of the Sport Sales Initiative. Definition of Prefixes APK—Applied Kinesiology IDS—Interdisciplinary Studies PEL—Physical Education Activities (General): Object Centered, Land PEM—Physical Education Activities (General): Performance Centered, Land PEN—Physical Education Activities (General): Water, Snow, Ice PEO—Physical Education Activities (Professional): Object Centered, Land PEP—Physical Education Activities (Professional): Performance Centered, Land PET—Physical Education Theory SPM—Sports Management Undergraduate Courses Elective Courses for Non-majors Note: The 1000-level courses with the repeat designation of “r” may be repeated for a maximum of four semester hours, but only two hours may count toward the University’s 120 hour graduation requirement. IDS 3496. Exploring the World of Sport (3). This course provides students with a general understanding of the sport management field. Through the course, students learn about the breadth of the sport industry, the different areas which comprise the industry, and the prospective employment opportunities in sport management. PEL 1002r. Introduction to Outdoor Games (1). (S/U grade only.) This course offers an introduction to outdoor games (field games such as cricket, lacrosse, and frisbee). Students become familiarized with basic rules of the sports covered, as well as, improving individual and team skills. PEL 1004r. Introduction to Indoor Games (1). (S/U grade only.) This course offers an introduction to indoor games (court games such as dodgeball, kickball, etc.). Students become familiarized with basic rules of the activities covered, as well as, improving individual and team skills. PEL 1111r. Bowling (1). (S/U grade only.) PEL 1121r. Golf (1). (S/U grade only.) PEL 1131r. Introduction to Billiards (1). (S/U grade only.) PEL 1321r. Volleyball (1). (S/U grade only.) PEL 1341r. Tennis (1). (S/U grade only.) PEL 1441r. Racquetball (1). (S/U grade only.) PEL 1511r. Soccer (1). (S/U grade only.) PEL 1621r. Basketball (1). (S/U grade only.) PEL 1646r. Flag Football (1). (S/U grade only.) PEL 1650. Ultimate Frisbee (1). (S/U grade only.) PEM 1001. Esports and Exergaming (1). (S/U grade only.) This course utilizes an interactive gaming system to introduce new methods of participating in sporting games to students. The course provides students with the opportunity to participate and gain knowledge of multiple sports and activities interactively within the comfort of an open classroom. This innovative method of introducing interactive sports aims to create a lifetime connection between the students and physical activity, whether through interactive participation or involving oneself with the actual sport or activity PEM 1101r. Physical Conditioning (1). (S/U grade only.) PEM 1121. Stretch and Relaxation (1). (S/U grade only.) PEM 1131r. Basic Weight Training (1). (S/U grade only.) PEM 1141r. Aerobic Conditioning (1). (S/U grade only.) PEM 1148. Fitness Walking (1). (S/U grade only.) PEM 1164. Dancesport (1). (S/U grade only.) Dancesport is a competitive form of Ballroom and Latin American dancing. This course focuses on Latin Dance. Students are introduced to information and techniques of Dancesport. PEM 1171r. Aerobic Dance (1). (S/U grade only.) PEM 1404. Self-Defense for Women (1). (S/U grade only.) This course introduces students to techniques, principles, and philosophies of self-defense, grounded in martial arts disciplines. The content focuses on the Basic Rape-Aggression-Defense (RAD) skills. PEM 1405r. Self-Defense/Martial Arts (1). (S/U grade only.) PEM 1406. Advanced Self-Defense/Martial Arts (1). Prerequisite: PEM 1405. This course examines advanced self-defense tactics/ techniques and considerations that may be useful for various types of encounters perpetrated against individuals beyond the Basic R.A.D. (Rape-Aggression-Defense) skills taught in PEM 1405. This advanced course is designed to serve as an extension of the basic program and taught in component block supplements to the Basic R.A.D. Systems Training. PEM 1461r. Introduction to Fencing (1). (S/U grade only.) PEM 1462. Intermediate Fencing (1). (S/U grade only.) Prerequisite: PEM 1461. This course provides for development of intermediate skills for Olympic Sport fencing for those who have completed an introductory fencing course, or who otherwise have prior fencing experience. PEM 1952. Circus Activities (1). (S/U grade only.) PEO 2013. Sports Officiating (2). PEO 2624. Theory and Practice of Basketball (2). PEO 3219. Theory and Practice of Baseball (2). PEO 3644. Theory and Practice of Football (2). PEP 1001r. Contemporary Activities Techniques (1). (S/U grade only.) May be repeated during the same semester. PEP 3304. Theory and Practice of Track and Field (2). Courses for Sport Management Majors Note: The courses with the designation of “r” may be repeated. PEO 2013. Sports Officiating (2). Prerequisites: PET 4300 and PET 4302C. PEO 2340. Theory and Practice of Tennis (2). This course is designed to provide students with the necessary knowledge and skills to coach team tennis. The students learn the principles of coaching/teaching and begin to develop their coaching philosophy. PEO 2624. Theory and Practice of Basketball (2). This course studies teaching and coaching techniques in basketball including current trends and offensive and defensive systems. PEO 3219. Theory and Practice of Baseball (2). This course studies all phases of baseball technique, strategy, teaching, and coaching procedures. PEO 3644. Theory and Practice of Football (2). This course focuses on organization, game theory, and the fundamental techniques of playing, teaching, and coaching. PEP 3304. Theory and Practice of Track and Field (2). This course studies concepts of the fundamental techniques in track and field, emphasis on varsity coaching and instructional methods. PET 4051. Human Movement Studies (3). This course explores the developmental, biomechanical, and motor learning principles affecting human movement. Emphasizes movement assessment in field-based settings. PET 4765. Principles and Problems of Coaching (3). This course covers the study of vital socio-psychological aspects of coaching. SPM 4003. Careers in Professional Sport (3). This course covers issues related to professional sports, including sport agents, contracts, the draft process, salary negotiations, and insurance. SPM 4004. Issues in Sport Management (3). This course introduces students to the major topics, trends, problems, and issues involved in athletics and sport management. SPM 4011. Sport History (3). This course provides a survey of significant time periods beginning with the Ancient Greeks and ending with the current society. The survey reviews sport issues and practices across time, aiming to inform students about the role of sport in our current society. SPM 4012. Sport in Society (3). This course covers the role of sports in the United States, focusing on sports as social and cultural phenomena. Focus is on the relationships between sports and social variables such as race and gender, social institutions such as education and family, as well as social issues such as drug use and violence. SPM 4013. Cross-Cultural Sport (3). This course approaches sport through a variety of global perspectives and cultural lenses. Students are exposed to different national contexts, histories, leagues, and governing bodies, as well as the social, cultural, political, and economic imperatives organizing sport and its management, including global mega-events (e.g., Olympics, World Cup) and national structures (e.g., Barclays Premier League). SPM 4014. Sport and Literature (3). This course uses literary theory to critically analyze and interpret a series of popular sport-related novels. The course focuses on the role that literature in general, and sport-based books in particular, have played in promoting and challenging structures of gender, nationalism, sexuality, race, social class, and ability in the United States and Western society more generally. SPM 4015. Sport and Film (3). This course allows students to use film and media studies theory to critically engage and interpret a series of popular sport-related films. By the end of the course, students are able to write and think critically about the role that film in general, and sport-based films in particular, play in promoting and challenging dominant formations of gender, sexuality, nationalism, race, social class, and ability in Western society. SPM 4020. Issues in International Sport (3). This course is a discussion of current issues impacting the international sport industry. The course includes site visits and discussions of issues that industry professionals in international settings face. SPM 4025. Diversity in Sport (3). This course examines the role and impact that ethnicity, racism, gender, and other diversity topics have had on sport, while providing students with an opportunity to develop an understanding and appreciation for diversity in sport. SPM 4104. Facility and Event Management (3). In this course, students learn the factors involved in obtaining, running, and managing athletic events. They also learn the guidelines for designing, constructing, maintaining, scheduling, and managing an athletic facility. SPM 4124. Human Resource Management in Sport (3). This course offers an introduction to the basic elements of human-resource management in sport organizations. SPM 4154. Introduction to Sport Management (3). This course provides an introduction to the diverse field of sport management. Topics cover career opportunities within the sport industry, as well as knowledge relevant to the management, marketing, legal, and financial operations of sport organizations. SPM 4204. Ethics in Sport (3). This course is designed to examine major moral/ethical issues within sport. Students are introduced to critical-thinking regarding ethical issues in sport and learn to use moral reasoning to make ethical decisions in sport. SPM 4304. Event and Special Projects (3). This course deals with topics and issues involved in the promotions and marketing of sporting events. The course is an examination of the evolution of large-scale corporate marketing strategies. SPM 4505. Sport Finance (3). This course provides an introduction to financial strategies related to sport entities and organizations. SPM 4604. Sport Governance (3). In this course, topics and issues discussed involve the organizational theory, behavior, and structure of various sport organizations. The evolution of power and political activity engulfing sport organizations is examined as well as concepts of leadership and management related to the sport industry. The course also includes an outside project enhancing the student’s understanding of a selected sport organization and its event. SPM 4630. International Sport Venues (3). This course is a study of the design and management of international sport venues. Topics include design, marketing, facility image, media and public relations, among others. The course includes site visits and discussions of issues and challenges that venue managers face. SPM 4703. Introduction to Sports Analytics (3). This course introduces students to the analytical techniques and quantitative methods that are being used to inform various decisions in the sport industry. SPM 4705. Applied Data Analytics in Sport Management (3). Prerequisite: SPM 4703 (C- or better). This course equips students with analytics skills and strategic mentalities to respond to the sport industry’s demand for individuals who apply data science to solve business problems and challenges. SPM 4723. Legal Issues in Physical Education (3). This course introduces students to the legal structures, major laws, regulations, and precedents in law in sport and physical education. SPM 4905r. Directed Individual Study (1–3). (S/U grade only.) This course enables undergraduate study of a research problem. Students work with faculty supervision to complete an independent project pertaining to a particular topic of interest. May be repeated to a maximum of twelve semester hours as topics vary. May be repeated within the same semester. SPM 4911r. Undergraduate Thesis (1-3). (S/U grade only.) This course employs a thesis project which must be an original research project utilizing methods appropriate to the nature of the project. In this course, work completed in the thesis stage includes prospectus development and approval, project completion, and defense. May be repeated to a maximum of six (6) credit hours. SPM 4931r. Special Topics in Sport Management (3). This course offers an analysis of selected topics in the sport-management field. May be repeated to a maximum of twelve semester hours. SPM 4941r. Practicum in Sport Management (3). This course provides opportunities for practical experience in various areas of sport management. The practicum is intended to provide students with work experience in a sport organization. May be repeated to a maximum of nine (9) credit hours; repeatable within the same term. Graduate Courses APK 5121. Sport and Exercise Psychology for Coaches (3). PET 5235. Motor Learning for Coaches (3). PET 5735. Advanced Coaching (3). PET 6931r. Advanced Topics (1–4). SPM 5021. Global Sport Venues (3). SPM 5022. Global Issues in Sport Management (3). SPM 5027. Diversity in Sport (3). SPM 5055. Sport, Culture, and the Body (3). SPM 5102. Research Methods in Sport Management (3). SPM 5106. Facility Management in Sport (3). SPM 5116. Strategic Management for Sport Organizations (3). SPM 5117. Sport Leadership (3). SPM 5158. Athletic Administration (3). SPM 5206. Sport Sponsorship and Sales (3). SPM 5308. Marketing Sport (3). SPM 5350. Athlete Recruitment (3). SPM 5405. Sport and the Media (3). SPM 5508. Fiscal Management in Sport (3). SPM 5605. Sport Governance (3). SPM 5706. NCAA Compliance and Institutional Control (3). SPM 5716. Risk Management in Sport and Physical Activity (3). SPM 5726. Issues in Sport Law (3). SPM 5906r. Directed Individual Study (1–3). (S/U grade only.) SPM 5907. Professional Development in Sport (3). SPM 5912r. Supervised Research (1–4). (S/U grade only.) SPM 5930. Issues in Sport Management (3). SPM 5940r. Field Laboratory Internship (1–8). (S/U grade only.) SPM 5942r. Supervised Teaching (1–4). (S/U grade only.) SPM 5947r. Practicum in Sport Management (3–12). SPM 6006. Organizational Theory in Sport (3). SPM 6007. Leadership & Organizational Behavior in Sport (3). SPM 6008. Foundations in Sport Administration (3). SPM 6017. Globalization, Development, and Sport (3). SPM 6046. Sport and Politics (3). SPM 6208. Seminar in Sport Ethics (3). SPM 6309. Seminar in Sport Marketing (3). SPM 6507. Seminar in Sport Finance (3). SPM 6517. Fundraising in Sport (3). SPM 6700. Seminar in Sport Management Research (3). SPM 6707. Applied Research Practices in Sport Management (3). SPM 6728. Advanced Law in Sport and Physical Activity (3). SPM 6735. Applied Statistics in Sport Management I (3). SPM 6736. Applied Statistics in Sport Management II (3). SPM 6746. Qualitative Inquiry in Sport and Physical Culture (3). SPM 6931. Seminar in Strategic Management in Sport (3) SPM 6932r. Advanced Topics in Sport Management (3). For listings relating to graduate coursework for thesis, dissertation, and master’s and doctoral examinations and defense, consult the Graduate Bulletin. Mailing Address A3900 University Center 282 Champions Way Tallahassee, FL 32306-2480 Email Registrar - registrar@fsu.edu Phone 850.644.1050 Hours Monday - Friday, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Eastern Time Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright