Skip to main content Florida State University This is your Donation message. Log In This Site FSU Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Submit Submit Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Giving University Registrar Toggle navigation Site Menu Current Records Overview Status & Retention Drop/Add Service Indicators Enrollment Cancellation Grade Services Deans' Directory Publications Overview Bulletin Info Registration Guide Info Campus Map Info Course Descriptions Calendars Graduation Overview Graduation Checklist Ceremony Information Diplomas Degrees of Distinction Update Expected Grad Term FAQ Student Services Overview Graduation Transcripts Certification State Employee Fee Waiver FERPA Course Descriptions Scheduling Overview Curriculum Academic Space Class Search Archive Bulletin Undergraduate Graduate Registration Guide Past Editions FERPA Overview Home Records FERPA Helpful Links Current Records Graduation Appeals Certification Transcripts Status and Retention Enrollment Cancellation Grade Services Drop/Add Excess Credit Hours Excess Credit Hours FAQ FERPA Employee Fee Waivers General Bulletin Registration Guide Class Search Snapshots Services Forms FERPA Overview The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) (20 U.S.C. ยง 1232g; 34 CFR Part 99) is a federal law that protects the privacy of students' educational records. The law applies to all schools that receive funds under an applicable program of the U.S. Department of Education. Students have specific, protected rights regarding the release of such records, and FERPA requires that institutions adhere strictly to these guidelines. FERPA guidelines protect students by guarding against the release of their records without their consent. Each semester, The Florida State University publishes information for students and the public regarding their rights and the protection of their educational records under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974, as amended. This document is an educational tool for the faculty and staff of Florida State University. As employees of the university community, we must work together to maintain our students' privacy and at all times remain in compliance with federal law. If after reading this document you have outstanding questions about FERPA guidelines, please contact The Office of the University Registrar at registrar@fsu.edu. The Office of the Registrar wishes to thank the American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers, the Federal Department of Education, and the National Association of College and University Attorneys for their contributions to this website. FSU Contacts Kimberly Barber, University Registrar kabarber@fsu.edu Robin Queen, Associate Registrar rqueen@fsu.edu Records/Data Requests esinfo@fsu.edu Faculty and Staff References FERPA Definitions FERPA Frequently Asked Questions University Registrar's website http://registrar.fsu.edu/bulletin/undergraduate/information/university_notices/ U.S. Department of Education Web site http://www.ed.gov/policy/gen/guid/fpco/ferpa/index.html Request to Prevent Release or Publication of Directory Information Request to Release Information Mailing Address A3900 University Center 282 Champions Way Tallahassee, FL 32306-2480 Email Registrar - registrar@fsu.edu Phone 850.644.1050 Hours Monday - Friday, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Eastern Time Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright