Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today Office of the University Registrar An office in Enrollment Management Search form Search Home Calendar Services Course & Room Scheduling Overview Auditoriums Auditorium Request Auditorium Utilization Report for Spring 2023 Classrooms » Course Catalog » Deadlines Exams Final Exam Policies & Guidelines Special Exam Policies Final Exams for Online and Non-Regular Courses Spring 2022 Final Exam Schedule Fall 2022 Final Exam Schedule Room Scheduling System (25 Live) » Room Reservations Event Room Reservation Request Schedule of Classes » Scheduling Officer Information Short Courses Standard Meeting Times Definitions for Course Components Scheduling Forms & Documents Enrollment Overview Add/Drop a Class Add/Drop/Withdraw Forms Approvals and Deadlines Drop Checklist Continuing Students New Students Readmitted Students Visiting Students and High School Dual Enrollment Late Enrollment Withdraw Considerations Effects of Dropping or Withdrawing on your Transcript Prior to Start of Semester After the Start of the Semester At the End of the Semester Withdrawal Form Medical and Compassionate Withdrawal Enrollment Resources Enrollment Status Maximum Enrollment Hours Enrollment Holds Schedule Builder Schedule of Classes » Records Overview Enrollment Certification Loan Deferments » Delegate Access Student Instructions Delegate Instructions Staff Instructions Grades Grade Definitions Grade Point Averages Parent and Guardian Grade Reports Enroll & Pay How-To's » Graduation Diplomas Statement of Degree Statement of Forthcoming Degree KU 150 Diploma KU ID Number Personal Information & Privacy Making Updates Student Data Request Transcripts Order a Transcript Charges and Delivery Options Transcript FAQ Electronic Transcript FAQ Transcript Key Records Forms University Seal Apostille Residency Overview Residency Definition Frequently Asked Questions Residency Application Appeals Armed Forces Residency Benefit Haskell Residency Tuition & Fees Tuition & Fees Overview Comprehensive Fee Schedule Archive CFS (2020-21) CFS (2019-20) CFS (2018-19) CFS (2017-18) CFS (2016-17) CFS (2015-16) CFS (2014-15) CFS (2013-14) CFS (2012-13) Fee Privileges Brochure Fee Petition Appeals Tuition and Fee Waiver Forms Class Supply Fee Opt-Out Request Loan Deferment Residency People About Overview Hours & Location Accreditation Reports University Reporting Contact us Forms Sitemap Faculty & Staff Resources Menu Home Calendar Services Course & Room Scheduling Overview Auditoriums Auditorium Request Auditorium Utilization Report for Spring 2023 Classrooms » Course Catalog » Deadlines Exams Final Exam Policies & Guidelines Special Exam Policies Final Exams for Online and Non-Regular Courses Spring 2022 Final Exam Schedule Fall 2022 Final Exam Schedule Room Scheduling System (25 Live) » Room Reservations Event Room Reservation Request Schedule of Classes » Scheduling Officer Information Short Courses Standard Meeting Times Definitions for Course Components Scheduling Forms & Documents Enrollment Overview Add/Drop a Class Add/Drop/Withdraw Forms Approvals and Deadlines Drop Checklist Continuing Students New Students Readmitted Students Visiting Students and High School Dual Enrollment Late Enrollment Withdraw Considerations Effects of Dropping or Withdrawing on your Transcript Prior to Start of Semester After the Start of the Semester At the End of the Semester Withdrawal Form Medical and Compassionate Withdrawal Enrollment Resources Enrollment Status Maximum Enrollment Hours Enrollment Holds Schedule Builder Schedule of Classes » Records Overview Enrollment Certification Loan Deferments » Delegate Access Student Instructions Delegate Instructions Staff Instructions Grades Grade Definitions Grade Point Averages Parent and Guardian Grade Reports Enroll & Pay How-To's » Graduation Diplomas Statement of Degree Statement of Forthcoming Degree KU 150 Diploma KU ID Number Personal Information & Privacy Making Updates Student Data Request Transcripts Order a Transcript Charges and Delivery Options Transcript FAQ Electronic Transcript FAQ Transcript Key Records Forms University Seal Apostille Residency Overview Residency Definition Frequently Asked Questions Residency Application Appeals Armed Forces Residency Benefit Haskell Residency Tuition & Fees Tuition & Fees Overview Comprehensive Fee Schedule Archive CFS (2020-21) CFS (2019-20) CFS (2018-19) CFS (2017-18) CFS (2016-17) CFS (2015-16) CFS (2014-15) CFS (2013-14) CFS (2012-13) Fee Privileges Brochure Fee Petition Appeals Tuition and Fee Waiver Forms Class Supply Fee Opt-Out Request Loan Deferment Residency People About Overview Hours & Location Accreditation Reports University Reporting Contact us Forms Sitemap Faculty & Staff Resources Search Search form Search Home Services Residency Residency Definition Overview Residency Definition Frequently Asked Questions Residency Application Armed Forces Residency Benefit Haskell Residency Tuition & Fees Residency Definition Resident tuition classification is determined by criteria found in Kansas statutes and regulations of the Kansas Board of Regents. Students are responsible for providing information sufficient to support their applications for resident classification. This is a general overview of the procedures and criteria used to determine resident status. It does not replace or supersede the statutes or Regents' regulations which contain the detailed requirements that must be met in order to prove resident status. For students 18 years or older residency is determined based on their ability to document clearly and convincingly that they meet the criteria established by the statutes and regulations summarized below. The residency status of students younger than 18 years is determined by the residence of their custodial parent or the parent who provided the preponderance of the support for 365 days prior to the first day of classes. The definition of residence (K.A.R. 88-3-2 - see below) contains criteria which can be grouped together into three basic categories: 1. Continuous physical residence in the state of Kansas for a year prior to the start of classes. 2. Reliance upon Kansas sources of support and 3. Intent to make Kansas your permanent home indefinitely. It is possible to change classification status while attending the University, however, you will be required to document that you have met the criteria, as outlined in K.A.R. 88-3-2 for a year prior to the first day of classes. Demonstrating that you have met these criteria while attending school can be difficult. Each application is assessed relative to the regulations based on the individual's situation as presented in the application. Note - If you have lived in Kansas within the past five (5) years and were a resident for tuition purposes and plan to return to Kansas, please contact the assistant registrar. This information is available on the KBOR website. Application Procedures Applications for a change in resident tuition classification may be obtained from the Office of the University Registrar, KU Visitor Center, 1502 Iowa St. on the Lawrence campus, 3001 Student Center for the Kansas City Campus, or a printable residency application form is available. Completed applications may be submitted to the Office of the University Registrar as early as 75 days prior and as late as 30 calendar days after to the first day of classes for the semester for which the change is being requested. All questions on the application must be answered and all supporting documentation must be attached. The documentation should be in the form of photocopies, as all information becomes the property of the University of Kansas. These are confidential records and are maintained in accordance with the University of Kansas Student Records Policy. Submit applications to the KU Visitor Center (1502 Iowa St.) for the Lawrence or Edwards campuses or 3001 Student Center for the Kansas City campus. In reviewing the application, the Office of the University Registrar will consider each individual situation as presented and assess it in relation to pertinent Kansas statutes and Board of Regents regulations. Once a decision has been made, the student will be notified in writing. The decision may be appealed. Appeals Procedure Students whose application for resident status has been denied may appeal the decision. An Appeal Form must be submitted no later than thirty calendar days after the decision has been made. The appeal form is included with the denial decision. To request an additional form, please email registrar@ku.edu. The Residency Appeals Committee reviews appeals of resident classification. The decision of the Residency Appeals Committee is the final determination made by the University of Kansas. International Students International students who are not citizens of the United States must meet the same criteria as a citizen in order to gain resident classification. However, intent to remain indefinitely in the state of Kansas, and the United States, generally cannot be demonstrated unless the student possesses Permanent Resident Alien status and has been in that status for twelve months prior to the first day of classes. Marriage to a U.S. citizen does not change the criteria an individual must meet. KU Medical Center Students Students at the University of Kansas Medical Center (KUMC) should contact the KUMC Office of the Registrar at 913-588-7055, (kumcregistrar@kumc.edu). Tuition and Fee Waivers Students who meet certain categories of criteria are eligible for tuition assessments equal to resident rates when authorized by the Kansas legislature and the Kansas Board of Regents. These privileges do not change a non-resident classification. Please see K.A.R. 88-3-8 through 88-3-12. K.S.A. 76-731. Certain American Indians deemed residents of state for purpose of tuition and fees. Any person who is attending or who has attended Haskell University shall be deemed to be a resident of this state for the purpose of tuition and fees for attendance at any state educational institution under the state board of regents. The student needs to submit an official transcript or official enrollment verification to the Office of the University Registrar no later than 30 calendar days into the semester in which the change is being requested. If you have any questions, please contact the Office of the University Registrar. Associated with K.S.A. 76-731 at http://www.ksrevisor.org/statutes/chapters/ch76/076_007_0031.html KU Academic Calendar Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. University Registrar Updates October 13, 2021 Notification of Rights Under FERPA (2021-2022) October 13, 2020 Notification of Rights Under FERPA (2020-2021) October 2, 2019 Notification of Rights Under FERPA (2019-2020) Read more updates Hawk Help: Ask a Question Enrollment Enroll & Pay is the University of Kansas' online campus solution for enrollment, financial and other services. The Online Schedule of Classes Why KU Apply » One of 34 U.S. public institutions in the prestigious Association of American Universities 44 nationally ranked graduate programs. —U.S. News & World Report Top 50 nationwide for size of library collection. —ALA 5th nationwide for service to veterans —"Best for Vets: Colleges," Military Times KU Today Give to KU » Contact Office of the University Registrar registrar@ku.edu 785-864-4423 785-864-3900 1502 Iowa Street Lawrence, Kansas 66045 Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login