Skip to main content Search Search Search Toggle navigation Cornell University Registrar Classes + Enrollment Class Roster Courses of Study Courses of Study Archive Student Essentials Gateway Courses Prorated Tuition Student Center FAQ Classes and Enrollment FAQ University Registration Calendars + Exams Academic Calendar Final Exam Policies Spring Prelim Schedule Spring Final Exam Schedule Fall Prelim Exam Schedule Fall Final Exam Schedule Grades + Transcripts Grading Median Grades Ordering Transcripts Transcript FAQ Transcript Keys Validating an eTranscript Service + Resources Apostille Certifications University Registrar Directory College Advising Directory College Registrar Directory Diploma Information Disability Accommodations FERPA ID Cards Mental Health at Cornell Names and Name Changes Use of Student Data Veteran Education Benefits Building Codes Faculty + Staff Faculty Center/Advisor Center Advisor Center FAQ Opscan Scanning Service Changing CIP Codes Data Requests Program Registration For Registrar Staff Certification of Enrollment and Degree The Office of the University Registrar is responsible for certifying student enrollment and degrees. The University Registrar maintains both past and present student records, but cannot verify future enrollment. Online Cornell University utilizes the National Student Clearinghouse to offer current students verification services and the ability to print their own certifications. Any current student or former student who attended Cornell during or after spring 2009 may use this service. Students will need a valid student ID number and an active NetID and password to make a certification request online. Request certification here if you are a current student. What Services Are Available Obtain an enrollment certificate to print and mail to a health insurer or other company that requests your proof of enrollment. View specific information about your student loans. View the student loan deferment notifications that the Clearinghouse has provided to your loan holders (lenders and guarantors). View the enrollment information on file with the Clearinghouse. View the proof(s) of enrollment that the Clearinghouse has provided to your health insurers and other providers of student services or products. Former students who attended Cornell prior to the Spring 2009 semester in need of enrollment or degree certifications may use the National Student Clearinghouse website. There is a small fee for each request. Any former Cornell student with a valid U.S. Social Security number may make a request online. Request certification here if you are a former student. All information about current and former students is provided by the Office of the University Registrar. If you do not understand the certification data or believe it is incorrect, please contact the Office of the University Registrar. By Mail or In Person Certifications for students or former students who do not have a U.S. Social Security number or those who need paper documentation may be requested by mail. Please send certification requests to: Office of the University Registrar Attn: Certifications B7 Day Hall, Cornell University Ithaca, New York 14853 Visit the Office of the University Registrar in 245 Day Hall between 9:00am-1:00pm, 2:00pm-4:30pm, Monday through Friday to make a request in person. Service + Resources Apostille Certifications University Registrar Directory College Advising Directory College Registrar Directory Diploma Information Disability Accommodations FERPA ID Cards Mental Health at Cornell Names and Name Changes Use of Student Data Veteran Education Benefits Building Codes Key Academic Dates 06 Jun 2022 Summer 22 8 Week Session 20 Jun 2022 Juneteenth Observance/Holiday/No Classes 21 Jun 2022 Summer 22 6 Week Session 21 Jun 2022 Summer 22 3 Week 2 Session See More Key Academic Dates Related Links + Files Veteran Education Benefits Request a Certification No Related Files Office of the University Registrar Cornell University, 245 Day Hall Ithaca, NY 14853 Office Hours: Monday - Thursday; 9:00 AM - 1:00 PM and 2:00 PM - 4:00PM Get Directions univreg@cornell.edu (607) 255-4232; Phone Hours: Monday - Friday; 10:00 AM - 1:00 PM and 2:00 PM - 4:00 PM EST (607) 255-6262 If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information in this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. © 2017 Cornell University