Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today Office of the University Registrar An office in Enrollment Management Search form Search Home Calendar Services Course & Room Scheduling Overview Auditoriums Auditorium Request Auditorium Utilization Report for Spring 2023 Classrooms » Course Catalog » Deadlines Exams Final Exam Policies & Guidelines Special Exam Policies Final Exams for Online and Non-Regular Courses Spring 2022 Final Exam Schedule Fall 2022 Final Exam Schedule Room Scheduling System (25 Live) » Room Reservations Event Room Reservation Request Schedule of Classes » Scheduling Officer Information Short Courses Standard Meeting Times Definitions for Course Components Scheduling Forms & Documents Enrollment Overview Add/Drop a Class Add/Drop/Withdraw Forms Approvals and Deadlines Drop Checklist Continuing Students New Students Readmitted Students Visiting Students and High School Dual Enrollment Late Enrollment Withdraw Considerations Effects of Dropping or Withdrawing on your Transcript Prior to Start of Semester After the Start of the Semester At the End of the Semester Withdrawal Form Medical and Compassionate Withdrawal Enrollment Resources Enrollment Status Maximum Enrollment Hours Enrollment Holds Schedule Builder Schedule of Classes » Records Overview Enrollment Certification Loan Deferments » Delegate Access Student Instructions Delegate Instructions Staff Instructions Grades Grade Definitions Grade Point Averages Parent and Guardian Grade Reports Enroll & Pay How-To's » Graduation Diplomas Statement of Degree Statement of Forthcoming Degree KU 150 Diploma KU ID Number Personal Information & Privacy Making Updates Student Data Request Transcripts Order a Transcript Charges and Delivery Options Transcript FAQ Electronic Transcript FAQ Transcript Key Records Forms University Seal Apostille Residency Overview Residency Definition Frequently Asked Questions Residency Application Appeals Armed Forces Residency Benefit Haskell Residency Tuition & Fees Tuition & Fees Overview Comprehensive Fee Schedule Archive CFS (2020-21) CFS (2019-20) CFS (2018-19) CFS (2017-18) CFS (2016-17) CFS (2015-16) CFS (2014-15) CFS (2013-14) CFS (2012-13) Fee Privileges Brochure Fee Petition Appeals Tuition and Fee Waiver Forms Class Supply Fee Opt-Out Request Loan Deferment Residency People About Overview Hours & Location Accreditation Reports University Reporting Contact us Forms Sitemap Faculty & Staff Resources Menu Home Calendar Services Course & Room Scheduling Overview Auditoriums Auditorium Request Auditorium Utilization Report for Spring 2023 Classrooms » Course Catalog » Deadlines Exams Final Exam Policies & Guidelines Special Exam Policies Final Exams for Online and Non-Regular Courses Spring 2022 Final Exam Schedule Fall 2022 Final Exam Schedule Room Scheduling System (25 Live) » Room Reservations Event Room Reservation Request Schedule of Classes » Scheduling Officer Information Short Courses Standard Meeting Times Definitions for Course Components Scheduling Forms & Documents Enrollment Overview Add/Drop a Class Add/Drop/Withdraw Forms Approvals and Deadlines Drop Checklist Continuing Students New Students Readmitted Students Visiting Students and High School Dual Enrollment Late Enrollment Withdraw Considerations Effects of Dropping or Withdrawing on your Transcript Prior to Start of Semester After the Start of the Semester At the End of the Semester Withdrawal Form Medical and Compassionate Withdrawal Enrollment Resources Enrollment Status Maximum Enrollment Hours Enrollment Holds Schedule Builder Schedule of Classes » Records Overview Enrollment Certification Loan Deferments » Delegate Access Student Instructions Delegate Instructions Staff Instructions Grades Grade Definitions Grade Point Averages Parent and Guardian Grade Reports Enroll & Pay How-To's » Graduation Diplomas Statement of Degree Statement of Forthcoming Degree KU 150 Diploma KU ID Number Personal Information & Privacy Making Updates Student Data Request Transcripts Order a Transcript Charges and Delivery Options Transcript FAQ Electronic Transcript FAQ Transcript Key Records Forms University Seal Apostille Residency Overview Residency Definition Frequently Asked Questions Residency Application Appeals Armed Forces Residency Benefit Haskell Residency Tuition & Fees Tuition & Fees Overview Comprehensive Fee Schedule Archive CFS (2020-21) CFS (2019-20) CFS (2018-19) CFS (2017-18) CFS (2016-17) CFS (2015-16) CFS (2014-15) CFS (2013-14) CFS (2012-13) Fee Privileges Brochure Fee Petition Appeals Tuition and Fee Waiver Forms Class Supply Fee Opt-Out Request Loan Deferment Residency People About Overview Hours & Location Accreditation Reports University Reporting Contact us Forms Sitemap Faculty & Staff Resources Search Search form Search Home Services Enrollment Withdraw Considerations Overview Add/Drop a Class Continuing Students New Students Readmitted Students Visiting Students and High School Dual Enrollment Late Enrollment Withdraw Considerations Effects of Dropping or Withdrawing on your Transcript Prior to Start of Semester After the Start of the Semester At the End of the Semester Withdrawal Form Medical and Compassionate Withdrawal Enrollment Resources Schedule Builder Schedule of Classes » Withdrawal Considerations As you consider withdrawing from the University of Kansas, it is important to keep in mind that your withdrawal can affect your academic, personal, and financial records and responsibilities in a number of ways. Prior to making this decision, please: Check the academic calendar to get a full understanding of refund and withdrawal deadlines. Make sure that you understand the effect of withdrawing on your transcript. If you are a dependent for for healthcare purposes, check with your insurance company on the impact of withdrawing on your policy coverage. Financial Aid - if you have financial aid (grants, loans, work-study), you must contact a financial aid advisor about your specific situation. Contact Financial Aid and Scholarships at 785-864-4700 or financialaid@ku.edu. Scholarships – Check the requirements of each individual scholarship. If you have a departmental scholarship, contact the department that provided the scholarship. Student Housing – If you live in student housing at KU (apartments, residence halls or scholarship halls), you must contact the Department of Student Housing by visiting Corbin Hall, Suite DSH or contacting the department at 785-864-4560 or housing@ku.edu. Contact Information – Update your address and phone number through Enroll & Pay via the Student Center of Campus Personal Information. Set your email account to forward to a non-KU account through Information Technology Accounts. Transcripts – If you are transferring to another institution, you can order your transcript on-line. If you have any outstanding balances due to KU, your transcript request will not be processed. International Students – If you are an international student (ex. F-1/J-1 status), a complete withdrawal without proper authorization can have severe legal consequences depending on your immigration status. You must contact the International Support Services Office by visiting 2 Strong Hall, calling (785) 864-3617, or emailing iss@ku.edu prior to completely withdrawing. Student Organizations – If you are a member of a student organization such as a fraternity, sorority or other special groups, you must contact them and let them know you will be leaving. Enrollment for next semester – If you withdraw on the first day of class or after, you will be assigned an enrollment appointment time for next semester. Log on to Enroll and Pay before main enrollment (mid-March for Summer/Fall enrollment; mid-October for Spring enrollment) to view your appointment time. Follow the continuing student enrollment instructions. This is valid ONLY for the semester immediately following the semester in which you withdraw. If your plans change and you are not enrolled at KU for one or more semesters and plan to attend a future semester – you must apply for readmission by the appropriate deadline. Visit admissions for the application and specific deadlines. Students enrolled in short courses that are less than five days in duration or in a short course that has passed the withdrawal deadline for the semester they intend to drop - contact the Office of the University Registrar at 785-864-4422 or registrar@ku.edu for information regarding withdrawing. KU Academic Calendar Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. University Registrar Updates October 13, 2021 Notification of Rights Under FERPA (2021-2022) October 13, 2020 Notification of Rights Under FERPA (2020-2021) October 2, 2019 Notification of Rights Under FERPA (2019-2020) Read more updates Hawk Help: Ask a Question Enrollment Enroll & Pay is the University of Kansas' online campus solution for enrollment, financial and other services. The Online Schedule of Classes Why KU Apply » One of 34 U.S. public institutions in the prestigious Association of American Universities 44 nationally ranked graduate programs. —U.S. News & World Report Top 50 nationwide for size of library collection. —ALA 5th nationwide for service to veterans —"Best for Vets: Colleges," Military Times KU Today Give to KU » Contact Office of the University Registrar registrar@ku.edu 785-864-4423 785-864-3900 1502 Iowa Street Lawrence, Kansas 66045 Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login