Skip to main content Florida State University This is your Donation message. Log In This Site FSU Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Submit Submit Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Giving University Registrar Toggle navigation Site Menu Current Records Overview Status & Retention Drop/Add Service Indicators Enrollment Cancellation Grade Services Deans' Directory Publications Overview Bulletin Info Registration Guide Info Campus Map Info Course Descriptions Calendars Graduation Overview Graduation Checklist Ceremony Information Diplomas Degrees of Distinction Update Expected Grad Term FAQ Student Services Overview Graduation Transcripts Certification State Employee Fee Waiver FERPA Course Descriptions Scheduling Overview Curriculum Academic Space Class Search Archive Bulletin Undergraduate Graduate Registration Guide Past Editions 2021-2022 Undergraduate Bulletin Home Bulletin Undergraduate Departments & Programs Public Safety Helpful Links Graduate Bulletin Policies & Information Colleges Departments & Programs Bulletin PDF Undergraduate Bulletin Policies & Information Colleges Departments & Programs Bulletin PDF Archive of Previous Editions Fall Registration Guide Spring Registration Guide Summer Registration Guide Class Search Snapshots Undergraduate Program in Public Safety and Security College of Applied Studies Website: https://pc.fsu.edu/academics/undergraduate-programs/pss Program Coordinator: Tom Kelley; Teaching Faculty III: Banyon Pelham; Teaching Faculty II: Mark Feulner; Teaching Faculty I: Charla Perdue Public Safety and Security combines disciplines within both social science and physical science to address problems presented by criminal behavior. The Public Safety and Security BS degree prepares students to practice within most of the public safety and security professions. The Public Safety and Security degree integrates practical exercises, both analytic and hands-on, with theoretical principles to provide students with the knowledge, skills, and abilities required by the competencies for law enforcement, security, intelligence, and investigations. The guiding perspective of public safety is as an operational spectrum from prevention to response to investigation, under laid with intelligence, connected by a management information system, all facilitated by an overarching management system. The core and required courses are designed to provide students with an overview of this entire spectrum and also the opportunity to focus on operating within a portion of the system. An undergraduate degree in Public Safety and Security offers broad preparation for positions in law enforcement, public and private security, Department of Homeland Security agencies, the intelligence services, community and residential corrections, court services, probation and parole, and may serve as a foundation for law school or graduate school. Advising Florida State University Panama City provides academic advising to students interested in pursuing coursework in Public Safety and Security. For more information, please contact the Panama City campus Academic Advising and Student Success Center at advising@pc.fsu.edu or call (850) 770-2288; distance learning students contact Dana Smith for advising at dsmith@pc.fsu.edu or call (850) 770-2266. Admissions All students must meet the University-wide baccalaureate degree requirements summarized in the “Undergraduate Degree Requirements” chapter of this General Bulletin. In order to enroll in the College of Applied Studies, an undergraduate must be certified by the Division of Undergraduate Studies or be a transfer student with fifty-two or more semester hours of accepted credit. World language completion (or exemption) is also required. Under certain circumstances, students may be admitted without these, but will be required to complete both while enrolled in the program in addition to other program requirements. In addition, there are three alternative criteria for admission to the program. Completion of an AA degree from a Florida public college with a minimum cumulative grade point average of 2.0 on a 4.0 scale. The AA degree shall include the completion of the Florida State general education requirements. Transfer students from a regionally accredited postsecondary institution who have sixty or more semester hours of transferable credit. Transfer students must have a minimum grade point average of 2.0. These students must complete the Florida State University general education requirements while enrolled in this program. Transcripts for students entering with more than the specified hours for the AA will be evaluated for whether any of the hours are applicable to the degree. Hours applicable will be subtracted from the nominal sixty (AA or transfer) required to a maximum of fifteen hours of underclass hours. Transcripts for transfer students will be evaluated in a similar fashion and some upper-level hours may be accepted to a maximum of thirty hours because the last thirty hours must be taken at FSU. Hours not applicable to the Public Safety and Security degree will not be transferred to avoid a possibility of a student incurring an excess hours charge. Students applying for admission to either the Public Safety and Security programs or the Underwater Crime Scene Investigation Certificate must apply through Florida State University’s Panama City Office of Admissions and Records online at https://pc.fsu.edu/Admissions. Academic Performance and Retention A grade of “C–” or above is required for credit in all core courses. A student who accumulates more than four unsatisfactory grades (U, F, D-, D, D+) in courses taken for college credit at FSU or elsewhere after admission to the program, whether repeated or not, will not be permitted to continue or graduate as a major in the College. Degree Requirements General graduation requirements include: A minimum cumulative grade point average of 2.0 on a 4.0 scale in all work attempted. Completion of the Composition and Mathematics requirements. Completion of the Oral Competency, Computer Skills Competency, and Diversity course requirements. Satisfaction of the state of Florida’s world language requirement. Credit hours required to satisfy this requirement are in addition to the sixty (Post AA) required. Completion of at least twenty-seven of the Public Safety and Security credit hours at FSU; completion of forty-five hours at the 3000/4000 level; and, completion of the last thirty hours for the degree at FSU. Twelve/thirteen hours in core courses, taken at FSU, and completed with a “C” or better. Three hour integrated capstone course. Eighteen hours in liberal studies to complete the thirty-six hour general education requirement. Thirty-three hours in restricted electives and/or required major courses. Twelve hours in a minor or elective hours approved by the College. Additional graduation requirements will depend on whether the student was admitted as an AA transfer student from a Florida public college, or as a non-Florida AA transfer student. Credit hours are to be distributed as follows: Admitted with an AA from a Florida public college – one hundred twenty total hours are required. The post-AA credit hours are to be distributed as follows: Forty-eight credit hours in Public Safety and Security with specific requirements of: Twelve hours in core courses, taken at FSU, and completed with a “C” or better. Thirty-three hours in restricted electives and/or required major courses. Three hour integrated capstone course. Admitted as a transfer student – one hundred twenty total hours are required. The remaining hours are to be distributed as follows: Forty-eight credit hours in Public Safety and Security with specific requirements of: Twelve hours in core courses, taken at FSU, and completed with a “C” or better. Thirty-three hours in restricted electives and/or required major courses. Three hour integrated capstone course. In addition, transfer students must complete FSU’s general education requirements, either as part of the twelve hours of unrestricted electives or in addition to them. If courses used to satisfy major requirements are used to meet the General Education requirements, no more than four semester hours of the General Education Requirements may also be counted towards the major requirements. Computer Skills Competency All undergraduates at Florida State University must demonstrate basic computer skills competency prior to graduation. As necessary computer skills vary from discipline to discipline, each major determines the courses needed to satisfy this requirement. Undergraduate majors in public safety and security satisfy this requirement by earning a grade of “C–” or higher in CCJ 3071. Internships A variety of internships is available at the local, state, and federal levels. Students can choose from the fields of law enforcement, courts, corrections, criminal justice planning, criminological research, and private sector opportunities. Internships are available for juniors and seniors who have completed the core courses and have satisfied the college-level proficiency skills in reading, writing, and mathematics requirement. The intern receives a satisfactory/unsatisfactory (S/U) grade, and full credit is given upon successful completion of both the academic component and work hours. Students are advised that information pertaining to all matters of public record, such as arrests and convictions, may be required by the agencies accepting interns. Although a reasonable effort is made to place a student in an internship, FSU Panama City will not be liable if a student cannot be placed. Students are responsible for all living and transportation expenses during internship experiences. Certificates The College of Applied Studies, Public Safety and Security, offers an Underwater Crime Scene Investigation (UCSI) Certificate that may be earned independently or as part of a bachelor’s degree. For more information, visit https://pc.fsu.edu/ucsi-certificate-programs or contact Mark Feulner by e-mail at mfeulner@pc.fsu.edu. Student Honor Society Garnet Key Honor Society of the Panama City campus, founded in 1986, recognizes students primarily for service and scholarship, but also for spirit and leadership. Activities are generally service projects and functions for the Panama City campus. Applicants must have completed fifteen semester hours at that campus with a GPA of 3.5 or higher. For more information, contact Cristina Rios by e-mail at crios@pc.fsu.edu. Student Activities The Scuba, Hyperbaric, and Recreational Club (SHARC) Dive Club was established to coordinate and facilitate SCUBA training due to FSU Panama City student interest in scientific and recreational diving. Membership is open to all regardless of certification status. Certified divers that are members have access to club resources such as regulators, dive lights, and buoyancy compensators. For more information, contact Darren DeDario by e-mail at ddedario@pc.fsu.edu, contact the FSU Panama City Dive Locker at (850) 770-2206, or visit the club’s Website at https://pc.fsu.edu/students/campus-life/student-organizations/sharc. Definition of Prefixes CCJ—Criminology and Criminal Justice CJC—Corrections CJE—Law Enforcement CJJ—Juvenile Justice CJL—Law and Process CPO—Comparative Politics DSC—Domestic Security ISC—Interdisciplinary Sciences SCC—Security Undergraduate Courses CCJ 3024. The Criminal Justice System (3). This course introduces the major issues, influences and trends considered in the criminal justice system. Course material includes explanation and analysis of theory as it applies to the construction and function of the application of criminal justice. CCJ 3032. Crime in Media (3). This course provides students with an understanding of the impact of the media on crime, criminals, the criminal justice system, and the general public. The focus of this course is the historical impact of media and its influences on the outcomes of both routine and sensational cases within the American criminal justice system and how media reporting affects the policy making processes and the social definitions of crime. CCJ 3071. Computer Applications in Criminal Justice (3). This course is designed to prepare the student for the use of IT in various professions within the Criminal Justice community. This includes, the fundamentals of computing, the use of data processing, word processing, e-mail, Computer Automated Dispatch, Records Management Systems, use of the Internet and IT Security protocols. CCJ 3484. Ethics in Policing and Intelligence (3). This course explores ethics for both the criminal justice system and intelligence professionals. It compares and contrasts the differing roles ethics plays in policing and intelligence communities. The course probes significant past and current events to illuminate issues relevant to ethics in intelligence and policing. CCJ 3612. Behavioral Science in Criminal Justice (3). This course introduces the major issues, influences, and trends considered in the behavioral analysis of criminal and delinquent activity. Course material includes explanation and analysis of theory as it applies to human behavior. A theoretical tool is offered as a method of understanding the interaction of the individual with the environment. CCJ 3651 Drugs and Crime (3). This course provides students with a broad introduction to both illicit and licit drug usage and their impact on the justice system. Drugs and behavior are examined from various perspectives including historical, criminal justice, sociological, and biological perspectives. Emphasis is placed on analyzing the logic of the discourse surrounding drug policy by the opposing advocates. CCJ 3661. Terrorism and Violence (3). This course provides a critical examination and analysis of major issues, definitions, and controversies associated with the development of terrorism in the modern world. Historical, religious, psychological, and sociological aspects that explain terrorism are covered, along with the characteristic means and methods of terrorist groups. CCJ 3678. Policing Diversity: Race, Gender, Religion, and Crime (3). This course provides students with a theoretical and practical foundation for addressing issues of diversity as public safety and security practitioners. Focus is on an analysis of current local, regional, and national demographics regarding the impact of race, ethnicity, gender, and religion in criminal justice as both producers and victims for crime. Students explore some of the various strategies municipalities have implemented to better serve diverse populations such as policies, laws, and procedures. CCJ 4072. Crime Mapping and Analysis (3). Prerequisites: CCJ 4710. This course is designed to introduce the student to Crime Mapping (coordinate tracking of criminal events and GIS) and Crime Analysis (the statistical evaluation of criminal events and criminal intelligence). Students work with crime data, coordinate data, UCR data and gathered intelligence, to understand correct force deployment and response to crime, for crime-prevention and solvability. They are also introduced to serialized crime identification, recognition and response. CCJ 4710. Applied Probability for Research and Investigation (3). Prerequisite: CCJ 4744. This course explores how probability and statistics underlie the decisions of researchers and investigators and how to evaluate the expression of probabilistic and statistical information being used to support such decisions. It provides an overview of types of quantitative data products concentrating on their interpretation and application. Techniques for combining multiple forms of evidence to achieve proof are examined. CCJ 4744. Evidential Reasoning for Research and Investigation (3). This course introduces the formal and informal approaches for making decisions on information that is uncertain and from diverse sources. Techniques are examined for collecting and using both qualitative and quantitative data to draw inferences about public safety and security programs and investigations. CJC 3311. Corrections: Practices and Perspectives (3). This course introduces the major issues concerning the history, law, practices, and perspectives in American Corrections. Students examine the interaction of correctional perspectives and practices, their consequences, and policies being advocated to change them. CJE 1760. Foundations of Underwater Investigation (3). This course presents the history, physics, physiology, and basic scientific methodology as they relate to exposure to compressed gas environments and how to deduce safe parameters from those principles. The course provides the theoretical foundation for individuals preparing to be investigators for scientific research and data collection underwater. CJE 1760L. Foundations of Underwater Investigation Lab (1). Corequisite: CJE 1760. This laboratory course presents the principles and practice of compressed-gas as a life-support system for underwater hyperbaric exposure. The course is designed to develop proficiency in the basic skills required to perform safe underwater investigations including recording observations and conducting underwater environmental surveys. CJE 3065. Police and Society (3). This course provides an advanced comprehensive overview of the foundations of policing in modern American society. Emphasis is on the functions of law enforcement and its interaction with a democratic society. CJE 3612. Interview and Interrogation (3). This course introduces students to the dynamics of conducting interviews and interrogations from both a theoretical and practical perspective. Emphasis is on both collecting reliable information by means of interviewing and interrogation for use in public safety and security investigations and on evaluating that reliability through a scientific approach. CJE 3617. Cold Case Investigations (3). Prerequisites: CJE 3762 and CJE 4611. This course provides an introduction to the model and methodology of investigation of cold cases. CJE 3648. Crime Scene Professionalism (3). This course emphasizes that qualities that mark a true professional in the field of crime scene investigation. The course covers crime scene safety, chain of custody, ethics, impartiality, the manipulation, and mishandling or misinterpreting of evidence. There is a focus on preventing contamination, report writing, and courtroom reputation and presentation. CJE 3732. Criminal Intelligence (3). This course focuses on the production of intelligence from the analysis of multiple and diverse sources of information and on its use by formal and informal intelligence agencies. Emphasis is placed on the role of local public safety and security personnel and organizations as both producers and consumers of intelligence and on their relationship to the formal intelligence agencies. CJE 3762. Forensic Science in Investigations (3). This course combines various theories of crime with knowledge of how physical evidence produced during the commission of a crime yields scientific data that enables forensic science to aid in the investigation and prosecution of criminal activity. CJE 3762L. Forensic Science in Investigations Laboratory (1). Pre- or corequisite: CJE 3762 (C- or better). This laboratory applies various techniques for the examination of physical materials generated during the commission of a crime in order to produce information required to detect and investigate criminal activity. This virtual and hands-on laboratory emphasizes the implementation of scientific protocols for collection and analysis of evidence and the calculation of associated error rates. CJE 4135. Impression and Pattern Evidence (2). Pre- or corequisites: CJE 3762 and CJE 3762L. In this course, students are introduced to the concepts of identification and individualization employed in forensic science. In the course, students learn how to use class characteristics, wear characteristics, and individualizing characteristics in the identification and individualization process. CJE 4135L. Impression and Pattern Evidence Lab (2). Prerequisites: CJE 3762 and CJE 3762L. Corequisite: CJE 4135. This course teaches forensic techniques used by crime scene professionals to detect, document and preserve various impression and pattern evidence commonly encountered in violent crimes. Students become familiar with the forensic application and collection of evidence, as well as documentation protocols. CJE 4220. Introduction to Forensic Entomology (3). This course provides an introductory overview for the field of forensic entomology and prepares the student for subsequent courses in forensic entomology that focus on insect taxonomy, field collection, and case analysis. The course covers a broad range of topics in basic entomology as related to forensic science. CJE 4221. Forensic Entomology: Field Collection Techniques (3). Prerequisite: CJE 4220. This course introduces students to entomological equipment, supplies, techniques and procedures utilized to collect, rear, and preserve insects and related arthropods of medicocriminal forensic importance. The course also covers equipment and methods for acquiring weather, climatological and other relevant data. CJE 4222. Forensic Entomology: Case Studies and Legalities (3). Prerequisite: CJE 4220. This course addresses the legal and courtroom aspects of medicolegal entomology. The course prepares students to present entomological evidence in a court of law, in an admissible manner using expert witness testimony. This course, through case study reviews, explores the importance of establishing a “chain of custody” and pitfalls with presenting evidence. CJE 4223. Forensic Entomology: Taxonomy and Post Mortem Interval (3). Prerequisite: CJE 4220. This course addresses the principles of insect identification and basic insect taxonomy. Students are responsible for the species level identification on specimens they collect from the field. Students analyze meteorological and mock crime scene temperature data and independently calculate estimates of the postmortem interval. Students utilize dichotomous keys, light microscopy, and entomological equipment for proper specimen preservation and identification. CJE 4241. Trace and Biometric Evidence (1). Prerequisites: CJE 3762 and CJE 3762L. This course teaches the properties of trace evidence that are most useful in forensic comparison. It also covers biometric identification through biological characteristics that can be used for recognition. CJE 4241L. Trace and Biometric Evidence Lab (2). Prerequisites: CJE 3762 and CJE 3762L. Corequisite: CJE 4241.This course teaches microscopy as it relates to trace evidence and the different types of trace evidence and the techniques used to recover, store and analyze the evidence using various techniques like microanalysis, gas chromatography and mass spectrometry. It also looks at the quickly evolving area of biometrics and how computer software is used to make identifications in areas like fingerprints and facial recognition. CJE 4410. Community Policing (3). This course introduces students to the dynamics of community policing from both a theoretical and practical perspective. Emphasis is on both understanding the origins of community policing and practical application through the use of problem solving and partnership strategies. CJE 4611. Criminal Investigation: Theory and Practice (3). Prerequisite: CCJ 4710. This course gives the student an opportunity to explore and understand investigative facets of law enforcement service delivery. The students focus on the historical relevance of the investigative process, the evolution of investigation, the procedural guidelines for effective investigations, and the mechanics of the modern day investigative process. CJE 4615. Conduct of Investigation (3). Prerequisite: CJE 4611 (C- or better). This course builds on the Criminal Investigations: Theory and Practice course to provide students the practice in applying investigative procedures within legal constraints; the use of specialized documentation and analyses required in the investigation of injury and death, crimes against persons and property; and the combination of evidence from crime scenes, medical-legal examinations, records, and interviews to produce legal proof and articulate its reliability. CJE 4638. Forensic Death Investigation (2). Prerequisites: CJE 3762 and CJE 3762L. Corequisite: CJE 4638L. This course focuses on the investigation used to determine the cause, manner, and mechanism of deaths under criminal, unusual, or unexpected circumstances and presents on overview of medico-legal investigative systems. CJE 4638L. Forensic Death Investigation Lab (2). Prerequisites: CJE 3762 and CJE 3762L. Corequisite: CJE 4638. This advanced course focuses on all aspects of the initial investigation on sudden and violent death scenes to include special procedures and techniques to be evaluated in a major crime investigation. The course introduces the procedures and technologies used to document the different modes of death. Students perform various documentation protocols with the forensic application and collection of evidence. CJE 4655. Crime and Accident Scene Imaging and Reconstruction (1). Pre- or corequisites: CJE 3762 and CJE 3762L. This course teaches the various theoretical principles used by crime scene professionals to recreate accurate representations of a crime or accident scene for future use in investigation or for court purposes. Students become familiar with the collection of scientific data, expressing measurement, and interpretation of data. CJE 4655L. Crime and Accident Scene Imaging and Reconstruction Lab (2). Corequisite: CJE 4665. This course teaches the various operational procedures used by crime scene professionals to document and recreate accurate representations of a crime or accident scene for future use in investigations or courtroom presentations. Since agencies vary greatly in their access to technology, this course introduces many different techniques, systems and software used to document, map and measure crime scenes. Students will perform the operations required to gather and collect the information needed to properly appraise the scene. CJE 4710r. Public Safety and Security Capstone (3–15). Prerequisite: CCJ 4744. This course focuses on the integration of knowledge, skills, and capabilities learned in the program through a capstone project through working with a Public Safety and Security Agency or Guided Research. CJE 4733. The Intelligence Process (3). Prerequisites: CJE 3732 and MAC 1105. Corequisites: CCJ 4710; and STA 2023; or STA 2122. This course covers a number of structured analytic techniques that provide an objective approach to conducting the intelligence process. The techniques presented in this course are used to process all-source intelligence which is applicable to law enforcement intelligence, counterterrorism, tactical military, and competitive intelligence analysis. CJE 4734. Intelligence Collection Strategies (3). Prerequisites: CJE 3732 and STA 2023. This course examines the formal intelligence collection process with emphases on Open Source and Human Intelligence. Students become familiar with the process, developing comprehensive strategies for the production of intelligence by satisfying levied requirements using a variety of intelligence sources available to local public safety and security personnel. CJE 4764. Underwater Crime Scene Methodology (3). Prerequisites: ISC 3063. This course focuses on the development of the theoretical portion of the protocols for applying advanced methods and technology to solving specific problems encountered in underwater investigations. The course synthesizes the various theories for the conduct of crime with the knowledge of how physical evidence is generated during the commission of a crime on, or under, the water, in order to produce information that enables the investigation and prosecution of criminal activity. The course presents a variety of types of advanced technology currently in use for underwater scientific disciplines. CJE 4764L. Underwater Crime Scene Methodology Laboratory (1). Prerequisites: ISC 3063L. Corequisite: CJE 4764. This course synthesizes the various theories regarding crimes and accidents that result in physical evidence being located in submerged environments, and the means by which that evidence may be gathered and documented for the purpose of the investigation and prosecution of criminal activity. The course focuses on developing advanced diving skills to facilitate the gathering of data from a variety of underwater environments. CJE 4765. Underwater Crime Scene Investigation (3). Prerequisite: CJE 4764. This course is based on a holistic investigation process designed to locate and recover information and physical evidence from submerged environments. Emphasis is placed on the application of crime scene theory, the management of underwater investigative methods and tools, decision-making based on the scientific method, and integrating operations within a broader investigative context through the Incident Command System. CJE 4765L. Underwater Crime Scene Investigation Laboratory (1). Prerequisite: CJE 4764L. Corequisite: CJE 4765. This course combines the various analytical underwater examinations into a holistic investigation process designed to locate and recover information and physical evidence related to crimes committed in or on the water. Emphasis is placed on the theory of the technology and methodology, as well as on the scientific decision-making required for their optimum application and on conducting and evaluating the operations of an underwater investigative program. CJJ 3013. Youth Culture and Crime (3). This course explores the unique characteristics of juvenile offending and victimization by examining the cultural traits that differentiate youths from society in general. In doing so, the class investigates various distinct subcultures globally and the relationship between specific forms of offending and subcultural traits. The course offers a new perspective to explaining delinquent behaviors and suggest alternative paths for dealing with them. CJL 3133. Evidence and Criminal Procedure (3). This course covers the structures and functions of state and federal court systems with emphasis on the specific roles and duties of the participants in criminal trials. Special emphasis is placed on the rules of evidence applicable in criminal cases and the consequences of not having or not following those rules. Examination and analysis of actual appellate court cases utilizing the law school technique of case briefing will be used as a basis for applying the concepts studied. DSC 3013. Homeland Security and Criminal Justice (3). This is an introductory course covering the relationship of homeland security and criminal justice agencies as it impacts public safety and security. Students are introduced to salient issues regarding the interconnection of the homeland security mission and the roles of criminal justice agencies at the local, state, and federal levels in dealing with both terrorist threats and with natural and man-made disasters. ISC 3062. Introduction to Underwater Investigation (3). This course presents the history, physics, physiology, and basic scientific methodology relate to operating in hyperbaric environments. This course incorporates an exploration of the tools and methods for safely conducting dive activities based on those principles as well as the techniques for mitigating the associated risks. This course provides the theoretical foundation for individuals preparing to be investigators for scientific research and evidence/data collection under water. ISC 3062L. Introduction to Underwater Investigation Laboratory (1). Corequisite: ISC 3062. This laboratory course presents the principles and practice of compressed-gas as a life-support system for underwater hyperbaric exposure. This course is designed to develop proficiency in the basic skills required to perform safe underwater investigations, including recording observations and conducting underwater environmental surveys. ISC 3063. Scientific Underwater Investigation (3). Prerequisite: ISC 3062. This course builds upon the Introduction to Underwater Investigation course by providing the advance knowledge and techniques used to perform examinations in underwater environments following the scientific method. The course provides a theoretical and practical foundation for conducting scientific research and data collection in underwater environments. ISC 3063L. Scientific Underwater Investigation Laboratory (1). Prerequisite: ISC 3062, ISC 3062L, and completion of a swim fitness test, an AAUS medical evaluation with subsequent review by the ASDP Diving Medical Officer, and any additional tests as necessary. Corerequisite: ISC 3063. This laboratory applies the scientific principles and techniques used to collect data in an underwater environment for the purpose of scientific research. Due to the particular challenges of working underwater, the lab incorporates the advanced skills used for prolonged hyperbaric exposures in challenging environments. These skills are taught concurrently with those of an underwater investigator, and the course is designed to develop proficiency in both so that the underwater research techniques common to the practice of underwater science disciplines may be practiced safely. ISC 4930r. Special Topics in Applied Studies (1–3). This course allows for special topics in Interdisciplinary Studies to be taught, focusing on Applied Methods and Theory, specific to the concept of Applied Studies and Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics. May be repeated to a maximum of twelve semester hours. Graduate Courses CCJ 5079. Managing Intelligence Analysis Functions (3). CCJ 5616. Profiling Criminal Behavior (3). CCJ 5748. Advanced Evidentiary Reasoning for Criminal Intelligence (3). CJE 5225. Introduction to Forensic Entomology (3). CJE 5226. Forensic Entomology Field Collection Techniques (3). CJE 5227. Forensic Entomology: Case Studies and Legalities (3). CJE 5228. Forensic Entomology: Taxonomy and Post Mortem Interval (3). CJE 5631. Financial Intelligence (3). CJE 5715. Capstone Project (3). CJE 5735. International Crime and Terrorism (3). CJE 5737. Law Enforcement Intelligence (3). CJE 5739. Research Methods for Law Enforcement Intelligence (3). CJE 5743. Introduction to Public Safety and Leadership (3). CJE 5744. Strategic Planning in Public Safety and Leadership (3). CJE 5745. Use of Force in Public Safety and Security (3). CJE 5768. Underwater Crime Scene Methodology (3). CJE 5768L. Underwater Crime Scene Methodology Laboratory (1). CJE 5769. Underwater Crime Scene Investigation (3). CJE 5769L. Underwater Crime Scene Investigation Laboratory (1). CPO 5429. Political Islam: Ideology or Religion (3). DSC 5595. Human Intelligence Collection (3). ISC 5060. Introduction to Underwater Investigations (3). ISC 5060L. Introduction to Underwater Investigations (1). ISC 5061. Scientific Underwater Investigation (3). ISC 5067L. Scientific Underwater Investigation Laboratory (1). ISC 5930r. Special Topics in Applied Studies (3). SCC 5406. Market and Competitive Intelligence (3). PURCHASING/MATERIALS MANAGEMENT: see Management Information Systems RADIO/TELEVISION: see Communication READING EDUCATION AND LANGUAGE ARTS: see Childhood Education, Reading, and Disability Services; Middle and Secondary Education REAL ESTATE: see Risk Management/Insurance and Real Estate and Legal Studies Mailing Address A3900 University Center 282 Champions Way Tallahassee, FL 32306-2480 Email Registrar - registrar@fsu.edu Phone 850.644.1050 Hours Monday - Friday, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Eastern Time Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright