Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Office of the Registrar Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Home Registrar Projects (new) Registrar Projects (new) Student Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Request Info Visit Apply You are here Home » Students » Registration Eligibility to Register Eligibility to Register Before you register, take a quick look at where you are in the enrollment process and determine any steps you need to take before you register for courses. Here is some need-to-know information about registration and requirements for undergraduate students, post baccalaureate students, graduate students and non-degree seeking students. Undergraduate Students Newly Admitted Undergraduate Students All newly admitted students must attend an orientation and meet with an advisor prior to registering for courses. Visit New Student Programs & Family Outreach for details about new student orientation and advising programs. When you have completed the orientation and advising session, you will get a registration PIN which you will need to enter at the time of registration. Newly admitted online students need to complete the Ecampus Undergraduate Orientation. For more information, contact Ecampus Student Services at [email protected] or 541-737-4166. Continuing Undergraduate Students Continuing students who remain in acceptable academic standing and with no outstanding financial holds may register during their assigned registration time for the next available term. See Priority Registration for more details. All undergraduate students must have a registration PIN to register for classes. Registration PINs are provided by college at the time of advising. Post Baccalaureate Students Newly Admitted Post Bacc Students All newly admitted post bacc students need to meet with an advisor to obtain a registration PIN prior to registering for courses. Graduate Students Newly Admitted Graduate Students Newly admitted graduate students are not required to be advised prior to registration and do not need a registration PIN to register for courses. See Priority Registration for more details. Newly admitted online students need to complete the Ecampus Graduate Orientation. Continuing Graduate Students Continuing graduate students in compliance with the Continuous Enrollment Policy in the Graduate Catalog may register for courses. Graduate student assigned registration time is listed in the Priority Registration schedule for the term. No registration PIN is required for registration. Non-degree Students Non-degree seeking students can register one week prior to the beginning of the term. No registration PIN is needed to register for courses. See Priority Registration for more details. Newly admitted online students with Ecampus need to complete the Nondegree Online Orientation. Once you complete the orientation, you will receive a registration PIN that will give you access to register for courses. For more information, contact Ecampus Student Services at [email protected] or 541-737-4166. Returning Students Undergraduate, non-degree, or post bacc students who have been absent from the university for four terms (not including summer) are placed in an inactive status and are unable to register for courses. Students who wish to re-enroll must apply for readmission. See Readmission for more details about applying for readmission. Change in Student Status Students who wish to change their student status, such as completing an undergraduate degree and continuing on to seek a second bachelor's degree (undergraduate status to post bacc status), must apply for admission under the new status through the Office of Admissions. Undergraduate students that are registered for courses for a term subsequent to the term in which their degree is awarded must apply for admission under a new status. If an application for a new status is not completed, the status will be changed to non-degree for the future term in which they are enrolled. ‹ Dropping a Class up Exams › Printer-friendly version Students Academic Calendar Academic Regulations Academic Suspension and Reinstatement Biographical Information Updates Change of Grading Basis Forms Glossary of Terms Graduation MyOregonState Policies and Regulations Registration Audit Registration Dates, Time Periods & Deadlines Dropping a Class Eligibility to Register Exams How to Register Late Change of Registration MyOregonState Placement of Students—Chemistry, Second Language, Mathematics Priority Registration Register Scheduler Student Holds Withdrawing: Classes or Terms Student Information and Online Resources Student Records Summer Session VA and Military Education Benefit Certification Verify Your Enrollment Veterans Priority Registration Contact Us A-Z Site Index Contact Info Oregon State University Office of the Registrar B102 Kerr Administration Corvallis, OR 97331-8519 Phone: (541)737-4331 Fax: (541)737-8123 Contact Information and Hours [email protected] Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Twitter