Skip to main content Search Search Search Toggle navigation Cornell University Registrar Classes + Enrollment Class Roster Courses of Study Courses of Study Archive Student Essentials Gateway Courses Prorated Tuition Student Center FAQ Classes and Enrollment FAQ University Registration Calendars + Exams Academic Calendar Final Exam Policies Spring Prelim Schedule Spring Final Exam Schedule Fall Prelim Exam Schedule Fall Final Exam Schedule Grades + Transcripts Grading Median Grades Ordering Transcripts Transcript FAQ Transcript Keys Validating an eTranscript Service + Resources Apostille Certifications University Registrar Directory College Advising Directory College Registrar Directory Diploma Information Disability Accommodations FERPA ID Cards Mental Health at Cornell Names and Name Changes Use of Student Data Veteran Education Benefits Building Codes Faculty + Staff Faculty Center/Advisor Center Advisor Center FAQ Opscan Scanning Service Changing CIP Codes Data Requests Program Registration For Registrar Staff Validating an eTranscript Cornell University provides official electronic transcripts in certified PDF format for all students who have attended Cornell since 1982. These eTranscripts are official documents that contain Parchment's digital signature and can be instantly validated. You must use Adobe Reader to view electronic transcripts. When you receive an eTranscript from Cornell, follow these steps to download the document: You will receive an email notification that a document has been sent to you. Click the link to the secure website. On the secure website, click Next to generate an email to yourself containing the passcode. Enter the passcode and click Next. You will then have access to download the official eTranscript. Note to Mac and Linux users: To view an electronic transcript, you must use Adobe Reader. The electronic transcript cannot be viewed with other PDF viewers. Cornell’s official eTranscript is a certified PDF that displays a blue ribbon on the notification bar across the top of Adobe Reader, ensuring the recipient that the digital signature is authentic and the contents of the eTranscript have not been altered. On older versions of Adobe Reader, the blue ribbon will be displayed on a pop-up screen and in the lower left corner of the application’s frame. Valid Signature When the blue ribbon indicates that the document is Valid, Parchment's digital signature is true and authentic and the document’s contents have not been changed or altered in any way. Invalid Signature If the blue ribbon indicates that the document is Invalid, then the document should be rejected. The invalid status could be due to several reasons, such as an inauthentic digital signature or an alteration to the document. In all cases, reject a document that is Invalid. Author Unknown If the blue ribbon indicates that the validity of the document is Unknown, make sure the computer has an active internet connection. If there is a properly working internet connection and the digital signature cannot be validated, reject the document. Note: The eTranscript is considered official in PDF format only. If printed, the words VOID VOID VOID will appear to indicate that the paper copy is not an official institutional document. For More Information If you have any questions regarding the authenticity of a document, please contact the Office of the University Registrar at (607) 255-4232 or univreg@cornell.edu. Grades + Transcripts Grading Median Grades Ordering Transcripts Transcript FAQ Transcript Keys Validating an eTranscript Key Academic Dates 06 Jun 2022 Summer 22 8 Week Session 20 Jun 2022 Juneteenth Observance/Holiday/No Classes 21 Jun 2022 Summer 22 6 Week Session 21 Jun 2022 Summer 22 3 Week 2 Session See More Key Academic Dates Related Links + Files Ordering Transcripts Transcript FAQ No Related Files Office of the University Registrar Cornell University, 245 Day Hall Ithaca, NY 14853 Office Hours: Monday - Thursday; 9:00 AM - 1:00 PM and 2:00 PM - 4:00PM Get Directions univreg@cornell.edu (607) 255-4232; Phone Hours: Monday - Friday; 10:00 AM - 1:00 PM and 2:00 PM - 4:00 PM EST (607) 255-6262 If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information in this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. © 2017 Cornell University