Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Office of the Registrar Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Home Registrar Projects (new) Registrar Projects (new) Student Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Request Info Visit Apply You are here Home » Students » Registration Withdrawing: Classes or Terms Dropping a class after the drop deadline is considered a class withdrawal. If you wish to withdraw from a class, you must do so by the withdrawal from class deadline published in the Academic Calendar. There are different withdraw from class deadlines for summer term – each session has specific deadlines which are posted in the Academic Calendar. When a class is withdrawn you are assigned a grade of W. The W grade is recorded on your student record and does appear on your transcript. The W grade is non-punitive and has no effect on your GPA. You may be responsible for a portion of the tuition and fees associated with the class. How to Withdraw from a Class Watch the Drop or Withdraw from Classes video to get started. To withdraw from a class, login to MyOregonState as follows: Log into MyOregonState Select the Academics tab Under Academic Resources, click on Register/Add/Drop Classes Select the term and click Submit. Find the class you wish to drop and use the drop down box next to it to choose Withdraw Course. Click the Submit Changes button at the bottom of the page. The page will reload. Scroll to the bottom to verify that the class was dropped by verifying that the class status column indicates “withdrawn” and the date of the transaction. Related Academic Regulations You may withdraw from a maximum of 18 classes, regardless of the number of credits for each withdrawn class. See Academic Regulation 12 to understand the rules related to withdrawing from individual classes. Withdrawing from the Term If you are enrolled in classes and wish to drop/withdraw all of your classes for the term on or after the first day of the term, you are withdrawing from the term. In other words, withdrawal indicates that you intend to stop attending classes for the current term. The last day to withdraw from the term is Friday of Week 10 – the specific deadline dates are noted in the Academic Calendar. Your transcript will reflect your withdrawal from the term in the form of a comment that indicates that you withdrew from the term and the effective date of the withdrawal. If the withdrawal is completed during the withdrawal period (weeks 2 to 10), all currently enrolled classes will be assigned a W grade indicating you withdrew from the classes after the drop period. The W grade indicates the class was not completed, no credits were earned, and it is not used in the computation of the grade-point average. How do I withdraw from the term? To withdraw from the term you must complete the 10-question withdrawal survey available in Online Services. If withdrawing from summer term, see the Summer Term Withdrawal section below. Go to the Withdrawal Survey Click "Withdraw from the Term for [Term/year]". Answer the questions to conclude the withdrawal process. If you are receiving financial aid, please contact the Financial Aid Office to report your withdrawal. You must confirm your intent to withdraw from the term by answering the first question. If you do not confirm your intention by answering the first question you will not be withdrawn from the term and will remain responsible for your enrolled classes. The remaining questions in the survey give you the opportunity to share your reasons for leaving the term and to indicate if you plan to return to OSU in the future. After you have completed the Withdrawal Survey, it will be manually processed by the Office of the Registrar. This takes 1 to 2 business days. When this processing is completed, you will receive an email confirmation from the Office of the Registrar. Do not worry if the processing time goes past the drop/withdraw deadline. The report shows the date and time that you complete the survey – so as long as you complete it online before the relevant deadline, any drops/withdraws will be back-dated appropriately. Summer Term Withdrawal The withdrawal from the term process for students enrolled during summer term is different due to the multiple sessions. Summer withdrawals from the term are handled by the class level – each session has specific drop and withdraw from class deadlines which are posted in the Academic Calendar. There is not a special withdraw from term deadline for summer sessions as there is during fall, winter, and spring terms. Students do not need to complete a Withdrawal Survey for summer term. Students withdraw from their class(es) individually and use the same steps used in the other terms: Login to MyOregonState, Click on the Academics tab, Under Academic Resources, click Register/Add/Drop Classes. Select the term, enter your registration PIN, click Submit. Select the class you want to withdraw from in the drop-down box. Click the Submit button at the bottom of the page. The page will reload. Scroll to the bottom to verify that you have withdrawn from the class. The class status column will show “Withdrawn” and the date of the transaction. A student who has dropped or withdrew from all of their classes for summer term in accordance with posted deadlines will be considered as having withdrawn from the term. Term withdrawal processing is completed by the Office of the Registrar at the conclusion of the summer term. A student who remains enrolled in a class(es) after the last day to withdraw from a class deadline for a session is responsible for completing the class(es) in that session or must petition for a late withdraw from the class with the Academic Requirements Committee. Related Academic Regulations Students may withdraw from the term unless they have exceeded the withdraw from class maximum of 18 classes. See Academic Regulation 13. This will not include students who withdraw from the term during the drop period, even though there is a comment on the transcript for those students who withdraw from the term during the drop period. The Office of the Registrar will only evaluate term withdrawals after the end of the drop period as counting toward the 18 class withdraw maximum, though all transcript and system processes will remain the same. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) If I have a hold on my student record, can I still withdraw from a class? If you are unable to withdraw from a class by the published deadline due to a registration hold, you can contact the Office of the Registrar at [email protected] for assistance. If I withdraw from the term, can I enroll again in the future? Withdrawing from the current term does not affect your ability to enroll in future terms. Provided that you meet the enrollment eligibility requirements for continuing students you may enroll in classes online in accordance with established registration procedures. How can I check how many withdrawals from the term I have? To find the correct amount of term withdraws you have accrued, check your unofficial transcript for any term with a “Withdraw from the Term” (or “Withdraw from the University” – prior to Fall 2016) comment and classes with Ws. If there is a comment with no registration on a term, this means you withdrew from all of your classes during the drop period. Why is there a limit to the number of individual class withdrawals but not to the number of terms I can withdraw from? The most equitable way to allow withdrawals is to come up with a reasonable amount of class withdrawals that can be used as individual withdrawals or term withdrawals, regardless of how many classes a student is registered for in a term. How do I know if I reached my maximum limit for withdraws? You will receive an email notification to your OSU email from the Office of the Registrar when you have gone over the limit of 18 individual course withdrawals. Does the max withdrawal limit automatically start over for each new program or degree (including moving from undergraduate to graduate student, etc.)? No. The max class withdrawal applies to all OSU classes throughout a student’s academic career at OSU. If a student has already reached the max class withdrawal, moving forward they will be unable to continue withdrawing from classes. The measurement of total class withdrawals starts with classes taken in fall 2012 and beyond. What happens if I run out of withdraws? You will be unable to withdraw from a class(es). If you withdraw, you will be re-enrolled into the classes and notified by the Office of the Registrar of this change. This applies to any class withdrawal including when you withdraw from the term. If you are withdrawing from the term and the amount of classes you are taking that term would exceed your allowable amount remaining (of 18 total), you can choose to withdraw from singular classes (instead of the term) that would keep you under the max of 18 class withdrawals. If I previously reached the max class withdrawal of 12 individual credit-bearing classes, do I have an additional 6 individual credit-bearing classes to withdrawal? Yes. Effective Summer 2021, the max number of individual class withdrawals is increasing to 18. If I previously attempted to withdraw from the term over the max of four and it was denied, will that attempt be processed retroactively? No, this new rule goes into effect in Summer 2021. If I previously attempted to withdraw from the term over the max of four and it was denied, will I be able to withdraw from the term now that the max of four has been lifted? Yes, but only up to 18 total class withdrawals and only moving forward starting with Summer 2021. I exhausted my four withdraws from the term, but the individual credit-bearing classes were less than 18, do I still get to withdraw from additional classes/additional terms? Yes, up to the max withdrawal of 18 total classes and only moving forward starting with Summer 2021. What happens if I exhaust my total class withdrawals and have an emergency requiring me to leave the university or withdrawal from a specific class? Any student may petition for an exception from this limitation if the justification for withdrawal is clearly associated with extenuating circumstances beyond the student’s control. To petition, use the Petition for Late Change of Registration form. Will students who drop all classes during the drop period after the first day of the term still receive withdraw from term comment on their transcript? Yes. This signifies that you were enrolled in classes for the term at OSU and removed yourself from the term via a drop. These do not count toward your individual class withdrawal limit because the classes were removed during the drop period, not the withdrawal period. The reason we list the comment is to demonstrate that you had an intention to take classes on or after the first day of the term at OSU. This is often necessary for federal aid purposes. ‹ Student Holds up Student Information and Online Resources › Printer-friendly version Students Academic Calendar Academic Regulations Academic Suspension and Reinstatement Biographical Information Updates Change of Grading Basis Forms Glossary of Terms Graduation MyOregonState Policies and Regulations Registration Audit Registration Dates, Time Periods & Deadlines Dropping a Class Eligibility to Register Exams How to Register Late Change of Registration MyOregonState Placement of Students—Chemistry, Second Language, Mathematics Priority Registration Register Scheduler Student Holds Withdrawing: Classes or Terms Student Information and Online Resources Student Records Summer Session VA and Military Education Benefit Certification Verify Your Enrollment Veterans Priority Registration Contact Us A-Z Site Index Contact Info Oregon State University Office of the Registrar B102 Kerr Administration Corvallis, OR 97331-8519 Phone: (541)737-4331 Fax: (541)737-8123 Contact Information and Hours [email protected] Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Twitter