Skip to main content Loading... Loading... × About Us About Us Contact Us Staff List Our Mission Our Vision Acceptable Use Policy Sections Sections Current Students Prospective Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Former Students Parents and Family Veterans Services Services Services Registration Records Academic Scheduling FERPA EU GDPR Calendars Calendars Academic Calendar Past Academic Calendars Tentative Five-Term Institute Calendar Final Exam Schedules Catalog Forms Blog A to Z Close × Search × Search User login You will be redirected to the secure GT login page. × × × Get the latest Covid-19 health information, operational status updates, and campus guidelines Registrar's Office About Us Contact Us Staff List Our Mission Our Vision Acceptable Use Policy Sections Current Students Prospective Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Former Students Parents and Family Veterans Services Services Registration Records Academic Scheduling FERPA EU GDPR Calendars Academic Calendar Past Academic Calendars Tentative Five-Term Institute Calendar Final Exam Schedules Catalog Forms Blog A to Z Search Home Services Records Diplomas Home Services Records Diplomas Diplomas Diploma Information In order to graduate from Georgia Tech, students must first submit an Online Application for Graduation (OAG). The graduation application windows for Summer, Fall and Spring are listed on the Academic Calendar. Forms List: Graduation and Diplomas Academic Calendar In the graduation application, students will be asked to confirm how they would like their name printed on the diploma and to which address the diploma(s) should be mailed. If a student needs to officially change his or her legal name with Georgia Tech, a Name Change Form needs to be submitted (prior to graduation) to the Office of the Registrar along with required documentation. Name Change Form It is the student’s responsibility to apply for graduation and to ensure that the correct address is on file with the Office of the Registrar. Diplomas are typically mailed within 8 weeks after the official graduation date. Students will receive email conformation with tracking when the diploma is mailed. Georgia Tech only issues one size diploma for all majors and levels. The size is 17 inches by 14 inches, and the information printed on the diploma is summarized below: Undergraduates students. Your degree, institute honors, Co-op (if applicable), International Plan (if applicable) and graduation date will be reflected on the diploma. If you complete requirements and petition to graduate for multiple degrees within the same term, then you will receive a diploma for each. Master's degree students. Your degree and graduation date will be reflected on the diploma. If you complete the requirements and petition to graduate for multiple degrees within the same term, you will receive a diploma for each. Doctoral degree students. The degree of “Doctor of Philosophy” and graduation date will be reflected on the diploma. Due to Covid-19 Doctoral degree candidates attending a Commencement ceremony will not receive their diplomas at the ceremony. Diplomas will be mailed 6 to 8 weeks after the ceremony. If you have an outstanding debt with Georgia Tech, the Registrar’s Office will not mail your diploma until that debt has been satisfied. Replacement Diplomas There is no-charge for the original diploma. Original diplomas Alumni may request replacement diplomas for $100.00 each. Duplicate diplomas shall carry all information contained on the original. The signatories will be the current President, Registrar and Chancellor of the University System of Georgia. Alumni requesting a duplicate diploma will be subject to the current fee for such diplomas. Replacement Diplomas Unclaimed Diplomas Unclaimed, undeliverable or withheld diplomas are retained in the Registrar's Office for a period of 30 days after which time they are destroyed. Alumni wishing to replace an unclaimed, undeliverable or destroyed diploma must purchase a duplicate diploma. Topic: Graduation Audience: General Audience Replacement Diplomas Georgia Tech has authorized Parchment Exchange to act as its agent for all replacement diploma requests. Parchment is Georgia Tech’s authorized diploma printing company. Replacement Diploma Fee: $100.00 per copy. Diplomas requests will not be processed until payment has been completed. Diplomas will not be released for students who have a financial obligation to the institute. Replacement diplomas shall carry all information contained on the original. U.S. Addresses Only: Once your diploma is ready for shipping, an email confirmation with USPS tracking number will be sent to your email address. USPS delivery tracking is not an option for international addresses. Returned diplomas will be held for 30 days from process date. Georgia Tech cannot accept responsibility for delivery of diplomas once they have been mailed. The signatories will be the current President, Registrar and Chancellor of the University System of Georgia. Georgia Tech only issues a one size diploma for all majors and levels. The size of the diploma is 17 inches by 14 inches. Eletronic diplomas are emailed directly to the requestor once the diploma ships. Diploma orders are placed on the 1st and 15th of each month. If a student needs to officially change his or her legal name with Georgia Tech, a Name Change Form needs to be submitted to the Office of the Registrar along with the required documentation prior to placing the order. Ordering Transcripts Current, or former Georgia Tech students may order transcripts via the web. Students may request a transcript be downloadable (PDF), mailed, or picked up (photo ID required for pick-up in the Office of the Registrar, Room 104 of the Administration Building, Tech Tower). Web ordered transcripts being held for pick-up are usually ready after 2:00pm the next business day. Go to https://registrar.gatech.edu/parchment to order a diploma. Once your order has been placed, you will receive email notifications from Parchment Exchange updating you of the status of your order. If you experience any problems, please contact the Georgia Tech Registrar's Office at comments@registrar.gatech.edu. If you encounter a log-in error when attempting to access Parchment Exchange, please follow these alternate instructions. Topic: Diplomas Audience: General Audience Certifying Your Georgia Tech Transcript and Diploma Do you have questions about certifying your diploma or official paper transcript for the Apostille or Great Seal? Official documents issued in one country and intended to be used in another country must be authenticated in order to be recognized as valid in the foreign country. If the foreign country is a member of The Hague Convention, an Apostille is required. If the foreign country is not a member of The Hague Convention, the Great Seal is normally required. For a list of countries that are participants in the Hague Convention: Hague Apostille Country List If you are returning home to a foreign country or have accepted employment in a foreign country, you may need to have your diploma, official transcript and/or Certification of Degree legalized by either an Apostille or the Great Seal. Most foreign countries require the diploma versus your transcript. Be sure to find out which document is required. If at all possible, obtain the required documentation prior to leaving Georgia. The process will be more cumbersome if you are not physically in Georgia or do not have a relative or friend in Georgia who can assist with the process. If a family member or friend will be assisting with this process, you must provide them with a signed letter from you authorizing them to do so. Official Paper Transcripts: Ordering instructions: Transcripts Special Instructions: Apostille/Great Seal $7 per paper copy Diploma: If you have active log-in credentials, go to Buzzport. Under Registration and Student Services click the button to Order Transcripts. If your log-in credentials are unknown, inactive, or expired go to PassPort to renew them. Once you have renewed your log-in credentials, enter Buzzport to order transcripts. For assistance with unknown or expired log-in credentials, contact the OIT Technology Support Center at 404-894-7173 (Mon-Fri 8am-5pm EDT). If you need an Apostille (the intended foreign country is a member of The Hague Convention), you will then obtain this from the Georgia Superior Court Clerks’ Cooperative Authority. Carefully review the information on the web site and follow their instructions: General Apostille Information The Georgia Superior Court Clerks' Coooperative Authority (GSCCCA) pre-payment voucher system allows for payment with a company or personal credit card for apostille or domestic notary certification when mailing documents to our office or when having a third party hand-deliver documents. Authentication Pre-Payment Voucher System If you need the Great Seal, you will then obtain this from the Elections Division of the Georgia Secretary of State’s Office. Carefully review the information on Secretary of State's web site. Authentication for Great Seal Topic: Diplomas Audience: General Audience Topics: Documents, Academic Services Diplomas Menu Diploma Information Replacement Diplomas Certifying Your Georgia Tech Transcript and Diploma Records Menu Certifications and Verifications Chosen/Preferred Name Option Credit by Examination Diplomas FERPA Forms Grades Information Systems Leaves of Absence Personal Information Privacy and Students' Rights Registration Transcripts Transfer Credit Tuition Classification Diplomas Menu Diploma Information Replacement Diplomas Certifying Your Georgia Tech Transcript and Diploma Records Menu Certifications and Verifications Chosen/Preferred Name Option Credit by Examination Diplomas FERPA Forms Grades Information Systems Leaves of Absence Personal Information Privacy and Students' Rights Registration Transcripts Transfer Credit Tuition Classification Resources Institute Resources Registrar Highlights Related Links Institute Resources Registrar Highlights Related Links Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Enrollment Services Financial Aid Registrar's Office Stamps President's Scholars Program Student Success Center Technology Services Undergraduate Admissions Helpful Links Commencement Faculty Affairs Graduate Studies Human Resources International Education Office of the Provost Professional Education Student Life Campus Location Administration Building, "Tech Tower" 225 North Avenue First Floor Mailing Address Georgia Institute of Technology Registrar's Office Atlanta, Georgia 30332-0315 Contact Information comments@registrar.gatech.edu 404-894-4150 | office 404-894-0167 | fax Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Enrollment Services Financial Aid Registrar's Office Stamps President's Scholars Program Student Success Center Technology Services Undergraduate Admissions Helpful Links Commencement Faculty Affairs Graduate Studies Human Resources International Education Office of the Provost Professional Education Student Life Campus Location Administration Building, "Tech Tower" 225 North Avenue First Floor Mailing Address Georgia Institute of Technology Registrar's Office Atlanta, Georgia 30332-0315 Contact Information comments@registrar.gatech.edu 404-894-4150 | office 404-894-0167 | fax Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Enrollment Services Financial Aid Registrar's Office Stamps President's Scholars Program Student Success Center Technology Services Undergraduate Admissions Helpful Links Commencement Faculty Affairs Graduate Studies Human Resources International Education Office of the Provost Professional Education Student Life Campus Location Administration Building, "Tech Tower" 225 North Avenue First Floor Mailing Address Georgia Institute of Technology Registrar's Office Atlanta, Georgia 30332-0315 Contact Information comments@registrar.gatech.edu 404-894-4150 | office 404-894-0167 | fax Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Enrollment Services Financial Aid Registrar's Office Stamps President's Scholars Program Student Success Center Technology Services Undergraduate Admissions Helpful Links Commencement Faculty Affairs Graduate Studies Human Resources International Education Office of the Provost Professional Education Student Life Campus Location Administration Building, "Tech Tower" 225 North Avenue First Floor Mailing Address Georgia Institute of Technology Registrar's Office Atlanta, Georgia 30332-0315 Contact Information comments@registrar.gatech.edu 404-894-4150 | office 404-894-0167 | fax Recent Blog Posts Effective August 10, 2020, the Registrar’s Office will be open for business in Room 104, Tech Tower 7 Tips for Effective Communication with Tech Support Registrar's Office conducting all business remotely Temporary Downtime for Student Information System, including BuzzPort, OSCAR, and DegreeWorks Creating the next BuzzPort Recently Updated Replacement Diplomas 2022-23 Catalog Study Abroad Course Set-Up Designated Unit Requesters for Banner/GTAAD Accounts Transfer Credit for Online Courses Popular Items Diplomas GTID Look-Up PIN Reset Transcripts Tuition Classification Verification of Participation Upcoming Events Readmission Application Deadline Fall 2022 June 1, 2022 Last Day of Classes Maymester 2022 June 3, 2022 Withdrawal Deadline Early Short Summer 2022 June 3, 2022 Grade Mode Deadline Early Short Summer 2022 June 6, 2022 Campus Location Administration Building, "Tech Tower" 225 North Avenue First Floor Mailing Address Georgia Institute of Technology Registrar's Office Atlanta, Georgia 30332-0315 Contact Information comments@registrar.gatech.edu 404-894-4150 | office 404-894-0167 | fax Recent Blog Posts Effective August 10, 2020, the Registrar’s Office will be open for business in Room 104, Tech Tower 7 Tips for Effective Communication with Tech Support Registrar's Office conducting all business remotely Temporary Downtime for Student Information System, including BuzzPort, OSCAR, and DegreeWorks Creating the next BuzzPort Recently Updated Replacement Diplomas 2022-23 Catalog Study Abroad Course Set-Up Designated Unit Requesters for Banner/GTAAD Accounts Transfer Credit for Online Courses Popular Items Diplomas GTID Look-Up PIN Reset Transcripts Tuition Classification Verification of Participation Upcoming Events Readmission Application Deadline Fall 2022 June 1, 2022 Last Day of Classes Maymester 2022 June 3, 2022 Withdrawal Deadline Early Short Summer 2022 June 3, 2022 Grade Mode Deadline Early Short Summer 2022 June 6, 2022 Campus Location Administration Building, "Tech Tower" 225 North Avenue First Floor Mailing Address Georgia Institute of Technology Registrar's Office Atlanta, Georgia 30332-0315 Contact Information comments@registrar.gatech.edu 404-894-4150 | office 404-894-0167 | fax Recent Blog Posts Effective August 10, 2020, the Registrar’s Office will be open for business in Room 104, Tech Tower 7 Tips for Effective Communication with Tech Support Registrar's Office conducting all business remotely Temporary Downtime for Student Information System, including BuzzPort, OSCAR, and DegreeWorks Creating the next BuzzPort Recently Updated Replacement Diplomas 2022-23 Catalog Study Abroad Course Set-Up Designated Unit Requesters for Banner/GTAAD Accounts Transfer Credit for Online Courses Popular Items Diplomas GTID Look-Up PIN Reset Transcripts Tuition Classification Verification of Participation Upcoming Events Readmission Application Deadline Fall 2022 June 1, 2022 Last Day of Classes Maymester 2022 June 3, 2022 Withdrawal Deadline Early Short Summer 2022 June 3, 2022 Grade Mode Deadline Early Short Summer 2022 June 6, 2022 Campus Location Administration Building, "Tech Tower" 225 North Avenue First Floor Mailing Address Georgia Institute of Technology Registrar's Office Atlanta, Georgia 30332-0315 Contact Information comments@registrar.gatech.edu 404-894-4150 | office 404-894-0167 | fax Recent Blog Posts Effective August 10, 2020, the Registrar’s Office will be open for business in Room 104, Tech Tower 7 Tips for Effective Communication with Tech Support Registrar's Office conducting all business remotely Temporary Downtime for Student Information System, including BuzzPort, OSCAR, and DegreeWorks Creating the next BuzzPort Recently Updated Replacement Diplomas 2022-23 Catalog Study Abroad Course Set-Up Designated Unit Requesters for Banner/GTAAD Accounts Transfer Credit for Online Courses Popular Items Diplomas GTID Look-Up PIN Reset Transcripts Tuition Classification Verification of Participation Upcoming Events Readmission Application Deadline Fall 2022 June 1, 2022 Last Day of Classes Maymester 2022 June 3, 2022 Withdrawal Deadline Early Short Summer 2022 June 3, 2022 Grade Mode Deadline Early Short Summer 2022 June 6, 2022 Campus Location Administration Building, "Tech Tower" 225 North Avenue First Floor Mailing Address Georgia Institute of Technology Registrar's Office Atlanta, Georgia 30332-0315 Contact Information comments@registrar.gatech.edu 404-894-4150 | office 404-894-0167 | fax Policy Library The Policy Library houses all Institute-level policies. Catalog The Catalog is the official source for academic policies and degree requirements. Institute Curriculum Committees The Institute Curriculum Committees are responsible for the curriculum governance process. Transfer Credit Evaluation The Transfer Credit Evaluation site facilitates the evaluation of courses from other institutions and the articulation of equivalencies. Campus Location Administration Building, "Tech Tower" 225 North Avenue First Floor Mailing Address Georgia Institute of Technology Registrar's Office Atlanta, Georgia 30332-0315 Contact Information comments@registrar.gatech.edu 404-894-4150 | office 404-894-0167 | fax Policy Library The Policy Library houses all Institute-level policies. Catalog The Catalog is the official source for academic policies and degree requirements. Institute Curriculum Committees The Institute Curriculum Committees are responsible for the curriculum governance process. Transfer Credit Evaluation The Transfer Credit Evaluation site facilitates the evaluation of courses from other institutions and the articulation of equivalencies. Campus Location Administration Building, "Tech Tower" 225 North Avenue First Floor Mailing Address Georgia Institute of Technology Registrar's Office Atlanta, Georgia 30332-0315 Contact Information comments@registrar.gatech.edu 404-894-4150 | office 404-894-0167 | fax Policy Library The Policy Library houses all Institute-level policies. Catalog The Catalog is the official source for academic policies and degree requirements. Institute Curriculum Committees The Institute Curriculum Committees are responsible for the curriculum governance process. Transfer Credit Evaluation The Transfer Credit Evaluation site facilitates the evaluation of courses from other institutions and the articulation of equivalencies. Campus Location Administration Building, "Tech Tower" 225 North Avenue First Floor Mailing Address Georgia Institute of Technology Registrar's Office Atlanta, Georgia 30332-0315 Contact Information comments@registrar.gatech.edu 404-894-4150 | office 404-894-0167 | fax Policy Library The Policy Library houses all Institute-level policies. Catalog The Catalog is the official source for academic policies and degree requirements. Institute Curriculum Committees The Institute Curriculum Committees are responsible for the curriculum governance process. Transfer Credit Evaluation The Transfer Credit Evaluation site facilitates the evaluation of courses from other institutions and the articulation of equivalencies. Campus Location Administration Building, "Tech Tower" 225 North Avenue First Floor Mailing Address Georgia Institute of Technology Registrar's Office Atlanta, Georgia 30332-0315 Contact Information comments@registrar.gatech.edu 404-894-4150 | office 404-894-0167 | fax Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © Georgia Institute of Technology Login