Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today Office of the University Registrar An office in Enrollment Management Search form Search Home Calendar Services Course & Room Scheduling Overview Auditoriums Auditorium Request Auditorium Utilization Report for Spring 2023 Classrooms » Course Catalog » Deadlines Exams Final Exam Policies & Guidelines Special Exam Policies Final Exams for Online and Non-Regular Courses Spring 2022 Final Exam Schedule Fall 2022 Final Exam Schedule Room Scheduling System (25 Live) » Room Reservations Event Room Reservation Request Schedule of Classes » Scheduling Officer Information Short Courses Standard Meeting Times Definitions for Course Components Scheduling Forms & Documents Enrollment Overview Add/Drop a Class Add/Drop/Withdraw Forms Approvals and Deadlines Drop Checklist Continuing Students New Students Readmitted Students Visiting Students and High School Dual Enrollment Late Enrollment Withdraw Considerations Effects of Dropping or Withdrawing on your Transcript Prior to Start of Semester After the Start of the Semester At the End of the Semester Withdrawal Form Medical and Compassionate Withdrawal Enrollment Resources Enrollment Status Maximum Enrollment Hours Enrollment Holds Schedule Builder Schedule of Classes » Records Overview Enrollment Certification Loan Deferments » Delegate Access Student Instructions Delegate Instructions Staff Instructions Grades Grade Definitions Grade Point Averages Parent and Guardian Grade Reports Enroll & Pay How-To's » Graduation Diplomas Statement of Degree Statement of Forthcoming Degree KU 150 Diploma KU ID Number Personal Information & Privacy Making Updates Student Data Request Transcripts Order a Transcript Charges and Delivery Options Transcript FAQ Electronic Transcript FAQ Transcript Key Records Forms University Seal Apostille Residency Overview Residency Definition Frequently Asked Questions Residency Application Appeals Armed Forces Residency Benefit Haskell Residency Tuition & Fees Tuition & Fees Overview Comprehensive Fee Schedule Archive CFS (2020-21) CFS (2019-20) CFS (2018-19) CFS (2017-18) CFS (2016-17) CFS (2015-16) CFS (2014-15) CFS (2013-14) CFS (2012-13) Fee Privileges Brochure Fee Petition Appeals Tuition and Fee Waiver Forms Class Supply Fee Opt-Out Request Loan Deferment Residency People About Overview Hours & Location Accreditation Reports University Reporting Contact us Forms Sitemap Faculty & Staff Resources Menu Home Calendar Services Course & Room Scheduling Overview Auditoriums Auditorium Request Auditorium Utilization Report for Spring 2023 Classrooms » Course Catalog » Deadlines Exams Final Exam Policies & Guidelines Special Exam Policies Final Exams for Online and Non-Regular Courses Spring 2022 Final Exam Schedule Fall 2022 Final Exam Schedule Room Scheduling System (25 Live) » Room Reservations Event Room Reservation Request Schedule of Classes » Scheduling Officer Information Short Courses Standard Meeting Times Definitions for Course Components Scheduling Forms & Documents Enrollment Overview Add/Drop a Class Add/Drop/Withdraw Forms Approvals and Deadlines Drop Checklist Continuing Students New Students Readmitted Students Visiting Students and High School Dual Enrollment Late Enrollment Withdraw Considerations Effects of Dropping or Withdrawing on your Transcript Prior to Start of Semester After the Start of the Semester At the End of the Semester Withdrawal Form Medical and Compassionate Withdrawal Enrollment Resources Enrollment Status Maximum Enrollment Hours Enrollment Holds Schedule Builder Schedule of Classes » Records Overview Enrollment Certification Loan Deferments » Delegate Access Student Instructions Delegate Instructions Staff Instructions Grades Grade Definitions Grade Point Averages Parent and Guardian Grade Reports Enroll & Pay How-To's » Graduation Diplomas Statement of Degree Statement of Forthcoming Degree KU 150 Diploma KU ID Number Personal Information & Privacy Making Updates Student Data Request Transcripts Order a Transcript Charges and Delivery Options Transcript FAQ Electronic Transcript FAQ Transcript Key Records Forms University Seal Apostille Residency Overview Residency Definition Frequently Asked Questions Residency Application Appeals Armed Forces Residency Benefit Haskell Residency Tuition & Fees Tuition & Fees Overview Comprehensive Fee Schedule Archive CFS (2020-21) CFS (2019-20) CFS (2018-19) CFS (2017-18) CFS (2016-17) CFS (2015-16) CFS (2014-15) CFS (2013-14) CFS (2012-13) Fee Privileges Brochure Fee Petition Appeals Tuition and Fee Waiver Forms Class Supply Fee Opt-Out Request Loan Deferment Residency People About Overview Hours & Location Accreditation Reports University Reporting Contact us Forms Sitemap Faculty & Staff Resources Search Search form Search Home Services Records Transcripts Transcript Key Overview Enrollment Certification Delegate Access Grades Graduation KU ID Number Personal Information & Privacy Transcripts Order a Transcript Charges and Delivery Options Transcript FAQ Electronic Transcript FAQ Transcript Key Records Forms University Seal Key to the Transcript of Academic Records The information below is a summary of the information on the back of the University of Kansas official transcript. A full PDF of the transcript backer is available at the bottom of this page. Academic Calendar The University of Kansas calendar is based on the semester system. A standard semester contains at least 16 weeks of instruction, including final exams. Summer sessions vary in length. Academic calendars for this semester, future and past semesters can be found on the Academic Calendar Accreditation The University of Kansas is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission as a degree-granting institution at the baccalaureate, master, professional and doctoral levels. Authenticity of Paper Transcripts The University of Kansas employs a number of safeguards to ensure the authenticity of their transcripts: The background color of the transcript face should have multiple repetitions of the words "The University of Kansas" in very small print. When the front side is photocopied, the word "Copy" should appear in very large print across the face. If liquid bleach is applied to the front side, "VOID" should appear in six different languages. There is a tan basket weave pattern on the reverse side along with a watermark that appears when held at an angle. Further authentication can be obtained by calling 785-864-4423. Any alteration or modification of a transcript or any copy thereof may constitute a felony and/or lead to student disciplinary sanctions. Authenticity of Electronic (pdf) Transcripts We apply a digital signature to the PDF transcript that is automatically validated. We implement Certified Document Services from Verisign® to mark the document as authentic, proving that it was created and published by the University of Kansas. The digital signature provides a tamper-evident wrapper on the document. The blue ribbon seal must be present to both authenticate and demonstrate the integrity of the document. This is automatically verified when the recipient views the authentic document using the free Adobe® Reader. If you do not see a certified blue ribbon in Adobe® Acrobat or Adobe® Reader bearing the words "This document was certified by the University of Kansas with a valid certificate issued by GeoTrust CA for Adobe" this PDF should not be accepted. Campus Locations University Registrar - University of Kansas KU Visitor Center, 1502 Iowa St. Lawrence, Kansas 66045-7535 FAX: 785-864-3900 OR (for KUMC Students) The University of Kansas Medical Center Enrollment Services Mail Stop 4005 3901 Rainbow Boulevard Kansas City, KS 66160 FAX: 913-588-8841 Course Numbering System The following is the course numbering system used since Spring 1974 at The University of Kansas: 1-99 Courses not applicable toward any degree 100-299 Freshman/Sophomore courses 300-499 Junior/Senior courses 500-699 Courses designed primarily for juniors and seniors. May also be taken for post-baccalaureate credit. 700-799 Courses designed primarily for first year post-baccalaureate students. Open also to undergraduates for undergraduate credit. 800-899 Courses designed primarily for first-year post-baccalaureate students. 900-999 Courses designed primarily for students beyond the first-year of post-baccalaureate study. Course Numbering System: Fall 1929** to Fall 1973 1-49 Freshman/Sophomore courses 50-99 Junior/Senior courses 100-199 Junior/Senior/Graduate courses 200-299 Senior/Graduate courses 300-399 Graduate courses **Prior to Fall 1929, see appropriate catalog. Distinction Distinction is awarded by the School or Program under which the student is enrolled. Electronic Certified PDF Transcript It is the responsibility of the transcript requestor to verify that the recipient will accept delivery of an Electronic PDF Transcript. If ordering an Electronic PDF Transcript and the recipient will not accept it, all charges are non-refundable. $12 per transcript regular processing. There is an additional $15 charge for transcript priority processing. Electronic PDF Transcripts are available to download for up to 30 days. Once downloaded and saved it may be viewable for 90 days from the initial date of receipt. After 90 days, the transcript will need to be reordered. No refunds are given for expired documents. The most recent version of Adobe Acrobat Reader is required to view all electronic transcripts. Please note: Transcripts being sent electronically to email addresses with military extensions (ie: us.army.mil) may not be viewable by the recipient. Grade Point Average (GPA) The GPA is the quotient obtained by dividing the number of grade points earned by the number of hours attempted. University of Kansas Academic policy states that the GPA may be computed for an entire academic record or for any segment thereof. GPA's reflected on this official transcript are segmented according to the specified student career. Grading Scales and Grades All Schools except Medicine Grade Scale A 4.0 A- 3.7 B+ 3.3 B 3.0 B- 2.7 C+ 2.3 C 2.0 C- 1.7 D+ 1.3 D 1.0 D- 0.7 F 0.0 Grade scale for courses offered by the School of Medicine SU Superior 4.0 HS High Satisfactory 3.0 S or SA Satisfactory 2.0 LS Low Satisfactory 1.0 U or Un Unsatisfactory 0.0 WF Withdrew Failing 0.0 Grade point averages for courses taken at Kansas University prior to Fall 1970 were based on a 3.0 scale. Grading scale through summer 1970: A 3.0 B 2.0 C 1.0 D 0.0 F -1.0 Negative grade points are assessed only once for the same course, and are not removed when a passing grade is earned. A grade-point deficiency exists when the sum of grade points is less than the sum of hours from which they are computed. The following grades are NOT included in the calculation of any GPA that appears on this document: S/U Grading: S Satisfactory (other than Medicine) U Unsatisfactory (other than Medicine) CR/NC Grading: (Effective Spring 2012) CR Credit. For schools of Law and Medicine, this grade means successful completion of a course. For undergraduate students, this grade is equivalent to "C-" or better. For graduate students this grade is equivalent to a "C" or better. NC No Credit. For schools of Law and Medicine, this grade reflects an unsuccessful attempt. For undergraduate students, this grade is equivalent to "D+" or less. For graduate students this grade is equivalent to a C- or less. Highest Distinction Distinction is determined by the School/Program in which the student is enrolled. Holds The Office of the University Registrar cannot release a transcript(s) if a financial hold has been placed on your record. Transcripts will not be provided for students with financial or other obligations to the University. Please log on to Enroll & Pay to check for holds on your account, or call the Bursar's Office at (785) 864-3322. Honors Designations The Honors Course Contract is designed to allow students to pursue individualized work within the framework of a non-honors class. Honors Course Contracts must be approved by the course instructor and the University Honors Program. An Honors Designation is listed for courses with approved Honors Course Contracts. Honors Designations use the following grades: S Satisfied N Not Satisfied Issuing of Academic Transcripts University of Kansas official academic transcripts are produced and issued by the Office of the University Registrar and the University of Kansas Medical Center, Office of the Registrar. Other Grades E Excellent (Pharmacy Only) I or IC Incomplete work on the part of the student P Satisfactory Progress: an interim grade for course work requiring two semesters or more LP Limited Progress: an interim grade for dissertation and thesis hours or approved equivalents NE Course work NOT to be evaluated NP No Progress: an interim grade for dissertation and thesis hours or approved equivalents SP Satisfactory Progress: an interim/final grade for dissertation and thesis hours or their approved equivalents W Withdrew (used prior to Fall 2006 and from Fall 2008 onward) WF Withdrew Failing (after Fall 2006) WP Withdrew Passing (after Fall 2006) WG Awaiting collection of grade Power of Attorney If a person has given an individual power of attorney to conduct business on his or her behalf, we can accept a written transcript request from the appointed person. A copy of the power of attorney must accompany the written request for a transcript. Power of attorney for medical purposes only will not be sufficient. Please contact the Office of the University Registrar for instructions and the appropriate order form. Student Career Student Career designates the type of credit awarded and is assigned on the basis of the student's academic status and level of coursework. Careers are listed as follows: Continuing Education Graduate Graduate KUMC Law Medicine Social Welfare Historical (applies to Summer 2003 and prior) Undergraduate Undergraduate KUMC Student Plans and Subplans A plan is equivalent to a major, and a sub plan is a concentrated study of the plan. Student Programs A program is the school in which the student is pursuing a degree. Programs are listed as follows: Allied Health Applied English* Architecture and Design Arts Business Education Engineering Journalism Law Liberal Arts Medicine Music Nursing Pharmacy Social Welfare University Special (non-degree seeking at KU) *This program is necessary for those whose first language is not English. Once the student passes the English proficiency exam they are removed from this program. Repeated Courses Courses taken Prior to Fall 2001: the grades for both the original and repeated courses count toward the GPA. Release of Information Transcripts cannot be released to a third party without the written consent of the student in accordance with the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974, as amended. Test Credits Test credits are awarded when a student chooses to test out of a given course by taking a proficiency exam. Test credits do not count toward resident credit. Transfer Credit Transfer credit hours are added to the "earned" hours of the first effective semester. If the transfer work was completed prior to entry at the University of Kansas, it will be reflected during the first in-residence semester. University of Kansas transcript will reflect only hours accepted from other institutions. Semesters, courses, GPA, and grades from other institutions will not appear on the official University of Kansas transcript. Further information on transferable credits can be found on the admissions website. USMLE Degree Requirements for School of Medicine students include a passing score on USMLE Step 1 and Step 2. Zero Earned Hours If a students record reflects zero earned hours it is due to one of the following situations: Course was taken as University Special (non-degree seeking) Student. The course was completed but not to be used for a degree at University of Kansas. Course was taken through University of Kansas Continuing Education and therefore does not affect the overall KU GPA (prior to Fall 2009). The course was undergraduate level taken by a graduate student. Attached File: Kansas Transcript Backer 2019.pdf KU Academic Calendar Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. University Registrar Updates October 13, 2021 Notification of Rights Under FERPA (2021-2022) October 13, 2020 Notification of Rights Under FERPA (2020-2021) October 2, 2019 Notification of Rights Under FERPA (2019-2020) Read more updates Hawk Help: Ask a Question Enrollment Enroll & Pay is the University of Kansas' online campus solution for enrollment, financial and other services. The Online Schedule of Classes Transcript Support Need additional help with transcripts? 785-864-4422 registrar@ku.edu University of Kansas Seal Transcript Ordering Error Transcript FAQ Order a Transcript Key to the Transcript of Academic Records Why KU Apply » One of 34 U.S. public institutions in the prestigious Association of American Universities 44 nationally ranked graduate programs. —U.S. News & World Report Top 50 nationwide for size of library collection. —ALA 5th nationwide for service to veterans —"Best for Vets: Colleges," Military Times KU Today Give to KU » Contact Office of the University Registrar registrar@ku.edu 785-864-4423 785-864-3900 1502 Iowa Street Lawrence, Kansas 66045 Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login