Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today Office of the University Registrar An office in Enrollment Management Search form Search Home Calendar Services Course & Room Scheduling Overview Auditoriums Auditorium Request Auditorium Utilization Report for Spring 2023 Classrooms » Course Catalog » Deadlines Exams Final Exam Policies & Guidelines Special Exam Policies Final Exams for Online and Non-Regular Courses Spring 2022 Final Exam Schedule Fall 2022 Final Exam Schedule Room Scheduling System (25 Live) » Room Reservations Event Room Reservation Request Schedule of Classes » Scheduling Officer Information Short Courses Standard Meeting Times Definitions for Course Components Scheduling Forms & Documents Enrollment Overview Add/Drop a Class Add/Drop/Withdraw Forms Approvals and Deadlines Drop Checklist Continuing Students New Students Readmitted Students Visiting Students and High School Dual Enrollment Late Enrollment Withdraw Considerations Effects of Dropping or Withdrawing on your Transcript Prior to Start of Semester After the Start of the Semester At the End of the Semester Withdrawal Form Medical and Compassionate Withdrawal Enrollment Resources Enrollment Status Maximum Enrollment Hours Enrollment Holds Schedule Builder Schedule of Classes » Records Overview Enrollment Certification Loan Deferments » Delegate Access Student Instructions Delegate Instructions Staff Instructions Grades Grade Definitions Grade Point Averages Parent and Guardian Grade Reports Enroll & Pay How-To's » Graduation Diplomas Statement of Degree Statement of Forthcoming Degree KU 150 Diploma KU ID Number Personal Information & Privacy Making Updates Student Data Request Transcripts Order a Transcript Charges and Delivery Options Transcript FAQ Electronic Transcript FAQ Transcript Key Records Forms University Seal Apostille Residency Overview Residency Definition Frequently Asked Questions Residency Application Appeals Armed Forces Residency Benefit Haskell Residency Tuition & Fees Tuition & Fees Overview Comprehensive Fee Schedule Archive CFS (2020-21) CFS (2019-20) CFS (2018-19) CFS (2017-18) CFS (2016-17) CFS (2015-16) CFS (2014-15) CFS (2013-14) CFS (2012-13) Fee Privileges Brochure Fee Petition Appeals Tuition and Fee Waiver Forms Class Supply Fee Opt-Out Request Loan Deferment Residency People About Overview Hours & Location Accreditation Reports University Reporting Contact us Forms Sitemap Faculty & Staff Resources Menu Home Calendar Services Course & Room Scheduling Overview Auditoriums Auditorium Request Auditorium Utilization Report for Spring 2023 Classrooms » Course Catalog » Deadlines Exams Final Exam Policies & Guidelines Special Exam Policies Final Exams for Online and Non-Regular Courses Spring 2022 Final Exam Schedule Fall 2022 Final Exam Schedule Room Scheduling System (25 Live) » Room Reservations Event Room Reservation Request Schedule of Classes » Scheduling Officer Information Short Courses Standard Meeting Times Definitions for Course Components Scheduling Forms & Documents Enrollment Overview Add/Drop a Class Add/Drop/Withdraw Forms Approvals and Deadlines Drop Checklist Continuing Students New Students Readmitted Students Visiting Students and High School Dual Enrollment Late Enrollment Withdraw Considerations Effects of Dropping or Withdrawing on your Transcript Prior to Start of Semester After the Start of the Semester At the End of the Semester Withdrawal Form Medical and Compassionate Withdrawal Enrollment Resources Enrollment Status Maximum Enrollment Hours Enrollment Holds Schedule Builder Schedule of Classes » Records Overview Enrollment Certification Loan Deferments » Delegate Access Student Instructions Delegate Instructions Staff Instructions Grades Grade Definitions Grade Point Averages Parent and Guardian Grade Reports Enroll & Pay How-To's » Graduation Diplomas Statement of Degree Statement of Forthcoming Degree KU 150 Diploma KU ID Number Personal Information & Privacy Making Updates Student Data Request Transcripts Order a Transcript Charges and Delivery Options Transcript FAQ Electronic Transcript FAQ Transcript Key Records Forms University Seal Apostille Residency Overview Residency Definition Frequently Asked Questions Residency Application Appeals Armed Forces Residency Benefit Haskell Residency Tuition & Fees Tuition & Fees Overview Comprehensive Fee Schedule Archive CFS (2020-21) CFS (2019-20) CFS (2018-19) CFS (2017-18) CFS (2016-17) CFS (2015-16) CFS (2014-15) CFS (2013-14) CFS (2012-13) Fee Privileges Brochure Fee Petition Appeals Tuition and Fee Waiver Forms Class Supply Fee Opt-Out Request Loan Deferment Residency People About Overview Hours & Location Accreditation Reports University Reporting Contact us Forms Sitemap Faculty & Staff Resources Search Search form Search Home Services Records Transcripts Transcript FAQ Overview Enrollment Certification Delegate Access Grades Graduation KU ID Number Personal Information & Privacy Transcripts Order a Transcript Charges and Delivery Options Transcript FAQ Electronic Transcript FAQ Transcript Key Records Forms University Seal Transcript FAQ Check the Status of an Online Transcript Order You will need your Transcript Order # and the email address you placed the order with. KU Online ID: Please visit the Student Self-Service Site to check your status. No KU Online ID: Visit the non-login required Transcript Ordering Center to check your status. Hold for Degree After you graduate, degrees post to your academic record approximately four to six weeks after the semester ends. You may order a transcript prior to the degree posting to your transcript and choose the "hold for degree" option. The hold for degree option will only be available approximately one month prior to the end of the current term. The hold for degree option will be removed every term after degrees post to transcripts. How to Check Grades Before Ordering a Transcript We do not offer a "hold for grades" option. Please check in Enroll & Pay, in your student center under schedule/grades to insure all your grades have posted prior to ordering a transcript. Once the grades have posted in Enroll & Pay, they will also be on your academic transcript. The transcript fee is non-refundable if you order a transcript prior to all grades posting. How to Submit an Attachment to a Transcript Request When ordering a PDF transcript that will be delivered electronically you must upload your attachment directly to the order. When ordering a paper transcript (not a PDF) that has an attachment that needs to be included you have the following options to submit those to us. Upload your attachment to the order online when placing your order. Drop the attachment off in office, KU Visitor Center, before placing your order. Fax to 785-864-3900, when faxing please note on the fax that you will order your transcript online in a few days time. Mail your attachment. When mailing, please note that you will order your transcript online in a few days time. The mailing address is: The University of Kansas, Office of the University Registrar, KU Visitor Center, 1502 Iowa St., Lawrence, KS 66045-7518. *When placing your order online you must indicate that you have an attachment. Indicate that you have an attachment on the "special comments" line: "Please include Mailed / Faxed / Dropped on In-Office-Attachment". **When faxing or mailing your attachment please do so before placing your order online as the ordering process is automated. ***Please submit your attachment using one method only. For example, there is no need to drop one off in the office if you have (or intend) to upload your attachment to the transcript online order. Federal Express If express mail service is requested, an official University of Kansas paper transcript will be sent by Federal Express. Federal Express guarantees delivery service. Federal Express DOES NOT deliver to PO BOXES. Federal Express Express U.S. Services and International Services A Federal Express tracking number will be available on the Online Transcript Order page. You will also receive the tracking number by email when the order status is updated. Ordering Transcripts You can order transcripts online. Please check for any holds on your student account before you attempt to order one online. If you are a current or former KUMC student, you must order transcripts from the Office of the Registrar on the KUMC campus. Picking Up Transcripts An Official University of Kansas paper transcript can be picked up at the KU Visitor Center, 1502 Iowa St., 8:00 - 5:00 PM CST weekdays, except when the Office of the University Registrar is closed. In order to pick up your transcript you must provide a valid photo ID. If someone other than the student will be picking up the transcript, the student must submit the Authorization for document pickup by a third party. Authorization for document pickup by third party Unofficial Transcripts The University of Kansas does not provide an unofficial transcript. Current students can get summaries of course work via the Advising Report or Degree Progress Report found in the Advising Tool in the myKU Portal. In addition, an Academic Summary can be produced using Enroll & Pay (how-to guide). These documents are not official and should be used only for your informational purposes. KU Academic Calendar Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. University Registrar Updates October 13, 2021 Notification of Rights Under FERPA (2021-2022) October 13, 2020 Notification of Rights Under FERPA (2020-2021) October 2, 2019 Notification of Rights Under FERPA (2019-2020) Read more updates Hawk Help: Ask a Question Enrollment Enroll & Pay is the University of Kansas' online campus solution for enrollment, financial and other services. The Online Schedule of Classes Transcript Support Need additional help with transcripts? 785-864-4422 registrar@ku.edu University of Kansas Seal Transcript Ordering Error Transcript FAQ Order a Transcript Key to the Transcript of Academic Records Why KU Apply » One of 34 U.S. public institutions in the prestigious Association of American Universities 44 nationally ranked graduate programs. —U.S. News & World Report Top 50 nationwide for size of library collection. —ALA 5th nationwide for service to veterans —"Best for Vets: Colleges," Military Times KU Today Give to KU » Contact Office of the University Registrar registrar@ku.edu 785-864-4423 785-864-3900 1502 Iowa Street Lawrence, Kansas 66045 Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login