Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Student Services Search this site Submit Search Menu Home My Academics Access Systems (SUID, SUNet, Axess) Enroll in Classes Enrollment Troubleshooting Request Transcripts & Certifications Transcripts Transcript Resources Transcripts for Alumni Alumni Resources Certifications and Verifications Certifications and Verifications Resources Earn My Degree Diplomas Diploma Resources Certified Electronic Diploma (CeDiploma) CeDiploma FAQs Milestones FAQs University-Required Non-Course Milestones by Degree Evaluations, Exams, & Grades Final Exam Schedule Time Away from Stanford: Leave, Withdraw, Return Leaves of Absence Special Registration Statuses Access Resources & Help My Finances Tuition & Fees Estimate Your Undergraduate Charges Estimate Your Graduate Charges Tuition Rates 2021-2022 Rates 2021-2022 Undergraduate Tuition Rates 2021-2022 Graduate and Professional Tuition Rates Graduate School School of Engineering Graduate School of Business Medical School Law School Special Registration Statuses Poatdoc & Non-Matriculated 2022-2023 Rates 2022-2023 Undergraduate Tuition Rates 2022-2023 Graduate and Professional Tuition Rates Past Tuition Rates Non-Tuition Charges & Fees Stanford Card Plan (SCP) SCP Terms and Conditions Understand Your Student Bill & Payment System Billing Dates & Deadlines Late Fees & Penalties to Avoid Your Financial Account Details Make a Payment International Payments from China and India Manage Authorized Users on Your Account My Authorized User Account Additional Methods of Payment Student Financial Aid Agreement Payroll Deduction Plan How to Enroll in Payroll Deduction Payroll Deduction FAQs Financial Responsibility Agreement Student Payment System FAQs Quick Start Guide Manage Your Funding Funding & Scholarships Stipends & Cash Advances FAQs for Grad Students with Funding Third-Party Contracts (TPC) Enrolling in Third Party Contracts Invoicing and Payments Other Payment Options Upcoming Events Invoice Retrieval Instructions Tuition Grants & Remission VA Education Benefits Benefits by Chapter Chapter 33 Base Benefit & Yellow Ribbon Returning Students Chapter 31 Resources Glossary for VA education benefits Policies and Procedures Frequently Asked Questions Loans & Loan Repayment Refunds and Direct Deposits Tuition Refund Schedule 2020-2021 1098-T Tax Overview & FAQs 1098-T Eligibility and Access How to Interpret the 1098-T Other Tax Forms and Taxable Income Financial Wellness About Mind Over Money Courses & Learning Modules Personal Finance Courses Video Library Financial Coaching Resources for Graduating Students and Recent Alumni Taxes Tax Resources My Information Personal Information Updates Annual Student Information Update How to Find the Student Information Update Emergency Contact Information Missing Person Notification Tax Dependent Status Ethnicity Panel Acknowledge University Policies Directory & Privacy Settings Student Records & FERPA Notification of Rights Under FERPA FAQ About Student Records and FERPA Calendar Academic Dates Stanford Academic Calendar: 2021-22 Stanford Academic Calendar: 2022-23 Social Events / Receptions Student Billing Dates Get Help Stanford Academic Calendar: 2021-22 Main navigation Skip to main content Secondary Navigation Academic Dates Stanford Academic Calendar: 2021-22 Stanford Academic Calendar: 2022-23 Social Events / Receptions Student Billing Dates Main content start Autumn - Winter - Spring - Summer All dates with times listed below align to the Pacific time zone. Autumn Quarter 2021 Week of August 23 (Mon-Fri) Stanford Bulletin publishes academic year 2021-22 degree requirements and course offerings. August 16 (Mon) Axess opens for course enrollment for M.D. and M.S.P.A. students. August 16 (Mon) Axess opens for course enrollment for J.D., J.S.M., L.L.M. and J.S.D. students. August 23 (Mon) M.D. and MSPA first and second-year students, first day of instruction. See the School of Medicine academic calendar website. August 30 (Mon) Law School instruction begins for 1st-year J.D. students, J.S.M. and L.L.M. students. See the Law School academic calendar website. September 1 (Wed) Axess opens for course enrollment for undergraduates and graduate students. September 10 (Fri, 5:00 p.m.) At-status enrollment deadline in order to receive stipend or financial aid refund within the first week of term. September 10 (Fri) M.B.A. 1st-year instruction begins. September 11-13 (Sat-Mon) New undergraduates arrive. Convocation. Undergraduate housing opens for new students; see Residential & Dining Enterprises Calendar. September 15-19 (Wed-Sun) Undergraduate housing opens for returning students; see Residential & Dining Enterprises Calendar. September 15 (Wed) Autumn Quarter Cardinal Care Waiver Deadline; see the Cardinal Care website. September 20 (Mon) First day of quarter; instruction begins. September 20 (Mon, 5:00 p.m.) Preliminary Study List deadline. Students must be "at status"; i.e., students must have a study list with sufficient units to meet requirements for their status, whether full-time, 8-9-10 units (graduate students only), or have submitted a petition for Undergraduate Special Registration Status or Graduate Special Registration Status. September 20 (Mon, 5:00 p.m.) Deadline to submit Leave of Absence for full refund (see undergraduate leaves of absence and graduate leaves of absence). See Tuition and Refund Schedule for a full refund schedule. September 20 (Mon) Law School instruction begins for 2nd/3rd-year J.D. and advanced degree students. See the Law School academic calendar website. September 23 (Thu) Conferral of degrees, Summer Quarter 2020-21. September 24 (Fri) GSB course add/drop deadline. See the full Graduate School of Business academic calendar. October 8 (Fri, 5:00 p.m.) Final Study List deadline, except GSB. Last day to add or drop a class; last day to adjust units on a variable-unit course. Last day for tuition reassessment for dropped courses or units. Students may withdraw from a course until the Course Withdrawal deadline and a 'W' notation will appear on the transcript. October 8 (Fri) Change of grading basis deadline for GSB courses. November 1 (Mon, 5:00 p.m.) Term withdrawal deadline; last day to submit Leave of Absence to withdraw from the University with a partial refund. November 2 (Tue) Democracy Day: day of civic service (no classes) November 12 (Fri, 5:00 p.m.) Change of grading basis deadline, except GSB. November 12 (Fri, 5:00 p.m.) Course withdrawal deadline, except GSB, Law, and M.D. November 12 (Fri, 5:00 p.m.) Application deadline for Autumn Quarter degree conferral. November 14 (Sun) UIT Extended Maintenance Window; Axess and other ERP systems may be unavailable. November 15 (Mon) Grade rosters open for current quarter November 19 (Fri) Last day of Law classes. See the Law School academic calendar website. November 22-26 (Mon-Fri) Thanksgiving Recess (no classes). November 29-December 3 (Mon-Fri) Law School Reading Period. See the Law School academic calendar website. November 29-December 5 (Mon-Sun) End-Quarter Period. December 3 (Fri) Last day of classes (unless class meets on Sat.), except Law. December 3 (Fri) Last opportunity to arrange Incomplete in a course, at last class. December 3 (Fri, noon) University thesis, D.M.A. final project, or Ph.D. dissertation, last day to submit. December 3 (Fri, 5:00 p.m.) Late application deadline for Autumn Quarter degree conferral ($50 fee). December 6-10 (Mon-Fri) End-Quarter examinations. December 6-12 (Mon-Sun) Law School examinations. See the Law School academic calendar website. December 11 (noon) Undergraduate housing closes for Winter Break; see Residential & Dining Enterprises Calendar. December 14 (Tues, 11:59 p.m.) Grades due. December 15 (Wed) Autumn Quarter Cardinal Care Petition for Early Cancellation due to Degree Conferral deadline; see the Cardinal Care website and Student Health Matters for more information. December 16 (Thu, noon) Final Recommending Lists due. December 20-31 (Mon-Fri) Winter Closure; the University is closed. January 6 (Thu) Conferral of degrees, Autumn Quarter. Winter Quarter 2022 December 1 (Wed) Axess opens for course enrollment. December 15 (Wed) Winter Quarter Cardinal Care Waiver Deadline; see the Cardinal Care website. December 24 (Fri, 5:00 p.m.) At-status enrollment deadline in order to receive stipend or financial aid refund within the first week of term. January 1 (Sat) Undergraduate housing opens for Winter Quarter; see Residential & Dining Enterprises Calendar. January 3 (Mon) First day of quarter; instruction begins for all students (except MBA and MSX courses). January 3 (Mon, 5:00 p.m.) Preliminary Study List deadline. Students must be "at status"; i.e., students must have a study list with sufficient units to meet requirements for their status, whether full-time, 8-9-10 units (graduate students only), or have submitted a petition for Undergraduate Special Registration Status or Graduate Special Registration Status.The late study list fee is $200. January 6 (Thu) GSB instruction begins (MBA and MSX courses only). See the full Graduate School of Business academic calendar. January 11 (Tue) GSB course add/drop deadline. See the full Graduate School of Business academic calendar. January 14 (Fri, 5:00 p.m.) Deadline to submit Leave of Absence for full refund (see undergraduate leaves of absence and graduate leaves of absence). See Tuition and Refund Schedule for a full refund schedule. January 17 (Mon) Martin Luther King, Jr., Day (holiday, no classes). January 21 (Fri, 5:00 p.m.) Final Study List deadline, except GSB. Final day to add or drop a class; last day to adjust units on a variable-unit course. Last day for tuition reassessment for dropped courses or units. Students may withdraw from a course until the Course Withdrawal deadline and a 'W' notation will appear on the transcript. January 21 (Fri) Change of grading basis deadline for GSB courses. February 16 (Wed, 5:00 p.m.) Term withdrawal deadline; last day to submit Leave of Absence to withdraw from the University with a partial refund. February 21 (Mon) Presidents' Day (holiday, no classes; Law does hold classes). February 25 (Fri, 5:00 p.m.) Application deadline for Winter Quarter degree conferral. February 25 (Fri, 5:00 p.m.) Change of grading basis deadline, except GSB. February 25 (Fri, 5:00 p.m.) Course withdrawal deadline, except GSB, Law, and M.D. February 28 (Mon) Grade rosters open for current quarter March 7 (Mon) Last day of Law classes. See the Law School academic calendar web site. March 7-13 (Mon-Sun) End-Quarter Period. March 8-10 (Tue-Thu) Law School Reading Period. See the Law School academic calendar web site. March 11 (Fri) Last day of classes (unless class meets on Sat), except Law. March 11 (Fri) Last opportunity to arrange Incomplete in a course, at last class. March 11 (Fri, noon) University thesis, D.M.A. final project, Ph.D. dissertation, last day to submit. March 11 (Fri, 5:00 p.m.) Late application deadline for Winter Quarter degree conferral ($50 fee). March 13 (Sun) UIT Extended Maintenance Window; Axess and other ERP systems may be unavailable. March 15 (Tue) Spring Quarter Cardinal Care Waiver Deadline; see the Cardinal Care website. March 11-18 (Fri-Fri) Law School examinations. See the Law School academic calendar website. March 14-18 (Mon-Fri) End-Quarter examinations. March TBD Undergraduate housing move-out; see Residential & Dining Enterprises Calendar. March 22 (Tues, 11:59 p.m.) Grades due. March 24 (Thu, 5:00 p.m.) Final Recommending Lists due. March 31 (Thu) Conferral of degrees, Winter Quarter. April 15 (Fri) Winter Quarter Cardinal Care Petition for Early Cancellation due to Degree Conferral deadline; see the Cardinal Care website and Student Health Matters for more information Spring Quarter 2022 March 1 (Tue) Axess opens for course enrollment. March 15 (Tue) Spring Quarter Cardinal Care Waiver Deadline; see the Cardinal Care website. March 18 (Fri) At-status enrollment deadline in order to receive stipend or financial aid refund within the first week of term. March TBD Undergraduate housing move-in date for Spring Quarter; see Residential & Dining Enterprises Calendar. March 28 (Mon) First day of quarter; instruction begins for all students. March 28 (Mon, 5:00 p.m.) Preliminary Study List deadline. Students must be "at status"; i.e., students must have a study list with sufficient units to meet requirements for their status, whether full-time, 8-9-10 units (graduate students only), or have submitted a petition for Undergraduate Special Registration Status or Graduate Special Registration Status.The late study list fee is $200. March 28 (Mon, 5:00 p.m.) Deadline to submit Leave of Absence for full refund (see undergraduate leaves of absence and graduate leaves of absence). See See Tuition and Refund Schedule for a full refund schedule. March 31 (Thu) GSB instruction begins (MBA and MSx courses only). See the full Graduate School of Business academic calendar. April 5 (Tue) GSB course add/drop deadline. See the full Graduate School of Business academic calendar. April 8 (Fri, 5:00 p.m.) Application deadline for Spring Quarter degree conferral. April 15 (Fri, 5:00 p.m.) Final Study List deadline, except GSB. Last day to add or drop a class; last day to adjust units on a variable-unit course. Last day for tuition reassessment for dropped courses or units. Students may withdraw from a course until the Course Withdrawal deadline and a "W" notation will appear on the transcript. April 15 (Fri) Change of grading basis deadline for GSB courses. May 9 (Mon, 5:00 p.m.) Term withdrawal deadline; last day to submit Leave of Absence to withdraw from the University with a partial refund. May 20 (Fri, 5:00 p.m.) Change of grading basis deadline, except GSB. May 20 (Fri, 5:00 p.m.) Course withdrawal deadline, except GSB, Law, and M.D. May 23 (Mon) Grade rosters open for current quarter May 27-June 2 (Fri-Thu) End-Quarter Period. May 27 (Fri) Last day of Law classes. See the Law School academic calendar website. May 27 (Fri, 5:00 p.m.) Late application deadline for Spring Quarter degree conferral ($50 fee). May 28-30 (Sat-Mon) Law School reading Period. See the Law School academic calendar web site. May 30 (Mon) Memorial Day (holiday, no classes). May 31-June 6 (Tue-Mon) Law School examinations. See the Law School academic calendar website. June 1 (Wed) Last day of classes. June 1 (Wed) Last opportunity to arrange Incomplete in a course, at last class. June 2 (Thu) Day before finals, no classes. June 3 (Friday, 12pm PST) University thesis, D.M.A. final project, or Ph.D. dissertation, last day to submit is June 3, 12pm PST. June 3-8 (Fri-Wed) End-Quarter examinations. June 10 (Fri) Baccalaureate Friday. June 10 (Fri) Undergraduate housing move-out date (for all students not involved in Commencement); see Residential & Dining Enterprises Calendar. June 10 (Friday, 11:59 p.m.) Grades for graduating students due. June 11 (Sat) Senior Class Day. June 11 (Sat) Law School Graduation Ceremony. See the Law School academic calendar website. June 11 (Sat) GSB Graduation Ceremony. June 11 (Sat) Medical School Graduation Ceremony. June 12 (Sun) Commencement. See the Commencement website for further details. June 13 (Mon) Posting of J.D. and M.D. degrees; degrees will be awarded with a conferral date of Commencement. June 13 (Mon) Undergraduate Housing move-out date (for graduates and others involved in Commencement with permission); see Residential & Dining Enterprises Calendar. June 14 (Tue, noon) Final Recommending Lists due. June 14 (Tue, 11:59 p.m.) Grades for non-graduating students due. June 16 (Thu) Posting of degrees; degrees will be awarded with a conferral date of Commencement. Summer Quarter 2022 March 20 (Sun) Axess opens for course enrollment. June 10 (Fri) At-status enrollment deadline in order to receive stipend or financial aid refund within the first week of term. June 15 (Wed) Summer Quarter Cardinal Care Waiver Deadline; see the Cardinal Care website. June 20 (Mon) First day of quarter; instruction begins. June 20 (Mon, 5:00 p.m.) Preliminary Study List deadline. June 20 (Mon) Deadline to submit Leave of Absence for full refund (see undergraduate leaves of absence and graduate leaves of absence). See Tuition and Refund Schedule for a full refund schedule. July 1 (Fri, 5:00 p.m.) Final Study List deadline. Final day to add or drop a class; last day to adjust units on a variable-unit course. Last day for tuition reassessment for dropped courses or units. Students may withdraw from a course until the Course Withdrawal deadline and a 'W' notation will appear on the transcript. July 4 (Mon) Independence Day (holiday, no classes). July 22 (Fri, 5:00 p.m.) Term withdrawal deadline; last day to submit Leave of Absence to withdraw from the University with a partial refund. July 29 (Fri, 5:00 p.m.) Change of grading basis deadline. July 29 (Fri, 5:00 p.m.) Course withdrawal deadline. July 29 (Fri, 5:00 p.m.) Application deadline for Summer Quarter degree conferral. August 1 (Mon) Grade rosters open for current quarter August 6-11 (Sat-Thu) End-Quarter Period. August 11 (Thu) Last day of classes. August 11 (Thu) Last opportunity to arrange Incomplete in a course, at last class. August 12-13 (Fri-Sat) End-Quarter examinations. August 23 (Tue, 11:59 p.m.) Grades due. August 26 (Fri, noon) University thesis, D.M.A. final project, or Ph.D. dissertation, last day to submit. August 26 (Fri, 5:00 p.m.) Late application deadline for Summer Quarter degree conferral ($50 fee). September 15 (Thu, 5:00 p.m.) Final Recommending Lists due. September 29 (Thu) Conferral of degrees, Summer Quarter. 2022-23 First Day of Classes and End of Term These dates are subject to change at the discretion of the University. Autumn 2022-23: September 26 and December 16 Winter 2022-23: January 9 and March 24 Spring 2022-23: April 3 and June 14 (Commencement June 18) Summer 2022-23: June 26 and August 19 Stanford Student Services Web Login I want to... Get Help View the 2022 Academic Calendar View the 2023 Academic Calendar Request Transcripts & Certifications Understand Tuition & Fees Request Accessibility Support Share Website Feedback Browse the Resource Library Faculty & Staff Info Inside Student Services (Faculty & Staff Intranet) Other Resources Bechtel International Center Graduate Admissions Office Registrar's Office Student Affairs Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top