Office of the Registrar Off screen: Skip to content Off screen: Skip to search Office of the Registrar Main Menu Menu Student and Alumni Services SubMenu Transcript and Verification Services SubMenu Calculate Your GPA First Year Course Selection Course Selection SubMenu Undergraduate Course Selection Graduate Course Selection Adding or Dropping Courses P/D/F and Grade Option Selection Concentration Declaration Senior Checkout Veterans Diplomas Policies SubMenu Data Privacy Name Preferences Summer Undergraduate Internship Milestone Credit Faculty and Department Resources SubMenu Examinations and Grading SubMenu Examination and Grading Dates Grading Practices Conduct of Courses Secure Resources Course Offerings SubMenu Search New Courses Program for Community-Engaged Scholarship Courses Summer Programs Classrooms Academic Calendar and Deadlines Final Exams SubMenu Final Exam Schedule Policy Reschedule Request TigerHub About Us Contact Us Forms Catalogs Search Search Home Student and Alumni Services Course Selection Section Menu Transcript and Verification Services First Year Course Selection Course Selection SubMenu Undergraduate Course Selection Graduate Course Selection Adding or Dropping Courses P/D/F and Grade Option Selection Concentration Declaration Senior Checkout Veterans Diplomas Policies Summer Undergraduate Internship Milestone Credit Students select courses prior to the beginning of each semester. To get started, review the current Course Offerings on this site. Then meet with your adviser to discuss your plans, secure approval, and enroll using TigerHub. Academic Advising Academic advising occurs in your residential college and through your academic department. Plan to meet with your adviser each semester prior to adding, swapping, or dropping classes. Begin here to learn more about the process and how it relates to course selection. If you are studying abroad during course selection, email proposed courses to your director of undergraduate studies and/or adviser, as well as the instructor, if permission is required. The Office of International Programs handles enrollment for courses taken abroad. Requirements Course Selection Deadlines Meet with your academic adviser, director of undergraduate studies, or director of graduate studies to discuss your plans prior to enrolling. Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Courses with specific enrollment procedures: Writing Seminars Freshman Seminars Adding or Dropping Courses TigerHub is where you add or drop courses. The forms and information below are provided for specific situations that cannot be completed there. Here, you will also find upcoming add/drop deadlines, and learn about the implications of changes made after the deadline. Course Changes Adding Courses Requiring Permission Undergraduate Enrollment in Graduate Courses Making Graduate Course Changes P/D/F and Grade Option Selection Overview Footer Office of the Registrar Princeton University 330 Alexander Street, 4th floor Princeton, NJ 08540 Contact Phone: (609) 258-3361 Fax: (609) 258-6328 Email: registrar@princeton.edu Office Hours Academic Year: 8:45 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Summer: 8:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. Quicklinks Registrar Functions (Registrar staff only) Community Auditing University Enrollment Statistics Data Sets © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Accessibility