Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Office of the Registrar Main Menu In this section Academic Calendar Commencement Apply toGraduate CommencementInformation Forms Transcripts Order Transcripts Transcript FAQs Official TranscriptDetails University Catalog University Catalog Catalog Archives Home Veteran Benefit Services America's Brightest Orange Home Academic Advising Academic Calendar Future or Prior Term Calendars Drop/Add and Withdraw Deadline Details Drop/Add Deadline Details Banner for Advisors Banner Advisor Holds Banner FAQs for Advisors Grades and GPA (for Advisors) Maintain Academic Advisors Maintain Academic Advisors Maintain Student Attributes Online Curriculum/Major Change System (for Advisors) Progress Report/Academic Alert System Registration Permits/Overrides (for Advisors) Requesting Access to Banner (for Advisors) Searching for Classes (for Advisors) Student Profile (for Advisors) The Portal (for Advisors) Training for Advisors and Departments Understanding Proxy Access (for Advisors) View My Class Schedule (for Advisors) Banner for Department Heads Registration Student Profile Grade Entry Waitlisting Class List/Roster 9.9 The Portal Browse Class Schedule Registration Permits/Overrides Maintain Academic Advisors Requesting Access to Banner Understanding Proxy Access Degree Works Degree Works Advisor FAQs Degree Works FAQs for Students Degree Works Videos What's New with Degree Works Repeated Courses in Degree Works FAQs for Department Heads Grades and GPA Academic Alert System Exams Banner for Faculty Registration Student Profile Faculty Grade Entry 9.9 Final and Midterm Grades Browse Class Schedule Class Rolls Exams SFASTCA Registration Audit Trail Training Videos Progress Report/Academic Alert System Registration Permits/Overrides The Portal FAQs for Faculty Waitlist Requesting Access to Banner (for New Faculty) Banner for Students Registration Student Profile The Portal Viewing My Class Schedule View Grades Exams Short "How To" Videos Common Registration Issues Registration and Transcript Holds Proxy Access Information Waitlisting FAQs for Students Catalog Archives Certifications Chosen, Legal and Diploma Names Class List/Roster 9.9 Class Schedule/Short Courses Course Management & Classroom Scheduling Exams General Education Codes/Days of the Week Abbreviations Prerequisites and Corequisites Room Reservations Short Courses with Unique Drop/Add Deadlines Commencement Degree Requirements Degree Works Discussion of Education Records with Student Proxy Frequently Asked Questions For Advisors Certifications Enrollment/Registration Graduation and Commencement Incomplete Grade Policy - Students Incomplete Grade Policy - Faculty Thesis/Dissertation Grade Policy Transcripts and Academic Records Tuition and Fee Adjustments Veteran Services Military Leave of Absence/Withdrawal FERPA FERPA - General Information FERPA - For Students FERPA - For Parents FERPA - For Faculty FERPA - For Staff FERPA - Tutorial for Faculty and Staff Forms Grade Reporting/Faculty Grade Entry Major Change Requests Meet the Team Quiet Classrooms Registration/Enrollment Enrollment Guides OSU Registration System Registration/Enrollment Holds Common Registration Issues Viewing my Class Schedule Maximum Credit Hour Load Military Leave of Absence/Withdrawal Registration/Transcript Holds Residency Status Reverse Transfer Short Courses Transcripts Official Transcript Details Transcript FAQs Unofficial Transcripts Veteran Benefit Services For More Information: Veteran Success Center, Military Affiliated Programming, Student Veteran Club, Academic Resources Click here Military & Veteran Benefit Services Please call (405) 744-6343 or email veteransbenefits@okstate.edu for assistance. You may schedule a virtual or in-person appointment with a VA benefits counselor via star.okstate.edu. For additional information about services and additional aid available for veterans, check out the Office of Student Veteran Success. New Student / Transfer Student Submit your Certificate of Eligibility to veteransbenefits@okstate.edu. Submit your Student Acknowledgement form. Submit the Veteran Advisory Form every semester. If you have used benefits before at another institution, complete this Change of Place of Training form. Forms Returning Benefit User? Submit Veteran Advisory Form Certification Requirements for All Education Chapters To receive education benefits, you must be “certified,” to be eligible for the benefits by a veteran’s benefits certification specialist in the Registrar’s office. The certification process can take up to a month or more, so it is best to begin this process early. Initial Certification Your first step is to submit your initial application for benefits electronically to the Veterans Administration. Initial application procedures can be found at benefits.va.gov/gibill/. Once the application has been submitted, you will receive a “Certificate of Eligibility” from the Veteran’s Administration (normally within approximately two to four weeks of submitting your initial application online). Email a copy of your Certificate of Eligibility to veteransbenefits@okstate.edu for further processing. If you have specific questions regarding the type of education program you are eligible for or application procedures, please contact the US Department of Veterans Affairs at 1-888-442-4551, or go the USDVA website at https://benefits.va.gov/gibill/. Continued Benefit Certification For continued receipt of VA education benefits throughout your academic career, you will be required to complete a Veterans Advisory Form each semester. The Veterans Advisory Form is available on the Forms page of the Registrar's website. Chapter 30, 1606 recipients: Once you are certified for your benefits, you must verify your enrollment with the VA at the end of each calendar month before you will receive your payment for that month. To verify enrollment, go to the Web Automated Verification of Enrollment (WAVE) at https://www.gibill.va.gov/wave/index.do or call 1-877-823-2378. Chapter 33 (Post 9/11) Recipients: Once you are certified for your benefits, you must verify your enrollment with the VA at the end of each calendar month before you will receive your payment for that month. You can verify enrollment via text message or by calling the Education Call Center (ECC) at 1-888-442-4551. The ECC can also help you opt into text verification. The VA strongly recommends verifying enrollment via text. Credit Hour Requirements (applies to Chapters 30, 31, 35, and 1606): Education benefits are based on student enrollment status (e.g. full-time, half-time, etc.) To receive the maximum benefit, you must be enrolled as a full-time student. Part-time benefit rates are reduced proportionately. See the GI Bill Education Benefit Payment Rates website for current rates. Undergraduate Students Status Fall/Spring/8-Week Term Summer Full-Time 12 Credit Hours 6 Credit Hours 3/4 Time 9-11 Credit Hours 4-5 Credit Hours 1/2 Time 6-8 Credit Hours 3 Credit Hours < 1/2 Time < 6 Credit Hours under 3 Credit Hours Graduate Students Status Fall/Spring/8-Week Term Summer Full-Time 9 Credit Hours 2 Credit Hours 3/4 Time 6-8 Credit Hours 1 Credit Hours 1/2 Time 4-5 Credit Hours 1 Credit Hours < 1/2 Time < under 4 Credit Hours 1 Credit Hours Students enrolled less than half-time qualify to receive a lump sum payment. Students enrolled quarter-time or less are eligible for a reimbursement of tuition and fees (not including books and supplies) not to exceed ¼ of the full-time rate. Monthly checks are based on the prorated monthly rate of payment and training time pursued. Class Attendance Dropping/withdrawing from classes and changes in original enrollment schedules can also affect payments received for education benefits. Before making any schedule changes, it is important to first consult the Veterans Benefits Services office in order to avoid/lessen the potential financial impact. If challenges arise in classes that could impact final grades received, contact the Veterans Benefit Services office regarding possible tutoring options and other available resources. Non-Standard Enrollment Periods Courses offered for a term shorter than 16 weeks during the Fall or Spring semesters, or shorter than 8 weeks during the Summer term are considered to be nonstandard enrollment, and have special rules. Students enrolled in short courses will be certified for the actual dates of attendance within the regular academic term. The VA pays education benefits for nonstandard enrollment periods based on credit equivalents. Contact the Veterans Benefit Services office to determine the expected payment amount for courses offered during a nonstandard enrollment period. Non-degree Status You may be able to receive education benefits for up to two semesters as a degree-seeking student who has not yet declared an academic major. At the conclusion of that second term, you will be required to officially declare a degree/major with the university. Failure to declare a degree/major prohibits future enrollment certifications to the VA. Contact the Veterans Benefits Services office for additional information and specific procedures required. Advance Payment Oklahoma State University does not participate in advance payment of VA education benefit entitlements. Benefit Programs Eligibility criteria and benefits vary for veterans’ education benefit programs from the U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs (VA). Monthly stipends, eligibility periods, and documentation required are described in the links below. Montgomery GI Bill Active Duty (Chapter 30) Montgomery GI Bill Selected Reserve (Chapter 1606) VA Education Benefits for Survivors and Dependents – The Survivors’ and Dependents’ Educational Assistance (DEA) Chapter 35 Program and The Marine Gunnery Sergeant John David ‘Fry Scholarship’ Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment (Chapter 31) Post-9/11 GI Bill (Chapter 33) Yellow Ribbon Program Post-9/11 (Chapter 33) GI Bill® In addition to the tuition and fee benefits for the Post-9/11 GI Bill, eligible veterans and their dependents may qualify for the following additional benefits: Monthly Housing Allowance As an eligible veteran or member of the National Guard or Selected Reserve you may receive a monthly housing allowance (living stipend) based on the ZIP code of the location of the school you are attending - not your home ZIP code. This stipend is based on the Department of Defense’s Basic Allowance for Housing rates. This stipend does not require students to live on campus. NOTE: Service members currently on active duty and veterans (and eligible family members) taking courses on a half-time or less basis and/or taking 100% of their classes at a distance (online etc.) do not qualify for the monthly basic allowance for housing. Annual Book Stipend You may receive an annual book stipend of up to $1,000 per academic year. This stipend will be paid at the beginning of each term. It is paid proportionately based on the number of credits taken by each student at a rate of $41.67 per credit hour. GI Bill® is a registered trademark of the U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs (VA). More information about education benefits offered by VA is available at the official U.S. government Web site at www.benefits.va.gov/gibill. Yellow Ribbon Program The Yellow Ribbon Program is a provision of the new GI Bill that allows institutions to voluntarily enter into an agreement with the VA to fund tuition and fee expenses that exceed the in-state undergraduate tuition rates. The institution can contribute up to 50% of those expenses and the VA will match the same amount as the institution. Students must apply for the Yellow Ribbon Program and must meet the following criteria to qualify to be eligible for Yellow Ribbon Program benefits: Undergraduate/Graduate/Doctor of Veterinary Medicine student; Classified by the university as a non-Oklahoma resident; At least one of the following must be true: Served at least 36 months on active duty (either all at once or with breaks in service), or Received a Purple Heart on or after September 11, 2001, and were honorably discharged after any amount of service, or Received a Fry Scholarship on or after August 1, 2018, or Served for at least 30 continuous days (all at once, without a break) on or after September 11, 2001, and were discharged after 60 days with a service-connected disability, or Are a dependent child using benefits transferred by a Veteran or a service member who has served for at least 36 months on active duty and qualifies at the 100% level, or Find out about transferring Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits Are receiving the Fry Scholarship (beginning August 1, 2018) Learn more about the Fry Scholarship Note: At this time, you’re not eligible for the maximum benefit rate under the Post-9/11 GI Bill if you’re an active-duty service member or the spouse of an active-duty service member. But, as of August 1, 2022, you may become eligible if you’re an active-duty service member who qualifies at the 100% level, or the spouse using the transferred benefits of an active-duty service member who qualifies at the 100% level. Students must complete the Application for Yellow Ribbon Program form and submit to veteransbenefits@okstate.edu. YR participants are required to maintain continuous enrollment in each regular fall and spring semester and must remain in good academic standing each semester to remain eligible for Yellow Ribbon Program benefits. Any changes to the class schedule may result in overpayment of VA benefits and the student will be responsible for any overpayment of VA benefits that may occur. Students in an overpayment status who do not make reimbursements in a timely manner may be at risk of losing their Yellow Ribbon Program benefits. OSU will determine on an annual basis whether to continue participation in the Yellow Ribbon Program. Once accepted into the program, there is no need to re-apply. Monthly Housing Allowance (Basic Allowance for Housing) As an eligible veteran or member of the National Guard or Selected Reserve you may receive a monthly housing allowance (living stipend) based on the ZIP code of the location of the school you are attending. This stipend is based on the Department of Defense’s Basic Allowance for Housing rates. This stipend does not require students to live on campus. NOTE: Service members currently on active duty and veterans (and eligible family members) taking courses on a half-time or less basis and/or taking 100% of their classes at a distance (online etc.) do not qualify for the monthly basic allowance for housing. Annual Book Stipend You may receive an annual book stipend of up to $1,000 per academic year. This stipend will be paid at the beginning of each term. It is paid proportionately based on the number of credits taken by each student at a rate of $41.67 per credit hour. Benefit Transferability The Department of Defense (DoD) is authorized to allow individuals who, on or after August 1, 2009, have served at least 6 years in the Armed Forces and who agree to serve at least another 4 years in the Armed Forces to transfer unused entitlement to their Spouse. Once the member has reached their 10-year anniversary they may choose to transfer the benefit to any dependent(s) (ex: spouse, children). The Department of Defense may, by regulation, impose additional eligibility requirements and limit the number of months transferable to not less than 18 months. NOTE: DoD must develop regulations and provide VA with eligibility information before the VA can make payments under this provision. The ability to transfer benefits is limited to those currently serving in the military with some limited provisions for those retiring over the next few years. Military Tuition Assistance Programs Tuition Assistance and/or Tuition waiver programs may be offered through the various branches of the military. For information on these programs, students should contact the Education Officer of their unit. The Veteran Benefit Services office does not process any paperwork relating to tuition assistance. Military Education Transfer Credit Military Credit OSU accepts credit as recommended by the American Council on Education (ACE), as published in "The Guide to the Evaluation of Military Experiences in the Armed Services," for selected educational experiences provided by the armed forces. OSU also accepts credit earned through the DSST exams (DANTES Subject Standardized tests) for active veteran and dependent military personnel. Students who wish to establish credit for military training should request and submit a copy of their JST (Joint Services Transcript) and/or a DSST transcript to the Office of Undergraduate Admissions for evaluation. Training Programs OSU awards credit as recommended by the American Council on Education (ACE) in the "National Guide to Educational Credit for Training Programs." Students may present certificates of completion or a transcript from the ACE Registry of Credit Recommendations to the Office of Undergraduate Admissions for evaluation. OSU also awards credit based on the recommendation of the Board of Regents of the University of the State of New York in the NCCRS (National College Credit Recommendation Service, formerly National PONSI). VA Forms Online Initial education benefit application forms are available using the link to the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (USDVA) web site (https://www.va.gov/education/how-to-apply/). Veterans Online Application (VONAPP) provides forms to complete online. Others forms available: Veterans Advisory Form: required submission of form each term that student requests receipt of education benefits. Post-9/11 Acknowledgement Form: required submission once. Acknowledgement Form (all other benefit chapters): required submission once. Change of Place of Training Form: required for changes in academic programs or place of training by the individual student. Yellow Ribbon Program Application: for Chapter 33 students (who are out of state and not active duty) to apply for Yellow Ribbon Program benefits. OSU Military Leave Of Absence (MLOA)/Withdrawal Request Form VA Education Benefits for Survivors and Dependents – The Survivors’ and Dependents’ Educational Assistance (DEA) Chapter 35 Program and The Marine Gunnery Sergeant John David ‘Fry Scholarship’ You may be eligible for Chapter 35 benefits if you are the spouse or dependent of a veteran who: is totally and permanently disabled due to a service-connected injury, or died while on active duty due to a service-related injury Benefit Guidelines You will receive a monthly stipend for personal use. You will receive a full benefit for full-time enrollment; the benefit will be reduced proportionately for part-time enrollment. Visit http://www.gibill.va.gov/GI_Bill_Info/rates.htm for complete information on current rates. Documentation required for Chapter 35 If you have never applied for benefits, visit the VA website http://www.vba.va.gov/survivors/index.htm for application and other useful information. Upon receipt of the VA awarded certificate of eligibility, bring a copy of the award letter to the campus veteran services office for further processing. You will be required to also submit a completed Veterans Advisory Form to the OSU Veterans Benefit Services office to complete the certification process. If you have received Chapter 35 education benefits through a previous institution, you must complete a Change of Place of Training form to the OSU Veterans Benefit Services office in addition to the Veterans Advisory form. Licensing and Certification Exams Chapters 30, 33 (limited to one test), 35, 1606, 1607 VA can reimburse the cost of approved licensing and certification tests. Students are reimbursed the cost of the test, up to a maximum of $2,000. Benefits can be paid for tests that aren’t passed, for tests retaken if not passed, and for tests required to be recertified or to renew a license. Utilization of this benefit may exhaust one month of entitlement. Students must be eligible for benefits to receive test reimbursement. They must have remaining entitlement and their delimiting date must not have passed. Entitlement is prorated based on the amount reimbursed. Information about test fee reimbursement and required application can be found at: http://www.vba.va.gov/pubs/forms/VBA-22-0803-ARE.pdf. National Tests Chapters 30, 35, 1606, 1607 VA students can be reimbursed the fee charged for national admission tests and national tests for college credit. Utilization of this benefit may exhaust one month of entitlement. A list of currently approved tests can be found at the following VA website: http://inquiry.vba.va.gov/weamspub/buildSearchNE.do. Military Leave/Call Up Active Military Duty Per Oklahoma State law (SB 1830), OSU offers a military leave of absence (MLOA) to students who are members of the active uniformed military services of the United States who are called to active duty. An MLOA allows a student to be absent from the University for active duty without penalty to admission status or grade point average and without loss of institutional financial aid. It also allows the student to be eligible for withdrawal from all or some classes with a full refund of tuition and fees or to be eligible for incomplete grades in classes for which he/she has successfully completed at least 50% of the coursework at the time of leave, if the student intends to complete the classes upon return from active duty. MLOAs shall not exceed a cumulative five years. Graduate student LOAs are for a period of one year with annual extensions possible up to the five-year cumulative limit. Students apply for MLOA by submitting the appropriate form and supporting documentation. See OSU Military Leave of Absence FAQs for more information Military Leave of Absence FAQS. If time allows, contact the Veterans Benefit Services office at (405) 744-6343 or veteransbenefits@okstate.edu to inform them of your pending activation. Notification will be made to the Veterans Administration and education benefits will be placed in a pending status. You will not be required to repay benefits previously received for the term in which you are activated. Short-Term Military Leave If you will miss classes for short-term military leave or military training exercises, (example: Annual training for National Guard and Reserve members) please contact your instructors as soon as you become aware of this so that any appropriate accommodations can be made between you and the instructor. Residency If you are currently serving on active duty, you may qualify for residency reclassification. Please review the following link In-State vs.Out-of-State Status for further information. Contact Information OSU Veteran Services Office Office of the Registrar 322 Student Union Stillwater OK 74078-1013 Main Phone: 405-744-6343 Have a question? E-mail us at veteransbenefits@okstate.edu (please specify in the subject line which VA Chapter, if known) Financial Aid Contact: Rob Lofton at (405) 744-6396 or by email at robert.lofton@okstate.edu Bursar Office Contact: Melissa Spicer at (405) 744-8520 or by email at melisvs@okstate.edu Tulsa Campus Contact: Ashley Lorenz at (918) 594-8104 or by email at ashley.lorenz@okstate.edu Department of Veterans Affairs, Regional Processing Office – Muskogee OK Educational Benefit questions: Toll-free line: 1-888-442-4551 Other VA benefits information: 1-800-827-1000 Email: muskrpo@vba.va.gov Website: www.vba.va.gov/ro/muskogee Student Accessibility Services (SAS) 155 University Health Services, 1202 W. Farm Rd. 405-744-7116 Website: https://accessibility.okstate.edu/ Services, support, assistance related to any injury or disability issue (e.g. PTSD, traumatic brain injury) for classes, campus, community issues. Academic Assistance and Career Development 214 Student Union (LASSO Center - Academic assistance, 405-744-5333), https://lasso.okstate.edu/ 320 Student Union (Student Counseling Center, 405-744-5472), http://ucs.okstate.edu/ 320W Student Union (Reboot Center - Stress management, 405-744-6434), http://ucs.okstate.edu/reboot 360 Student Union (Career Services, 405-744-5253), http://www.hireosugrads.com/StudentsAlumni/ Licensed professional counselors to address personal, career, academic, biofeedback/stress management or other issues (e.g. anger management, depression, academic rigor, grief); support groups; psychiatrist also on staff. Counseling Psychology Clinic 111 PIO Bldg 405-744-6980 Website: https://education.okstate.edu/cpsy/clinic.html Psychological and mental health services to students, families and the community; individual, family/couples and group counseling; child therapy. Counselors are doctoral students in Counseling Psychology program. Pay on sliding scale. No session limit. Student Veterans Organization Rafael Rodriquez, SGA Executive Cabinet - Veterans Student Organization Director E-mail: Rafael.j.rodriquez@okstate.edu Helpful Links AARTS Army Air Force Coast Guard Marines Navy GI Bill® DD-214 (Discharge Papers) Top Up Current Rates WAVE (verify enrollment) Yellow Ribbon Program University Counseling Services College Scorecard College Navigator Financial Aid Shopping Sheet Paying for College website OSU Military Leave Of Absence (MLOA)/Withdrawal Request Form Student Checklist for Veterans Benefit Services https://registrar.okstate.edu/site-files/documents/veterans_benefit_services_student_checklist.pdf Back To Top Back To Top Office of the Registrar 322/324 Student Union Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 (map) (405) 744-6876 | Contact Us Follow US Social Media Directory Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Snapchat Oklahoma State University Campus & Parking MapsAll OSU InstitutionsCareers @ OSUHire OSU Grads© Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks MENUCLOSE ©