Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Office of the Registrar Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Home Registrar Projects (new) Registrar Projects (new) Student Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Request Info Visit Apply You are here Home » Students » Student Records Readmission Undergraduate, undergraduate non-degree and post-baccalaureate students who previously attended Oregon State University but have not been enrolled at OSU for four terms (not including summer) and wish to re-enroll in courses must apply for readmission. Readmission is at the same student level, college and academic program as previous attendance. Returning students are subject to the current catalog year at the time of readmission. Graduate students should contact the Graduate School. Non-degree graduate students can submit a new admissions application. Questions can be directed to [email protected]. Application Deadline Readmission applications must be submitted to the Office of the Registrar two weeks prior to the beginning of the term in which you plan to resume studies at OSU. Applying for Readmission The readmission application process includes: Complete and submit the Readmission Application to the Office of the Registrar. Use your current, non-OSU primary email address. Your OSU email is inactive until after you are readmitted. You will need to attach your government-issued photo ID. $25 non-refundable application fee will be charged to your student account All holds (e.g., financial, student health, student conduct, and academic holds) must be cleared in order for readmission to be processed and to be eligible to register. When the readmission application process is complete, a confirmation email will be sent from the Office of the Registrar with information on registration, ONID access, and other steps for a successful return to the university. Please allow 5-7 business days for processing. Please Note: Students who were placed on Academic Suspension and plan to return to OSU must request reinstatement. See Academic Suspension and Reinstatement for more details about the reinstatement process. Readmission Application Instructions Make sure the email address you use is correct and your primary email address. If the email address is incorrect, you will not be able to validate the form and will need assistance by emailing [email protected]. Complete the required asterisk fields. Once all required fields have been entered on the form, click the Begin Signing link. Make sure you double check email. Once the form loads, click the Continue link to proceed with filling in the required fields. Items highlighted in red are required to complete the form. You will need to attach your government-issued photo ID for authentication purposes. When finished attaching your ID, click Done. When finished completing the form, click the Finish button at the top of the page upper right-hand corner. Click the Close button. The form will route to the Office of the Registrar for review and processing. When the readmission application process is complete, a confirmation email will be sent from the Office of the Registrar with information on registration, ONID access, and other steps for a successful return to the university. You can also download this Readmission Guide outlining these next steps. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) What do I do if I want to be readmitted as a different major? Readmission is at the same student level, college and academic program when you were last enrolled. If you wish to change your academic program after you have been readmitted, you must meet with an advisor to request a program change. See the Academic Advising page to find an advisor by college. How do I transfer in coursework I took while away from OSU? If you attended other institutions while away from OSU, send your official transcript from each college or university to OSU Office of Admissions. What happens if I'm readmitted and I don't attend OSU that term? If your application for readmission has been approved and you do not enroll in classes for that term, you will be placed in an inactive status and need to apply for readmission again (including the $25 application fee) for the term you wish to return. How many terms am I able to be away from OSU without having to apply for readmission? Students occasionally take time off from their coursework for a variety of reasons. Check in with your academic advisor for guidance on any steps you may need to follow to ensure a smooth return to OSU. If you are away for four or more terms (not including summer), you are placed in an inactive status and unable to register for courses – follow the steps outlined above for applying for readmission. Am I able to access financial aid or other grants if I'm readmitted? Check in with Financial Aid for any information about your financial aid award. ‹ Transfer Credits up Summer Session › Printer-friendly version Students Academic Calendar Academic Regulations Academic Suspension and Reinstatement Biographical Information Updates Change of Grading Basis Forms Glossary of Terms Graduation MyOregonState Policies and Regulations Registration Student Information and Online Resources Student Records Academic Program Managing Access to Your Records Diploma/Transcript Notarization & Apostille OSU Honor Roll by Term Statement of Degree Student Status by Credit Hours Transcripts Transfer Credits Readmission Summer Session VA and Military Education Benefit Certification Verify Your Enrollment Veterans Priority Registration Contact Us A-Z Site Index Contact Info Oregon State University Office of the Registrar B102 Kerr Administration Corvallis, OR 97331-8519 Phone: (541)737-4331 Fax: (541)737-8123 Contact Information and Hours [email protected] Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Twitter