Skip to main content Search Search Search Toggle navigation Cornell University Registrar Classes + Enrollment Class Roster Courses of Study Courses of Study Archive Student Essentials Gateway Courses Prorated Tuition Student Center FAQ Classes and Enrollment FAQ University Registration Calendars + Exams Academic Calendar Final Exam Policies Spring Prelim Schedule Spring Final Exam Schedule Fall Prelim Exam Schedule Fall Final Exam Schedule Grades + Transcripts Grading Median Grades Ordering Transcripts Transcript FAQ Transcript Keys Validating an eTranscript Service + Resources Apostille Certifications University Registrar Directory College Advising Directory College Registrar Directory Diploma Information Disability Accommodations FERPA ID Cards Mental Health at Cornell Names and Name Changes Use of Student Data Veteran Education Benefits Building Codes Faculty + Staff Faculty Center/Advisor Center Advisor Center FAQ Opscan Scanning Service Changing CIP Codes Data Requests Program Registration For Registrar Staff Opscan Scanning Service Please note that Opscan Services with the Office of the University Registrar are permanently suspended. Please see the other scanning sources below to meet your scanning needs. Other Scanning Sources The following company provides a comprehensive scanning and post-process service: NCS Regional Processing Center (RPC) Contact: Tony Tossona (800) 735-2566 ext. 1388 ttossona@nsc.com Introduction to Post-Processing In order to process raw data from test/survey results, you need to pass the data through one of two methods: Excel or another spreadsheet program. Using spreadsheets requires importing the data to a spreadsheet file, then creating equations and/or functions that process the data. SAS (a statistical software package). Using SAS requires having the SAS software either on a desktop machine, or using it through an Instruct/Research account. It is also necessary to use a program specifically written to process the data. We have already created a number of SAS programs which will process the majority of raw data files/formats used by Opscan customers. SAS on the Desktop Cornell has a site license for SAS software which is handled by CU Software Licensing Services at CIT. Please visit the software licensing website for more information (pricing, system requirements, order form, etc.). A number of SAS programs are already available for public use and can be used with the desktop version of SAS. SAS on Instruct and Research Any Cornell academic user can register for an Instruct account in order to use SAS. To request an account on the Instruct server, contact the Academic Technology Center's support staff at atc_support@cornell.edu. You can use a Research account if you have research-oriented tasks. For more information and the form for requesting a Research account, go to: www.cit.cornell.edu. Using SAS on Instruct and Research: In general, once you login to your Instruct/Research account to run an SAS program, type SAS followed by the program name. For example: sas stdeval (where "stdeval.sas" is the name of the SAS program). Uploading SAS programs and data to your Instruct/Research account: To upload an SAS program or data file you must use FTP. Use FTP to connect to your Instruct (instruct1.cit.cornell.edu) or Research (rsrch1.cit.cornell.edu) account with your NetID and password. You will then upload your program from your computer to your directory space on your account (transfer the program in ASCII [text] mode). SAS Consulting at CISER CISER consultants can help SAS users with data access, data manipulation, program logic, program syntax, and de-bugging, as well as database conversions and file transfers across computing platforms. More information is available at the CISER website. Custom Forms At the present time, the Office of the University Registrar does not create customized, printed forms (bubble-sheets). However, you may contact National Computing Systems (NCS) at 1-800-735-2566. Ask to speak with the Cornell representative about creating forms. Additional Questions Additional questions regarding the Opscan scanning service may be directed to opscan@cornell.edu. Faculty + Staff Faculty Center/Advisor Center Advisor Center FAQ Opscan Scanning Service Changing CIP Codes Data Requests Program Registration For Registrar Staff Key Academic Dates 06 Jun 2022 Summer 22 8 Week Session 20 Jun 2022 Juneteenth Observance/Holiday/No Classes 21 Jun 2022 Summer 22 6 Week Session 21 Jun 2022 Summer 22 3 Week 2 Session See More Key Academic Dates Related Links + Files No Related Links No Related Files Office of the University Registrar Cornell University, 245 Day Hall Ithaca, NY 14853 Office Hours: Monday - Thursday; 9:00 AM - 1:00 PM and 2:00 PM - 4:00PM Get Directions univreg@cornell.edu (607) 255-4232; Phone Hours: Monday - Friday; 10:00 AM - 1:00 PM and 2:00 PM - 4:00 PM EST (607) 255-6262 If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information in this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. © 2017 Cornell University