Columbia University in the City of New York Office of the University Registrar Related Services for Students Student Service Center ID Center Student Financial Services CUMC Registration & Financial Services Finance CourseWorks Environmental Stewardship Dining Event Management Faculty House Health Housing Information Technology Lerner Hall Mail Print Transportation Profile: Annel Monserrat Becerra Rodriguez Law School Selects Annel Monserrat Becerra Rodriguez for Campbell Award Profile: Linda Fried School of Public Health Dean, Linda Fried, Awarded Kober Medal for Study of Healthy Aging Search form Search News Forms About Us Academic Calendar Master Course Schedule and Calendar Wait Lists Post-Change of Program Add/Drop Period Registration and Enrollment Registrar Classrooms Exams Grades Graduation and Diplomas Transcripts and Certifications Faculty and Staff Personal Information Name Changes Preferred Name FAQ NameCoach Withhold or Reverse Withholding... Solomon Amendment Policies and Regulations Registrar Forms Text Resize -A +A Quick LinksAcademic CalendarMaster Course Schedule and CalendarWait ListsPost-Change of Program Add/Drop PeriodRegistration and Enrollment - Registration Dates - Registering for Classes and Appointment Times - Registration Information and Instructions for Faculty - Cross-Registration -- Cross-Registration: Columbia and Barnard College -- Cross-Registration: Columbia and Jewish Theological Seminary -- Cross-Registration: Columbia and Teachers College -- Cross-Registration: Columbia and Union Theological Seminary - Dropping Courses - Withdrawal -- Refund Rate for Withdrawals - Registration Holds - Advising - School Bulletins - Auditing ProgramsRegistrar Classrooms - Classroom Scheduling -- Classroom Descriptions - Registrar-Managed Classrooms - Building Codes - Protocol for Classroom RelocationExams - Final Exam SchedulesGrades - Grading System - Grade Options - Grade Point AverageGraduation and Diplomas - Diploma Replacement - Apostille: Certifying Columbia Documents for Use InternationallyTranscripts and Certifications - Transcripts - Certifications - Third Party Ordering - Release of Academic Information for Deceased Students - Information for ParentsFaculty and Staff - Class Rosters - Departmental Access - Academic Advising ResourcesPersonal Information - Name Changes -- Preferred Name FAQ - NameCoach - Withhold or Reverse Withholding... - Solomon AmendmentPolicies and Regulations - Privacy Rights (FERPA) -- Parents -- FERPA for Faculty & Staff - Central Administration of Academic Programs - Codes for Classification of Instructional Programs (CIP) - Retention of Student Education Records - Standard Transcript NotationsRegistrar Forms - Registration Adjustment Form (Add & Drop Classes) - Academic Certification Request - Application for Degree or Certificate - Request for Transcript - Application for Replacement of Diploma - Request to Withhold or Reverse Withholding of Directory Information - Name Change Affidavit Home > Personal Information > Name Changes > FAQ for Columbia’s Preferred Name Policy FAQ for Columbia’s Preferred Name Policy Columbia University recognizes that some students prefer to identify themselves by a First Name and/or Middle Name other than their Legal Name. For this reason, beginning in the Spring 2016 semester, the University will enable students to use a “Preferred Name” where possible in the course of University business and education. Under Columbia’s Preferred Name policy, any student may choose to identify a Preferred First and/or Middle Name in addition to the Legal Name. Students may request this service via a link on SSOL. The student’s Preferred Name may be used in many University contexts, including SSOL, class rosters, CourseWorks, and Canvas, and on ID Cards as described below. For some other records, also described below, the University is legally required to use a student’s Legal Name. However, whenever reasonably possible, a student’s “Preferred Name” will be used. Barnard and Teachers College students should contact their own college registrar's office. Frequently Asked Questions What is a Preferred Name? A Preferred Name is a name a student wishes to be known by in the University community that is different from a student’s Legal Name. Columbia’s policy covers Preferred First and Middle Names. Surnames can be changed only with a legal name change. What is a Legal Name? A Legal Name is the name that appears on your passport, driver’s license, birth certificate, or U.S. Social Security Card. Do I have to use a Preferred Name? No. Use of a Preferred Name is optional. Where will my Preferred Name appear? University ID Card* Class Rosters SSOL CourseWorks/Canvas CourseWorks discussion groups Public Directory, unless a FERPA information block has been requested Where will my Legal Name be used? Your Legal Name will be used in business and other processes that require use of a Legal Name. These include: International Students and Scholars Office (ISSO) Documentation Student Financial Services Documentation Financial Aid PowerFAIDS Federal Requests for Information National Student Clearinghouse Transcripts Academic Certifications Diplomas Athletics Rosters Department of Public Safety Are there any Preferred Name restrictions? Preferred Names may not be used for purposes of fraud or misrepresentation. The University reserves the right to remove a Preferred Name if it contains inappropriate or offensive language. Will my Preferred Name appear in the Online Columbia University Directory? Yes, your Preferred Name will appear in the University Directory unless you request a FERPA block. Does a Preferred First Name affect my Legal Name? No. An approved Preferred Name does not change your Legal Name. How do I request a Preferred Name? Students may request this service via a link on SSOL. Students may designate a First and/or Middle Preferred Name. All requests are reviewed by the University Registrar’s Office. How do I delete my Preferred Name? Students may go to SSOL and select the “delete Preferred Name” button. It may take 7 or more business days for the request to be completed through all University information systems. Who will have access to my Legal Name? University administrators, the Department of Public Safety, and your supervisor (if you are employed in a campus job) will have access to your Legal and Preferred Names. If I used a Preferred Name in my application for admission to Columbia, do I need to request a Preferred Name in SSOL? Yes, incoming students should login to SSOL when they arrive at Columbia to request a Preferred Name. Do I have to get a new University ID Card if I choose to have a Preferred Name? No. Use of a Preferred Name Identification Card is only an option for students – in no way is it a requirement. A student can specify a Preferred Name via SSOL that will then cause the name to display on SSOL and course enrollment rosters without generating a Preferred Name ID Card. Only when the Preferred Name is activated in the student database, an action that your Dean of Students will authorize the Registrar’s Office to transact, will the Name feed to IDM and make possible a new Preferred Name ID Card. How do I get my Preferred Name on my Columbia ID Card? In order to receive a University ID Card with your Preferred Name, follow these steps: Submit your Preferred Name request in SSOL for review by the Registrar’s Office. It will take approximately 7 business days to process your request. Before you arrive to pick up your new ID Card with your Preferred Name, call the ID Center on your campus to confirm that your Preferred Name is appearing in the ID system (Morningside: +1-212-854-7225; Medical Center: +1-212-305-0238). For students on the Morningside campus, the ID Card with the Legal Name should be returned to the ID Center at 204 Kent Hall. Students on the Medical Center campus should return their ID Card with Legal Name to the CUMC ID Card Office at 630 West 168th Street. May I have a new photograph taken for my new ID Card? Yes, please inform the staff at the ID Card Center that you would like a new photograph to be taken before your new Card with Preferred Name is issued. * For CUMC students in P&S (including PT and OT), Nursing, or Dental Schools: If you are a P&S, Dental, or Nursing student interacting with patients, or another student who may be in an internship or placement in a patient care area governed by New York State health law: New York State health law, licensing regulations, and related policies may limit the use of a preferred name in place of a legal name. Before entering a Preferred Name in this system, you must speak with your Dean of Students regarding these potential regulatory limitations. Is the Columbia ID Card a form of identification accepted off campus? It is advisable to carry a government-issued form of ID such as a driver’s license or passport with you in order to access resources that are not on the Columbia campus. I need to change my legal name, how will this affect my preferred name? If you have a preferred name in SSOL and submit a subsequent legal name change, you must delete your preferred name in SSOL in order for the new legal name to appear. Please contact the Student Service Center with any questions. For More Information If you have more questions about requesting a Preferred Name, please write to registrar@columbia.edu. For information about legal name change procedures available in New York City, check these resources: http://nycourts.gov/CourtHelp/NameChange/index.shtml http://srlp.org/resources/namechange/ Preferred Name FAQ Registrar Highlights Academic Calendar 2020-2021 Directory of Classes Vergil FERPA and Personal Information Graduation and Diplomas Grades and Exams SSOL Office of the University Registrar | 210 Kent Hall, MC 9202, 1140 Amsterdam Avenue, New York, NY 10027 | registrar@columbia.edu