Skip to main content Florida State University This is your Donation message. Log In This Site FSU Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Submit Submit Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Giving University Registrar Toggle navigation Site Menu Current Records Overview Status & Retention Drop/Add Service Indicators Enrollment Cancellation Grade Services Deans' Directory Publications Overview Bulletin Info Registration Guide Info Campus Map Info Course Descriptions Calendars Graduation Overview Graduation Checklist Ceremony Information Diplomas Degrees of Distinction Update Expected Grad Term FAQ Student Services Overview Graduation Transcripts Certification State Employee Fee Waiver FERPA Course Descriptions Scheduling Overview Curriculum Academic Space Class Search Archive Bulletin Undergraduate Graduate Registration Guide Past Editions 2021-2022 Undergraduate Bulletin Home Bulletin Undergraduate Departments & Programs Urban Planning Helpful Links Graduate Bulletin Policies & Information Colleges Departments & Programs Bulletin PDF Undergraduate Bulletin Policies & Information Colleges Departments & Programs Bulletin PDF Archive of Previous Editions Fall Registration Guide Spring Registration Guide Summer Registration Guide Class Search Snapshots Undergraduate Department of Urban and Regional Planning College of Social Sciences and Public Policy Website: https://coss.fsu.edu/durp Chair: Jeff Brown; Professors: Brown, Chapin, Coutts, Doan; Associate Professors: Butler, Duncan; Assistant Professors: Holmes, Jackson, Fang, Kim; Teaching Faculty: Felkner; Planner in Residence: Smith; Professors Emeriti: Cowart, Deyle, Miles, RuBino, Thompson The profession of Urban and Regional Planning encompasses all aspects of the development of human settlements, including the use of land, protection of the environment, economic productivity, and the future allocation of physical and social public resources. Planning’s initial concern with the form and structure of cities continues, but it has grown to include all aspects of the formulation and implementation of public policy, at all levels of society. Today, the field is a diverse one, incorporating the many issues developed over the past decades and expanding to include new areas of concern. This has resulted in the establishment of new priorities and the emergence of new policy directions, including environmental sustainability, social-ecological resilience, human service delivery systems, affordable housing, attention to job growth, global competitiveness, and access to health services, as well as more traditional activities such as the provision and financing of roads, infrastructure, and public services. As an institutional and professional activity, planning is now practiced in the public sector at all levels of government and in the private sector through firms that service local governments, development interests, and community groups. At each stage in the development of the profession new skills and knowledge have been called for, creating new employment opportunities and an expansion of the backgrounds held by professionals in the field. Today, planners have ties to the various social sciences, natural sciences, law, engineering, business, the design professions, and others. Consequently, majors from throughout the University have been attracted to the field and have thrived in a discipline that welcomes individuals with backgrounds in science, policy, design, and computer applications. What unites persons from these various backgrounds into the professional field of planning is a commitment to making the world a better place through collaboration, consensus building, and enlightened and informed public policy. While both the problems and the means for dealing with them may differ, all planners are concerned with systematically studying problems, their likely future levels, and formulating appropriate policies and programs to deal with them. Moreover, unlike many other problem-oriented professions, planning is distinguished by its concern with coordinated policy responses. Planners have adopted a broad view that focuses on the interrelationships between problems and the necessary interrelatedness of solutions. Above all, planners are committed to a particular concern: improving the “quality of life” in the places they work. This extends to employment, schools, health, housing, community facilities, and the physical, social, and natural environments. While any single professional may focus on a narrower range of issues, the field as a whole focuses on the entire set of issues affecting the livability of the built and natural environment. Planners attempt to address these issues in ways that recognize the differing and legitimate concerns of many diverse and partisan interests. Accordingly, planning is a demanding and exciting field. It is beset by challenges that are created by the difficulties in finding solutions to thorny problems and in obtaining a consensus among diverse interests on policies and programs to address these problems. At the same time, it is a rewarding field. Planners know that they can and do make significant contributions to the well-being of their cities, states, and nations. The Department of Urban and Regional Planning offers two non-major programs for undergraduates interested in planning and urban affairs. These programs are designed to complement an existing major for those students who wish to develop an appreciation of planning or who wish to lay the foundation for graduate study in planning. These programs are the undergraduate planning studies minor and Combined Bachelor’s/Master’s Pathway. Within each of these programs, students may satisfy their minor requirements. Because of the variety of issues and contexts within which planners work, there is no one undergraduate background that is more important than others. Students may combine their interests in planning and urban affairs with undergraduate majors in the variety of social sciences, physical or natural sciences, business, engineering, design professions, communications, criminology and criminal justice, and others. Planning Studies Minor Program This program is designed for students who wish to apply their major field to problems and issues in planning and urban affairs. The program consists of a series of courses that provide an overview of planning and that introduce the student to issues, organizations, policies, and implementation strategies. Students may earn a minor in urban and regional planning by completing a four-course sequence that is composed of three required courses and one elective course. URP 3000 is a prerequisite for all the elective courses as well as URP 4022. Electives are chosen from among a set of courses representing the major policy areas taught by the department. Students interested in the planning studies minor program are advised to see the department’s Academic Programs Specialist for advice on the availability of courses. Required Courses URS 1006 World Cities: Quality of Life URP 3000 Introduction to Planning and Urban Development URP 4022 Collective Decision Making Elective Courses (Choose One) URP 4104 Consequences of Planning URP 4314 Introduction to Growth Management and Comprehensive Planning URP 4318 Growth Management and Environmental Planning URP 4402 Sustainable Development Planning in the Americas URP 4404 River Basin Management and Planning URP 4408 Food Systems Planning URP 4423 Introduction to Environmental Planning and Resource Management URP 4612 Strategies for Urban and Regional Planning in Less Developed Countries URP 4618 Planning for Developing Regions URP 4710 Introduction to Transportation Issues and Transportation Planning URP 4715 Bike and Pedestrian Planning URP 4741 Introduction to Issues in Housing and Community Development URP 4811 Multicultural Urbanism URP 4936r Special Topics in Urban and Regional Planning Combined Bachelor’s/Master’s Pathway This undergraduate program is designed for students who anticipate continuing to graduate school to earn the professional master’s degree in planning. Students in this program are given the opportunity to begin graduate-level coursework in their senior year and thereby may satisfy some of the requirements of a graduate degree while still completing their undergraduate credit hour requirements. This program is closely coordinated with the department’s graduate program, offering students the possibility of preferred admission with advanced standing at the graduate level. Students make application for advanced standing after admission to the master’s program. The Combined Bachelor’s/Master’s Pathway allows acceleration toward the Master of Science (MS) in planning degree upon satisfactory completion of one required undergraduate course and one to four of the eligible URP graduate courses. URP 3000 is a prerequisite/corequisite for all courses. Admission to the Combined Bachelor’s/Master’s Pathway is available only to those undergraduates who are beginning or are in their senior year and who have maintained a cumulative FSU grade point average (GPA) of at least 3.2 or who have earned a satisfactory score on the combined verbal and quantitative portions of the GRE and who have taken or are registered for URP 3000. Students completing this program with an upper-division GPA of at least 3.0 may be offered admission to the master’s program in planning with advanced standing for up to twelve semester hours of coursework in which the grade of “B” or higher was earned. Required Course URP 3000 Introduction to Planning and Urban Development (3) Elective Courses (Choose One to Four) Students interested in the Combined Bachelor’s/Master’s Pathway are advised to see the department’s Master’s Program Director for advising on appropriate courses to take. Definition of Prefixes URP—Urban and Regional Planning URS—Urban and Regional Studies Undergraduate Courses Liberal Studies for the 21st Century: Social Science URS 1006. World Cities: Quality of Life (3). In this course, major world cities are examined in terms of their natural, social, and built environments in order to assess those factors that promote quality-of-life and sustainability. Prospects for future growth and change are considered in light of demographic, cultural, economic, and political trends. Upper Division Courses URP 3000. Introduction to Planning and Urban Development (3). This course introduces planning concepts and the role of planning in formulating policy, meeting critical problems, and shaping the future urban environment. URP 3527. Green Global Health (3). In this course students explore how nature conservation is necessary for the continuation of life on earth with particular attention on the myriad ways of that the natural environment and systems support human health, livelihoods, and wellbeing. URP 4104. Consequences of Planning (3). In this course, students develop and hone skills essential for the effective practice of planning by harnessing the full diversity of viewpoints within a community to achieve sustainable policy change. Students familiarize themselves with a broad range of research in the academic and professional literature that impacts day-to-day planning practice. URP 4022. Collective Decision Making (3). Prerequisite: URP 3000 or instructor permission. This course provides an introduction to planning as a collective decision-making tool, and introduces the concepts of efficiency, equity, and environmental quality as competing bases for public decisions. The course examines tools for contributing to public decisions in varying circumstances, including unitary and diverse decision makers, certain and uncertain environments, and simple and complex goals. URP 4314. Introduction to Growth Management and Comprehensive Planning (3). Prerequisite: URP 3000 or instructor permission. This course is an introduction to the problems and needs for growth management and comprehensive planning for U.S. cities, highlighting various planning approaches and strategies available for meeting development, growth, and land-use problems. URP 4318. Growth Management and Environmental Planning (3). Prerequisite: URP 3000. This course provides a general introduction to growth management and environmental planning through an overview of general planning history, basic legal theory, principles of growth management and land use planning, and introductory environmental management approaches. The first portion of the course covers basic growth management principles, both to identify issues and to study current trends in planning. The second portion of this course covers current practices and approaches to environmental planning that are important to defining environmental planning problems and evaluating alternative courses of action. URP 4402. Sustainable Development Planning in the Americas (3). Prerequisite: URP 3000 or instructor permission. This course examines various dimensions of the “sustainable development” paradigm and its local-global policy implications, issues, and controversies with a focus upon North America and Latin America. The course is organized into three modules: 1) environmental philosophies that have influenced the movement; 2) North American approaches to planning for sustainable development; and 3) critical issues of sustainable development in Latin America. URP 4404. River Basin Management and Planning (3). This course introduces river basin management and planning and takes a systemic approach from biological, hydrological, and geopolitical viewpoints. Special emphasis is placed on the planning and management of transboundary (interstate and international) basins. The focus is on world river basin systems as well as on the local Apalachicola-Chattahoochee-Flint basin. Students are introduced to technical concepts and tools, including negotiation and math simulation tools. URP 4408. Food Systems Planning (3). This course provides a contextual understanding of food systems in the formation of cities, the impacts of food policy on food systems, and planning responses to the many challenges that arise in relation to the globalized food system. URP 4423. Introduction to Environmental Planning and Resource Management (3). Prerequisite: URP 3000 or instructor permission. This course is a general introduction to the problems of resource management and environmental planning, with an overview of problems and potential solutions and their relation to other public policy areas such as land-use control and regional development. URP 4612. Strategies for Urban and Regional Planning in Less Developed Countries (3). This course provides an overview of the evolving development policies concerned with the spatial location of people and economic activities. The course encourages students to analyze and critique the social and economic implications of various policies, and to develop alternative strategies for attaining development objectives. URP 4618. Planning for Developing Regions (3). Prerequisite: URP 3000 or instructor permission. This course introduces the student to the field of development planning and gives the student exposure to the interplay between theory and practice. Topics include concepts of development, measurement and indicators of patterns of development, rural development, urban development, preparation of development plans, and implementation of development plans. URP 4710. Introduction to Transportation Issues and Transportation Planning (3). Prerequisite: URP 3000 or instructor permission. This course is an introduction to contemporary U.S. transportation problems, sources of funding, and legislation. Presents the theory and methods employed by planners in the process of resolving transportation problems. URP 4715. Bike and Pedestrian Planning (3). In this course, students consider how increasing pedestrian and bike activity can make our communities healthier, more equitable, and is less damaging to the environment. This course explores the various ways that non-motorized travel (i.e., walking and biking) can be made more desirable and safer. This includes planning, design, and implementation of 1) bike and pedestrian facilities/networks, 2) a built environment that supports non-motorized travel, and 3) promotional and educational programs. URP 4741. Introduction to Issues in Housing and Community Development (3). Prerequisite: URP 3000 or instructor permission. This course focuses on the operation of the housing market, the nature of the housing and community development problem, and the gradual development of a national housing and community development policy since the 1930s. The course also examines relationships between public and private sectors. URP 4811. Multicultural Urbanism (3). This course studies past, present, and future urban geographies and the impact urban social and economic policy have on social equity. Students learn the significance of race, gender, ethnicity, and identity in urban development and urban life. URP 4936r. Special Topics in Urban and Regional Planning (3). This course is a selected topics seminar for the discussion of unique and timely planning related issues. Content varies. May be repeated within the same term. May be repeated to a maximum of fifteen semester hours. Graduate Courses Planning Theory and Practice URP 5059. Community Involvement and Public Participation (3). URP 5101. Planning Theory and Practice (3). URP 5122. Planning Dispute Resolution (3). URP 5123. Collaborative Governance: Consensus Building for Planners (3). URP 5125. Plan Implementation (3). URP 5316. Land-Use Planning (3). URP 5342. Advanced Planning Problems (3). URP 5544. Gender and Development (3). URP 5805. Multicultural Urbanism (3). URP 6102. Seminar in Planning Theory (3). Planning Methods URP 5201. Planning Research Methods (3). URP 5211. Planning Statistics (3). URP 5222. Planning Alternatives Evaluation (3). URP 5261. Forecasting for Plan Development (3). URP 5272. Urban and Regional Information Systems (3). URP 5279. Urban and Regional Information Systems Practicum (3). URP 5885. Graphics Communication for Urban Planning and Design (3). URP 6202. Design of Policy-Oriented Research (3). Urban Growth Process URP 5847. Growth and Development of Cities (3). URP 6846. Seminar in Urban Theory (3). Planning for Developing Areas URP 5610. Introduction to Planning for Developing Regions (3). URP 5611. Strategies for Urban and Regional Development in Less Developed Countries (3). URP 5616. Project Planning in Developing Countries (3). Environmental Planning URP 5405. River Basin Planning and Management (3). URP 5407. Food Systems Planning (3). URP 5421. Introduction to Environmental Planning and Natural Resource Management (3). URP 5422. Coastal Planning (3). URP 5424. Sustainable Development Planning in the Americas (3). URP 5425. Methods of Environmental Analysis (3). URP 5427. Environmental Legislation and Policy (3). URP 5429r. Special Topics in Environmental Planning and Resource Management (3). URP 5445. Climate change and Community Resilience (3). Planning and public health URP 5521. Public Health Epidemiology (3). URP 5525. Health Behavior and Education (3). Real Estate and Economic Development Planning URP 5312. Perspectives and Issues of Comprehensive Planning and Growth Management (3). URP 5540. State and Local Economic Development (3). URP 5940. Economic Development Practicum: Industrial Development in a Global Perspective (3). Transportation Planning URP 5350. Pedestrian-Oriented Communities (3). URP 5355. International Transportation Planning (3). URP 5711. The Transportation Planning Process (3). URP 5716. Transportation and Land Use (3). URP 5717. Methods of Transportation Planning (3). URP 5731. The Planning of Community Infrastructure (3). Neighborhood Planning and Community Design URP 5445r. Climate Change and Community Resilience (3). URP 5615. Infrastructure and Housing in Less Developed Countries (3). URP 5742. Problems and Issues in Housing and Community Development (3). URP 5743. Neighborhood Planning (3). URP 5749r. Special Topics in Housing and Community Development (3). URP 5881. Urban Design (3). URP 5873. Site Design and Land-Use Analysis (3). URP 5881. Urban Design (3). Building Healthy Communities URP 5407. Food Systems Planning (3). URP 5521. Public Health Epidemiology (3). URP 5525. Health Behavior and Education (3). URP 5526. Healthy Cities, Healthy Communities (3). Other Courses for Graduate Students URP 5905r. Directed Individual Study (1–3). (S/U grade only.) URP 5910r. Directed Individual Research (1–3). (S/U grade only.) URP 5930r. Professional Topics in Urban and Regional Planning (0). (S/U grade only.) URP 5939r. Special Topics in Urban and Regional Planning (0–3). URP 6938. Doctoral Research Colloquium (0). (S/U grade only.) URP 6981r. Supervised Teaching (1–3). (S/U grade only.) For listings relating to graduate coursework for thesis, dissertation, and master’s and doctoral examinations and defense, consult the Graduate Bulletin. VISUAL DISABILITIES: see Childhood Education, Reading, and Disability Services Mailing Address A3900 University Center 282 Champions Way Tallahassee, FL 32306-2480 Email Registrar - registrar@fsu.edu Phone 850.644.1050 Hours Monday - Friday, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Eastern Time Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright