Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today Office of the University Registrar An office in Enrollment Management Search form Search Home Calendar Services Course & Room Scheduling Overview Auditoriums Auditorium Request Auditorium Utilization Report for Spring 2023 Classrooms » Course Catalog » Deadlines Exams Final Exam Policies & Guidelines Special Exam Policies Final Exams for Online and Non-Regular Courses Spring 2022 Final Exam Schedule Fall 2022 Final Exam Schedule Room Scheduling System (25 Live) » Room Reservations Event Room Reservation Request Schedule of Classes » Scheduling Officer Information Short Courses Standard Meeting Times Definitions for Course Components Scheduling Forms & Documents Enrollment Overview Add/Drop a Class Add/Drop/Withdraw Forms Approvals and Deadlines Drop Checklist Continuing Students New Students Readmitted Students Visiting Students and High School Dual Enrollment Late Enrollment Withdraw Considerations Effects of Dropping or Withdrawing on your Transcript Prior to Start of Semester After the Start of the Semester At the End of the Semester Withdrawal Form Medical and Compassionate Withdrawal Enrollment Resources Enrollment Status Maximum Enrollment Hours Enrollment Holds Schedule Builder Schedule of Classes » Records Overview Enrollment Certification Loan Deferments » Delegate Access Student Instructions Delegate Instructions Staff Instructions Grades Grade Definitions Grade Point Averages Parent and Guardian Grade Reports Enroll & Pay How-To's » Graduation Diplomas Statement of Degree Statement of Forthcoming Degree KU 150 Diploma KU ID Number Personal Information & Privacy Making Updates Student Data Request Transcripts Order a Transcript Charges and Delivery Options Transcript FAQ Electronic Transcript FAQ Transcript Key Records Forms University Seal Apostille Residency Overview Residency Definition Frequently Asked Questions Residency Application Appeals Armed Forces Residency Benefit Haskell Residency Tuition & Fees Tuition & Fees Overview Comprehensive Fee Schedule Archive CFS (2020-21) CFS (2019-20) CFS (2018-19) CFS (2017-18) CFS (2016-17) CFS (2015-16) CFS (2014-15) CFS (2013-14) CFS (2012-13) Fee Privileges Brochure Fee Petition Appeals Tuition and Fee Waiver Forms Class Supply Fee Opt-Out Request Loan Deferment Residency People About Overview Hours & Location Accreditation Reports University Reporting Contact us Forms Sitemap Faculty & Staff Resources Menu Home Calendar Services Course & Room Scheduling Overview Auditoriums Auditorium Request Auditorium Utilization Report for Spring 2023 Classrooms » Course Catalog » Deadlines Exams Final Exam Policies & Guidelines Special Exam Policies Final Exams for Online and Non-Regular Courses Spring 2022 Final Exam Schedule Fall 2022 Final Exam Schedule Room Scheduling System (25 Live) » Room Reservations Event Room Reservation Request Schedule of Classes » Scheduling Officer Information Short Courses Standard Meeting Times Definitions for Course Components Scheduling Forms & Documents Enrollment Overview Add/Drop a Class Add/Drop/Withdraw Forms Approvals and Deadlines Drop Checklist Continuing Students New Students Readmitted Students Visiting Students and High School Dual Enrollment Late Enrollment Withdraw Considerations Effects of Dropping or Withdrawing on your Transcript Prior to Start of Semester After the Start of the Semester At the End of the Semester Withdrawal Form Medical and Compassionate Withdrawal Enrollment Resources Enrollment Status Maximum Enrollment Hours Enrollment Holds Schedule Builder Schedule of Classes » Records Overview Enrollment Certification Loan Deferments » Delegate Access Student Instructions Delegate Instructions Staff Instructions Grades Grade Definitions Grade Point Averages Parent and Guardian Grade Reports Enroll & Pay How-To's » Graduation Diplomas Statement of Degree Statement of Forthcoming Degree KU 150 Diploma KU ID Number Personal Information & Privacy Making Updates Student Data Request Transcripts Order a Transcript Charges and Delivery Options Transcript FAQ Electronic Transcript FAQ Transcript Key Records Forms University Seal Apostille Residency Overview Residency Definition Frequently Asked Questions Residency Application Appeals Armed Forces Residency Benefit Haskell Residency Tuition & Fees Tuition & Fees Overview Comprehensive Fee Schedule Archive CFS (2020-21) CFS (2019-20) CFS (2018-19) CFS (2017-18) CFS (2016-17) CFS (2015-16) CFS (2014-15) CFS (2013-14) CFS (2012-13) Fee Privileges Brochure Fee Petition Appeals Tuition and Fee Waiver Forms Class Supply Fee Opt-Out Request Loan Deferment Residency People About Overview Hours & Location Accreditation Reports University Reporting Contact us Forms Sitemap Faculty & Staff Resources Search Search form Search Home Services Enrollment Add/Drop a Class Add/Drop/Withdraw Forms Overview Add/Drop a Class Add/Drop/Withdraw Forms Approvals and Deadlines Drop Checklist Continuing Students New Students Readmitted Students Visiting Students and High School Dual Enrollment Late Enrollment Withdraw Enrollment Resources Schedule Builder Schedule of Classes » Add/Drop/Withdraw Processes Adding Classes Enrolling Online through Enroll & Pay - Students can add most classes themselves through Enroll & Pay. You should always attempt to enroll yourself in classes before requesting a permission number or completing an add request form. The following how-to guides contain step-by-step instructions on how to add a class: How to Add a Class How to Add Yourself to a Class Waitlist How to Add a Class from Your Shopping Cart How to Adjust Credit Hours of a Variable Credit Course Spring 2022 - Adding courses after the last day to add with permission (After 2/14 for Spring 2022 full term classes; for short term classes refer to the Spring 2022 Short Course List): If you are already enrolled in at least one course for the Spring 2022 semester please visit the FacEx Page to complete the Schedule Change and FacEx form to request an exception to add after the last day to add with permission. If you are not enrolled in any Spring 2022 courses and are attempting to enroll in a class after the last day to enroll with permission please visit with your advisor about first obtaining a Permission to Late Enroll form along with your next steps. Enrollment Errors - Students will receive an enrollment error in situations that require permission to add a class. If you receive one of the following errors when attempting to add a class, you will need to either choose another class or request permission to add the class. The instructions below outline how to request permission for the various enrollment errors. Review the table carefully as the method for requesting permission to add varies depending upon the error you receive. Enrollment Error How to Request Permission to Add Add Deadline has Passed You Do Not Have Access to This Action at This Time Adding a class and increasing the credit hours of a variable credit class you are already enrolled in can be done in Enroll & Pay through the last day to add online. Instructor permission is required after the deadline to add online. If you receive the error saying the add deadline has passed: Make note of the class, including the subject and catalog number as well as the 5 digit class number (example: ENGL 101 class# 12345). Check the deadline to add the class. Full Semester Classes - For classes that span the full semester, go to https://registrar.ku.edu/calendar to find the last day to add or swap a class. Short Courses - For classes that do not span the full semester, go to https://registrar.ku.edu/short-courses to find the last day to add with approval of the specific course. If the deadline has not passed, fill out one of the following forms: Submit the Request to Enroll After the Deadline to Add Online form to request permission to enroll in a class after the deadline. Submit the Request to Adjust Credit Hours form to request permission to increase the credit hours of a variable credit course you are currently enrolled in. Monitor your email closely after sending the request and respond promptly if you are asked for additional information. You will be notified of the decision via email. If your request is approved, the Office of the University Registrar will enroll you in the class. Time Conflict Make note of both classes involved in the time conflict, including the subject and catalog number as well as the 5 digit class number (example: ENGL 101 class# 12345) of each class. Fill out the Request for Time Conflict Approval form. Monitor your email closely after sending the request and respond promptly if you are asked for additional information. You will be notified of the decision via email. If your request is approved, the Office of the University Registrar will enroll you in the class. Term Maximum Exceeded Make note of the class(es) you were unable to add, including the subject and catalog number as well as the 5 digit class number (example: ENGL 101 class# 12345). Fill out the Request to Enroll Above Maximum Hours Limit form. Monitor your email closely after sending the request and respond promptly if you are asked for additional information. You will be notified of the decision via email. If your request is approved, the Office of the University Registrar will enroll you in the class. Instructor/Department Consent Required Closed Class Class Full Requisites Not Met Outside Career of Study Make note of the specific error and the class, including the subject and catalog number as well as the 5 digit class number (example: ENGL 101 class# 12345). Send an email requesting permission to add the class to that class's department (example: email the Math Department to request permission to add a math class). The email you send should contain the following information: The subject and catalog number of the class. The 5 digit class number of the class. The error you received when you attempted to enroll. Any pertinent information you would like the department to know when considering your request (example: I am enrolled in the prerequisite for this class at another school this semester) Monitor your email closely after sending the request and respond promptly if you are asked for additional information. You will be notified of the decision via email. If your request is approved, you will then need to enroll yourself in the class through Enroll & Pay. In some cases you may be required to enter a permission number when enrolling. If a permission number is required, it will be emailed to you. Dropping/Withdrawing/Decreasing Credit Hours There are many things to consider before dropping a class or withdrawing from all classes. You are strongly advised to review the drop/withdrawal considerations prior to dropping or withdrawing. Drop Considerations (when dropping some but not all classes) Withdrawal Considerations (when dropping all classes for a given term) Dropping, Withdrawing and Decreasing Credit Hours of a Variable Credit Class Online through Enroll & Pay - Most drops, withdrawals, and credit hour decreases can be done by students themselves online through Enroll & Pay. You should always attempt to drop or withdraw yourself before completing the Drop/Withdraw form. The following how-to guides contain step-by-step instructions on how to drop classes and/or withdraw from the university: How to Drop a Class - follow these instructions to drop some but not all classes for a given term. How to Withdraw from All Classes - follow these instructions to withdraw from all classes for a given term. How to Decrease Credit Hours of a Variable Credit Class - follow these instructions to decrease the credit hours of a variable credit class you are currently enrolled in. Credit hour decreases can be completed in Enroll & Pay through 11:59pm central of the fifth day of classes. Information on how to request a decrease in credit hours after the fifth day of classes can be found below. Dropping/Withdrawing with an Online Form - Students in certain schools may not be able to drop and/or withdraw through Enroll & Pay. If you are not able to drop a class or withdraw from all classes using the instructions above, fill out and submit the Drop/Withdraw form. Decreasing Credit Hours of a Variable Credit Class with an Online Form - After the fifth day of classes, you must submit the Request to Adjust Credit Hours form to request approval to decrease the credit hours of a variable credit class. Requests to decrease credit hours must be submitted by the last day to withdrawal. KU Academic Calendar Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. University Registrar Updates October 13, 2021 Notification of Rights Under FERPA (2021-2022) October 13, 2020 Notification of Rights Under FERPA (2020-2021) October 2, 2019 Notification of Rights Under FERPA (2019-2020) Read more updates Hawk Help: Ask a Question Enrollment Enroll & Pay is the University of Kansas' online campus solution for enrollment, financial and other services. The Online Schedule of Classes Why KU Apply » One of 34 U.S. public institutions in the prestigious Association of American Universities 44 nationally ranked graduate programs. —U.S. News & World Report Top 50 nationwide for size of library collection. —ALA 5th nationwide for service to veterans —"Best for Vets: Colleges," Military Times KU Today Give to KU » Contact Office of the University Registrar registrar@ku.edu 785-864-4423 785-864-3900 1502 Iowa Street Lawrence, Kansas 66045 Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login