Office of the Registrar Off screen: Skip to content Off screen: Skip to search Office of the Registrar Main Menu Menu Student and Alumni Services SubMenu Transcript and Verification Services SubMenu Calculate Your GPA First Year Course Selection Course Selection SubMenu Undergraduate Course Selection Graduate Course Selection Adding or Dropping Courses P/D/F and Grade Option Selection Concentration Declaration Senior Checkout Veterans Diplomas Policies SubMenu Data Privacy Name Preferences Summer Undergraduate Internship Milestone Credit Faculty and Department Resources SubMenu Examinations and Grading SubMenu Examination and Grading Dates Grading Practices Conduct of Courses Secure Resources Course Offerings SubMenu Search New Courses Program for Community-Engaged Scholarship Courses Summer Programs Classrooms Academic Calendar and Deadlines Final Exams SubMenu Final Exam Schedule Policy Reschedule Request TigerHub About Us Contact Us Forms Catalogs Search Search Home Student and Alumni Services Senior Checkout Section Menu Transcript and Verification Services First Year Course Selection Course Selection Concentration Declaration Senior Checkout Veterans Diplomas Policies Summer Undergraduate Internship Milestone Credit Your diploma is a representation of your accomplishments during your time at Princeton. As you prepare for graduation, it is important to verify your name and contact information. Contact your department to verify information for certificates. You will receive your diploma and any earned certificates at your residential college following Commencement. Please provide a mailing address for these documents in the event that you are unable to attend Commencement or that Commencement is not held in-person. Instructions Log in to TigerHub. Review your diploma name and make any changes, click Save Name. Provide an address to which your diploma and any certificate(s) may be mailed, click Submit Address. Notes Special characters: The form provides a set of special characters, if needed. Footer Office of the Registrar Princeton University 330 Alexander Street, 4th floor Princeton, NJ 08540 Contact Phone: (609) 258-3361 Fax: (609) 258-6328 Email: registrar@princeton.edu Office Hours Academic Year: 8:45 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Summer: 8:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. Quicklinks Registrar Functions (Registrar staff only) Community Auditing University Enrollment Statistics Data Sets © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Accessibility