Skip to main content Florida State University This is your Donation message. Log In This Site FSU Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Submit Submit Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Giving University Registrar Toggle navigation Site Menu Current Records Overview Status & Retention Drop/Add Service Indicators Enrollment Cancellation Grade Services Deans' Directory Publications Overview Bulletin Info Registration Guide Info Campus Map Info Course Descriptions Calendars Graduation Overview Graduation Checklist Ceremony Information Diplomas Degrees of Distinction Update Expected Grad Term FAQ Student Services Overview Graduation Transcripts Certification State Employee Fee Waiver FERPA Course Descriptions Scheduling Overview Curriculum Academic Space Class Search Archive Bulletin Undergraduate Graduate Registration Guide Past Editions 2021-2022 Undergraduate Bulletin Home Bulletin Undergraduate Departments & Programs Recreation Helpful Links Graduate Bulletin Policies & Information Colleges Departments & Programs Bulletin PDF Undergraduate Bulletin Policies & Information Colleges Departments & Programs Bulletin PDF Archive of Previous Editions Fall Registration Guide Spring Registration Guide Summer Registration Guide Class Search Snapshots Undergraduate Program in Recreation and Tourism Management Dedman College of hospitality Website: https://pc.fsu.edu/rte Note: The Recreation and Tourism Management Program is now transferred to the Dedman School of Hospitality as one of the degree programs within that academic college. For complete information about the degree requirements, courses, minor, and certificate programs, please read the content in this bulletin under the Dedman School of Hospitality. Fall 2020 was the final semester for the College of Applied Studies (COA) to accept applications to the Recreation, Tourism and Events Program (RTE). Applications for Spring Semester, 2021 and beyond should be made to the Dedman School of Hospitality on the Tallahassee campus of FSU. Students who were enrolled in the Recreation, Tourism and Events (RTE) major in the College of Applied Studies as of Fall semester 2020 will have the option of switching to the new RTE based curriculum within the Dedman School of Hospitality, or finishing their degree under the RTE curriculum that was in effect when they were admitted to the RTE program. This option will be available for two years, thru Fall semester 2022. Program Coordinator: John Crossley; Teaching Faculty III: Prince, Trafford The Recreation, Tourism and Events program offers courses leading to the Bachelor of Science (BS) degree in Recreation, Tourism and Events. The degree is designed to prepare individuals for professional positions in such settings as special events management, resort and commercial recreation, corporate and employee recreation, public parks and recreation, youth-serving and military agencies, campus recreation, and travel and tourism. With a bachelor’s degree from this program, students may qualify for employment as event and recreation program supervisors/managers/coordinators, facility managers, adult and youth sports supervisors, activities directors, special events coordinators, tourism services managers, and guest service coordinators. For more information, contact the Program Coordinator, Dr. John Crossley, by e-mail at jcrossley@pc.fsu.edu or by phone at (850) 770-2239. The Recreation and Tourism Management program offers its full degree program at both the Tallahassee campus and the Panama City campus. Advising Florida State University provides academic advising to students interested in pursuing coursework in the College of Hospitality. For students who want to take courses on the Tallahassee campus, contact Donna Trafford by email at dtrafford@fsu.edu, or by phone at (850) 645-9774. For students who want to take classes on the Panama City campus, contact the Academic Advising & Student Success Center by e-mail at advising@pc.fsu.edu or by phone at (850) 770-2288. Degree Requirements To earn a bachelor’s degree in Recreation, Tourism and Events, students must successfully complete the following: (1) twenty-eight semester hours of required coursework: LEI 3004, 3312, 3420, 3435, 3843, 4524, 4551, 4602, 4881, 4930; (2) two semester hours of fieldwork: LEI 4921r; (3) fifteen semester hours of internship: LEI 4940r; and (4) fifteen semester hours of approved specialization coursework. Students must be certified in First Aid/CPR prior to enrolling in LEI 4940. To be eligible for the internship, which is scheduled the last semester of the program of study, students must have earned a 2.25 cumulative GPA in all college coursework and a 2.25 GPA in all core courses bearing the prefix LEI. A minimum grade of “C–” or better must be earned in all program coursework. Computer Skills Competency All undergraduates at Florida State University must demonstrate basic computer skills competency prior to graduation. As necessary computer skills vary from discipline to discipline, each major determines the courses needed to satisfy this requirement. Undergraduate majors in recreation, tourism and events satisfy this requirement by earning a grade of “C–” or higher in CGS 2060 or CGS 2100 or equivalent. LEI 4864 is also approved to satisfy this requirement by earning a grade of “C” or higher. State of Florida Common Program Prerequisites The state of Florida has identified common program prerequisites for this University degree program. Specific prerequisites are required for admission into the upper-division program and must be completed by the student at either a community college or a state university prior to being admitted to this program. Students may be admitted into the University without completing the prerequisites, but may not be admitted into the program. At the time this document was published, some common program prerequisites were being reviewed by the state of Florida and may have been revised. Please visit https://dlss.flvc.org/admin-tools/common-prerequisites-manuals for a current list of state-approved prerequisites. The following lists the common program prerequisites or their substitutions, necessary for admission into this upper-division degree program: Recreation and Tourism management – Professional CGS X060 or CGS X100 Requirements for a Minor in Recreation and Tourism Management A minor in Recreation, Tourism and Events requires twelve hours of coursework. The minor consists of LEI 3004 and any three of the following courses: LEI 3266, LEI 3312, LEI 3420, LEI 3435, LEI 3843, LEI 4314, LEI 4524, LEI 4561, LEI 4864. A grade of “C–” or better must be earned in each course counted toward the minor. Certificates The College of Hospitality offers an undergraduate Certificate in Special Events which consists of LEI 3312, LEI 4314, LEI 4561, and LEI 4864. The student must earn a “C” or higher in each of the four courses taken for credit and maintain a 2.5 (C+) grade point average or higher in the four courses for the certificate to be granted. For more information, contact the Certificate Coordinator, Rosemary Prince, by e-mail at rprince@fsu.edu or visit https://dedman.fsu.edu/current-students/undergraduate-programs/recreation-tourism-and-events/certificate-special-events. University Honors and Honor Societies The College of Hospitality encourages eligible students to participate in university honors and in the honors in the major program. For a list of University-wide honor societies officially recognized by Florida State University, requirements, and other information, see the “University Honors Office and Honor Societies” chapter of the General Bulletin. Definition of Prefixes LEI—Leisure Courses for Recreation and tourism management Majors LEI 1181. Leisure and Recreation Adaptations for All Ages and Abilities (3). This course introduces students to the concepts of leisure and recreation for people of varying abilities. Students review best practices for inclusion in facilities and programs. This course is interactive, with student participation through simulations, group discussions, presentations, and opportunities for personal reflection. LEI 1264. Backpacking (1). (S/U grade only.) This is an introductory course designed to prepare participants for backpacking in low-level terrain in a safe and environmentally sound manner. The course covers equipment, clothing, food preparation, route selection, safety and risk management, environmental practices, and “no trace” camping. LEI 1267. Canoeing/Kayaking (1). (S/U grade only.) This course is designed to give students an applicable knowledge of the sport/activity of canoeing and kayaking, as well as develop students’ physical and mental ability to learn and execute canoeing and kayaking skills. This is a beginner flat water and Class 1 level canoe course. LEI 1269. Rock Climbing (1). (S/U grade only.) This is a basic rock-climbing class. The material covered is for students with little or no experience or knowledge of rock climbing. This class is experiential in nature; therefore, being present and active in class is necessary. Skills may include but are not limited to knot-tying, belaying, bouldering, safety concerns, route reading, and technique. LEI 2318. Events: Love Them, Then Leave Them. What’s My Footprint? (3). This course provides an overview of ethics and corporate social responsibility in the meetings, conventions, and events industry. Students evaluate the application of ethical practices in the meeting and events industry. The correlation between ethical behavior and corporate social responsibility is also analyzed. Students learn to identify and determine when sustainability related practices are applied to meetings, conventions, and events. LEI 3004r. Introduction to Recreation, Tourism, and Events (3). This course provides an introduction to the nature and diversity of recreation pursuits and the social and cultural forces that influence leisure related choices. Students examine the various ways in which recreation is organized for delivery by professionals working in the recreation and event industry. Career opportunities in recreation, park, and event management are explored. May be repeated to a maximum of nine (9) credit hours. LEI 3265r. Challenge Course Facilitation Training (1–4). This course provides the student with the knowledge and skills to lead new games and field games and to facilitate group initiatives, and low ropes and high ropes challenge courses. The student learns to facilitate diverse groups to develop teamwork, and leadership skills, improve group dynamics, increase trust and improve communication, and direct a wide variety of challenge course activities. The course stresses safety, particularly in the use of ropes course apparatus, equipment, sequencing, and processing. The challenge-by-choice philosophy is followed throughout. This course comprises four separate components, which must be taken in sequence but may be taken in subsequent semesters. LEI 3266. Outdoor Adventure Education (3). This course provides education in teaching leadership and programming skills for outdoor adventures through observation, direct participation and skills demonstration. LEI 3312. Introduction to Special Events (3). This course introduces students to special event planning and prepares them to design and implement a variety of special events for leisure, recreation, and park organizations, community organizations, non-profit agencies, associations, corporations, and other organizations. LEI 3420. Recreation Activities Leadership (3). This course includes selection, development, and understanding of recreation activities and how specific activities meet the needs of individuals. This course develops leadership skills and the ability to plan and lead activities appropriate to age, interest, ability, and culture. LEI 3435. Planning Recreation Experiences (3). This course is designed to facilitate the understanding of principles and methods of recreation program design and operation. Students apply goal and objective technology, and development and sequencing of activities in creating a program design within the recreation, tourism and event field. LEI 3701. Human Development and Functioning in Leisure (4). This course examines the role of human development and functioning for the entire age spectrum, including disabilities. LEI 3843. Commercial Recreation and Tourism (3). This course is designed to introduce the concepts, principles, and practices of commercial recreation and tourism. LEI 4313. Special Event Resource Development and Fundraising (3). This course supplies students with an understanding of the methods for obtaining and managing the resources required for the operation of special events, including fundraising activities and volunteers. LEI 4314. Event Operations and Management (3). This is an advanced course in event planning and operations that provide students the opportunity to apply skills and concepts needed to plan and produce successful events. Focus is placed on managerial aspects of events such as financing, economic impact, and legal issues involved with events. LEI 4524. Leadership and Supervision in Recreation, Tourism and Events (3). Prerequisite: LEI 3004. This course introduces the concepts, principles, and best practices for leading and supervising employees of recreation, sport, and leisure service organizations. LEI 4551. Administration of Recreation, Tourism, and Event Organizations (3). In this course, students learn the skills needed for the administration of recreation, tourism, and event services providers, including legal foundations, contracts, risk management, revenue sources, budgeting, and financial management. LEI 4561. Special Event Promotions (3). This course presents students with an overview of standard event promotional techniques including online marketing strategies. LEI 4602. Planning and Maintenance of Facilities in Leisure Systems (3). This course provides basic information for the planning and maintenance of leisure areas and facilities. LEI 4864. Technology for Events (3). This course introduces the student to the variety of ways computer applications and other technologies are used in planning, design, marketing, and evaluation of events. LEI 4881. Assessment, Research, and Evaluation in Recreation, Tourism, and Events (3). Prerequisite: LEI 3435. This course enables students to assess, research, and evaluate the functions, participant interests, and behaviors in recreation, tourism and event organizations. LEI 4906r. Directed Individual Study (1–3). May be repeated to a maximum of twelve semester hours. LEI 4921r. Fieldwork in Recreation, Tourism and Events (1–3). (S/U grade only.) Prerequisites: LEI 3004 or 3420. This course is designed to provide the student with an opportunity to gain practical experience by working in an organized recreation, parks, tourism or special event agency. May be repeated to a maximum of six (6) credit hours. LEI 4930. Senior Seminar in Recreation, Tourism, and Events (1). Pre- or corequisites: LEI 4551, LEI 4602, and LEI 4881. This seminar introduces current trends, issues and problems facing the recreation, tourism and events industry, and guides students’ professional development as they seek their senior internship and career. LEI 4932r. Special Topics in Leisure Services (3). In this course, current topics in leisure services are studied in depth. May be repeated to a maximum of nine (9) credit hours; repeatable within the same term. LEI 4940. Internship in Recreation, Tourism and Events (15). Prerequisite: LEI 4930. This course is a full-time experience in a recreation, tourism, and events organization under the supervision of a professional in that field. May be repeated to a maximum of thirty (30) credit hours; repeatable within the same term. Graduate Courses LEI 5185. Current Issues in Leisure (1). LEI 5316. Event Planning Management (3). LEI 5317. Event Management Issues in Ethics and Risk Management (3). LEI 5530. Problems of Staff Development (3). LEI 5555. Analysis and Management of Leisure Systems (3). LEI 5563. Event Marketing (3). LEI 5576. Fiscal Policy and Management of Leisure Systems (3). LEI 5815. Leisure Education (3). LEI 5889. Research in Leisure Services (3). LEI 5908r. Directed Individual Study (1–3). LEI 5915r. Supervised Research (1–4). (S/U grade only.) LEI 5930r. Special Topics in Recreation and Leisure (1–3). LEI 5941. Practicum in Leisure Services (9). LEI 5942. Practicum in Events Management (3). LEI 5944r. Fieldwork in Leisure Services (1–3). LEI 5945r. Supervised Teaching (1–5). (S/U grade only.) For listings relating to graduate coursework for thesis, dissertation, and master’s and doctoral examinations and defense, consult the Graduate Bulletin. REHABILITATION SERVICES: see Childhood Education, Reading, and Disability Services Mailing Address A3900 University Center 282 Champions Way Tallahassee, FL 32306-2480 Email Registrar - registrar@fsu.edu Phone 850.644.1050 Hours Monday - Friday, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Eastern Time Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright