Skip to Content Office of the Registrar Open Close primary navigation Search Search StudentsExpand Collapse section Degree Works Diplomas Enrollment and Degree Verification FERPA Final Exams Grades Non-attendance or Stopped Attending Registration Student Forms Students affected by U.S. immigration policies Transcripts Faculty and StaffExpand Collapse section Class and Classroom SchedulingExpand Collapse section Class/room Scheduling and Contact Hours Policy Class Scheduling Paradigm Data Retrieval Requests Degree Works Faculty and Staff Forms FERPA Final Exams Grading Instructions Non-attendance or Stopped Attending Training Academic Rules University Senate Contact Us Search Search Home Students Transcripts In this Section Transcripts Overview Link Requests can be made online 24/7, and students and alumni will have access to real-time, end-to-end tracking that shows when the transcript request was fulfilled as well as received. Use Google Chrome as your web browser for best experience! How to Order a Transcript Link Current Students and those with MySlice access (up to two years from last term attended) Log-in to: MySlice> Student Home > Academics > Transcript > Official Transcript Alumni and those without MySlice access: Use the Syracuse University former student transcript ordering link to login into Parchment or create a new account to order your transcript. Project Advance Students As a non-matriculated student, Project Advance students must order their transcripts directly through a Parchment account. Any student currently taking a Project Advance class should check their grade using their MySlice account prior to ordering a transcript. Please use the link for former student transcript ordering above to set up or log into Parchment. For more information on Project Advance, visit the Project Advance website. Transcript Fees Link Current matriculated students may order up to three free transcripts per academic year through 60 days after their last degree is posted. The cost for electronic or paper transcripts is $12.00, which helps cover the cost of the added security and other enhanced features of the new system. Additional fees of $2.50 for US domestic delivery and $5.00 for international delivery will apply for paper transcripts. Note: Transcripts are not released for students or alumni with outstanding student conduct obligations. Please make sure that your final grades and degree have been posted before ordering your transcript. Privacy: Link Only students/former students/alumni may request copies of their own transcript. No one may request a transcript on someone else’s behalf. Syracuse University complies with the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (FERPA), which governs access and release of information from student educational records. Advising Transcript is Syracuse University’s Unofficial Transcript: Link Advising transcripts are available exclusively for current students and those with MySlice access. Review and print a copy of an unofficial transcript from MySlice by logging in to: MySlice > Student Home > Academics > Transcript > Advising Transcript. See Transcript FAQ for more information In this Section Transcripts FAQ © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy