Skip to main content Florida State University This is your Donation message. Log In This Site FSU Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Submit Submit Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Giving University Registrar Toggle navigation Site Menu Current Records Overview Status & Retention Drop/Add Service Indicators Enrollment Cancellation Grade Services Deans' Directory Publications Overview Bulletin Info Registration Guide Info Campus Map Info Course Descriptions Calendars Graduation Overview Graduation Checklist Ceremony Information Diplomas Degrees of Distinction Update Expected Grad Term FAQ Student Services Overview Graduation Transcripts Certification State Employee Fee Waiver FERPA Course Descriptions Scheduling Overview Curriculum Academic Space Class Search Archive Bulletin Undergraduate Graduate Registration Guide Past Editions Transcripts Home Records Transcripts Helpful Links Current Records Graduation Appeals Certification Transcripts Status and Retention Enrollment Cancellation Grade Services Drop/Add Excess Credit Hours Excess Credit Hours FAQ FERPA Employee Fee Waivers General Bulletin Registration Guide Class Search Snapshots Services Forms Official Transcripts Florida State University has contracted with Credentials Solutions' TranscriptsPlus® service for automated processing of academic transcripts. Using this service allows alumni, former, and current students an efficient, web-based experience for acquiring official transcripts. Instructions for using Transcripts Plus® are located below. Begin Order After placing your online order, you can check its status by navigating to Credential Self-Service Plus™ and typing your order number in the field provided. Please note that if the TranscriptsPlus® service is unable to fulfill your order for any reason, they will notify you by the method you designated when you placed the order. Ordering through myFSU Current Students If you're a currently enrolled student, please go to my.fsu.edu and log in with your Username (FSUID) and password. On the left-hand side of your portal page, expand the Academic category and select Request Official Transcript. Former Students If you already have your FSUID or have obtained it through re-activation/retrieval, please go to my.fsu.edu and log in with your Username (FSUID) and password. On the left-hand side of your portal page, expand the Alumni and Former Students category and select Request Official Transcript. The Transcript Ordering interface appears, where you provide all of the necessary information to obtain the official transcript. NOTE: If you're an alumni or former student but you don't know your Username (FSUID), please navigate to my.fsu.edu, and under the myFSU Login column at the right-hand side of the page, click the Activate/Retrieve Your FSUID link. Follow the prompts to obtain your FSUID. If you had an FSUID before, you'll just need to reset your password. To do so, you will need to know your EMPLID number. If you no longer have this number, email us at registrar@fsu.edu. Please provide identifying information such as full name (including former name if appropriate), date of birth, dates of attendance, degree earned, and so on. We will reply with your EMPLID within 24 hours. If you need additional assistance with your FSUID and password, please call the ITS Service Desk at (850) 644-4357 (644-HELP), Monday-Friday, 8 a.m.-6 p.m. (EST). Ordering In Person You may obtain a copy of your official transcript by visiting the Office of the Registrar located in Suite 3900, University Center A. You will be able to place a pick-up order online at a computer kiosk in the Registrar lobby. Note: Debit/Credit card is the only available method of payment if requesting your transcripts in person. Ordering by Mail To obtain an official transcript through the U.S. Postal Service, you must complete the transcript request form. You must include a check or money order for $10.00 (per copy) with your transcript request, and mail it to: Office of Student Business Services Florida State University A1500 University Center P.O. Box 3062394 Tallahassee, FL 32306-2394 Veteran Transcript Waiver In accordance with F.S. 1009.26 (17a), Florida State University will waive the transcript fee for a person who is an active duty member or an honorably discharged veteran of the United States Armed Forces and his or her spouse and dependents. The waiver covers the $10.00 transcript cost. The waiver does not cover additional services, such as tracking and expedited shipping. To change the shipping method to a courier service, please provide the appropriate pre-paid envelope to the Office of the Registrar in advance of requesting your official transcript(s). If you qualify for the waiver, please follow these instructions: Complete the Veteran Transcript Request Form Provide proof of military status along with your request (instructions below) Send all documents via mail or DocuSign to the FSU Student Veteran's Center The Student Veteran's Center will verify your military status and send the approved materials to the Office of the Registrar for further processing. Acceptable Proof of Military Status Documents To verify your military status, please submit one of the documentation types noted below. If you are not able to provide one form of documentation, you must submit the notarized Certification of Military Status form. Active Duty Member or Honorably Discharged Veteran Proof of Service Statement or Letter Copy of your most recent enlistment contract Copy of your most recent Leave and Earnings Statement DD Form 214 (or Form 215) DD Form 256 Spouse of an Active Duty Member, or Honorably Discharged Veteran Copy of DEERS Form 1172 A copy of your marriage certificate, in addition to documentation showing your spouse's military status Dependent of an Active Duty Member, or Honorably Discharged Veteran Copy of DEERS Form 1172 A copy of your birth certificate, in addition to documentation verifying the military status of the individual claiming you as a dependent IMPORTANT: Copies of military identification cards should not be submitted and will not be accepted. Unofficial Transcripts To view your unofficial transcript, login at my.fsu.edu using your FSUID. If you are a current student, you will click on the Academics tab. If you are an alumni or former student, you will click on the Alumni and Former Students Tab. Select View Unofficial Transcript and click Submit. Please note that your unofficial transcript will open as a PDF in a new window so your device should allow popups and have a PDF viewer. Mailing Address A3900 University Center 282 Champions Way Tallahassee, FL 32306-2480 Email Registrar - registrar@fsu.edu Phone 850.644.1050 Hours Monday - Friday, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Eastern Time Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright