Skip to main content Search Search Search Toggle navigation Cornell University Registrar Classes + Enrollment Class Roster Courses of Study Courses of Study Archive Student Essentials Gateway Courses Prorated Tuition Student Center FAQ Classes and Enrollment FAQ University Registration Calendars + Exams Academic Calendar Final Exam Policies Spring Prelim Schedule Spring Final Exam Schedule Fall Prelim Exam Schedule Fall Final Exam Schedule Grades + Transcripts Grading Median Grades Ordering Transcripts Transcript FAQ Transcript Keys Validating an eTranscript Service + Resources Apostille Certifications University Registrar Directory College Advising Directory College Registrar Directory Diploma Information Disability Accommodations FERPA ID Cards Mental Health at Cornell Names and Name Changes Use of Student Data Veteran Education Benefits Building Codes Faculty + Staff Faculty Center/Advisor Center Advisor Center FAQ Opscan Scanning Service Changing CIP Codes Data Requests Program Registration For Registrar Staff Final Exam Policies The University Registrar is charged by the university faculty to create the final exam schedule. The Office of the University Registrar creates the final exam schedule to minimize students' exam conflicts and spread students' workloads as evenly as possible over the eight days of exams. Per university faculty policy, the final exam schedule is to be created to minimize the number of students who have more than two exams in one twenty-four hour period. More than two exams in twenty-four hours is defined as one of the following: More than two exams in one day (9:00 AM, 2:00 PM, and 7:00 PM) An evening exam followed by morning and afternoon exams (7:00 PM, 9:00 AM, and 2:00 PM) Afternoon and evening exams followed by a morning exam (2:00 PM, 7:00 PM, and 9:00 AM) In the event that a student has more than two exams in 24 hours, members of the faculty are urged to grant student requests for a make-up examination, particularly if their course is the largest involved. In addition to minimizing the number of students who have more than two exams in one twenty-four hour period, the Office of the University Registrar makes every effort to minimize the number of students who have back-to-back exams. Back to back exams occur when a student has two exams in consecutive exam periods in one day: A 9:00 AM exam followed by a 2:00 PM exam A 2:00 PM exam followed by a 7:00 PM exam Final exams for fall and spring semesters are scheduled based on pre-enrollment data. The schedule will be published a few days prior to the add/drop periods in August and January. Final project and take home exam due dates will be determined by using the tables provided at the start of the semester. If a seven-week 1 class requires a final exam, the exam should be offered on a Tuesday or Thursday night during the approved examination times in the week immediately following the end of the session. The final deliverable should be due by close of business Tuesday or Thursday the week after the session ends. The final exam date, time, and location should be announced to the students after the end of the add period. Final exams for seven-week 2 classes are scheduled with exams for full semester classes. For more information on final exams, refer to the Faculty Handbook. Other Policies Return of Exams, Papers, etc. Although there is no federal or state legislation that pertains to the manner in which graded work is to be returned to students, the returning of such materials should be handled in such a manner as will preserve the student's privacy. Students have a right to examine their corrected exams, papers, and the like, in order to be able to question their grading. They do not, however, have an absolute right to the return thereof. Exams, papers, etc., as well as grading records, should be retained for a reasonable time after the end of the semester, preferably until the end of the following term, to afford students such right of review. Posting of Grades Posting of student grades by name or a personally identifiable number is prohibited under the terms of the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (FERPA). However, a student waiver authorizing disclosure of educational records by means of a personally identifiable number (e.g. a student ID number) is acceptable provided that such consent is in writing, dated and signed by the student. NOTE: A name or social security number must never be used for this purpose. If instructors use this method, the waiver must be for a specific course; must be for a specified period of time (semester, academic year, etc.); must specify the records to be disclosed; and must be retained by the instructor of the course for a period of one year after its expiration. Students should not be coerced into signing a waiver, as the law requires that it be voluntarily given. Instructors may post grades for students who do not want their student ID number used by establishing a unique identifier known only to that student and the instructor. Related Links + Files Religious Holidays Faculty Policies Student Disability Services Inclement Weather Policies No Related Files Office of the University Registrar Cornell University, 245 Day Hall Ithaca, NY 14853 Office Hours: Monday - Thursday; 9:00 AM - 1:00 PM and 2:00 PM - 4:00PM Get Directions univreg@cornell.edu (607) 255-4232; Phone Hours: Monday - Friday; 10:00 AM - 1:00 PM and 2:00 PM - 4:00 PM EST (607) 255-6262 If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information in this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. © 2017 Cornell University