Skip to main content Florida State University This is your Donation message. Log In This Site FSU Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Submit Submit Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Giving University Registrar Toggle navigation Site Menu Current Records Overview Status & Retention Drop/Add Service Indicators Enrollment Cancellation Grade Services Deans' Directory Publications Overview Bulletin Info Registration Guide Info Campus Map Info Course Descriptions Calendars Graduation Overview Graduation Checklist Ceremony Information Diplomas Degrees of Distinction Update Expected Grad Term FAQ Student Services Overview Graduation Transcripts Certification State Employee Fee Waiver FERPA Course Descriptions Scheduling Overview Curriculum Academic Space Class Search Archive Bulletin Undergraduate Graduate Registration Guide Past Editions Graduation Ceremony Home Graduation Ceremony Graduation Information Overview Graduation Checklist Important Dates Cap and Gown Information Ceremony Information Parking Information Commencement Schedule by College Guest Tickets & Grad Passes Degrees of Distinction Diploma Information Certified Electronic Diploma CeDiploma Diploma Validation Transcripts Commencement Program as a PDF Update Expected Grad Term Frequently Asked Questions Graduation Ceremony Graduation ceremonies are held in the Donald L. Tucker Civic Center located at 505 West Pensacola Street. Panama City (FL) students can find information about the annual Panama City graduation ceremony at: http://pc.fsu.edu/Students/Commencement-General-Information. Please note that while students graduating with doctoral degrees will continue to be recognized at the commencement ceremonies, the hooding of doctoral candidates by faculty will no longer take place at the University-wide ceremonies. Doctoral students should check with their department and/or college to see what other events will be taking place and are strongly encouraged to continue to participate and be recognized in the University-wide ceremonies. If you are attending a commencement ceremony and require accommodations, please contact the Office of Accessibility Services (OAS) at 850-644-9566 or oas@fsu.edu in advance to make special arrangements. An ASL interpreter may be provided upon request with 4-6 weeks advanced notice. Closed captioning is also provided on the arena corner boards. NOTE: Before degrees are awarded, your final semester grades must be recorded and records rechecked for total hours, quality points, and other degree requirements. PARTICIPATION IN GRADUATION EXERCISES IS NOT A GUARANTEE OF GRADUATION. Procedures and Etiquette Ceremony Etiquette The Commencement Ceremony is a most dignified event, whose traditions and regalia date from the thirteenth century. All participants are expected to exhibit courteous behavior and to observe the decorum merited by the occasion. Thank you for familiarizing yourself with the following notes on etiquette. Arrival. Doors open one hour before the ceremony begins. Please arrive no later than thirty minutes before the ceremony begins. All graduates must present their Grad Pass and a photo ID to enter the Tucker Center. Seating. You will receive your seat assignment upon arrival, and you may not walk around after you find your seat in the arena. Departing. You may not leave until the ceremony concludes. The ceremony will last about an hour and a half. Prohibited Items. For the safety and security of our guests and graduates, the following items are prohibited: Alcohol or controlled substances Cameras with tripods Weapons of any kind Skateboards Food and beverages of any kind Selfie sticks Sticks or poles of any kind Bags larger than 12" x 12" or backpacks of any kind Cans, bottles, glass, or glass vases Laser pointers Long chains/sharp spikes Chairs, folding chairs, or any other type of chair for individual use Coolers Wallet chains Air horns/noise makers or balloons Any banner/poster larger than 24" x 36" Offensive banners/posters All graduates and guests will be required to pass through metal detectors prior to entering the Civic Center. Security personnel will remove students disrupting the ceremony. Photos GradImages Photography wil take several pictures of you during the ceremony. Following commencement, GradImages photographers will be circulating outside the venue to capture additional candid photographs of our graduates with their loved ones. The GradImages staff will be wearing red vests, so they'll be highly visible and easy to locate. Graduates can expect to receive their individual picture proofs by email within 18 to 24 hours of the graduation ceremony. Additionally, paper proofs are mailed through the U.S. Postal Service and can be expected to arrive within three or four days. Direct any questions about your photos to GradImages by calling (800) 261-2576 or by contacting a representative through www.gradimages.com. Guests All Tucker Center doors open one hour prior to the start of the ceremony. Enter ONLY on the Concourse Level of the Tucker Center. At no time are guests permitted on the arena floor. Seating for the disabled is available on the Concourse Level; approach the Tucker Center from the corner of Martin Luther King Boulevard and Madison Street. Tucker Center parking is available at that entrance. Guests should not leave until the ceremony concludes. Leaving causes disruption and noise, which disturbs those families whose graduate has not yet been recognized. Please arrange to meet your families at designated areas outside the civic center (i.e., flagpoles, plaza, gates). Parking Several parking options are available on days scheduled for commencement ceremonies. Please consult this detailed map for directions and additional instructions. Mailing Address A3900 University Center 282 Champions Way Tallahassee, FL 32306-2480 Email Registrar - registrar@fsu.edu Phone 850.644.1050 Hours Monday - Friday, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Eastern Time Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright