Skip to main content Florida State University This is your Donation message. Log In This Site FSU Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Submit Submit Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Giving University Registrar Toggle navigation Site Menu Current Records Overview Status & Retention Drop/Add Service Indicators Enrollment Cancellation Grade Services Deans' Directory Publications Overview Bulletin Info Registration Guide Info Campus Map Info Course Descriptions Calendars Graduation Overview Graduation Checklist Ceremony Information Diplomas Degrees of Distinction Update Expected Grad Term FAQ Student Services Overview Graduation Transcripts Certification State Employee Fee Waiver FERPA Course Descriptions Scheduling Overview Curriculum Academic Space Class Search Archive Bulletin Undergraduate Graduate Registration Guide Past Editions Service Indicators Home Records Service Indicators Helpful Links Current Records Graduation Appeals Certification Transcripts Status and Retention Enrollment Cancellation Grade Services Drop/Add Excess Credit Hours Excess Credit Hours FAQ FERPA Employee Fee Waivers General Bulletin Registration Guide Class Search Snapshots Services Forms Service Indicators FSU uses holds, also referred to as service indicators (SIs), to guide students through important educational processes. Additionally, we may use holds to convey information between offices about a student. Accordingly, three hold categories are available, each of which has unique parameters: Action: This SI does not block registration; students are asked to perform a simple task, and upon completion the SI is removed. Hold: This SI restricts the student from registering for classes until the they complete a task, at which time the hold is removed. Note: The student can view this SI, and it does not block registration; the Note provides a comment/s for the student and other offices to view. Holds can be helpful in supporting university objectives; however, over-usage may dilute their overall effectiveness. Offices should work with the SI Oversight Committee, designated by the Office of the Provost, to effectively place and manage holds. Requesting a New Hold / Editing an Existing Hold You must submit a form to initiate a new hold request or to edit an existing hold which can be found here. New hold requests will be reviewed by the Service Indicator Oversight Committee, which meets the second Friday of each month. Please send any questions to Pro-SI-Committee@fsu.edu. Amending Access to Place or Release Holds At least two people should have access to place and release holds. To add access to place and/or release a hold, individual staff must submit a myFSU Student Central Row Level Security Form via https://esinfo.fsu.edu/forms/RowLevelAccess/request.cfm. To remove access to place and/or release a hold, please complete the SI Security Clean Up Document. Three tabs with different actions are available: Remove Access for P&R - Removes access for placement and release of a given hold (meaning the individual will no longer have any access to that hold). Remove Access for P - Removes access to place the given hold. Use this option if the staff member should keep the ability to release the hold. Remove Access for R - Removes access to release the given hold. Use this option if an individual should keep the ability to place the hold. To have the access updated, submit the SI Security Clean Up Excel file to Pro-SI-Committee@fsu.edu. Best Practices to Avoid Holds Carefully consider if a hold is the best method to obtain your desired outcome. Weigh the number of problems a hold creates against the number of problems it solves. If the hold is purely informational, ensure that this is the best place for that information. Remember that there are three phases in using a hold: communicating about the hold, placing the hold, and removing the hold. Do you have adequate staff available to complete all three phases of the hold lifecycle? When will each aspect of the hold lifecycle occur, and how does it relate to the academic or advising calendar? Best Practices to Manage Holds If a hold is the best method to support your office's processes, consider the following best practices: Select the most appropriate category (action, hold, or note). Identify at least two people in your office who have the ability to place and release the hold. Place the hold as early as possible to ensure the maximum amount of time to manage the hold. Develop a communication plan to inform students about holds. Designate who will remove holds, and when they will do so when it no longer applies to a given student or students. Provide clear information (preferably a person's name and a phone number) about who the student should contact for help clearing the hold or to learn more about the hold. Change paper processes to digital processes. Utilize the Service Indicator dashboard located in BI under the CSW-Enrollment dashboards to identify who still has a specific hold. Mailing Address A3900 University Center 282 Champions Way Tallahassee, FL 32306-2480 Email Registrar - registrar@fsu.edu Phone 850.644.1050 Hours Monday - Friday, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Eastern Time Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright