Skip to main content Search Search Search Toggle navigation Cornell University Registrar Classes + Enrollment Class Roster Courses of Study Courses of Study Archive Student Essentials Gateway Courses Prorated Tuition Student Center FAQ Classes and Enrollment FAQ University Registration Calendars + Exams Academic Calendar Final Exam Policies Spring Prelim Schedule Spring Final Exam Schedule Fall Prelim Exam Schedule Fall Final Exam Schedule Grades + Transcripts Grading Median Grades Ordering Transcripts Transcript FAQ Transcript Keys Validating an eTranscript Service + Resources Apostille Certifications University Registrar Directory College Advising Directory College Registrar Directory Diploma Information Disability Accommodations FERPA ID Cards Mental Health at Cornell Names and Name Changes Use of Student Data Veteran Education Benefits Building Codes Faculty + Staff Faculty Center/Advisor Center Advisor Center FAQ Opscan Scanning Service Changing CIP Codes Data Requests Program Registration For Registrar Staff Veteran Education Benefits Veteran education benefits are available to eligible full or part-time Cornell students or employees who are active duty or reserve military personnel, veterans, or in some cases, the child or spouse of a veteran. To determine eligibility, complete the online Application for VA Education Benefits (VA Form 22-1990). To request the use of VA Education Benefits at Cornell, students must complete the appropriate VA Benefits Request Form below. To complete the form, students must have applied for VA Education Benefits and have a recent Certificate of Eligibility (COE) or have access to the VA’s eBenefits system. Additionally, students must have an active Cornell NetID. Students will receive an email with guidance once the form is ready each year. Students will also receive an email each semester asking for verification of VA benefit requests. Students must submit that verification each semester if no changes are needed, or may update the request and resubmit as needed. Fall 2021-Summer 2022 VA Benefits Request Form Fall 2022-Summer 2023 VA Benefits Request Form In-State Tuition Effective Fall 2018, any student eligible to receive veteran education benefits who is enrolled in one of the contract colleges or schools at Cornell University (Agriculture and Life Sciences, Human Ecology, Industrial and Labor Relations, Charles H. Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management, or Veterinary Medicine) will be assessed in-state tuition. Students must demonstrate their eligibility to receive VA benefits but they are not required to utilize them. This policy applies to veterans who are eligible under their own entitlement for VA benefits and students who are dependents of veterans and have had benefits transferred to their name. A current COE and request for in-state residency review must be submitted to the Office of the University Registrar via the VA Benefits Request Form prior to the beginning of each academic year. In-state tuition rates will continue to be assessed as long as: Students remain enrolled in one of the four contract colleges in the same degree seeking program for which they are currently receiving benefits. Students taking a leave of absence from one of the four contract colleges returns from the leave to the same college by the agreed upon semester. In-state tuition would be terminated if: The veteran education benefits are transferred to another student or the benefit expires. The student transfers to an endowed college. The student graduates from an undergraduate college and then matriculates into any graduate or professional program. If the student matriculates into the College of Veterinary Medicine, the in-state tuition rate will be re-evaluated based on the student’s veteran education benefit eligibility. Veterans Benefits FAQ Additional Resources If you have general questions concerning veteran education benefits, please visit the VA's website. Contact a VA benefits counselor for a specific question about a current claim. If you have specific concerns about your certification at Cornell, contact Cornell's School Certifying Official (SCO) via email at vaedben@cornell.edu. Cornell's Military Community: Web Portal Veterans at Cornell: Web Portal Undergraduate Veterans Admissions: Undergraduate Admissions Student Veterans: Graduate School Veterans at Johnson: SC Johnson School of Business Veterans and Military Personnel: Working at Cornell Service + Resources Apostille Certifications University Registrar Directory College Advising Directory College Registrar Directory Diploma Information Disability Accommodations FERPA ID Cards Mental Health at Cornell Names and Name Changes Use of Student Data Veteran Education Benefits Building Codes Key Academic Dates 06 Jun 2022 Summer 22 8 Week Session 20 Jun 2022 Juneteenth Observance/Holiday/No Classes 21 Jun 2022 Summer 22 6 Week Session 21 Jun 2022 Summer 22 3 Week 2 Session See More Key Academic Dates Related Links + Files Certification Requests NYS Division of VA Financial Aid VA Benefits No Related Files Office of the University Registrar Cornell University, 245 Day Hall Ithaca, NY 14853 Office Hours: Monday - Thursday; 9:00 AM - 1:00 PM and 2:00 PM - 4:00PM Get Directions univreg@cornell.edu (607) 255-4232; Phone Hours: Monday - Friday; 10:00 AM - 1:00 PM and 2:00 PM - 4:00 PM EST (607) 255-6262 If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information in this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. © 2017 Cornell University