Skip to main content Florida State University This is your Donation message. Log In This Site FSU Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Submit Submit Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Giving University Registrar Toggle navigation Site Menu Current Records Overview Status & Retention Drop/Add Service Indicators Enrollment Cancellation Grade Services Deans' Directory Publications Overview Bulletin Info Registration Guide Info Campus Map Info Course Descriptions Calendars Graduation Overview Graduation Checklist Ceremony Information Diplomas Degrees of Distinction Update Expected Grad Term FAQ Student Services Overview Graduation Transcripts Certification State Employee Fee Waiver FERPA Course Descriptions Scheduling Overview Curriculum Academic Space Class Search Archive Bulletin Undergraduate Graduate Registration Guide Past Editions State Employee Fee Waiver Home Waivers State Employees Helpful Links Current Records Graduation Appeals Certification Transcripts Status and Retention Enrollment Cancellation Grade Services Drop/Add Excess Credit Hours Excess Credit Hours FAQ FERPA Employee Fee Waivers General Bulletin Registration Guide Class Search Snapshots Services Forms State Employee Registration Using Tuition Waiver Attention State employees may enroll for up to six (6) credit hours per term on a space-available basis. For State of Florida Employee Tuition Waiver Guidelines please visit: https://studentbusiness.fsu.edu/waivers/state-employee-waiver For Frequently Asked Questions please visit: https://www.dms.myflorida.com/content/download/129121/803063/2018-010-StateEmployeeTuitionWaiverFAQ12-2021.pdf Panama City Campus information For state employees who want to take classes at the Panama City Campus (FL) please click here for the appropriate form. Space Available Limitations: Florida State University does not accept State Employee Waivers for the following: Graduate courses in the Colleges of Law and Medicine Dissertation, thesis, directed individual study (DIS), internship or other one-on-one courses Audited courses Center for Academic and Professional Development All non-state funded courses (including some distance learning courses that are funded solely by student tuition and fees). For instructions on how to search for state-funded courses, please see the How To Search for & Add a Class to Your Shopping Cart help topic. Please note the special instructions under step six. Degree-seeking state employees planning to enroll in one of the above course categories may pay tuition out-of-pocket or may apply for financial aid. For tuition payment information, please refer to the Student Business Services website. Degree-seeking state employees may register for such courses during the normal registration windows. For registration information, please refer to this semester's Registration Guide. Admission Returning students who were registered in any of the previous three terms can proceed directly to the Registration section below. All other prospective students must pursue admission to the University. State employee registration and fee waiver processing cannot be performed for students who have not been admitted to the University Registration Please complete the form indicating the courses you wish to take and have your supervisor and agency head (or designee) sign the waiver form. NOTE: Florida State University accepts only the official FSU State Employee Tuition Waiver Form. Agency-specific forms, such as the Intent to Apply form, are not valid for use in this process. After you complete the tuition waiver form with the appropriate agency signatures, you must take the form to the respective FSU academic department for review. The FSU academic department certifies if space is available in the course. An FSU academic departmental official must sign the form before registration will be processed. Faxes are not accepted. Register for state-fundable courses during your normal registration window. For instructions on how to search for state-funded courses, please see the How To Search for & Add a Class to Your Shopping Cart help topic. Please note the special instructions under step six. Scan and email the completed FSU State Employee Tuition Waiver Form to CTL-StateEmployee@fsu.edu by the tuition payment deadline found at http://calendar.fsu.edu/calendar?event_types%5B%5D=89339. Immunization Requirements: The Florida Legislature has mandated that, in addition to providing proof of immunization for Rubeola and Rubella measles, all university students must be informed of the risks of meningitis and hepatitis B infections. Incoming students are required to either show proof of immunization or sign a waiver declining the vaccines for meningitis and hepatitis prior to being permitted to register. Since this is a new requirement, please visit the University Health Services Website at http://uhs.fsu.edu/ or call (850) 644-3608 for more information. Information about the immunization requirements is included in the acceptance packet for newly admitted, readmitted, degree seeking, and special students. FSUCard: As students at Florida State, state employees are eligible to obtain an FSUCard. To obtain an FSUCard, please go by the FSUCard Center in the parking garage at the corner of Woodward and Call Streets between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. For more information, please call the FSUCard Center at (850) 644-7777. Access to Student Services is Limited If you are the recipient of the State Employee Waiver (a non-FSU employee), and you are enrolled in six or fewer hours, your tuition and most student fees have been waived. Specifically, these charges are not being paid by you or your employer (the State of Florida). Because student fees help fund many student services on campus including Campus Recreation (Leach Center), the Health and Wellness Center, and Athletics (football/basketball tickets), those services aren't available to students not paying the associated fees. If you would like more information on student fees, please contact Student Financial Services. For a nominal fee you can purchase a membership to the Leach Center, contact FSU Campus Recreation for more information. Please Note: This tuition waiver will not cover the transportation access fee, the $5.00 FSU Card Fee, and the additional cost for courses including, but not limited to: online courses non-funded market-rate courses courses with equipment fees courses with material and supply fees repeated courses Mailing Address A3900 University Center 282 Champions Way Tallahassee, FL 32306-2480 Email Registrar - registrar@fsu.edu Phone 850.644.1050 Hours Monday - Friday, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Eastern Time Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright