Skip to main content Registrar’s Office Navigation About AboutAcademic PetitionsCOVID Updates Resources All ResourcesCourse WithdrawalsFirst StopHEA Student Access To InformationHow to Access Student RecordsHow to Share Protected DataHow-to Guide for FERPA & AdvisorsKnights Success GrantState Authorization for Providing Online CoursesStudent Rights to Privacy (FERPA)Transient Students Forms & Processes All Forms & ProcessesChange of Email AddressChange of Major, Minor, or CertificateClassroom Reservation FormDegree Verification RequestEmployee Tuition WaiversGrade ForgivenessOfficial Transcript RequestOut-of-State Tuition WaiverReadmission ApplicationReverse TransferResidency ReclassificationSenior Citizen Audit Request Contact Contact UsEvaluation of ServiceRegistrar’s Office Training Resources Diplomas We do understand that the University diploma is an important landmark in the lives of our Knights and the loved ones who have supported them throughout their educational journey. After commencement, all bachelor’s and master’s diplomas will be mailed to the address indicated on the student’s Intent to Graduate form. Fall 2021 Graduates: Fall 2021 diplomas will be mailed in a rolling mailout in February and March. If you have not received your diploma by April 15, please: Verify that you have no holds that require action. Holds can be viewed in myUCF > Student Self-Service > Student Center. After taking the necessary action to resolve your holds, please call the Registrar’s Office (407-823-3100). Verify that the address that is on file is current. You may check your diploma address by logging into MyUCF > Student Self Service > Personal Information > Addresses. Contact the Registrar’s Office for help regarding undergraduate diplomas 407-823-3100 and the College of Graduate Studies for help regarding graduate diplomas 407-823-2766. Summer 2021 Graduates: Summer 2021 diplomas will be mailed in a rolling mailout in September and October. If you have not received your diploma by November 15, please: Verify that you have no holds that require action. Holds can be viewed in myUCF > Student Self-Service > Student Center. After taking the necessary action to resolve your holds, please call the Registrar’s Office (407-823-3100). Verify that the address that is on file is current. You may check your diploma address by logging into MyUCF > Student Self Service > Personal Information > Addresses. Contact the Registrar’s Office for help regarding undergraduate diplomas 407-823-3100 and the College of Graduate Studies for help regarding graduate diplomas 407-823-2766. Undergraduate Catalog The UCF Undergraduate Catalog is compiled, edited, and published each May by the Registrar’s Office. An abridged version is available online, and the entire document, as well as each individual degree program, can be downloaded in PDF format. In addition, the Advising Guide offers students the opportunity to create a PDF document tailor-made for them with essential information concerning their degree programs, colleges, and official UCF policies. Students interested in information regarding graduate programs should refer to the Graduate Catalog. Academic Calendar Astra Schedule Room Scheduling System Classroom Reservation Form Commencement Excess Credit Hour Surcharge Final Exam Schedule Search Florida State University System Post Graduation Employment Outcomes and Economic Security HEA Student Access to Information How to Access Student Records Multiple Term Registration Online Grade Changes Registration Overview Registration Waitlist Repeat Checking – FAQ State Authorization Reciprocity Agreements Student Records Training Transfer Student Resources Undergraduate Catalog Grad Honors GPA & Standing View current honors GPA cut-offs and graduating class standings (Fall 2021 – Summer 2022) by college here: https://registrar.ucf.edu/wp-content/uploads/sites/45/2021/10/2021-2022_RO_Graduating-Honors_FINAL.pdf Academic Calendar The Registrar’s Office manages the official Academic Calendar, which contains the dates and times for all registration periods, application deadlines, holidays, special events, and more. You can filter the calendar, save it, or subscribe to it! Final Exam Schedule Search Use the search to specify your class meeting pattern, class start time, and class end time in order to find your Final Exam date, day, and time. If you do not see your specific information listed, please contact us via our Contact Form. Finals for Saturday classes are held during regular class meeting times on the Saturday during Final Exam week. Commencement The Registrar’s Office works with the Office of the President and many other UCF departments to coordinate the commencement ceremonies. The office prepares the Commencement Program and is responsible for the Commencement website. How to Access Student Records Student records, including Transcripts and Grades, are only available through myUCF. Included in this page are instructions for accessing those records. These steps will allow you 24/7 access to your own records. Registration Overview The Registration Overview shows you, step-by-step, how to search for open classes and register for those classes. Course Withdrawals After the Drop/Swap deadline, but prior to the Withdrawal deadline, you may withdraw from courses through the myUCF Student Center. You will receive a “W” grade in the withdrawn course(s). The “W” grade does not affect your GPA. There is no refund of tuition and fees for withdrawn courses. For the full Withdrawal policy information visit the UCF Undergraduate Catalog (Undergraduate Catalog > Policies > Academic Regulations and Procedures > Withdrawal Policy) UCF Transfer Student Resources The UCF transfer credit equivalency portal contains the current database of our established course equivalencies. Our database is always expanding as we continue to evaluate courses submitted by students. The information in the portal is derived from current transfer credit rules in the UCF system. If a course is not included in the database, that does not mean it will not transfer. It means that your course(s) must be evaluated by UCF personnel. Excess Credit Hour Surcharge In 2009, the Florida Legislature implemented Section 1009.286, Florida Statutes to encourage students to complete their baccalaureate degree as quickly and efficiently as possible and established an Excess Credit Hour Surcharge. The bill requires universities to add a surcharge to each credit hour taken in excess of the total number of credit hours required to complete the degree being pursued. Registration Waitlist A registration waitlist is an electronic process that auto-enrolls students in closed classes as seats become available. This enables students to get into the classes they want without having to continuously check for possible openings. Waitlists operate on a first-come, first-served basis, so this process ensures that students who enroll sooner have a better chance of getting into a closed course. Student Rights to Privacy (FERPA) The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974, or FERPA, is the United States federal law that protects student records privacy review and disclosure rights. The law guarantees these rights for both current and former UCF students. National Council for State Authorization Reciprocity Agreements The University of Central Florida has been approved by Florida to participate in National Council for State Authorization Reciprocity Agreements. NC-SARA is a voluntary, regional approach to state oversight of postsecondary distance education. The reciprocity agreements allow for the open delivery of academic credit-earning activities in participating states, including academic field experiences such as internships or practicums. Multiple Term Registration Multiple Term Registration allows all undergraduate students to register for Summer and Fall terms at the same time. Students who, as of February 1, have declared a major and have a UCF GPA of 3.5 or higher, will have the opportunity to register for the Spring term at the same time as the Summer and Fall terms. Classroom Scheduling The Registrar’s Office is responsible for arranging and scheduling UCF’s hundreds of classrooms located throughout the campus. In addition, Registered Student Organizations, faculty and staff members, and thesis defense committees can reserve a room through the Classroom Reservation Form. Student Records Training The Registrar’s Office provides training to UCF faculty and staff on a variety of topics related to student records including pertinent privacy laws (FERPA). Courses are administered both online as well as through face-to-face classroom sessions. myKnight Audit As part of the university’s ongoing efforts to provide improvements in services for our constituents, we are working together with programs, colleges and Computer Services to provide a tool that will enhance the student’s advising experience. Degree and certificate seeking students will be able to retrieve a real-time status of their academic career progress in myUCF where the DARS audit currently is located. Special Provisions for Veterans and Active Duty Military Students UCF will grant college credit to students with military training, experience or coursework that is recognized by the American Council on Education (ACE). Military training, experience or coursework is subject to UCF’s regular transfer practices including limitations on amount and level of transfer credit. More information can be found here. Online Grade Changes Online grading instructions for faculty, department chairs and deans. Instructors for Nicholson School of Communications classes must submit a paper grade change form. Department Chairs Deans (or Designees) Instructors HEA Student Access to Information Students are entitled to receive the information below per the provisions of the Higher Education Act (668.41). Students may request printed copies of the information from the appropriate office. Refer inquiring students to the appropriate source or office, as follows: Florida State University System Post Graduation Employment Outcomes and Economic Security These reports focus on the median first-year earnings of recent graduates of Florida four-year institutions with the first-year earnings for graduates of specific degree programs at specific colleges and universities. They also present data debt accumulated by students, not just graduates, and show the degrees and certificates students earn, the earnings for those specific degree programs, along with the percentage of graduates employed full time in Florida. Florida State University System Post Graduation Employment Outcomes Florida Department of Economic Opportunity on Economic Security Repeat Checking – FAQs Repeat Checking refers to how the University treats classes that you have taken more than once. If you repeat a class, there are implications for your GPA and academic level (freshman, sophomore, etc.).” First Stop First Stop can assist you with your questions related to Admissions, Financial Aid, Registrar’s Office, and more! Click here for more information. HOURS OF OPERATION Monday through Friday: 9 a.m. – 5 p.m. LOCATION Millican Hall, Room 161 4365 Andromeda Loop N., Orlando, FL 32816-0086 CONTACT US 407-823-3100 407-823-5652 registrar@ucf.edu LET’S GET SOCIAL facebook twitter instagram youtube The University of Central Florida is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC) to award degrees at the associate, baccalaureate, master’s, specialist, and doctoral levels. Questions about the accreditation of UCF may be directed in writing to the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, GA 30033-4097, by calling (404) 679-4500, or by using information available on SACSCOC’s website (www.sacscoc.org).