Skip to main content University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Students Staff & Faculty Registration Classrooms Curriculum About OUR (OUR) Menu Students Staff & Faculty Registration Classrooms Curriculum About OUR Home (OUR) Services and Resources for Students Residency for Tuition Purposes Residency Contact Information - UW Seattle Students Residency Contact Information – UW Seattle Students Close Menu Home Residency for Tuition Purposes Medical Student Applicants Residency Application and Paperwork Submissions Residency Coronavirus FAQs Residency Requirements Financially Dependent Students Financially Independent Students Application Process Affidavit of Residency American Indian Students Current and Former US Military Personnel, Spouse, and Children Eligible Non-Citizens Graduate and Professional Students Qualifying Visas Reciprocity Exchange Program Questions Residency Contact Information – UW Seattle Students Residency FAQ Tuition Reduction for Non-Resident Refugees and Asylees Washington Residents Absent from State How to Schedule an Appointment This information is for current and prospective UW Seattle students only. Prior to Scheduling an Appointment Students are encouraged to thoroughly review the topics and content within this website before making an in-person appointment. All necessary forms/applications, as well as the answers to most basic questions about the requirements and processes, is provided within. Please Note: During high-demand times, appointment length is limited to 15 minutes — being prepared with a list of specific questions will help make the most of the appointment time. Advising Appointments Until further notice, all advising appointments will be by Zoom only (no in-person advising services offered at the moment). Be sure to check your email at least two hours before the scheduled appointment for Zoom meeting information. Residency Documents Submission of Residency Questionnaires, Residency Affidavits, and all tuition waiver eligibility forms and documentation should be done via the submission portal for the quarter you are applying for. If the submission portal for that quarter is not yet open, you will need to wait until it is to submit your material. We do not accept documents by email, postal mail, or any other method. You do not submit documents during your appointment. What to Expect During a Residency Appointment The primary role of the Residency Classification Office is to determine whether students have demonstrated that they have met the requirements to be classified as a Washington State resident for tuition purposes. Information and clarifications are provided about how the requirements and processes for students to demonstrate their residency may apply to particular complicated circumstances. However, we cannot tell students how to become a resident, make a residency determination, or project the outcome of a residency application during an appointment. Parents and Relatives The Residency Classification Office will not discuss a student’s residency status or application with anyone other than the student. Please have the student schedule an appointment. Schedule an Appointment The below link will direct you to the online appointment service to select the date and time most convenient for you. Appointment times are 15 minutes in length. Schedule An Appointment Drop-in Advising Drop-in advising has been temporarily discontinued. Please use the link above to schedule an appointment. Email Advising To send a question to a Residency adviser at UW Seattle, email  resquest@uw.edu. Our goal is to respond to email inquiries within 5 business days. For pressing or complicated advising questions, please schedule an appointment. Bothell and Tacoma Residency Info The information below is for current and prospective UW Bothell or UW Tacoma students only. UW Bothell Campus Drop-In Advising Please visit the UW Bothell Residency Office website for more information. Email Advising Send a question to a UW Bothell Residency adviser at uwbreg@uw.edu. Where to Submit Residency Documents UW Bothell Registrar University of Washington, Bothell Office of the Registrar Box 358500 18115 Campus Way NE Bothell, WA 98011 UW Tacoma Campus Drop-In Advising Please visit the UW Tacoma Residency Office website for more information. Email Advising Send a question to a UW Tacoma Residency adviser at reguwt@uw.edu. Where to Submit Residency Documents UW Tacoma Registrar University of Washington, Tacoma Office of the Registrar Mattress Factory 253 Box 358400 Tacoma, WA 98402 Home Residency for Tuition Purposes Medical Student Applicants Residency Application and Paperwork Submissions Residency Coronavirus FAQs Residency Requirements Financially Dependent Students Financially Independent Students Application Process Affidavit of Residency American Indian Students Current and Former US Military Personnel, Spouse, and Children Eligible Non-Citizens Graduate and Professional Students Qualifying Visas Reciprocity Exchange Program Questions Residency Contact Information – UW Seattle Students Residency FAQ Tuition Reduction for Non-Resident Refugees and Asylees Washington Residents Absent from State Search OUR Search for: Submit a Question Topic of Inquiry, Request, or Comment* Let us know what your question or request is about and we'll make sure it's routed to the appropriate office and generate a ticket. - Choose a Topic -Academic Data ManagementDean's List LetterDegree AuditEnrollment VerificationPayment of ECD/NSEOFGraduation & DiplomasRegistration Process/Issue/ErrorResidencyTime ScheduleTranscriptsUWNetID RequestWebsite Issue: registrar.washington.eduOther/not sure For Residency contact information please visit the Residency Contact Page Your answer may be found by checking out how to ORDER TRANSCRIPTS, reviewing the TRANSCRIPT FAQS, or looking up the TRANSCRIPT LEGEND . Name* Email Address* Inquiry, Request, or Comment* Type your question or comment below. Phone This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Contact Residency Make an Appointment resquest@uw.edu Holiday Closures Spring 2022 Mon, May 30 (Memorial Day) University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA