Skip to main content University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Students Staff & Faculty Registration Classrooms Curriculum About OUR (OUR) Menu Students Staff & Faculty Registration Classrooms Curriculum About OUR Home (OUR) Services and Resources for Students Graduation and Diplomas Graduation and Diplomas Close Menu Home Services and Resources for Students Apostille Baccalaureate Honor GPA Requirements Certified Electronic Diploma (CeDiploma) CeDiploma FAQs CeDiploma Purchase Credential Validation Current Quarter Drop CQD Adviser-Assisted Drop Request Form CQD FAQs DARS for Students English Language Proficiency Requirement ELPR Contact Information – UW Seattle Students Enrollment Confirmation System Enrollment Confirmation Deposit Frequently Asked Questions New Student Enrollment and Orientation Fees Refund Policy Enrollment Verification and Degree Certification Fee-Based Programs Fee-Based Programs FAQs FERPA for Students Disclosure Exceptions Release of Records Request Former Quarter Drop Former Quarter Drop FAQs Forms for Students Grading Option Changes Extraordinary Circumstances Quarter Late Grading Option Change Request Late Grading Option Change Petition Graduation and Diplomas Incomplete Grades Loan Deferment Personal Data Address Date of Birth & Social Security Number Gender Identity Names Preferred Names FAQs Pronouns Race/Ethnicity Quarterly Dean’s List Bothell Recipients Seattle Recipients Tacoma Recipients Religious Accommodations Request Residency for Tuition Purposes Medical Student Applicants Residency Application and Paperwork Submissions Residency Coronavirus FAQs Residency Requirements Financially Dependent Students Financially Independent Students Application Process Affidavit of Residency American Indian Students Current and Former US Military Personnel, Spouse, and Children Eligible Non-Citizens Graduate and Professional Students Qualifying Visas Reciprocity Exchange Program Questions Residency Contact Information – UW Seattle Students Residency FAQ Tuition Reduction for Non-Resident Refugees and Asylees Washington Residents Absent from State Returning Student Process Returning Student Checklist Reverse Transfer Program FAQs Status Definitions Student Fees Taking Planned or Unexpected Time Off, or Transferring from UW Time Schedule FAQ Title IX Notice Transcripts Transcript FAQs Transcript Legend Tuition Waivers Undergraduate Class Standings Withdrawal, Quarter-Off, and On-Leave Policies Checklist to Withdraw Congratulations on nearing your UW graduation! Please review the following important information about applying to graduate and your diploma, plus other information that will be helpful for you. Application for Graduation Undergraduate Students If you are an undergraduate student, you will need to complete an application for graduation with your departmental adviser. Degrees are not automatically awarded when requirements have been satisfied. It is your responsibility to apply for degrees and certificates. When to apply Applications must be submitted no later than the third Friday of the quarter you plan to graduate. You can also submit them up to 3 quarters before you plan to graduate. Once you apply, you are eligible for Graduating Senior Priority registration. If you are graduating in Summer quarter but want to participate in the Spring commencement before graduating will need to apply by the third Friday of that Spring quarter. Please go to the Academic Calendar for all of the graduation application and Graduating Senior Priority registration deadlines. You will want to meet with your adviser to complete your application before the deadline days so it can be submitted on time. How to apply You will need to meet with your departmental adviser to complete your graduation application. They will go online and create an application for you, and then you will get an email asking you to click on a link and verify the application information. Your application is not considered submitted until you verify the information, so it is important that you look for the email and follow the instructions. If you have more than one option, major, or degree, will need to submit a graduation application for each one. If you are submitting multiple applications, you will be asked to verify each one, so be sure to look for the emails. Once you’ve applied We encourage you to stay in touch with your departmental adviser(s) to make sure you are completing all degree requirements as planned. Using the Degree Audit tools in MyPlan will also help you stay on track. You should also check your UW email regularly (including any spam folders) for important communications from the Office of the University Registrar about your graduation application or graduation status. Graduate Students If you are a graduate student, you will want to review the Graduate School’s graduation dates and deadlines or contact Graduate Enrollment Management Services (GEMS) at uwgrad@uw.edu or 206-685-2630 for additional information. Diplomas Diploma Name and Diploma Mailing The Office of the University Registrar will send you an email about one month after graduation with the link to a form where you can log in and enter your Diploma Name and diploma mailing address. Effective with the Summer 2021 graduating class, your Diploma Name does not need to match your Student Record Name. Please use the Diploma Name and Address Form link you will receive to enter the name you would like us to print on your diploma, and the address where you want us to mail your diploma. If you do not enter anything on the form, or you miss the deadline provided in the email, we will print your diploma using your Student Record Name and mail your diploma to the permanent address on your UW record. As of December 2021, you can order a replacement diploma (information below) issued in the name of your choice. You will be asked to enter the name you want on your diploma as part of the order form at the link below. General Diploma Information UW diplomas list your name, the degree you earned, and any applicable honors. Majors, minors, and options are not listed on UW diplomas unless they are part of the honors designation. All UW diplomas are 8.5 by 11 inches, except for Juris Doctor diplomas and the Master of Laws in Taxation diploma, which are 11 by 14 inches. The UW also offers students a Certified Electronic Diploma (CeDiploma). This is a true replication of your paper diploma that can be authenticated by the recipient. CeDiplomas are available once your paper diploma has been issued, and cost $10.95. Go to the UW CeDiploma webpage for more information. Replacement Diplomas You can order a replacement diploma by using our online ordering system. You will need to pay for the order charge and applicable shipping and handling fees with a credit card. Purchase Replacement Diploma Log into the Replacement Diploma Request Portal Follow the instructions to purchase There is a $20.00 charge plus any applicable shipping and handling fees Other Useful Information Degree Certification Certification for UW Graduates Graduates of the University of Washington cannot receive a Degree Certificate through the National Student Clearinghouse. Options for Degree Certification include: An Official Transcript can be requested for degree verification purposes. Email the UW Office of the University Registrar office at regoff@uw.edu to receive one. Please be sure to include your name, student ID #, date of birth and a mailing or email address where you wish the Degree Certification be sent. Faculty and Staff Looking to Verify a UW Degree Students can provide copies of their official or unofficial transcript Student Database (SDB) Electronic Advising Record System (EARS) Email the Office of the University Registrar at regoff@uw.edu from uw.edu email requesting a students Degree Certification. Staff and faculty must provide the student’s full name and student number in the request. Non-UW Third Parties Third parties requiring proof of a Degree Certification can request the UW student provide a copy of their official transcript. The University of Washington does not verify degrees or enrollment for third parties via email or fax or mail. Third parties may request and pay for verification from the National Student Clearinghouse. UW Commencement The Office of Ceremonies is responsible for UW Commencement. Commencement information including event schedule, ticket information, parking, and apparel can be found on the Commencement website. Questions can be directed to their office by email at commence@uw.edu or phone at 206-543-2592. UW Data Accounts After graduation, you will eventually lose access to your UW accounts. These accounts will be deleted and you will permanently lose any files and emails associated with them. Go to the UW-IT Data Retention Guide for Graduating Students to ensure that your UW data will be preserved and your UW email is properly forwarded. UW Career and Internship Center To prepare yourself for post-graduation success review the After Graduation webpage. Undergraduate Graduation Checklist Refer to the UW Undergraduate Checklist for Graduation. Home Services and Resources for Students Apostille Baccalaureate Honor GPA Requirements Certified Electronic Diploma (CeDiploma) CeDiploma FAQs CeDiploma Purchase Credential Validation Current Quarter Drop CQD Adviser-Assisted Drop Request Form CQD FAQs DARS for Students English Language Proficiency Requirement ELPR Contact Information – UW Seattle Students Enrollment Confirmation System Enrollment Confirmation Deposit Frequently Asked Questions New Student Enrollment and Orientation Fees Refund Policy Enrollment Verification and Degree Certification Fee-Based Programs Fee-Based Programs FAQs FERPA for Students Disclosure Exceptions Release of Records Request Former Quarter Drop Former Quarter Drop FAQs Forms for Students Grading Option Changes Extraordinary Circumstances Quarter Late Grading Option Change Request Late Grading Option Change Petition Graduation and Diplomas Incomplete Grades Loan Deferment Personal Data Address Date of Birth & Social Security Number Gender Identity Names Preferred Names FAQs Pronouns Race/Ethnicity Quarterly Dean’s List Bothell Recipients Seattle Recipients Tacoma Recipients Religious Accommodations Request Residency for Tuition Purposes Medical Student Applicants Residency Application and Paperwork Submissions Residency Coronavirus FAQs Residency Requirements Financially Dependent Students Financially Independent Students Application Process Affidavit of Residency American Indian Students Current and Former US Military Personnel, Spouse, and Children Eligible Non-Citizens Graduate and Professional Students Qualifying Visas Reciprocity Exchange Program Questions Residency Contact Information – UW Seattle Students Residency FAQ Tuition Reduction for Non-Resident Refugees and Asylees Washington Residents Absent from State Returning Student Process Returning Student Checklist Reverse Transfer Program FAQs Status Definitions Student Fees Taking Planned or Unexpected Time Off, or Transferring from UW Time Schedule FAQ Title IX Notice Transcripts Transcript FAQs Transcript Legend Tuition Waivers Undergraduate Class Standings Withdrawal, Quarter-Off, and On-Leave Policies Checklist to Withdraw Search OUR Search for: Email GARS ugradoff@uw.edu Submit a Question Topic of Inquiry, Request, or Comment* Let us know what your question or request is about and we'll make sure it's routed to the appropriate office and generate a ticket. - Choose a Topic -Academic Data ManagementDean's List LetterDegree AuditEnrollment VerificationPayment of ECD/NSEOFGraduation & DiplomasRegistration Process/Issue/ErrorResidencyTime ScheduleTranscriptsUWNetID RequestWebsite Issue: registrar.washington.eduOther/not sure For Residency contact information please visit the Residency Contact Page Your answer may be found by checking out how to ORDER TRANSCRIPTS, reviewing the TRANSCRIPT FAQS, or looking up the TRANSCRIPT LEGEND . Name* Email Address* Inquiry, Request, or Comment* Type your question or comment below. Name This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Holiday Closures Spring 2022 Mon, May 30 (Memorial Day) University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA