Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Office of the Registrar Main Menu In this section Academic Calendar Commencement Apply toGraduate CommencementInformation Forms Transcripts Order Transcripts Transcript FAQs Official TranscriptDetails University Catalog University Catalog Catalog Archives Home Banner for Department Heads Waitlisting Banner for Department Heads Registration Student Profile Grade Entry Waitlisting Class List/Roster 9.9 The Portal Browse Class Schedule Registration Permits/Overrides Maintain Academic Advisors Requesting Access to Banner Understanding Proxy Access Degree Works Degree Works Advisor FAQs Degree Works FAQs for Students Degree Works Videos What's New with Degree Works Repeated Courses in Degree Works FAQs for Department Heads Grades and GPA Academic Alert System Exams Contact Office of the Registrar322/324 Student Union, Stillwater OK 74078(405) 744-6876registrar@okstate.edu Self-Service Waitlisting (for Department Heads) Waitlist Overview Waitlisting a Class Waitlist Notification of Seat Available Basic Waitlist Functionality Managing Waitlist Priority Waitlist Overview Some classes offer a waitlist, which allows students to get on a waiting list to register in a full/closed class if a seat becomes available. Some classes may display as open, but the available seats are reserved for students on the waitlist. Students can waitlist a class if they would be eligible to register in the class (ex: prerequisites and other enforced registration restrictions must be met). However, students can waitlist multiple sections of the same course as well as sections that would result in a time conflict with another class on their schedule. If a student becomes eligible to register in a waitlisted class that is a duplicate of another section or would result in a time conflict, the student must adjust his or her schedule to remove duplicate sections and/or time conflicts. Waitlist a Class (for students only) Students should follow these steps to add themselves to the waitlist for a class: Go to Registration - Register for Classes in Self-Service. Find the class they wish to waitlist and click the Add button to add it to their schedule Summary. Go to the Summary and select Waitlist in the Action column, then click Submit. If successfully added to the waitlist, the class will display in the Summary and on your Schedule with a Status of Waitlisted. Waitlist Notification of Seat Available If a seat becomes available in a waitlisted class, the student in the highest position on the waitlist will receive an email notification of the available spot and the limited number of hours to register in the class. Upon receiving the email notification, if the student does not register in the class within the stated deadline, the student will be automatically removed from the waitlist (and would need to repeat the process above to be added back to the waitlist). Waitlisted students who receive email notification of an available seat must follow these steps (within the stated deadline) to register in the class: Go to the Registration - Register for Classes area in Self-Service and find the waitlisted class in your Summary. Click in the Action column and select the Register option. Click the Submit button in the lower right corner. If successfully registered, the class Status will change to Registered in the Summary and your Schedule. Students can waitlist multiple sections of the same course as well as sections that would result in a time conflict with another class on their schedule. However, when a student becomes eligible to register in a waitlisted class that is a duplicate of another section or would result in a time conflict, the student must adjust his or her schedule to remove duplicate sections and/or time conflicts. Note that the Conditional Add and Drop option may not work as expected when registering in a waitlisted class. Check your schedule carefully for potential time conflicts, duplicate courses, etc. when registering in a waitlisted class if you are dropping a class at the same time. Basic Waitlist Functionality When enrollment in a class reaches the maximum enrollment, non-enrolled students can get on the waitlist if the section has a waitlist enabled and the waitlist hasn’t yet reached the waitlist maximum. Departments determine whether to offer waitlisting for their sections and set the waitlist maximum for each section/CRN via a request from the Registrar’s Course Management and Class Scheduling team (gurooms@okstate.edu). The maximum waitlist size is 99. When a seat becomes available in the class (via either an enrolled student dropping the class, or the department increasing the maximum enrollment), the student with the highest priority on the waitlist receives an automated email notifying him/her of eligibility to register in the class and the time period in which they must register. The time period in which a student must register before the next student is notified is defined at a global level (SOAWLTC) and gets shorter as the semester’s non-restrictive enrollment period draws near. When the time period has expired and the student has not registered for the class, the student is removed from the waitlist and the next student with highest priority is notified that he/she is eligible to register. Students can only waitlist a class if they would be able to register in the class (ex: prerequisites and other enforced registration controls must be met) with following exceptions: Duplicate sections of same course Time conflicts Managing Waitlist Priority Default waitlist priority is on a first-come, first-served basis, with 1 being the highest priority. Departments can manually re-order student waitlist priority for their classes as desired via the SFAWLPR screen (or SFAXWLP for crosslisted sections). Banner Self-Service will not display student waitlist position/priority to students on Self-Service. Banner ePrint reports with waitlist information include CLSUSAGE and CRSWTLST. You can view waitlist notification details for a section on SFIWLNT. Back To Top Back To Top Office of the Registrar 322/324 Student Union Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 (map) (405) 744-6876 | Contact Us Follow US Social Media Directory Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Snapchat Oklahoma State University Campus & Parking MapsAll OSU InstitutionsCareers @ OSUHire OSU Grads© Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks MENUCLOSE ©