Skip to main content Florida State University This is your Donation message. Log In This Site FSU Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Submit Submit Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Giving University Registrar Toggle navigation Site Menu Current Records Overview Status & Retention Drop/Add Service Indicators Enrollment Cancellation Grade Services Deans' Directory Publications Overview Bulletin Info Registration Guide Info Campus Map Info Course Descriptions Calendars Graduation Overview Graduation Checklist Ceremony Information Diplomas Degrees of Distinction Update Expected Grad Term FAQ Student Services Overview Graduation Transcripts Certification State Employee Fee Waiver FERPA Course Descriptions Scheduling Overview Curriculum Academic Space Class Search Archive Bulletin Undergraduate Graduate Registration Guide Past Editions Graduation Checklist Home Graduation Checklist Graduation Information Overview Graduation Checklist Important Dates Cap and Gown Information Ceremony Information Parking Information Commencement Schedule by College Guest Tickets & Grad Passes Degrees of Distinction Diploma Information Certified Electronic Diploma CeDiploma Diploma Validation Transcripts Commencement Program as a PDF Update Expected Grad Term Frequently Asked Questions Actions Required for Graduation A Note About Future Registration After you apply for graduation, a stop will be placed on any future registrations unless you have been readmitted to the university or your name has been removed from the graduation list. When you receive a degree from the University, you are "discharged" as a student. If you wish to continue as a doctoral student, special (non-degree seeking) student, or to work on a second bachelor's degree, you must apply for readmission to the University through the appropriate section of the Admission's Office. Master's degree seeking students must be readmitted through the Graduate Admissions Office. Request a University Academic Progress Check The following students are exempt from the requirement: students who have already requested the academic progress check and those students with prior bachelor's, master's, or doctoral degrees. IMPORTANT: Requesting an academic progress check is NOT the same as applying for graduation! After you submit your request, the University Academic Progress Check hold is removed from your account within one business day. You will receive an email notification after the Graduation Services staff completes the review. A new link appears on the request page, allowing you to download your academic progress check. Alternately, you may pick up a copy from the Graduation desk located in University Center A, Room 3900. Business hours are 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. No appointment is necessary. Request a University Academic Progress Check Apply Online for Graduation For instructions on applying for graduation online, follow the How to Apply to Graduate steps. RSVP for the Graduation Ceremony If you are planning to participate in your graduation ceremony, you must register and RSVP online with Tassel Turner. You will receive an email with additional information when online registration becomes available. Please review instructions for your RSVP at How To RSVP for Your Graduation Ceremony. Access Your Grad Pass For instructions on accessing your Grad Pass, follow the How to Access Your Grad Pass steps. Complete the Graduating Senior Survey Requirement Students must complete the Graduating Senior Survey to be cleared for graduation. This brief, online survey asks about your post-graduation plans. University funding depends on our ability to report this information, so completion of the survey is a graduation requirement. The link to the survey will be sent to you two weeks prior to the last day of classes. Mailing Address A3900 University Center 282 Champions Way Tallahassee, FL 32306-2480 Email Registrar - registrar@fsu.edu Phone 850.644.1050 Hours Monday - Friday, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Eastern Time Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright