Skip to main content Florida State University This is your Donation message. Log In This Site FSU Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Submit Submit Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Giving University Registrar Toggle navigation Site Menu Current Records Overview Status & Retention Drop/Add Service Indicators Enrollment Cancellation Grade Services Deans' Directory Publications Overview Bulletin Info Registration Guide Info Campus Map Info Course Descriptions Calendars Graduation Overview Graduation Checklist Ceremony Information Diplomas Degrees of Distinction Update Expected Grad Term FAQ Student Services Overview Graduation Transcripts Certification State Employee Fee Waiver FERPA Course Descriptions Scheduling Overview Curriculum Academic Space Class Search Archive Bulletin Undergraduate Graduate Registration Guide Past Editions 2021-2022 Undergraduate Bulletin Home Bulletin Undergraduate Departments & Programs Business Analytics Helpful Links Graduate Bulletin Policies & Information Colleges Departments & Programs Bulletin PDF Undergraduate Bulletin Policies & Information Colleges Departments & Programs Bulletin PDF Archive of Previous Editions Fall Registration Guide Spring Registration Guide Summer Registration Guide Class Search Snapshots Undergraduate Department of Business Analytics, Information Systems and Supply Chain College of Business Website: https://business.fsu.edu/departments/baissc Chair: Ashley Bush; Professors: D. Armstrong, Brusco, Bush, Cradit, Giunipero; Associate Professors: Tang, Shang; Assistant Professors: Choi, Ilk, Lu; Teaching Faculty III: Larsen; Teaching Faculty II: K. Armstrong; Teaching Faculty I: Kerwin, Sun; Senior Research Scholar: Etschmaier; Bank of America Professor of Data Analytics: Cradit; Sprint Professor of Management Information Systems: Bush; Synovous Professor of Business Administration: Brusco The Department of Business Analytics, Information Systems and Supply Chain administers the undergraduate degree program in Management Information Systems (MIS). The undergraduate major in Management Information Systems is designed for those who want to learn more about the intersection of people, processes, and technology in order to provide competitive advantage to organizations. The purpose of the Management Information Systems program is to provide students with a broad understanding of the role and use of managerial technology in the various functional areas of modern organizations. With this understanding students will design, implement, and manage systems for use in problem solving, decision making, and innovation in organizations. The overall intent is to prepare the student for entry-level positions in medium- and large-sized organizations leading to high-level technical or managerial careers in both the public and private sectors. Students who successfully complete the Management Information Systems major receive a Bachelor of Science (BS) degree in Management Information Systems. The program Website is accessible at https://business.fsu.edu/undergraduate/majors/mis. The department also offers a combined BS/MS-MIS pathway and a combined BS/MBA pathway that allows highly qualified undergraduate students the opportunity to accelerate their coursework and take up to nine semester hours of graduate coursework, which may be counted toward both the BS and MS-MIS or MBA degrees. Detailed descriptions of the MS-MIS and MBA program can be found in the Graduate Bulletin. Computer Skills Competency All undergraduates at Florida State University must demonstrate basic computer skills competency prior to graduation. As necessary computer competency skills vary from discipline to discipline, each major determines the courses needed to satisfy this requirement. Undergraduate majors in Management Information Systems satisfy this requirement by earning a grade of “C–” or higher in CGS 2100 (state mandated business prerequisite requirement) or CGS 2518. Note: CGS 2518 with a “C–” or better is a graduation requirement for students in the MIS major. Required Risk in Business and Society Course All undergraduates at Florida State University intending to enter a business major should complete RMI 2302, Risk in Business and Society, with a “C–” or better by the end of their sophomore year, but no later than their fifth mapping term. Required Professional Development Course All undergraduates entering Florida State University in Fall 2019 and later must complete a one-credit course in professional development, GEB 1030, with a “C–” or better by the end of their fifth mapping term. However, students are encouraged to complete the course by the end of their sophomore year to take full advantage of the material. State of Florida Common Program Prerequisites The state of Florida has identified common program prerequisites for this University degree program. Specific prerequisites are required for admission into the upper-division program and must be completed by the student at either a community college or a state university prior to being admitted to this program. Students may be admitted into the University without completing the prerequisites, but may not be admitted into the program. At the time this document was published, some common program prerequisites were being reviewed by the state of Florida and may have been revised. Please visit https://dlss.flvc.org/admin-tools/common-prerequisites-manuals for a current list of state-approved prerequisites. The following lists the common program prerequisites or their substitutions, necessary for admission into this upper-division degree program: ACG X021 or ACG X022 or ACG X001 and ACG X011 ACG X071 or ACG X301 CGS X100 (or demonstrated competency) or CGS X100C or CGS X530 or CGS X570 or CGS X060 or CGS X531 or CGS X000 or ISM X000 or CGS X518 ECO X013 ECO X023 MAC X233 or MAC X230 STA X023 or STA X122 or QMB X100 Management Information Systems Program All students must complete: (1) the University-wide baccalaureate degree requirements summarized in the “Undergraduate Degree Requirements” chapter of this General Bulletin; (2) the state of Florida common prerequisites for management information systems majors; (3) the general business core requirements for Management Information Systems majors; (4) the general business breadth requirements for Management Information Systems majors; and (5) the major area requirements for Management Information Systems majors. Students must be admitted to the major no later than the end of their fifth mapping term, as determined by the College of Business. Note: To be eligible to pursue a Management Information Systems major, students must meet the admission requirements for the AACSB accredited business programs in the College of Business. These admission requirements are described in the “College of Business” chapter of this General Bulletin. General Business Core Requirements All Management Information Systems majors must complete the following six courses. A grade of “C–” or better must be earned in each course. BUL 3310 The Legal Environment of Business (3) FIN 3403 Financial Management of the Firm (3) GEB 3213 Business Communications (3) ISM 3541 Introduction to Business Analytics (3) MAN 3240 Organizational Behavior (3) MAR 3023 Basic Marketing Concepts (3) General Business Breadth Requirements All Management Information Systems majors must complete three courses as follows. Each course selected must be completed with a grade of “C–” or better. MAN 4720 Strategic Management and Business Policy (3) Plus two electives from the following list of courses: FIN 3244 Financial Markets, Institutions, and International Finance Systems (3) ISM 3003 Foundations of Management Information Systems (3) MAN 3600 Multinational Business Operations (3) MAR 3231 Retail Management (3) MAR 3400 Professional Selling (3) QMB 3200 Quantitative Methods for Business Decisions (3) REE 3043 Real Estate (3) RMI 3011 Risk Management/Insurance (3) Capstone Course All management information systems majors must complete the capstone class in Strategic Management and Business Policy (MAN 4720) with a grade of “C–” or better. Major Area Requirements All Management Information Systems (MIS) majors must complete six courses as listed below. Due to the dynamic nature of the MIS field, all students should verify the current MIS major requirements with the MIS undergraduate advisor upon entry to the major. A grade of “C–” or better must be earned in each course used to satisfy the MIS major area requirements. In all cases, prerequisites to courses must be completed with a grade of “C–” or better before subsequent courses may be entered. ISM 4113 Management Information Systems Analysis and Design (3) ISM 4212 Information for Operating Control and Data Management (3) ISM 4220 Information and Communications Systems Management (3) Plus three electives from the following list of courses including at least one programming course indicated with an asterisk below: *CGS 3406 Object-Oriented Programming in C++ (3) *CGS 3416 Java Programming for Non-Specialists (3) *COP 3014 Programming I (3) *COP 4125 Advanced Application Development (3) ISM 3540 Big Data (3) ISM 4117 Business Intelligence (3) ISM 4300 Technology Management (3) ISM 4314 Project Management (3) ISM 4482 Mobile Technology (3) ISM 4545 Data Analytics and Mining for Business (3) ISM 4930r Special Topics in MIS (3) MAR 4524 Consumer Demand Analytics with Big Data (3) QMB 4700 Operations Research for Managerial Decisions (3) Honors in the Major The Department of Business Analytics, Information Systems and Supply Chain offers honors in the major to encourage talented students to undertake independent and original research as part of the undergraduate experience. For requirements and other information see the “University Honors Office and Honor Societies” chapter of this General Bulletin. Requirements for a Minor in Business Analytics The Business Analytics Minor is designed to produce analytically savvy students who will be adept at working in interdisciplinary teams in any organization to solve complex business problems. This is not a University degree program leading to a diploma. The Business Analytics Minor will consist of 12 credit hours. Students interested in pursuing the minor should register their intent to do so with the College of Business Undergraduate Advising office prior to starting the minor. Students are encouraged to begin their minor coursework at least three semesters before graduation. The Business Analytics minor is open to both College of Business and non-College of Business students. Students are required to complete four 3-hour electives as described below. Only coursework with a grade of “C–” or above will count toward the minor. All courses must be completed at FSU. X = Courses that will satisfy the minor requirement. MIS major COB major (non-MIS) Other major (non-COB) ISM 3540 Big Data X X X ISM 3541 Introduction to Business Analytics X ISM 4117 Business Intelligence X X X ISM 4212 Information for Operating Control and Data Management X X ISM 4545 Data Analytics and Mining for Business X X X MAR 4524 Consumer Demand Analytics with Big Data X X X QMB 4700 Operations Research for Managerial Decisions X X X Definition of Prefixes CGS—Computer General Studies COP—Computer Programming GEB—General Business IDC—Interdisciplinary Computing ISM—Information Systems Management MAN—Management MAR—Marketing QMB—Quantitative Methods in Business Undergraduate Courses CGS 2518. Spreadsheets for Business Environments (3). This course provides an in-depth study of spreadsheets utilizing a problem-solving approach. Spreadsheet-based solutions are explored for common business tasks and problems. The course presents a thorough coverage of spreadsheet functions and tools, along with a deep understanding of their purpose in a business environment. The course is ideal for students with professional interests related to business and economics, as well as for students wishing to obtain a deeper understanding of spreadsheets in general. COP 4125. Advanced Application Development (3). Prerequisite: CGS 2518. This course presents advanced application development methodology, technology, and tools. Students work individually and in teams in the applied study of complex systems development problems and cases. GEB 4941r. Business Internship (0–6). (S/U grade only.) Prerequisite: Instructor permission. This business internship is designed for College of Business students who desire to gain real-world experience in the accounting field through on-the-job practice. Students work under the direction of an approved industry professional, a faculty advisor, and the internship director. May be repeated to a maximum of six semester hours. IDC 3931. Special Topics in Interdisciplinary Computing - Intermediate Level (3). This course covers current issues and topics in interdisciplinary computing that are not discussed in other courses. Topics vary. May be repeated within the same term, to a maximum of nine semester hours. ISM 3003. Foundations of Management Information Systems (3). This course provides a broad overview of the role of management information systems (MIS) within organizations with an emphasis on understanding the three key resources that MIS focuses on – people, information, and information technology. ISM 3011. Introduction to Management Information Systems (3). Prerequisite: CGS 2100. This course is an introduction to management information systems concepts, with emphasis on describing information requirements, managing information resources, and applying information processing technology to business and management. ISM 3540. Big Data (3). This introductory course addresses issues surrounding the accumulation, transformation and analysis of large datasets typically encountered in both business and research environments. Additionally, students work in a classroom lab setting using cutting-edge technologies to analyze and mine data associated with their interests. ISM 3541. Introduction to Business Analytics (3). This course provides students with an introduction to basic business analytics concepts and applications. The course covers the principles of data analytic thinking and provide a solid foundation for data driven decision making in various business and organizational settings. The course places special emphasis on working through applications and examples of analytics in the real world. ISM 4113. Management Information Systems Analysis and Design (3). This course is an in-depth treatment of the theory and practice of management information systems including information requirements analysis, design methodology, and system implementation considerations. ISM 4117. Business Intelligence (3). This course helps students explore managerial, strategic, and technical issues associated with developing and deploying Business Intelligence applications. ISM 4212. Information for Operating Control and Data Management (3). Prerequisite: ISM 4113. This course covers the theory, techniques, and applications of information management and control including organizations as information-processing systems and executive support systems. ISM 4220. Information and Communications Systems Management (3). Prerequisite: ISM 4113. This course is an introduction to the design, operation, and management of telecommunication systems including electronic data interchange, office support, transborder information flow, and management support for networking. For MIS majors only. ISM 4300. Technology Management (3). Prerequisite: ISM 4212. This course focuses on the strategy and theory of the creation, development, introduction, management, and marketing of new technologies and services. Management of the appropriate technological environment of an organization is emphasized. Concepts and approaches to e-commerce and e-business. ISM 4314. Project Management (3). Prerequisite: ISM 4113. This course covers the fundamental knowledge areas related to successful project management. Topics include project selection and initiation, work breakdown structure and scope management, scheduling, budgeting and cost analysis, quality control, project communication plans, project risk analysis, resource leveling, and procurement issues. ISM 4482. Mobile Technology Management (3). This course explores factors related to the management of the design, implementation, and installation of applications on mobile devices. Topics cover issues related to platform size (such as memory, power, screen brightness, and sound capability), implications of connectivity and security problems for management, as well as business opportunities that become available through the use of mobile technology. ISM 4545. Data Analytics and Mining for Business (3). This course discusses the most important data analytics and mining techniques to support data-driven decision making and help corporations acquire knowledge from large data sets. Specifically, it introduces methods such as clustering, classification, association rule mining, etc. through a hands-on approach using specialized software. ISM 4905r. Directed Individual Study (1–3). May be repeated to twelve semester hours. ISM 4930r. Special Topics in Management Information Systems (1–3). This course provides an opportunity to study current issues in management information systems and topics not covered in other courses. May be repeated to a maximum of nine semester hours as content varies. Prerequisites vary depending on the topic of the course; refer to department for details. ISM 4941r. Field Study in Management Information Systems (1–3). (S/U grade only.) Prerequisite: ISM 4212. This course provides students with learning opportunities in organizational management information systems beyond those available in existing MIS courses. No more than three credit hours allowed in a semester. May be repeated to a maximum of six semester hours. ISM 4970r. Honors Thesis (1–6). Prerequisite: Admission to the honors program. May be repeated to a maximum of nine semester hours. Six semester hours of thesis are required to complete honors in the major. MAN 3504. Service Operations Management (3). Prerequisites: CGS 2100 and QMB 3200. This course covers methodology and theory of the design and management of productive systems, especially in the services industry. Includes quantitative techniques and procedures for process analysis. MAR 3461. Principles of Purchasing (3). Prerequisite: MAR 3023. This course is an introduction to the concepts, principles, and techniques of purchasing physical resources for all types of organizations. MAR 4203. Logistics and Supply Chain Management (3). Prerequisite: MAR 3023. This course introduces the student to the management of logistics activities involved in the flow of goods, information, and funds throughout the supply chain. MAR 4524. Consumer Demand Analytics with Big Data (3). This course is an advanced undergraduate class for mainly business students. However, students from economics, engineering, and other disciplines may also find it useful. QMB 4700. Operations Research for Managerial Decisions (3). This course focuses on the prescriptive perspective. The course studies many of the mathematical tools available to the decision maker to use the information derived from descriptive and predictive analytics. Graduate Courses GEB 5944r. Graduate Internship (1–6). (S/U grade only.) ISM 5008. Fundamentals of Managing Information Technologies (3). ISM 5021. Information and Technology Management (3). ISM 5046. Social and Organizational Issues in MIS (3). ISM 5123. Systems Analysis and Design (3). ISM 5125. Advanced Systems Analysis and Design (3). ISM 5136. Data Analytics and Mining for Business (3). ISM 5206. Database Development and Management (3). ISM 5207. Advanced Database Management (3). ISM 5226. Network Development and Management (3). ISM 5227. Advanced Telecommunications Management (3). ISM 5315. Project Management (3). ISM 5316. Advanced Project Management (3). ISM 5327. Corporate Information Security (3). ISM 5404. Business Intelligence (3). ISM 5428. Knowledge Management (3). ISM 5507. E-Business (3). ISM 5560. Data Management in Business Analytics (3). ISM 5564. Business Analytics for Competitive Advantage (3). ISM 5565. Foundational Concepts for Business Analytics (3). ISM 5566. Forecasting, Revenue Management, and Pricing (3). ISM 5567. Supply Chain Analytics (3). ISM 5569. Business Analytics Capstone (3). ISM 5644. Programming for Analytics (3). ISM 5906r. Directed Individual Study (1–3). (S/U grade only.) ISM 5907r. Special Studies in Management: Information and Systems Management (1–3). ISM 5935r. Special Topics in Information and Management Sciences (1–3). ISM 6109. Doctoral Seminar in General Systems Theory (3). ISM 6395. Doctoral Seminar in Management Information Systems (3). ISM 6405. Doctoral Seminar in Decision Processes and Structures (3). ISM 6885. Seminar on Applied MIS Research (3). ISM 6917r. Supervised Research (1–3). (S/U grade only.) ISM 6919r. Supervised Teaching (1–3). (S/U grade only.) ISM 6979. Doctoral Seminar in Research Methods and the Philosophy of Science (3). MAN 5375. HR Analytics (3). MAN 5501. Operations Management (3). MAN 5721. Strategy and Business Policy (3). MAN 6235r. Doctoral Seminar in Organizational Theory (3). MAR 5465. Purchasing and Supply Chain Management (3). MAR 5466. Logistics and Supply Chain Management (3). MAR 5726. Electronic Business in Supply Chain Marketing (3). MAR 6636. Quantitative Methods I: Measurement, Scaling, and Choice (3). QMB 5616. Probabilistic Optimization Methods for Analytics (3). QMB 5755. Quantitative Methods in Business Analytics I (3). For listings relating to graduate coursework for thesis, dissertation, and master’s and doctoral examinations and defense, consult the Graduate Bulletin. ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING: see Civil and Environmental Engineering ENVIRONMENTAL PLANNING AND NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT: see Urban and Regional Planning ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES: see Geography EVALUATION AND MEASUREMENT: see Educational Psychology and Learning Systems EVOLUTIONARY BIOLOGY: see Biological Science EXERCISE PHYSIOLOGY: see Nutrition, Food and Exercise Sciences Mailing Address A3900 University Center 282 Champions Way Tallahassee, FL 32306-2480 Email Registrar - registrar@fsu.edu Phone 850.644.1050 Hours Monday - Friday, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Eastern Time Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright