Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Office of the Registrar Main Menu In this section Academic Calendar Commencement Apply toGraduate CommencementInformation Forms Transcripts Order Transcripts Transcript FAQs Official TranscriptDetails University Catalog University Catalog Catalog Archives Home Registration and Transcript Holds Home Academic Advising Academic Calendar Future or Prior Term Calendars Drop/Add and Withdraw Deadline Details Drop/Add Deadline Details Banner for Advisors Banner Advisor Holds Banner FAQs for Advisors Grades and GPA (for Advisors) Maintain Academic Advisors Maintain Academic Advisors Maintain Student Attributes Online Curriculum/Major Change System (for Advisors) Progress Report/Academic Alert System Registration Permits/Overrides (for Advisors) Requesting Access to Banner (for Advisors) Searching for Classes (for Advisors) Student Profile (for Advisors) The Portal (for Advisors) Training for Advisors and Departments Understanding Proxy Access (for Advisors) View My Class Schedule (for Advisors) Banner for Department Heads Registration Student Profile Grade Entry Waitlisting Class List/Roster 9.9 The Portal Browse Class Schedule Registration Permits/Overrides Maintain Academic Advisors Requesting Access to Banner Understanding Proxy Access Degree Works Degree Works Advisor FAQs Degree Works FAQs for Students Degree Works Videos What's New with Degree Works Repeated Courses in Degree Works FAQs for Department Heads Grades and GPA Academic Alert System Exams Banner for Faculty Registration Student Profile Faculty Grade Entry 9.9 Final and Midterm Grades Browse Class Schedule Class Rolls Exams SFASTCA Registration Audit Trail Training Videos Progress Report/Academic Alert System Registration Permits/Overrides The Portal FAQs for Faculty Waitlist Requesting Access to Banner (for New Faculty) Banner for Students Registration Student Profile The Portal Viewing My Class Schedule View Grades Exams Short "How To" Videos Common Registration Issues Registration and Transcript Holds Proxy Access Information Waitlisting FAQs for Students Catalog Archives Certifications Chosen, Legal and Diploma Names Class List/Roster 9.9 Class Schedule/Short Courses Course Management & Classroom Scheduling Exams General Education Codes/Days of the Week Abbreviations Prerequisites and Corequisites Room Reservations Short Courses with Unique Drop/Add Deadlines Commencement Degree Requirements Degree Works Discussion of Education Records with Student Proxy Frequently Asked Questions For Advisors Certifications Enrollment/Registration Graduation and Commencement Incomplete Grade Policy - Students Incomplete Grade Policy - Faculty Thesis/Dissertation Grade Policy Transcripts and Academic Records Tuition and Fee Adjustments Veteran Services Military Leave of Absence/Withdrawal FERPA FERPA - General Information FERPA - For Students FERPA - For Parents FERPA - For Faculty FERPA - For Staff FERPA - Tutorial for Faculty and Staff Forms Grade Reporting/Faculty Grade Entry Major Change Requests Meet the Team Quiet Classrooms Registration/Enrollment Enrollment Guides OSU Registration System Registration/Enrollment Holds Common Registration Issues Viewing my Class Schedule Maximum Credit Hour Load Military Leave of Absence/Withdrawal Registration/Transcript Holds Residency Status Reverse Transfer Short Courses Transcripts Official Transcript Details Transcript FAQs Unofficial Transcripts Veteran Benefit Services Contact Office of the Registrar322/324 Student Union, Stillwater OK 74078(405) 744-6876registrar@okstate.edu Common Registration Issues Registration and Transcript Holds Registration and transcript holds are restrictions placed on student accounts when a specific action is required from the student, such as payment on your Bursar account or consultation with your academic advisor. Some registration holds are tied to registration time tickets, and can result in the temporary loss of a registration time ticket until the hold has been released. The information below provides details on the various hold types and how to address them. Note: While Self-Service will not allow students with registration holds to drop classes online, you can still drop classes in the Registrar's Office or in the Enrollment Services office in Tulsa (during the allowable drop/withdraw periods) with advisor permission. Complete a drop/add card and bring it to the Registrar's Office with a photo ID. How to Read Holds on Self-Service Hold Details by Type Academic Integrity Advisor Registration Hold ACT/SAT Test Score Required Admissions Document Required Bursar Fin Advising Required Bursar Perkins Loan Coll Hold Bursar Registration & Transcript Hold Bursar Registration Hold Bursar Returned Check Hold Bursar Transcript Hold Charging Privilege Hold College Transcript Required English 0003 Required Grad College Needs Transcript Grad College Plan of Study Required 1is2many Training Required High School Transcript Required Immunization Records Required ISS Orientation Required Perkins Loan Exit Counseling Registrar at ISS Office Registrar Registration Hold Registrar Transcript Hold Residential Life Fraternity/Sorority Hold Student Conduct Hold TELP Test Required How to Read Holds on Self-Service For a quick snapshot of all holds placed on your account, login to Self-Service (via the my.okstate.edu portal) and select Student Profile, then click on Holds in the upper right corner. If you have active holds, you will see a summary of active holds. Click the arrow to the right of each hold to view the hold details. Below are descriptions of items displayed in the Hold details: Originator: The office that placed the hold, and the place you can contact for more information on what action you need to take to have the hold cleared. Reason: This column may indicate more details about why the hold was placed on your account. Processes Affected: Indicates what the hold is impacting, for example: Registration prevents a student from adding or dropping classes online. (Note: While Self-Service will not allow students with registration holds to drop classes online, you can still drop classes in the Registrar's Office or in the Enrollment Services office in Tulsa [during the allowable drop/withdraw periods] with advisor permission. Complete a drop/add card and bring it to the Registrar's Office with a photo ID.) Transcripts prevents a student from obtaining copies of official documents, such as an official academic transcript or diploma. Accounts Receivable indicates the hold was placed by the Bursar’s Office. Hold Details by Type Academic Integrity This hold is placed on a student's account by the Office of Academic Affairs when the student has not completed a required academic integrity sanction or training program by the given deadline. This hold prevents registration. Students are encouraged to contact the Coordinator for Academic Integrity Programs in 101 Whitehurst or call 405-744-5627 to discuss options for completing the sanction or training and removing the hold. Once a student has met the requirements for completing the sanction or training, the hold can be lifted from the account. Please visit the OSU Academic Integrity website for additional information. Advisor Registration Hold (also Fall/Summer Advising Hold or Spring Advising Hold) These holds are placed on a student's account before registration opens for an upcoming term, and to select student populations after the main semester’s nonrestrictive drop/add deadline. Advising holds will result in temporary loss of a registration time ticket until the hold is released by the student’s primary academic advisor. To address this hold, students should contact their primary academic advisor, or their College Student Academic Services Office. Students should schedule their advising appointments well in advance of their next semester’s registration date. ACT/SAT Test Score Required This hold is placed on a student’s account by the Office of Undergraduate Admissions because ACT or SAT test scores are required to complete the student’s admission application. Admissions Document Required This hold is placed on a student’s account by the Office of Undergraduate Admissions. The hold prevents registration in future semesters until a final official transcript from another institution you’ve attended has been received. To address this hold, please contact Undergraduate Admissions at 405-744-5358 or admissions@okstate.edu. Students may also contact Undergraduate Admissions in Tulsa at (918) 594-8020 or by emailing tulsa.admissions@okstate.edu. Bursar Fin Advising Required This hold is placed on a student’s accounts with a past due balance by the Office of the Bursar and requires manual removal from a Bursar financial counselor. To ensure enrollment, pay the entire past due account balance in cash, certified funds or credit card online. If payment is by personal paper check or online web check, the account holder may be required to wait until the payment has cleared the bank (up to 2 weeks) to enroll. To discuss the matter with a Bursar representative, please call 405-744-5993 or email bursar@okstate.edu. Students may also contact the Bursar in Tulsa at (918) 594-8320 or by emailing tulsa.bursar@okstate.edu. Bursar Perkins Loan Coll Hold This hold is placed on a student’s account by the Office of the Bursar – Student Loans Debt Management team. The hold prevents registration as well as the release of academic documents (i.e. transcripts and diploma). To address this hold, please contact Educational Computer Systems, Inc. (ECSI) at (888) 549-3274 or the Student Loans Debt Management team at 405-744-8435. These holds are released nightly via an automated process. Bursar Registration & Transcript Hold This hold is placed on a student’s account with a past due balance by the Office of the Bursar and requires manual removal from a Bursar financial counselor. To ensure the enrollment and academic hold release, pay the entire past due account balance in cash, certified funds or credit card online. To discuss the matter with a Bursar representative, please call 405-744-5993 or email bursar@okstate.edu. Students may also contact the Bursar in Tulsa at (918) 594-8320 or by emailing tulsa.bursar@okstate.edu. Bursar Registration Hold This hold is placed on a student’s accounts with a past due balance by the Office of the Bursar and is released automatically after the account is paid current or the payment option plan payment monthly installment payment becomes current. The automated hold release process runs approximately every 5-10 minutes, even during holidays. To ensure enrollment hold release, pay the entire past due account balance in cash, certified funds or credit card online. If payment is by personal paper check or online web check, the account holder may be required to wait until the payment has cleared the bank (up to 2 weeks) to enroll. To discuss the matter with a Bursar representative, please call 405-744-5993 or email bursar@okstate.edu. Students may also contact the Bursar in Tulsa at (918) 594-8320 or by emailing tulsa.bursar@okstate.edu. Bursar Returned Check Hold This hold is placed on a student’s account by the Office of the Bursar and requires manual removal from a Bursar financial counselor after determining that the returned check has been paid with secured funds. The hold prevents registration as well as the release of academic documents (i.e. transcripts and diploma). Payment via personal or web check on the Bursar account has been declined by the payer’s financial institution. Students with this hold should make contact with a financial counselor in the Bursar Office to discuss payment and the release of this hold. They may be reached by visiting their office in 113 Student Union, by phone at 405-744-5993 or by emailing bursar@okstate.edu. Students may also contact the Bursar in Tulsa at (918) 594-8320 or by emailing tulsa.bursar@okstate.edu. Bursar Transcript Hold This hold is placed on a student’s account by the Office of the Bursar and is released automatically after the account is paid current or the payment option plan payment monthly installment payment becomes current. The automated hold release process runs approximately every 5-10 minutes, even during holidays. The hold prevents the release of academic documents (i.e. transcripts and diploma). Payment via personal or web check on the Bursar account has been declined by the payer’s financial institution. Students with this hold should make contact with a financial counselor in the Bursar Office to discuss payment and the release of this hold. They may be reached by visiting their office in 113 Student Union, by phone at 405-744-5993 or by emailing bursar@okstate.edu. Students may also contact the Bursar in Tulsa at (918) 594-8320 or by emailing tulsa.bursar@okstate.edu. Charging Privilege Hold This Oklahoma State University extends bursar optional charging privileges to students and employees in order to facilitate use of campus based services. In order to maintain charging privileges with the University, bursar accounts must be current. Your account is considered past due, so charging privileges have been revoked and you are no longer allowed to charge optional items/services to your bursar account. If there are extenuating circumstances, or you have documentation of scholarships/financial assistance for the current semester not yet applied to your account, please contact the Bursar Office via email bursar@okstate.edu, call (405) 744-5993 or visit 113 Student Union. College Transcript Required This hold is placed on a student’s account by the Office of Undergraduate Admissions. The hold prevents registration in future semesters until a final official transcript from another institution you’ve attended has been received. To address this hold, please contact Undergraduate Admissions at 405-744-5358 or admissions@okstate.edu. Students may also contact Undergraduate Admissions in Tulsa at (918) 594-8020 or by emailing tulsa.admissions@okstate.edu. ENGL 0003 Required This hold is placed on a student’s account by the OSU Graduate College. The hold prevents enrollment without first enrolling in ENGL-0003. To address this hold, please contact the Graduate College at 405-744-6368 or grad-i@okstate.edu. Students may also contact the Graduate Student Services office in Tulsa at (918) 594-8445 or by emailing osutgssc@okstate.edu. Graduate College Needs Transcript This hold is placed on a student’s account by the OSU Graduate College. The hold prevents enrollment until a final transcript noting degree completion has been received in the Graduate College. To address this hold, please contact the Graduate College at 405-744-6368 or grad-i@okstate.edu. Students at OSU-Tulsa may also contact the Graduate Student Services office in Tulsa at (918) 594-8445 or by emailing osutgssc@okstate.edu. Students at OSU-CHS may also contact the Office of Graduate Programs at 918-561-8260 or by emailing chsgradprograms@okstate.edu. Graduate College Plan of Study Required This hold is placed on a student’s account by the OSU Graduate College. The hold prevents enrollment until a final Plan of Study has been submitted and approved. To address this hold, please contact the Graduate College at 405-744-6368 or grad-i@okstate.edu. Students may also contact the Graduate Student Services office in Tulsa at (918) 594-8445 or by emailing osutgssc@okstate.edu. 1is2many Training Required This hold is placed on a student’s account by the Office of Student Conduct Education and Administration for failure to complete the mandatory online sexual violence training. To address this hold, complete the online training at https://1is2many.okstate.edu. The hold will be removed within a full business day after completing the training. If you have questions, contact 1 is 2 Many at 405-744-5470. High School Transcript Required This hold is placed on a student’s account by the Office of Undergraduate Admissions. The hold prevents registration in future semesters until a final high school transcript has been received. To address this hold, please contact Undergraduate Admissions at 405-744-5358 or admissions@okstate.edu. Students may also contact Undergraduate Admissions in Tulsa at (918) 594-8020 or by emailing tulsa.admissions@okstate.edu. Immunization Records Required This hold is placed on a student’s account by the University Health Services Immunization office. The hold prevents registration until Oklahoma required immunization records have been received by University Health Services. Immunization records may be entered into your University Health Services health portal at uhs.okstate.edu/compliance-policy. Please review the 'Logging in and Submitting Your Shot Record' section before proceeding. For more information, please contact University Health Services at 405-744-7665. Students enrolled on the OSU-Tulsa campus may fax records to 918-594-8114, send information via email to tulsa.wellness@okstate.edu or brought into NH 130. Additional information may be obtained by calling 918-594-8355. ISS Orientation Required This hold is placed on a new and returning student’s account by the International Students & Scholars (ISS) office. This hold prevents initial registration in OSU coursework for new international students until they have registered for the mandatory New International Student Orientation program. After registration the hold is moved to the subsequent semester. Upon completion of the mandatory New International Student Orientation program, the hold is permanently removed. Failure to complete the mandatory New International Student Orientation program will result in the hold being reinstated for the subsequent semester and a $100 make up Orientation Fee will be assessed against the offending student’s bursar account. The hold and associated fee will repeat for each semester until the mandatory New International Student Orientation program has been completed. To address this hold, please contact the International Students & Scholars office at 405-744-5459. Students may also contact the International Student Services office in Tulsa at (918) 594-8445 or by emailing osutgssc@okstate.edu. Perkins Loan Exit Counseling This hold is placed on a student’s account by the Office of the Bursar – Student Loans Debt Management team. The hold prevents registration as well as the release of academic documents (i.e. transcripts and diploma). When a student receives Federal Perkins Loans while attending OSU, he or she must complete exit counseling upon graduating or dropping below half-time enrollment. Students may complete the Federal Perkins Loan exit interview online at https://borrower.ecsi.net/. The student loans debt management office will receive notification that the exit counseling has been completed and release your hold soon after. For more information, please contact Educational Computer Systems, Inc. (ECSI) at 888-549-3274. Register at ISS Office This initial hold is placed on a new student’s account by the International Students & Scholars (ISS) office. This hold prevents initial registration in OSU coursework for new international students until they have reported to ISS for registration into the Student Exchange Visitor Information System (SEVIS). Students should arrive prior to the beginning of the semester and work with the ISS office to become oriented to the campus and complete the SEVIS registration process. To address this hold, please contact the International Students & Scholars office at 405-744-5459. Students may also contact the International Student Services office in Tulsa at (918) 594-8445 or by emailing osutgssc@okstate.edu. Registrar Registration Hold The hold restricts enrollment for special circumstances, and will usually have more details indicated in the Reason column. If you are a non-degree seeking student whose enrollment has a restricted number of total hours, please contact the OSU Office of the Registrar at 405-744-6876 or registrar@okstate.edu for assistance. Students may also contact Enrollment Services in Tulsa at (918) 594-8100 or by emailing tulsa.admissions@okstate.edu. Registrar Transcript Hold The hold prevents the release of academic documents (i.e. transcripts and diploma) for special circumstances, and will usually have more details indicated in the Reason column. Please contact the OSU Office of the Registrar at 405-744-6876 or registrar@okstate.edu for assistance. Students may also contact Enrollment Services in Tulsa at (918) 594-8100 or by emailing tulsa.admissions@okstate.edu. Residential Life This hold is placed on a student’s account by the Office of Housing and Residential Life Administration for unresolved student conduct matters. To address this hold, please contact the Assistant Director by calling 405-744-5019. Fraternity and Sorority Affairs This hold is placed on a student’s account by the Office of Fraternity & Sorority Affairs. To address this hold, please contact the Office of Fraternity & Sorority Affairs by calling 405-744-5490. Student Conduct Hold This hold is placed on a student’s account by the OSU Student Conduct office. The hold prevents registration in future semesters and/or release of a student's academic transcript directly to the student. Additionally, the Student Conduct office is notified of any requests to send an official transcript to any destination before the request may be processed. Students with this hold may still view and print an unofficial academic transcript on SIS-Web. To address this hold, please contact the Student Conduct office at 405-744-5470. Students may also contact the Student Conduct Code office in Tulsa at (918) 594-8234. TELP Test Required This hold is placed on a student’s account by the OSU Graduate College. The hold prevents enrollment until scores are received for the OSU administered TELP examination. To address this hold, please contact the Graduate College at 405-744-6368 or grad-i@okstate.edu. Students may also contact the Graduate Student Services office in Tulsa at (918) 594-8445 or by emailing osutgssc@okstate.edu. Back To Top Back To Top Office of the Registrar 322/324 Student Union Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 (map) (405) 744-6876 | Contact Us Follow US Social Media Directory Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Snapchat Oklahoma State University Campus & Parking MapsAll OSU InstitutionsCareers @ OSUHire OSU Grads© Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks MENUCLOSE ©