Skip to main content Search Search Search Toggle navigation Cornell University Registrar Classes + Enrollment Class Roster Courses of Study Courses of Study Archive Student Essentials Gateway Courses Prorated Tuition Student Center FAQ Classes and Enrollment FAQ University Registration Calendars + Exams Academic Calendar Final Exam Policies Spring Prelim Schedule Spring Final Exam Schedule Fall Prelim Exam Schedule Fall Final Exam Schedule Grades + Transcripts Grading Median Grades Ordering Transcripts Transcript FAQ Transcript Keys Validating an eTranscript Service + Resources Apostille Certifications University Registrar Directory College Advising Directory College Registrar Directory Diploma Information Disability Accommodations FERPA ID Cards Mental Health at Cornell Names and Name Changes Use of Student Data Veteran Education Benefits Building Codes Faculty + Staff Faculty Center/Advisor Center Advisor Center FAQ Opscan Scanning Service Changing CIP Codes Data Requests Program Registration For Registrar Staff Diploma Information Undergraduate degrees are conferred by the college. Graduate degrees are conferred by the Graduate School. Once conferrals are complete, the Office of the University Registrar orders the diploma. When conferred, the degree appears on the official transcript. Name Your Primary Name on your academic record will appear on your diploma, unless you specify a Diploma Name. Your Diploma Name is a preferred name you choose for your diploma. Please submit a request to diploma@cornell.edu. Your request will be reviewed and you will be notified when it is processed. International students need to be aware of the implications of having diploma with a different name from their official student record. Review your Primary Name in Student Center. If you wish to correct your Primary Name you must do so prior to your degree date. Students who are expected to graduate will receive a reminder email a few months before graduation. See more about name changes. Your Primary Name will be displayed in the Commencement Booklet. Special characters in name, such as accent marks needing to appear on your diploma, please contact your College Registrar's Office. Mailing Diplomas are mailed directly to your Home address as it appears in Student Center, after degrees are awarded. Prior to your graduation, please review and update your Home address, include home country (if applicable) and take into consideration longer shipping times for international addresses. May diplomas are mailed in late June, for estimated delivery the first week of July. August diplomas are mailed in late September, for estimated delivery the first week of October. December diplomas are mailed in mid February, for estimated delivery the first week of March. Diplomas are mailed from our diploma vendor. All diplomas are sent via the United States Postal Service. They will be sent first-class for U.S. domestic addresses and airmail for international addresses. You will receive an email message when your diploma is mailed. Allow 30 days from the mailing date to receive your diploma. If you have not received your diploma after 30 days, please contact the Office of the University Registrar, diploma@cornell.edu. Diploma Size Diplomas are 11 inches x 14 inches in size. Damaged diploma Occasionally, diplomas are damaged during mailing. If your diploma is delivered damaged, please send a photo of the damaged diploma and order number to diploma@cornell.edu. Diplomas damaged during shipping will be replaced at no cost. Majors, minors and honors Majors appear on the official transcript. Minors and concentrations are added to the transcript at the time of degree conferral. Majors are not printed on the diploma unless honors are awarded in the major. Questions about honors should be directed to the college registrar. eDiploma An official eDiploma can be accessed through our official diploma vendor, Michael Sutter. eDiplomas are an electronic version of the paper diploma. They cannot be printed. However, you can provide the PDF as confirmation of the completion of degree. The eDiploma is a certified PDF of your diploma. You will receive your eDiploma when your diploma is ordered, after your degree is conferred. For alumni, an eDiploma can be ordered for a one-time charge of $5. A Secure ID is required to order your eDiploma, however if you do not have your Secure ID, you may request one at Michael Sutter. Once you receive the Secure ID, your eDiploma will be delivered to you within a few hours of ordering. Diploma holds Your diploma will not be ordered if a diploma hold has been placed on your record. You will be sent an email notifying you of the diploma hold. When you clear the hold, contact the Office of the University Registrar, diploma@cornell.edu, to request a diploma be ordered. Check for a diploma hold in Student Essentials. Reissuing a diploma Update: As of November 1, 2020, Cornell will change the diploma reissue fee to $85. This change is reflective of Cornell's commitment to students and alumni. Alumni may order a reissued diploma. A preferred name may be chosen for the diploma. An $85 reissue fee will be assessed. Please note delivery time is 6-8 weeks. Order Online: Orders for reissued diplomas can be placed through our official diploma vendor, Michael Sutter and require a credit card. Orders by Mail: Graduates unable to place an order online may order a reissued diploma by mail. Please complete the diploma order form or send a letter with the following information: Full name at time of graduation Graduation date Degree(s) College Major Student ID number (if you do not have your Student ID number, please provide the last four digits of your Social Security number or your date of birth) Mailing address Email address Telephone number Signature Send your completed form or letter with an $85 check, payable to Cornell University Office of the University Registrar, Attn: Diplomas, B07 Day Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853. Payment must be in U.S. funds drawn from a U.S. institution or bank. Credit cards cannot be accepted for orders placed by mail. Note: Orders must be placed by the graduate. Orders will not be accepted from family members. Service + Resources Apostille Certifications University Registrar Directory College Advising Directory College Registrar Directory Diploma Information Disability Accommodations FERPA ID Cards Mental Health at Cornell Names and Name Changes Use of Student Data Veteran Education Benefits Building Codes Key Academic Dates 06 Jun 2022 Summer 22 8 Week Session 20 Jun 2022 Juneteenth Observance/Holiday/No Classes 21 Jun 2022 Summer 22 6 Week Session 21 Jun 2022 Summer 22 3 Week 2 Session See More Key Academic Dates Related Links + Files Name Changes Diploma Order Form Notary and Apostille Alumni NetID Information Office of the University Registrar Cornell University, 245 Day Hall Ithaca, NY 14853 Office Hours: Monday - Thursday; 9:00 AM - 1:00 PM and 2:00 PM - 4:00PM Get Directions univreg@cornell.edu (607) 255-4232; Phone Hours: Monday - Friday; 10:00 AM - 1:00 PM and 2:00 PM - 4:00 PM EST (607) 255-6262 If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information in this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. © 2017 Cornell University