Skip to main content University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Students Staff & Faculty Registration Classrooms Curriculum About OUR (OUR) Menu Students Staff & Faculty Registration Classrooms Curriculum About OUR Home (OUR) Registration Registration Periods Registration Periods Close Menu Home Registration ACCESS Program ACCESS Registration Course Fundamentals Policies & Procedures Prepare to Register Registration Changes Registration Periods Registration Resources State Employee Tuition Exemption Continuing Student Priority Currently enrolled undergraduate students or undergraduate students who are quarter-off eligible, should register according to the Course Add Periods listed below. Priority registration dates are based on Number of completed credits Currently registered courses (as of two days prior to the first day of registration) Last digit of student number* *The student number priority is changed each quarter so that all students have the earliest possible priority every other quarter. Graduating Senior Priority Graduating seniors or post-baccalaureate students with a degree application on file in the Graduation and Academic Records Office may register on the first day of Registration Period I for the final two quarters. Students who must postpone their graduation may save their priority quarters by not registering before their regular senior priority day. Students who have used their Graduating Senior Priority for two quarters will revert to regular senior priority. Late Registration Refer to Late Registration Policies and Restrictions for additional information. Course Add Periods Registration Period I This registration period is open for continuing students currently enrolled or for students who completed the previous quarter. A “continuing student” is one who has registered at the same University of Washington campus in the same degree level (i.e., undergraduate to undergraduate) or degree level program (i.e., graduate to graduate) the preceding quarter, or preceding spring quarter, if registering for autumn quarter. View current quarter’s Registration Period I dates. Priority registration dates are based on your completed credits, credits currently registered for, and the last digit of your student number. The student number priority is changed each quarter so that all students have the earliest possible priority every other quarter. One half of the available spaces in each course are reserved for day two of each priority period. If a registration message states that the first day spaces are filled, then the other half will be released on day two of that priority period. You may register using MyUW on, or after, your registration date and make changes to your schedule. Registration Period II This period is primarily for newly admitted students and returning former students. You may register on, or after, your date. Continuing students may register any day during this period. View current quarter’s Registration Period II dates. Registration Period II opens at midnight. Registration Period III This period is from the first day of the quarter through the 7th calendar day of the quarter. It is open to all students for adds and changes. Tuition Exemption Program students (UW faculty/staff, Washington State employees, and Washington State National Guard), and Access Students register on specific days within Period III. View current quarter’s Registration Period III dates. Registration Period III opens at midnight. You may change to or from the audit grade option through the last day of the second week of the quarter by completing the Audit Grading section of the Registration Transaction Form and submitting it to the Office of the University Registrar via email to regoff@uw.edu. Late Add Period This period is open to all students. All courses added during this period require an Entry Code or Faculty Number. A $20 change of registration fee will be charged for all registration changes made on a single day during this period. View current quarter’s Late Add Period dates. Home Registration ACCESS Program ACCESS Registration Course Fundamentals Policies & Procedures Prepare to Register Registration Changes Registration Periods Registration Resources State Employee Tuition Exemption Search OUR Search for: Email Registration regoff@uw.edu Submit a Question Topic of Inquiry, Request, or Comment* Let us know what your question or request is about and we'll make sure it's routed to the appropriate office and generate a ticket. - Choose a Topic -Academic Data ManagementDean's List LetterDegree AuditEnrollment VerificationPayment of ECD/NSEOFGraduation & DiplomasRegistration Process/Issue/ErrorResidencyTime ScheduleTranscriptsUWNetID RequestWebsite Issue: registrar.washington.eduOther/not sure For Residency contact information please visit the Residency Contact Page Your answer may be found by checking out how to ORDER TRANSCRIPTS, reviewing the TRANSCRIPT FAQS, or looking up the TRANSCRIPT LEGEND . Name* Email Address* Inquiry, Request, or Comment* Type your question or comment below. Phone This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Holiday Closures Spring 2022 Mon, May 30 (Memorial Day) University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA