Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today Office of the University Registrar An office in Enrollment Management Search form Search Home Calendar Services Course & Room Scheduling Overview Auditoriums Auditorium Request Auditorium Utilization Report for Spring 2023 Classrooms » Course Catalog » Deadlines Exams Final Exam Policies & Guidelines Special Exam Policies Final Exams for Online and Non-Regular Courses Spring 2022 Final Exam Schedule Fall 2022 Final Exam Schedule Room Scheduling System (25 Live) » Room Reservations Event Room Reservation Request Schedule of Classes » Scheduling Officer Information Short Courses Standard Meeting Times Definitions for Course Components Scheduling Forms & Documents Enrollment Overview Add/Drop a Class Add/Drop/Withdraw Forms Approvals and Deadlines Drop Checklist Continuing Students New Students Readmitted Students Visiting Students and High School Dual Enrollment Late Enrollment Withdraw Considerations Effects of Dropping or Withdrawing on your Transcript Prior to Start of Semester After the Start of the Semester At the End of the Semester Withdrawal Form Medical and Compassionate Withdrawal Enrollment Resources Enrollment Status Maximum Enrollment Hours Enrollment Holds Schedule Builder Schedule of Classes » Records Overview Enrollment Certification Loan Deferments » Delegate Access Student Instructions Delegate Instructions Staff Instructions Grades Grade Definitions Grade Point Averages Parent and Guardian Grade Reports Enroll & Pay How-To's » Graduation Diplomas Statement of Degree Statement of Forthcoming Degree KU 150 Diploma KU ID Number Personal Information & Privacy Making Updates Student Data Request Transcripts Order a Transcript Charges and Delivery Options Transcript FAQ Electronic Transcript FAQ Transcript Key Records Forms University Seal Apostille Residency Overview Residency Definition Frequently Asked Questions Residency Application Appeals Armed Forces Residency Benefit Haskell Residency Tuition & Fees Tuition & Fees Overview Comprehensive Fee Schedule Archive CFS (2020-21) CFS (2019-20) CFS (2018-19) CFS (2017-18) CFS (2016-17) CFS (2015-16) CFS (2014-15) CFS (2013-14) CFS (2012-13) Fee Privileges Brochure Fee Petition Appeals Tuition and Fee Waiver Forms Class Supply Fee Opt-Out Request Loan Deferment Residency People About Overview Hours & Location Accreditation Reports University Reporting Contact us Forms Sitemap Faculty & Staff Resources Menu Home Calendar Services Course & Room Scheduling Overview Auditoriums Auditorium Request Auditorium Utilization Report for Spring 2023 Classrooms » Course Catalog » Deadlines Exams Final Exam Policies & Guidelines Special Exam Policies Final Exams for Online and Non-Regular Courses Spring 2022 Final Exam Schedule Fall 2022 Final Exam Schedule Room Scheduling System (25 Live) » Room Reservations Event Room Reservation Request Schedule of Classes » Scheduling Officer Information Short Courses Standard Meeting Times Definitions for Course Components Scheduling Forms & Documents Enrollment Overview Add/Drop a Class Add/Drop/Withdraw Forms Approvals and Deadlines Drop Checklist Continuing Students New Students Readmitted Students Visiting Students and High School Dual Enrollment Late Enrollment Withdraw Considerations Effects of Dropping or Withdrawing on your Transcript Prior to Start of Semester After the Start of the Semester At the End of the Semester Withdrawal Form Medical and Compassionate Withdrawal Enrollment Resources Enrollment Status Maximum Enrollment Hours Enrollment Holds Schedule Builder Schedule of Classes » Records Overview Enrollment Certification Loan Deferments » Delegate Access Student Instructions Delegate Instructions Staff Instructions Grades Grade Definitions Grade Point Averages Parent and Guardian Grade Reports Enroll & Pay How-To's » Graduation Diplomas Statement of Degree Statement of Forthcoming Degree KU 150 Diploma KU ID Number Personal Information & Privacy Making Updates Student Data Request Transcripts Order a Transcript Charges and Delivery Options Transcript FAQ Electronic Transcript FAQ Transcript Key Records Forms University Seal Apostille Residency Overview Residency Definition Frequently Asked Questions Residency Application Appeals Armed Forces Residency Benefit Haskell Residency Tuition & Fees Tuition & Fees Overview Comprehensive Fee Schedule Archive CFS (2020-21) CFS (2019-20) CFS (2018-19) CFS (2017-18) CFS (2016-17) CFS (2015-16) CFS (2014-15) CFS (2013-14) CFS (2012-13) Fee Privileges Brochure Fee Petition Appeals Tuition and Fee Waiver Forms Class Supply Fee Opt-Out Request Loan Deferment Residency People About Overview Hours & Location Accreditation Reports University Reporting Contact us Forms Sitemap Faculty & Staff Resources Search Search form Search Home Services Residency Frequently Asked Questions Overview Residency Definition Frequently Asked Questions Residency Application Armed Forces Residency Benefit Haskell Residency Tuition & Fees Residency FAQs Q. How can I prove that I am an in-state resident for tuition paying purposes? A. Generally, you must be able to document 4 specific criteria to be considered a resident for tuition and fee purposes. 1) You (or your parents, if you are a minor) have lived in Kansas for at least 365 days, 2) you have not been enrolled at a state university during that time, 3) you can show evidence that you rely on Kansas resources for financial support and 4) you intend to stay in Kansas indefinitely. In other words, you demonstrate that you have chosen to live in Kansas for at least 12 months because you want to make Kansas your permanent home and not just because you want to get in-state tuition. Please see K.S.A. 76-729 and K.A.R. 88-3-2. Q. What if my parents do not live in Kansas, however, they still partially support me? A. If your out-of-state parents have provided any financial support during the previous 365 days, and this has helped you stay in school, you are considered out-of-state because you have been dependent upon them to remain in school. If, during the previous twelve months, you have received money from other out-of-state sources (trust funds, bank loans, non-resident scholarships, etc.) in all likelihood you will be considered out-of-state. You must be able to prove that you have supported yourself for at least twelve months, paying your own fees and expenses if enrolled in school during this period. If you go home for the summer, work there, or live at home, you will be considered out-of-state. Some non-earned financial aid is acceptable if it does not tie you to any other state. Q. I am under 18 and my parents live in another state. What if I have a guardian who lives in Kansas? A. Only if parents are deceased, divorced, or legally separated is the appointment of a guardian or a grant of custody recognized for residency tuition classification. Court appointment or grant of custody is required. In most cases, guardianships terminate at age 18. Guardianships established for the sole or main purpose of qualifying the ward for resident fees will not be honored. Q. I have a Kansas driver's license and vote here. Doesn't that mean that I pay resident fees? A. This is not sufficient to establish in-state tuition classification. Other agencies may consider you to be a resident for a specific purpose (taxes, voting, etc), in accordance with the particular statutes governing that purpose; however, for tuition payment purposes you must satisfy the appropriate Board of Regents articles. Obtaining licenses and voting are evidence that you have done some things toward eventually obtaining residence, but they will not, in and of themselves, grant you resident fee status. Conversely, having these things in another state may result in denial of in-state status. Q. Can a Military affiliated student receive in-state tuition? A. In some cases, yes. Resident tuition rates are available to veterans (and/or their spouses and dependents) who are eligible for federal education benefits, as well as all current members of the armed forces (including army, navy, marine corps, air force, coast guard, Kansas army or air national guard, or any branch of the military reserves of the United States), along with spouses and dependent children. Eligibility for resident tuition also extends to those who had established residency in Kansas while permanently stationed in Kansas or prior to service in the armed forces. In these cases, the veteran, veteran’s spouse or dependent, must live in Kansas at the time of enrollment. For more information on eligibility requirements please visit: https://www.kansasregents.org/students/military Q. Can an international student be eligible for resident rates? Usually, no. Students who are here on a temporary visa must leave the country once the purpose for the visa has been met. This includes all student, training, work, and practical experience visas. The evidence of a temporary visa shows the student does not have permission to reside in the state of Kansas indefinitely, therefore the person cannot demonstrate they have intent to make Kansas their permanent residence. Please see K.A.R. 88-3-2 Q. What about University of Kansas staff member’s dependents? A. Dependent spouses and children of University employees, classified and unclassified, on regular payroll appointments for four-tenths (.4) time or more, shall be allowed to pay an amount equal to the resident fee rate. Please see K.A.R. 88-3-9. A staff-dependent tuition rates application form is available on the Forms page if you wish to apply for reduced tuition rates. Q. My parents don't live in Kansas but they are taxpayers because their business is in Kansas, or they own property here. Doesn't that make me eligible for the resident fee rate? A. No. By statute, residence is based upon where one physically resides and criteria associated with that residence. No provision is made for where one is employed or owns property. Q. How do I apply for resident fee status at the University of Kansas? A. After reading the regulations and the Application procedures, complete the appropriate application form, submit all required documentation, and submit it to the Office of the University Registrar. It will be reviewed and you will be notified of the decision by email. The deadline for submitting petitions is 30 days after the first day of classes for the term. An application can be submitted as early as 75 days in advance of the first day of classes for the upcoming term. A printable residency application form is in PDF if you wish to apply for residency. If you have trouble downloading this form please go to the on-line forms page. KU Academic Calendar Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. University Registrar Updates October 13, 2021 Notification of Rights Under FERPA (2021-2022) October 13, 2020 Notification of Rights Under FERPA (2020-2021) October 2, 2019 Notification of Rights Under FERPA (2019-2020) Read more updates Hawk Help: Ask a Question Enrollment Enroll & Pay is the University of Kansas' online campus solution for enrollment, financial and other services. The Online Schedule of Classes Why KU Apply » One of 34 U.S. public institutions in the prestigious Association of American Universities 44 nationally ranked graduate programs. —U.S. News & World Report Top 50 nationwide for size of library collection. —ALA 5th nationwide for service to veterans —"Best for Vets: Colleges," Military Times KU Today Give to KU » Contact Office of the University Registrar registrar@ku.edu 785-864-4423 785-864-3900 1502 Iowa Street Lawrence, Kansas 66045 Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login