Skip to main content Search Search Search Toggle navigation Cornell University Registrar Classes + Enrollment Class Roster Courses of Study Courses of Study Archive Student Essentials Gateway Courses Prorated Tuition Student Center FAQ Classes and Enrollment FAQ University Registration Calendars + Exams Academic Calendar Final Exam Policies Spring Prelim Schedule Spring Final Exam Schedule Fall Prelim Exam Schedule Fall Final Exam Schedule Grades + Transcripts Grading Median Grades Ordering Transcripts Transcript FAQ Transcript Keys Validating an eTranscript Service + Resources Apostille Certifications University Registrar Directory College Advising Directory College Registrar Directory Diploma Information Disability Accommodations FERPA ID Cards Mental Health at Cornell Names and Name Changes Use of Student Data Veteran Education Benefits Building Codes Faculty + Staff Faculty Center/Advisor Center Advisor Center FAQ Opscan Scanning Service Changing CIP Codes Data Requests Program Registration For Registrar Staff FERPA FERPA is short for the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, a federal law enacted in 1974. FERPA protects the privacy of student education records. All educational institutions that receive federal funding, including Cornell, must comply with FERPA. FERPA begins for a Cornell student on the first day of classes/semester or attendance, whichever comes first, and the student continues to be protected by FERPA for their lifetime. FERPA gives students four basic rights with respect to their education record: The right to inspect and review their education record. The right to some control over the disclosure of their education record. The right to request the amendment of their education record where appropriate. The right to file a complaint with the U.S. Department of Education concerning alleged failures by the University to comply with the requirements of FERPA. Many FERPA related questions can be answered in the FERPA FAQ. Any additional questions can be sent to univreg@cornell.edu. FERPA 101 (powerpoint) Service + Resources Apostille Certifications University Registrar Directory College Advising Directory College Registrar Directory Diploma Information Disability Accommodations FERPA ID Cards Mental Health at Cornell Names and Name Changes Use of Student Data Veteran Education Benefits Building Codes Key Academic Dates 06 Jun 2022 Summer 22 8 Week Session 20 Jun 2022 Juneteenth Observance/Holiday/No Classes 21 Jun 2022 Summer 22 6 Week Session 21 Jun 2022 Summer 22 3 Week 2 Session See More Key Academic Dates Related Links + Files Policy 4.5 Annual FERPA Notification University Privacy Office FERPA 101 Presentation Office of the University Registrar Cornell University, 245 Day Hall Ithaca, NY 14853 Office Hours: Monday - Thursday; 9:00 AM - 1:00 PM and 2:00 PM - 4:00PM Get Directions univreg@cornell.edu (607) 255-4232; Phone Hours: Monday - Friday; 10:00 AM - 1:00 PM and 2:00 PM - 4:00 PM EST (607) 255-6262 If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information in this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. © 2017 Cornell University