Enrollment Services departments are open for in-person and virtual services. Please check the Enrollment Services Update page for hours, service offerings, and contact methods. For the latest campus reopening plans, safety guidelines, and requirements, visit Campus Return. × Skip to main content A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People News UCR Home Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search Quick Links R'Web Request a Transcript Enrollment Verification Schedule of Classes Academic Calendar Course Request System (CRS) Tuition and Fees Catalog UC Riverside The Office of the Registrar Search Home Academic Calendar Overview Plan for Your Final Exams Final Exam Live Search Grades & Records Overview Request a Transcript Enrollment Verification Change Your Information Tuition & Fees Overview Quarterly Fees Miscellaneous Fees Course Materials and Services Fee Part-Time Waiver Refunds Residency for Tuition Purposes Single Document Fee Late Payment Penalties Registering Overview Schedule of Classes Classes Catalog Advising Requirements Course Requisites Plan for Your Final Exams Term Plan Cancellation, Withdrawal, Absence and Readmission Enrollment Adjustments Special Programs Holds Waitlist Information Graduation Guide to Graduation Graduation Application Deadline Degree Audit Degree Audit Plans Diplomas Resources Help Desk About Us Forms Frequently Asked Questions Archives iGrade Course Request System (CRS) Privacy / FERPA FERPA for Students FERPA For Families FERPA for UCR Employees FERPA Disclosure Policies UCR FERPA Policy UCR Home Quick Links R'Web Request a Transcript Enrollment Verification Schedule of Classes Academic Calendar Course Request System (CRS) Tuition and Fees Catalog Breadcrumb Transcripts, Grades and Academic Records Request a Transcript Request a Transcript Grades & Records Grades & Records Request a Transcript Enrollment Verification Change Your Information How To Order Transcripts Current Students & Alumni Current students and alumni can order and pay for official transcripts online through R’Web. You will need your UCR NetID and password to login and place your order. Both electronic and paper transcripts are available. If you need an attachment to be sent with your transcript, you will have the opportunity to upload a PDF, Word, or image file when placing your order. Need a UCR NetID or forget your NetID/password? When you go to R’Web, select "Password Reset." Answer the security questions and you will be provided with your NetID and password. If you need additional assistance with your NetID or password, contact the Registrar’s Office at (951) 827-7284. If you need assistance with Multifactor Authentication, please contact BearHelp. Third Parties Third parties ordering transcripts on behalf of a student may do so by filling out an Online Request Form. Please note that you will be required to complete and submit a provided release form, which includes the signature of the student before your order will be processed. Transcript Processing Times and Fees Transcript Type Processing Time Cost eTranscripts (PDF) Fast, electronic delivery Generally available within 2 hours1 Free (Covered by Single Document Fee) Paper Transcripts (Rush) USPS First Class Mail Orders placed by 11:00 am generally ship the same day Orders placed after 11:00 am will ship the next business day2 $10 Paper Transcripts (Rush) FedEx Overnight Orders placed by 11:00 am generally ship the same day Orders placed after 11:00 am will ship the next business day2 $404 Paper Transcripts (Rush) FedEx International Orders placed by 11:00 am generally ship the same day Orders placed after 11:00 am will ship the next business day2 $654 Paper Transcripts Pick up at HOSS Available for pickup 2 business days after placing your order3 $20 Please Note: Processing time is the amount of time it takes for your transcript order to ship or be available for pickup. The delivery speed of your transcripts depends on the options you select and the location of the recipient. 1 During peak processing times, please allow up to 24 hours for delivery. 2 Pacific Time. Business days are Monday through Friday, excluding holidays. 3 Monday through Friday from 9am to 5pm, excluding university holidays. 4 Prices may fluctuate occasionally as shipping costs change. Other Important Information: Requests for transcripts must be made through R’Web. You may not make a transcript request in person or by phone, email, or fax. UCR does not provide a faxing service for transcripts. Most universities want transcripts delivered electronically or mailed directly to them. Please ensure that you know their requirements prior to ordering your transcript. Transcripts ordered for pick up at the HOSS are held for 30 calendar days. If you do not pick up your transcripts within this time, a new order must be placed. Questions? If you have questions, please call the Transcript Helpline for assistance at (844) 728-2927. Phone support is available from 8:00 am to 4:00 pm. Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR THE OFFICE OF THE REGISTRAR 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-7284 Fax: (951) 827-7368 Email: reghelpdesk@ucr.edu Transcript Helpline: (844) 728-2927 FIND US Disclaimer: This information is accurate and reliable at time of posting, but may change without notice. Please contact the department for the most up-to-date information. UC Riverside complies with the Jeanne Clery Act, and provides safety information and publishes crime statistics for the most recent three-year period. View the full report here. Related Links Highlander One-Stop Shop R'Web Financial Aid Student Business Services Alumni R'Dream Undergraduate Admissions Housing Services Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search All UCR Search This Site Cancel