Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today Office of the University Registrar An office in Enrollment Management Search form Search Home Calendar Services Course & Room Scheduling Overview Auditoriums Auditorium Request Auditorium Utilization Report for Spring 2023 Classrooms » Course Catalog » Deadlines Exams Final Exam Policies & Guidelines Special Exam Policies Final Exams for Online and Non-Regular Courses Spring 2022 Final Exam Schedule Fall 2022 Final Exam Schedule Room Scheduling System (25 Live) » Room Reservations Event Room Reservation Request Schedule of Classes » Scheduling Officer Information Short Courses Standard Meeting Times Definitions for Course Components Scheduling Forms & Documents Enrollment Overview Add/Drop a Class Add/Drop/Withdraw Forms Approvals and Deadlines Drop Checklist Continuing Students New Students Readmitted Students Visiting Students and High School Dual Enrollment Late Enrollment Withdraw Considerations Effects of Dropping or Withdrawing on your Transcript Prior to Start of Semester After the Start of the Semester At the End of the Semester Withdrawal Form Medical and Compassionate Withdrawal Enrollment Resources Enrollment Status Maximum Enrollment Hours Enrollment Holds Schedule Builder Schedule of Classes » Records Overview Enrollment Certification Loan Deferments » Delegate Access Student Instructions Delegate Instructions Staff Instructions Grades Grade Definitions Grade Point Averages Parent and Guardian Grade Reports Enroll & Pay How-To's » Graduation Diplomas Statement of Degree Statement of Forthcoming Degree KU 150 Diploma KU ID Number Personal Information & Privacy Making Updates Student Data Request Transcripts Order a Transcript Charges and Delivery Options Transcript FAQ Electronic Transcript FAQ Transcript Key Records Forms University Seal Apostille Residency Overview Residency Definition Frequently Asked Questions Residency Application Appeals Armed Forces Residency Benefit Haskell Residency Tuition & Fees Tuition & Fees Overview Comprehensive Fee Schedule Archive CFS (2020-21) CFS (2019-20) CFS (2018-19) CFS (2017-18) CFS (2016-17) CFS (2015-16) CFS (2014-15) CFS (2013-14) CFS (2012-13) Fee Privileges Brochure Fee Petition Appeals Tuition and Fee Waiver Forms Class Supply Fee Opt-Out Request Loan Deferment Residency People About Overview Hours & Location Accreditation Reports University Reporting Contact us Forms Sitemap Faculty & Staff Resources Menu Home Calendar Services Course & Room Scheduling Overview Auditoriums Auditorium Request Auditorium Utilization Report for Spring 2023 Classrooms » Course Catalog » Deadlines Exams Final Exam Policies & Guidelines Special Exam Policies Final Exams for Online and Non-Regular Courses Spring 2022 Final Exam Schedule Fall 2022 Final Exam Schedule Room Scheduling System (25 Live) » Room Reservations Event Room Reservation Request Schedule of Classes » Scheduling Officer Information Short Courses Standard Meeting Times Definitions for Course Components Scheduling Forms & Documents Enrollment Overview Add/Drop a Class Add/Drop/Withdraw Forms Approvals and Deadlines Drop Checklist Continuing Students New Students Readmitted Students Visiting Students and High School Dual Enrollment Late Enrollment Withdraw Considerations Effects of Dropping or Withdrawing on your Transcript Prior to Start of Semester After the Start of the Semester At the End of the Semester Withdrawal Form Medical and Compassionate Withdrawal Enrollment Resources Enrollment Status Maximum Enrollment Hours Enrollment Holds Schedule Builder Schedule of Classes » Records Overview Enrollment Certification Loan Deferments » Delegate Access Student Instructions Delegate Instructions Staff Instructions Grades Grade Definitions Grade Point Averages Parent and Guardian Grade Reports Enroll & Pay How-To's » Graduation Diplomas Statement of Degree Statement of Forthcoming Degree KU 150 Diploma KU ID Number Personal Information & Privacy Making Updates Student Data Request Transcripts Order a Transcript Charges and Delivery Options Transcript FAQ Electronic Transcript FAQ Transcript Key Records Forms University Seal Apostille Residency Overview Residency Definition Frequently Asked Questions Residency Application Appeals Armed Forces Residency Benefit Haskell Residency Tuition & Fees Tuition & Fees Overview Comprehensive Fee Schedule Archive CFS (2020-21) CFS (2019-20) CFS (2018-19) CFS (2017-18) CFS (2016-17) CFS (2015-16) CFS (2014-15) CFS (2013-14) CFS (2012-13) Fee Privileges Brochure Fee Petition Appeals Tuition and Fee Waiver Forms Class Supply Fee Opt-Out Request Loan Deferment Residency People About Overview Hours & Location Accreditation Reports University Reporting Contact us Forms Sitemap Faculty & Staff Resources Search Search form Search Home Services Residency Haskell Residency Overview Residency Definition Frequently Asked Questions Residency Application Armed Forces Residency Benefit Haskell Residency Tuition & Fees Haskell Residency Students that have previously attended or are currently attending Haskell Indian Nations University (HINU) qualify for resident status at the University of Kansas. This is in compliance with Kansas State Law (K.S.A. 76-731). The initial residency classification is determined at the point of application for new incoming students to KU. Please be sure to list your attendance at Haskell on your application for admission. Much of the process for determining eligibility for this statute is done through reviewing information provided on your admission application and with your admission file. There are three exceptions to this automation. Please follow the process outlined below if you fit into one of the following categories. New or Prospective Haskell and KU Students (dual enrollment) Current or Previous Haskell Students New to KU Current or Previous Haskell Students - Currently Enrolled at KU You received your KU admission letter and your residency status is listed as out of state and you plan to enroll at KU and HINU for the same semester. Students can be enrolled at both KU and Haskell. If you want to do this your first term at KU, you will need to apply and be accepted into HINU as well as request an early enrollment date with Haskell by contacting the Haskell Office of Admissions at admissions@haskell.edu or 785-749-8454. Haskell has semester application deadlines, please visit www.haskell.edu for these dates. Students applying to HINU for dual enrollment are required to submit all application documents normally required of a new applicant. You must identify yourself on HINU application materials as KU In-State Tuition student in order to facilitate the enrollment process including assigning a HINU Advisor who can assist you. You must be enrolled at Haskell to be eligible for this benefit. An admission letter does not meet the eligibility requirements. Once enrolled, you can obtain an enrollment verification from Haskell’s Office of the Registrar. This verification can be emailed to registrar@ku.edu, faxed to (785) 864-3900, dropped off or mailed to the Office of the University Registrar, 1502 Iowa St. Lawrence, KS 66045. You are encouraged to talk with a KU advisor to be sure to enroll in Haskell courses that count toward your KU degree and to avoid enrollment changes at Haskell as class availability is limited. Please note you must attend orientation at both KU and Haskell and are required to abide by both academic calendars. Enrollment verifications from Haskell must be submitted to KU no later than 30 calendar days into the semester for which the change is being requested. You received your KU admission letter and your residency is listed as out of state and you have previously been or are currently enrolled at Haskell. Submit an official transcript or an enrollment verification form from Haskell to the Office of the University Registrar. Please email registrar@ku.edu and request a review of your application materials in conjunction with your official transcript and/or the enrollment verification form. If the transcript form is not attached to your email, please specify approximately when you sent it to KU and the office at KU to which it was submitted. Official transcript or enrollment verifications must be submitted from Haskell to KU no later than 30 calendar days into the semester for which the change is being requested. You have been enrolled at KU and either previously attended Haskell or are currently enrolled at Haskell. Submit an official transcript or an enrollment verification form from Haskell to the Office of the University Registrar at KU. Please email registrar@ku.edu and request a review of your residency status due to your enrollment at Haskell in conjunction with your official transcript and/or the enrollment verification form. If the transcript and/or the enrollment verification form is not attached please state when you sent it to KU and the office at KU to which it was submitted. Official transcript or enrollment verifications must be submitted from Haskell to KU no later than 30 calendar days into the semester for which the change is being requested. KU Academic Calendar Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. University Registrar Updates October 13, 2021 Notification of Rights Under FERPA (2021-2022) October 13, 2020 Notification of Rights Under FERPA (2020-2021) October 2, 2019 Notification of Rights Under FERPA (2019-2020) Read more updates Hawk Help: Ask a Question Enrollment Enroll & Pay is the University of Kansas' online campus solution for enrollment, financial and other services. The Online Schedule of Classes Why KU Apply » One of 34 U.S. public institutions in the prestigious Association of American Universities 44 nationally ranked graduate programs. —U.S. News & World Report Top 50 nationwide for size of library collection. —ALA 5th nationwide for service to veterans —"Best for Vets: Colleges," Military Times KU Today Give to KU » Contact Office of the University Registrar registrar@ku.edu 785-864-4423 785-864-3900 1502 Iowa Street Lawrence, Kansas 66045 Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login