Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Office of the Registrar Main Menu In this section Academic Calendar Commencement Apply toGraduate CommencementInformation Forms Transcripts Order Transcripts Transcript FAQs Official TranscriptDetails University Catalog University Catalog Catalog Archives Home FAQs Registration/Enrollment FAQs FAQs For Advisors Certifications Enrollment/Registration Graduation and Commencement Incomplete Grade Policy - Students Incomplete Grade Policy - Faculty Thesis/Dissertation Grade Policy Transcripts and Academic Records Tuition and Fee Adjustments Veteran Services Military Leave of Absence/Withdrawal Contact Office of the Registrar322/324 Student Union, Stillwater OK 74078(405) 744-6876registrar@okstate.edu Registration and Enrollment Registration/Enrollment FAQs What is required to enroll? How do I add a class? How do I drop a class? I don’t have an advisor, or I don’t know who my advisor is, or I can never find my advisor – what do I do? What is an advisor hold? Why do I have an advisor hold? How do I remove an advisor hold? How do I clear a hold on my enrollment? How do I audit a course? How do I cancel my enrollment for an upcoming semester ? Can I do it online? I am in the military and I am being called to active duty. What do I need to do? How can I enroll in a closed section? How do I enroll in two courses that are showing a time conflict? Where do I find information on short courses? Where do I find online course offerings? Where do I enroll in correspondence courses? How do I take a class as Pass No-Pass? When do I need to submit a Petition to enroll in Excessive Hours? FAQ Home What is required to enroll? See Preparing for Registration. How do I add a class? See Add Classes. How do I drop a class? See Drop Classes. I don’t have an advisor, or I don’t know who my advisor is, or I can never find my advisor – what do I do? Contact your college’s Student Academic Services Office for information about your academic advisor. What is an advisor hold? Why do I have an advisor hold? How do I remove an advisor hold? An advisor hold is automatically placed on every undergraduate student at the beginning of enrollment for each semester. After meeting with an advisor to discuss your enrollment plan for the upcoming semester, a student's advisor will remove the enrollment hold. How do I clear a registration hold? You will need to determine what type of hold is on your enrollment and contact the appropriate area to remove the hold. See the Registration and Transcript Holds webpage for detailed information about holds and how you may remove them. How do I audit a course? A student who does not wish to receive credit in a course may, with the approvals of the student's advisor and the course instructor, attend the class strictly as a visitor. The 'Request to Audit a Course' form is available in the Office of the Registrar or on the Registrar website. Classes with a lab component, private music lessons, studio art courses, outreach courses, or other courses with special fees are not open for audit enrollment. Audited courses will appear on your transcript with an indication that the course was an audit enrollment. A mark of 'AU' will appear where the grade would normally appear and does not contribute to your GPA or credit hours earned. If you are currently enrolled in the class and wish to change to an audit, you must officially drop the course or, if appropriate, withdraw within the established course drop/add deadlines. How do I cancel my enrollment for an upcoming semester? Can I do it online? Students may cancel their enrollment by submitting a paper Admission/Enrollment Cancellation Request form to the Office of the Registrar before the first day of classes by fax, mail, or in person at the Office of the Registrar, 322 Student Union on the Stillwater campus or Enrollment Services, 1st Floor Administration on the Tulsa campus. Cancellation requests must be received before the first day of classes for the term. After classes have begun, students must withdraw from the University. If you have any questions, please contact the Office of the Registrar at 744-6876 or registrar@okstate.edu. I am in the military and I am being called to active duty. What do I need to do? If you are called to active duty during the term in which you are enrolled and have not completed sufficient work for receiving a grade and in good standing academically, the institution is authorized to waive the tuition and fees for that semester. You need to provide a copy of your active duty orders to the Office of the Registrar to initiate the withdrawal process. How can I enroll in a closed section? See the Closed Section information on our Common Registration Issues webpage for details. How do I enroll in two courses that are showing a time conflict? See the Time Conflict information on our Common Registration Issues webpage for details. Where do I find information on short courses? Short courses have different start and end dates than regular full-semester courses, and the drop/add and refund deadlines are different than the deadlines for regular full-semester courses. A list of short courses offered each semester with their unique drop/add and refund deadlines is available on the Short Courses (with unique drop/add deadlines) page of the Registrar's website. Short courses can be identified on your class schedule in the View Registration Information area of Self-Service Registration with a part of term that is different from the full term. Please call the Office of the Registrar at 405-744-6876 if you have any questions. Where do I find online course offerings? From the Class Schedule (Browse Classes from Self-Service Registration), select the term, then click Advanced Search and find Instructional Method - Computer based/Online from the list of Instructional Methods. You may narrow your search further by selecting one or more subjects or restricting your search using other criteria. Online courses show “Web/Internet Course” for the building location. Where do I enroll in correspondence courses? You can find information about the courses offered and enrollment requirements through the Correspondence Education website. How do I take a class as Pass No-Pass? A Request for Pass-No Pass Grading Option for a specific class requires you to meet all of the requirements listed on the form and the signature of your academic advisor. Students must submit a completed Request for Pass-No Pass Grading Option form to the Office of the Registrar (Stillwater) or Enrollment Services (Tulsa) no later than the last day to add the course for the semester or session. When do I need to submit a Petition to Enroll in Excessive Hours? Students who seek to exceed the maximum course load for the semester are required to submit a completed Petition to Enroll in Excessive Hours form to the Office of the Registrar no later than the last day to enroll for the semester. See more details on the Maximum Credit Hour Load webpage. Back To Top Back To Top Office of the Registrar 322/324 Student Union Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 (map) (405) 744-6876 | Contact Us Follow US Social Media Directory Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Snapchat Oklahoma State University Campus & Parking MapsAll OSU InstitutionsCareers @ OSUHire OSU Grads© Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks MENUCLOSE ©