Skip to main content Florida State University This is your Donation message. Log In This Site FSU Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Submit Submit Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Giving University Registrar Toggle navigation Site Menu Current Records Overview Status & Retention Drop/Add Service Indicators Enrollment Cancellation Grade Services Deans' Directory Publications Overview Bulletin Info Registration Guide Info Campus Map Info Course Descriptions Calendars Graduation Overview Graduation Checklist Ceremony Information Diplomas Degrees of Distinction Update Expected Grad Term FAQ Student Services Overview Graduation Transcripts Certification State Employee Fee Waiver FERPA Course Descriptions Scheduling Overview Curriculum Academic Space Class Search Archive Bulletin Undergraduate Graduate Registration Guide Past Editions Grade Services Home Records Grade Services Helpful Links Current Records Graduation Appeals Certification Transcripts Status and Retention Enrollment Cancellation Grade Services Drop/Add Excess Credit Hours Excess Credit Hours FAQ FERPA Employee Fee Waivers General Bulletin Registration Guide Class Search Snapshots Services Forms Grade Services and Posting Current Records processes all FSU grade transactions, including grade rosters, grade changes, correspondence course grades, grade problems, and exceptions to credit hours. Staff also monitor and control student academic status and process academic reinstatements for dismissed students. Use the following forms or consult the listed web documents to initiate grade-related changes. Undergraduate S/U Grade Request To encourage liberal arts education and focus on learning, the University permits limited enrollment in elective courses outside the major, minor, and Liberal Studies areas on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Except for students in their first term at FSU, at least a 2.5 grade point average is required. S/U permit forms must be obtained from and eligibility certified by the Office of the University Registrar no later than the end of the seventh week of classes. No undergraduate courses in the College of Business are offered under this option. For a comprehensive overview of policies related to S/U Grading please reference the Grading System section of the Undergraduate Bulletin chapter Academic Regulations and Procedures. Undergraduate S/U Grade Request Form as a PDF Graduate S/U Grade Request With the permission of the major professor or chair of the student's major department, a student may enroll in as many as six semester hours during the master's degree program or up to nine semester hours during the doctoral program on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. A student's registration in a course under the S/U option must be indicated on the proper form to the Office of the University Registrar from the major professor or chair of the student's major department. A student may change to a letter-grade (A, B, C) or S/U basis during the first seven weeks of the Fall/Spring semesters or, in the case of Summer terms, by the prorated deadlines published in the Summer Academic Calendar. Please note that some courses are offered for S/U grade only and are not available for a letter grade. For a comprehensive overview of policies related to S/U Grading please reference the Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory Course Option section of the Graduate Bulletin chapter Academic Regulations and Procedures. Graduate S/U Grade Request Form as a PDF Incomplete Grade Agreement Incomplete ("I") grades should be recorded only in exceptional cases when a student, who has completed a substantial portion of the course and who is otherwise passing, is unable to complete a well-defined portion of a course for reasons beyond the student's control. Students in these circumstances must petition the instructor and should be prepared to present documentation that substantiates their case. Incomplete grades should not be granted in order to allow students to do extra coursework in an effort to increase their grade. For a comprehensive overview of policies related to Incomplete Grades please reference the Grading System section of the Undergraduate Bulletin chapter Academic Regulations and Procedures. Incomplete Grade Agreement Form as a PDF Request to Modify Course Credit for an Individual Student Course credit may be modified downward with the approval of the chair of the department that is offering the course and the appropriate academic dean. No course may be modified upward. Any student wishing to modify credit may obtain the necessary forms in the Office of the University Registrar. Request to Modify Course Credit for an Individual Student Form as a PDF Extension of Time for Clearing Incomplete Grade In order to assign an incomplete, an instructor is required to indicate on the grade roster the time frame for resolution of the grade and the default grade to be assigned if the student does not complete the remaining academic work. Some departments also require that an incomplete grade be documented with an "Incomplete Grade Agreement." It is the student's responsibility to complete the remaining academic work within the agreed-upon time frame. Under University policy, an incomplete grade automatically reverts to the predetermined default grade at the end of the semester that has been specified by the faculty member as the time frame for resolution, unless one of two conditions is met: 1. Upon completion of the agreed-upon work, the instructor submits a grade-change form that replaces the "I" with the final grade for the course; 2. The instructor submits a separate "Incomplete Extension of Time" form to the Evaluation and Posting Section of Admissions and Records before the end of the semester in which the "I" is set to expire. In cases where no default grade or instructor-determined expiration semester exists, incomplete grades will expire to an IE (Incomplete Expired) at the end of the next term of enrollment unless the instructor submits a grade change form prior to the official grade posting deadline. No grade changes will be made to default grades or unresolved "I" grades after the degree has been granted. Thus, it is critical that an instructor work closely with the student and department staff regarding the clearance of an incomplete grade. For a comprehensive overview of policies related to incomplete grades please reference the Grading System section of the Undergraduate Bulletin chapter Academic Regulations and Procedures. Extension of Time for Clearing Incomplete Grade Form as a PDF Grade Resources for Instructors The two links below provide resources for instructors who might have general questions about grades or more specific questions about using Faculty Center. Instructions for the Blackboard Grade Upload Tool http://sc.my.fsu.edu/Faculty/How-To/Use-the-FSU-Blackboard-Grade-Upload-Tool Using Grade Rosters in Faculty Center http://www.sc.my.fsu.edu/Faculty/How-To/Use-Grade-Rosters-in-Faculty-Center Mailing Address A3900 University Center 282 Champions Way Tallahassee, FL 32306-2480 Email Registrar - registrar@fsu.edu Phone 850.644.1050 Hours Monday - Friday, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Eastern Time Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright