Skip to main content Florida State University This is your Donation message. Log In This Site FSU Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Submit Submit Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Giving University Registrar Toggle navigation Site Menu Current Records Overview Status & Retention Drop/Add Service Indicators Enrollment Cancellation Grade Services Deans' Directory Publications Overview Bulletin Info Registration Guide Info Campus Map Info Course Descriptions Calendars Graduation Overview Graduation Checklist Ceremony Information Diplomas Degrees of Distinction Update Expected Grad Term FAQ Student Services Overview Graduation Transcripts Certification State Employee Fee Waiver FERPA Course Descriptions Scheduling Overview Curriculum Academic Space Class Search Archive Bulletin Undergraduate Graduate Registration Guide Past Editions 2021-2022 Undergraduate Bulletin Home Bulletin Undergraduate Departments & Programs Military Science Helpful Links Graduate Bulletin Policies & Information Colleges Departments & Programs Bulletin PDF Undergraduate Bulletin Policies & Information Colleges Departments & Programs Bulletin PDF Archive of Previous Editions Fall Registration Guide Spring Registration Guide Summer Registration Guide Class Search Snapshots Undergraduate Department of Military Science College of Arts and Sciences Website: https://armyrotc.fsu.edu/ Professor: Lieutenant Colonel Keith E. Pruett The military science department’s Reserve Officers Training Corps (ROTC) program of instruction qualifies the student for a commission in the United States Army, Army National Guard, or United States Army Reserve. The curriculum does not provide technical training in a job specialty, nor does it emphasize vocational training; rather, it complements and provides a base for normal progression in the commissioned officers’ educational program. Leadership and management objectives are included in academic periods of instruction. Practical leadership experience is gained in a field training environment by attendance at a thirty-seven-day summer camp, normally between the junior and senior years. Nursing students attend a nursing internship at Army hospitals following summer camp. A leadership laboratory also provides experience in a range of leadership positions during the school year. The department offers both a four-year and a two-year program, each with its own special advantages. Students are invited to visit or write the Department of Military Science to obtain additional information. Requirements Please review all college-wide degree requirements summarized in the “College of Arts and Sciences” chapter of this General Bulletin. Core Program The program requires four years of military science courses, which consist of a two-year basic course and a two-year advanced course. Students can begin the four-year program as a freshman or as a sophomore. There is also a two-year ROTC program for those students with only two years of college remaining. The two-year course is designed for junior college and other non-ROTC college transfer students, but may be utilized by students who did not enroll in the basic course outlined below. Graduate students may also qualify for enrollment in the two-year course. Additional information regarding eligibility requirements for the two-year program may be obtained by contacting the Department of Military Science. Women are encouraged to enroll and will be commissioned as officers in the United States Army upon completion of the ROTC curriculum. Job opportunities for women in the Army are the same as those for men. Basic Course The basic course is normally taken as an elective subject by students in their freshman and sophomore years. The purpose of this instruction is to qualify students for entry into the advanced course by familiarizing them with the organization of the Army, military skills, and military tradition. Students do not incur any military obligation as a result of enrolling in the basic course. Enrollment in ROTC requires proof of a doctor’s physical screening. Participation in regularly scheduled physical training is required. In addition to classroom instruction, a one and a half hour leadership laboratory period is required each week. Advanced Course Instruction in the advanced course includes leadership and management, the exercise of command, military teaching methods, tactics, logistics, administration, history, and military justice. Leadership experience and command experience are provided by assigning advanced course students as cadet officers and noncommissioned officers. Participation in regularly scheduled physical training is a required part of the leadership training. Classroom instruction consists of two one and a quarter hour (seventy-five minutes) periods and a one and a half hour (ninety minutes) leadership laboratory period each week. Only students who have demonstrated a definite potential for becoming competent officers will be selected for the advanced course. Professional Military Education In addition to basic and advanced ROTC courses, cadets must complete professional military education requirements consisting of one course in each of the following areas: written and oral communication skills, American military history, and computer literacy. Students should consult with the professor of military science to determine those University courses suitable for fulfilling these requirements. Monetary Allowances Students selected for contracting as Army ROTC cadets qualify for a nontaxable monetary allowance of $420 per month. Cadets may also qualify for the simultaneous membership program with the United States Army Reserve or National Guard, which can provide up to $16,000 during the last two years of school. Both the United States Army Reserve and the National Guard offer additional monetary incentives for cadets who join their organizations. Army ROTC College Scholarship Program Financial assistance is available in the form of two-, three-, or four-year ROTC academic scholarships for selected students. Under the Army ROTC Scholarship Program, students/cadets receive reimbursement for their tuition and fees, or a room and board reimbursement of $5,000 per semester. Additionally, Army scholarship recipients receive a flat-rate allowance of $1,200 per year for textbooks and other expenses, and a $420 per month stipend for up to ten months per year. During the thirty-seven-day advanced course summer training between the junior and senior years, Army ROTC also pays attending cadets a stipend and travel pay. There are also numerous national and organizational scholarships that students may compete for as members of Army ROTC. Textbooks and Uniforms All textbooks, uniforms, items of insignia, and equipment incident to membership in the Army ROTC Program are furnished by the Department of Military Science. Minor in Military Science A minor in military science is offered and may be selected by students with the approval of their major department and the Department of Military Science. Requirement for a minor is twelve semester hours of upper division coursework. Special Activities Throughout cadets’ courses in ROTC, they will have the opportunity to join and participate in a number of military affiliated organizations and activities, both on a voluntary and a selective basis. The Seminole Guard is a voluntary organization that functions as a military unit participating in military ceremonies and presenting the national colors at civic events. Cadets have the opportunity to qualify for and compete with cadets from other universities and colleges in a series of military events termed Ranger Challenge. Awards and Decorations Awards and decorations made available by national organizations, Florida State University, and local and national military organizations are presented to both basic and advanced officer course cadets each year. These plaques, trophies, medals, and ribbons symbolize superior achievement in Army ROTC and other University academic courses, and outstanding campus and cadet corps leadership. Prerequisites for Admission to the Professional Officer Course Be at least seventeen years of age at time of acceptance; Be able to complete the professional officer course and graduate from Florida State University prior to reaching the age of thirty at the time of commissioning (upper age limit can be waived); Selection by the professor of military science and acceptance by the University; Execute a written agreement with the government to complete the professional officer course and accept an Army ROTC commission; Enlist in the Army Reserve Component-ROTC (terminated upon receiving an Army officer commission). Those students enrolled in the four-year Army ROTC program must complete the basic course or its equivalent or have acceptable prior military service. Veterans and students with previous ROTC training are invited to write, visit, or call the Department of Military Science at (850) 644-8806 or (850) 644-1016 to discuss their eligibility status. Students desiring entry into the two-year Army ROTC program should contact the Department of Military Science at the beginning of the Fall semester one academic year prior to the Fall semester in which they wish to enroll in the professional officer course. This lead time is required to complete the application and a physical examination prior to enrollment in the professional officer course. Leadership Laboratory Leadership laboratory is open to students who are members of the Reserve Officer Training Corps or who are eligible to pursue a commission as determined by the professor of military science. Leadership laboratory is the formalized phase of leadership training conducted by the cadets. It is scheduled for one and one half hours (ninety minutes) each week for both the basic and advanced officer courses (non-contracted and contracted). All uniforms and equipment required for cadet activities are furnished. Definition of Prefix MSL—Military Science and Leadership Undergraduate Courses MSL 1001. Foundations of Officership (1). Corequisite: MSL 1001L. This course examines unique duties and responsibilities of officers, organization and role of the Army. Topics include fitness and communication, Army values and expected ethical behavior. MSL 1002. Basic Leadership (1). Corequisite: MSL 1002L. This course includes topics such as fundamental leadership concepts and doctrine, basic skills underlying effective problem solving, and the officer experience. MSL 2101. Individual Leadership Studies (2). Corequisite: MSL 2101L. This course develops knowledge of self, self-confidence, individual leadership skills, problem solving and critical thinking skills, as well as communication, feedback, and conflict resolution skills. MSL 2102. Leadership and Teamwork (2). Corequisite: MSL 2102L. This course focuses on self-development, while incorporating the individual’s knowledge of self, understanding of group processes, current beliefs, and skills. MSL 2940. Basic Field Internship (4). Prerequisites: Must pass the Army Physical Fitness Test (APFT) and have earned at least fifty-four semester hours at FSU with a 2.0 GPA. This course consists of an intensive internship conducted at Fort Knox, Kentucky, for four weeks. Designed as an alternative to meet requirements for entrance into the upper division of Military Science for students who have not completed introductory level coursework. MSL 3201. Leadership and Problem Solving (3). Prerequisites: MSL 1001, MSL 1002, MSL 2101, MSL 2102, or instructor permission. Corequisite: MSL 3201L. This course examines skills that underlie effective problem solving. Students plan military missions and operations, and execute squad battle drills. MSL 3202. Leadership and Ethics (3). Prerequisites: MSL 1001, MSL 1002, MSL 2101, MSL 2102, or instructor permission. Corequisite: MSL 3202L. This course focuses on topics such as leadership responsibilities that foster an ethical command climate and develop cadet leadership competencies. Students apply principles and techniques of effective written and oral communication. MSL 4301. Leadership and Management (3). Prerequisite: MSL 3202 or instructor permission. Corequisite: MSL 4301L. This course allows students to discuss staff organization, functions, and processes, analyze counseling responsibilities and methods, and apply leadership and problem solving principles to a complex case study/simulation. MSL 4302. Officership (3). Prerequisites: MSL 3202, MSL 4301, or instructor permission. Corequisite: MSL 4302L. This capstone course explores topics relevant to second lieutenants entering the Army, including legal aspects of decision making and leadership, as well as Army organization from the tactical to the strategic level. MSL 4900r. Directed Individual Study (3). Prerequisite: Permission from a military-science professor. This course includes special supervised study/research with a professor of military science dealing with emphasis on current issues relating to the profession of arms and national defense. May be repeated to a maximum of six semester hours. Mailing Address A3900 University Center 282 Champions Way Tallahassee, FL 32306-2480 Email Registrar - registrar@fsu.edu Phone 850.644.1050 Hours Monday - Friday, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Eastern Time Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright