Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Office of the Registrar Main Menu In this section Academic Calendar Commencement Apply toGraduate CommencementInformation Forms Transcripts Order Transcripts Transcript FAQs Official TranscriptDetails University Catalog University Catalog Catalog Archives Home Certifications Home Academic Advising Academic Calendar Future or Prior Term Calendars Drop/Add and Withdraw Deadline Details Drop/Add Deadline Details Banner for Advisors Banner Advisor Holds Banner FAQs for Advisors Grades and GPA (for Advisors) Maintain Academic Advisors Maintain Academic Advisors Maintain Student Attributes Online Curriculum/Major Change System (for Advisors) Progress Report/Academic Alert System Registration Permits/Overrides (for Advisors) Requesting Access to Banner (for Advisors) Searching for Classes (for Advisors) Student Profile (for Advisors) The Portal (for Advisors) Training for Advisors and Departments Understanding Proxy Access (for Advisors) View My Class Schedule (for Advisors) Banner for Department Heads Registration Student Profile Grade Entry Waitlisting Class List/Roster 9.9 The Portal Browse Class Schedule Registration Permits/Overrides Maintain Academic Advisors Requesting Access to Banner Understanding Proxy Access Degree Works Degree Works Advisor FAQs Degree Works FAQs for Students Degree Works Videos What's New with Degree Works Repeated Courses in Degree Works FAQs for Department Heads Grades and GPA Academic Alert System Exams Banner for Faculty Registration Student Profile Faculty Grade Entry 9.9 Final and Midterm Grades Browse Class Schedule Class Rolls Exams SFASTCA Registration Audit Trail Training Videos Progress Report/Academic Alert System Registration Permits/Overrides The Portal FAQs for Faculty Waitlist Requesting Access to Banner (for New Faculty) Banner for Students Registration Student Profile The Portal Viewing My Class Schedule View Grades Exams Short "How To" Videos Common Registration Issues Registration and Transcript Holds Proxy Access Information Waitlisting FAQs for Students Catalog Archives Certifications Chosen, Legal and Diploma Names Class List/Roster 9.9 Class Schedule/Short Courses Course Management & Classroom Scheduling Exams General Education Codes/Days of the Week Abbreviations Prerequisites and Corequisites Room Reservations Short Courses with Unique Drop/Add Deadlines Commencement Degree Requirements Degree Works Discussion of Education Records with Student Proxy Frequently Asked Questions For Advisors Certifications Enrollment/Registration Graduation and Commencement Incomplete Grade Policy - Students Incomplete Grade Policy - Faculty Thesis/Dissertation Grade Policy Transcripts and Academic Records Tuition and Fee Adjustments Veteran Services Military Leave of Absence/Withdrawal FERPA FERPA - General Information FERPA - For Students FERPA - For Parents FERPA - For Faculty FERPA - For Staff FERPA - Tutorial for Faculty and Staff Forms Grade Reporting/Faculty Grade Entry Major Change Requests Meet the Team Quiet Classrooms Registration/Enrollment Enrollment Guides OSU Registration System Registration/Enrollment Holds Common Registration Issues Viewing my Class Schedule Maximum Credit Hour Load Military Leave of Absence/Withdrawal Registration/Transcript Holds Residency Status Reverse Transfer Short Courses Transcripts Official Transcript Details Transcript FAQs Unofficial Transcripts Veteran Benefit Services Contact Office of the Registrar322/324 Student Union, Stillwater OK 74078(405) 744-6876registrar@okstate.edu Certification FAQs Certifications Enrollment Certification Letters Good Academic Standing Letters and Transient Letters for Undergraduate Students Academic Progress (Completion and Candidate Letters) Enrollment Certification Letters These letters are used to verify attendance at Oklahoma State University during a particular semester. Enrollment certification letters can serve to fulfill verification requests from insurance carriers, loan agencies, embassies, etc. The standard letter includes the current date, the student’s name and classification (freshman, sophomore, etc.), name of academic program, the term, term start and end dates, and the student’s enrollment status for the term. Additional information may be included upon request of the student, such as date of birth, cumulative/term grade point averages, good academic standing, and expected graduation date*. It is also possible to include insurance policy numbers and other specialized information the student may require. Request Procedures: Current students may log into the Self-Service and select Student Records from the Student link/tab. Then select Enrollment Verification and select the Obtain an Enrollment Certificate option. Your request will be automatically routed to the National Student Clearninghouse, an authorized third-party enrollment verification system. Once complete, you can print the enrollment verification letter from your computer. Email or mail a signed Enrollment Certification Request form to our office: Office of the Registrar 322 Student Union Stillwater, OK 74078 certifications@okstate.edu A student’s signature is required for the release of enrollment certifications; therefore, telephone requests cannot be accepted. Written requests can be submitted to certifications@okstate.edu and are usually completed within two business days of receipt; however, during peak periods (beginning and end of each term) additional time may be required to complete requests. *Expected graduation date is calculated based on the date of admission into the student’s program of study or, if a Graduation Application has been filed, the date of graduation indicated on the Graduation Application. For students without a Graduation Application on file, the following table determines the expected graduation date. Student’s Declared Degree (Primary Curriculum) Expected Graduation Term Non-degree seeking One year after term of admission Certificate program Four years after term of admission Bachelor’s degrees recognized as five year programs (BAR, BEN, BLA) Seven years after term of admission All other Bachelor’s degrees Six years after term of admission Master’s degree Seven years after term of admission Doctoral degree Eight years after term of admission Professional degree (DVM) Four years after term of admission Good Academic Standing Letters and Transient Letters for Undergraduate Students For most purposes, the official transcript provides the best documentation of academic standing at Oklahoma State University. If a student needs additional proof of good academic standing, an official letter can be provided as verification that a currently enrolled student meets the definition of “good academic standing” provided by the Oklahoma State Regents for Higher Education (OSRHE). To receive a certification of good academic standing at OSU, an undergraduate student must meet the retention requirements set forth in OSHRE policy 3.9.8: Minimum Cumulative Retention GPA Credit Hours Attempted 1.7 0 through 30 2.0 More than 30 These standards are university-wide minimums. Individual colleges and programs may establish higher standards for retention and good academic standing. Good academic standing letters display the student’s name, social security number, current enrollment status, the university’s official seal, and signature of the University Registrar. The letter includes the following statement: "This student is in good academic standing as of the date of this certification,". If additional information is needed for transient letters such as approval to enroll in specific course(s) or degree applicability of transfer courses, individuals should contact the Student Academic Services office of their respective academic colleges. You may choose from the following options to request a Good Academic Standing Letter: Email or mail a signed Enrollment Certification Request form that has the "Good Academic Standing" option checked to our office: Office of the Registrar 322 Student Union Stillwater, OK 74078 certifications@okstate.edu A student’s signature is required for the release of enrollment certification letters; therefore, telephone requests cannot be accepted. Written requests are usually completed within two business days of receipt; however, during peak periods (beginning and end of each term) additional time may be required to complete requests. Academic Progress (Completion and Candidate Letters) Candidates for graduation during a particular semester may request an official letter which verifies their progress toward degree and their expected graduation date. Potential employers, licensure boards, embassies and other agencies may require this type of verification. Letter of Completion Completion letters provide official verification from Oklahoma State University that all degree requirements have been met and specify the date that a student’s degree will be conferred. At a student’s request, completion letters may be provided to potential employers, immigration inquiries, or other agencies. A completion letter includes the student's name, degree, major, degree conferral date, the university's official seal, and the signature of the University Registrar. Letters can be requested for current or upcoming semester only. Submission deadline for any semester is Friday of pre-finals week for the term. Letter of Completion requests may be submitted to certifications@okstate.edu and will be fulfilled in approximately 1-2 weeks. After degrees have been conferred, completion letters are no longer issued because the official transcript and diploma provides evidence of degree completion. Candidate Letter Candidate letters are official verification from Oklahoma State University that a degree will be conferred upon successful completion of all course work in which a student is currently enrolled. At a student’s request, candidate letters may be provided to potential employers, immigration inquiries, or other agencies. Candidate letters are certified statements that include the student's name, degree, major, expected degree conferral date, the university's official seal, and the signature of the University Registrar. Letters can be requested for current or upcoming semester only. Submission deadline for any semester is Friday of pre-finals week for the term. Candidate Letter requests may be submitted to certifications@okstate.edu and will be fulfilled in approximately 1-2 weeks. Back To Top Back To Top Office of the Registrar 322/324 Student Union Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 (map) (405) 744-6876 | Contact Us Follow US Social Media Directory Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Snapchat Oklahoma State University Campus & Parking MapsAll OSU InstitutionsCareers @ OSUHire OSU Grads© Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks MENUCLOSE ©