Skip to main content Florida State University This is your Donation message. Log In This Site FSU Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Submit Submit Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Giving University Registrar Toggle navigation Site Menu Current Records Overview Status & Retention Drop/Add Service Indicators Enrollment Cancellation Grade Services Deans' Directory Publications Overview Bulletin Info Registration Guide Info Campus Map Info Course Descriptions Calendars Graduation Overview Graduation Checklist Ceremony Information Diplomas Degrees of Distinction Update Expected Grad Term FAQ Student Services Overview Graduation Transcripts Certification State Employee Fee Waiver FERPA Course Descriptions Scheduling Overview Curriculum Academic Space Class Search Archive Bulletin Undergraduate Graduate Registration Guide Past Editions 2021-2022 Undergraduate Bulletin Home Bulletin Undergraduate Departments & Programs Theatre Helpful Links Graduate Bulletin Policies & Information Colleges Departments & Programs Bulletin PDF Undergraduate Bulletin Policies & Information Colleges Departments & Programs Bulletin PDF Archive of Previous Editions Fall Registration Guide Spring Registration Guide Summer Registration Guide Class Search Snapshots School of Theatre Undergraduate Programs College of Fine Arts Website: https://theatre.fsu.edu/ Chair: Bradley Brock, Interim; Professors: Bourus, Chappell, Dahl, Jordan, Muscha; Associate Professors: Coleman, Gelabert, Hale, Lickson, Malaev-Babel, Osborne, Ossowski, Salata, West; Assistant Professors: Arespacochaga, Lile, Rhine, Thomas; Faculty Administrator: Leaming; Specialized Faculty: Delorey, Jackson, Riker; Burt Reynolds Eminent Scholar Chair in Theatre: TBA; Hoffman Eminent Scholar Chair in Theatre: TBA; Professors Emeriti: Baker, Fallon The School of Theatre is a fully accredited member of the National Association of Schools of Theatre, and its degree requirements are in accordance with the latest published regulations of that association. The School of Theatre offers degrees and coursework at both undergraduate and graduate levels. To major in theatre, a student must meet with an academic advisor in theatre. All programs require an audition, interview, or application. The Bachelor of Arts (BA) is a flexible, broad-based liberal arts degree, providing a basic knowledge of, and experience in, theatre arts. The Bachelor of Fine Arts (BFA) offers an intensive program of training in acting or music theatre. The Master of Arts/Master of Science (MA/MS) degrees offer a blend of academic courses and production training on an advanced level. The Master of Fine Arts (MFA) degree provides training to achieve professional-level competencies in directing, acting, costume design, technical production, or theatre management. Computer Skills Competency All undergraduates at Florida State University must demonstrate basic computer skills competency prior to graduation. As necessary computer competency skills vary from discipline to discipline, each major determines the courses needed to satisfy this requirement. Undergraduate majors in the BA program in theatre and the BFA programs in acting or music theatre satisfy this requirement by earning a grade of “C–” or higher in THE 4954. State of Florida Common Program Prerequisites The state of Florida has identified common program prerequisites for this University degree program. Specific prerequisites are required for admission into the upper-division program and must be completed by the student at either a community college or a state university prior to being admitted to this program. Students may be admitted into the University without completing the prerequisites, but may not be admitted into the program. At the time this document was published, some common program prerequisites were being reviewed by the state of Florida and may have been revised. Please visit https://dlss.flvc.org/admin-tools/common-prerequisites-manuals for a current list of state-approved prerequisites. The following lists the common program prerequisites or their substitutions, necessary for admission into this upper-division degree program: Dramatic Arts/Theatre THE X000 or any three-credit hour course from THE X001-X035 THE X305 or THE X300 THE X925 TPA X290 TPA X200 or TPA X210 TPP X190 or TPP X110 THE XXXX or TPA XXXX or TPP XXXX THE XXXX or TPA XXXX or TPP XXXX THE XXXX or TPA XXXX or TPP XXXX Requirements Admission to Majors Students should contact the School of Theatre Office of Academic and Student Services regarding admission requirements and procedures for the majors or visit the School of Theatre Website at https://theatre.fsu.edu/. Attendance Requirement for All School Events All undergraduate students in the School of Theatre must register for THE 4990 every Fall and Spring in which they are enrolled as a theatre major. This course is a zero credit, S/U course. Students must attend all school meetings, required plays, and other required events. Failure to comply with this requirement will jeopardize graduation eligibility. Liberal Studies for the 21st Century Program All undergraduates in theatre are required to meet the liberal studies requirements as specified in the “Undergraduate Degree Requirements” chapter of this General Bulletin. Retention Standards A grade of “C–” or better is required in all major courses and prerequisites except THE 2020, which requires a “B–” or better. Students may only retake a major requirement once in which a grade below the minimum was received. (THE 2020 may be taken only once.) The class must be retaken the following semester, and a minimum grade of “C–” must be achieved for retention. BA students must maintain a minimum GPA of 3.0 in major requirements and a cumulative GPA of 3.0; BFA acting and music theatre students must maintain a minimum GPA of 3.0 in major requirements and a cumulative GPA of 2.5. If a student receives a “D” or “F” in a major requirement, or if the GPA falls below the minimum, the student will be placed on probation for the following semester. If the grade or GPA does not meet minimum standards by the end of the probationary semester, the student will be dismissed from the School of Theatre. The School of Theatre retains the right to refuse admission or terminate enrollment at any time if a student fails to maintain the standards of the program. Honors in Theatre The School of Theatre offers a program in honors to encourage talented juniors and seniors to undertake independent and original research as part of the undergraduate experience. For requirements and other information, see the “University Honors Office and Honor Societies” chapter of this General Bulletin. Bachelor of Arts Requirements The Bachelor of Arts (BA) is a flexible liberal arts degree intended to offer a comprehensive knowledge of theatre arts. The program requires a balance of theatre core classes and electives that allow students the opportunity to explore selected areas of the theatre. Theatre core requirements include courses in performance, technical theatre, design, and theatre history. All BA students must complete a run and usher experience. Electives can be fulfilled with additional theatre courses or any other University courses. Liberal studies requirements for the baccalaureate degree must be met. Twenty-four semester hours of coursework must be taken outside of the major, in addition to liberal studies. Hours taken to satisfy the Bachelor of Arts (BA) world language requirement and the diversity requirement (if not part of either the major requirements or liberal studies) may be part of those twenty-four hours. For more information, see the Bachelor of Arts Degree section of the “Undergraduate Degree Requirements” chapter of this General Bulletin. Technical Theatre Requirement BA Theatre majors must complete the technical theatre requirement. Courses must be taken every semester beginning the first semester in residence until the requirement is complete. Students transferring with a major in theatre may receive transfer credit for no more than one technical practices course. Major A minimum of thirty-nine semester hours of coursework in theatre is required. Contact the Office of Academic and Student Services in the School of Theatre for a complete list of requirements. Note: At least eighteen semester hours of these required courses must be completed in residence. Bachelor of Fine Arts Requirements The Bachelor of Fine Arts (BFA) is a preprofessional degree, with intensive, in-depth training. The goal is the development of both an understanding of theatre as a total art and the skills necessary for its expression. Students may concentrate in acting or music theatre. The BFA program is designed to provide the necessary foundation for specialization at the graduate or professional level. Admission to the program is highly selective. A student seeking to enter the program must offer, in addition to an acceptable GPA, an acting and/or music theatre audition, and a complete application packet. Continuation in the program is dependent not only upon academic performance but also upon development of talent and skill potential as evaluated by faculty assessment. A student’s work and commitment are under continuous review, and any candidate who fails to maintain high standards will be dismissed from the program. Although it is possible to complete all requirements within four years, it is possible that a successful course of study will take longer, since graduation depends as much on demonstrated proficiency as on credit hours. Complete details regarding auditions can be found at https://theatre.fsu.edu/. Common Curriculum Beyond the liberal studies requirements, BFA students are required to complete approximately seventy-four to eighty-six semester hours in theatre and related courses. All BFA students are required to successfully complete core theatre courses and technical laboratories. Contact the Office of Academic and Student Services in the School of Theatre for complete degree requirements. Concentration in Acting Students with a concentration in acting must complete TPA 2201, 2248, 2291; TPP 2110, 2111, 2190L, 2710, 3510, 3511, 3710, 3711, 4113, 4310, 4531, 4712, 4713, 4922; THE 3213, 3214, 4260, 4303, 4954, and eight elective semester hours in performance. Acting students are required to complete a semester in London between the sophomore and junior year. Concentration in Music Theatre Students with a concentration in music theatre must complete MUT 1001, 1111, 1241; MVV 3532, 4542; THE 3214, 4303, 4244, 4245; TPA 2201, 2248, 2291; TPP 2110, 2111, 3510, 3511, 4310, 4257, 4512, and 4923. A minimum of five semester hours of private voice, keyboard, and dance are also required until proficiency is demonstrated in these skills. London Theatre Experience In addition to its degree programs, the School of Theatre has created the London Theatre Experience, an extraordinary curriculum in London for select theatre majors. The program includes theatre-going, backstage tours, classes with leading theatre artists, special internships, and performance opportunities. Students earn a semester of academic credit while participating in a program that makes a real difference in their lives as students, artists, and human beings. Graduate credit is available only by special request. Facilities There are several performance spaces available for the production of plays. All include rehearsal space. They are: the Richard G. Fallon Theatre in the Fine Arts Building; the Studio, or the Augusta Conradi Theatre, in the Williams Building; The Lab Theatre; and the Fine Arts Annex. The Richard G. Fallon Theatre in the Fine Arts Building is a proscenium theatre with continental seating for 500 patrons. Stage equipment includes a turntable, a counterweight system, hydraulic orchestra pit, a computer lightboard, a four-channel sound system, light and sound shops, two large-group dressing rooms, and two private dressing rooms. The Studio, or the Augusta Conradi Theatre, is a proscenium house and seats 200 patrons. The stage equipment includes a rope system, a preset lightboard, a single channel sound system, a light and sound control booth, green room, two group dressing rooms, and a small scene shop. The auditorium is used as a lecture classroom and demonstration laboratory. The Lab is a flexible theatre space used in proscenium, thrust, arena, and open configurations. There is a variable seating capacity depending on each production’s staging requirements. There is a lighting grid, and portable sound and lighting equipment is utilized. Subscription productions are mounted in the Lab Theatre each year. In addition, the space is used for student development and productions. There is an accompanying rehearsal hall next door. The Fine Arts Annex is a small proscenium space with flexible seating. The space is used as a classroom space, rehearsal space, and as a performance space. Definition of Prefixes IDS—Interdisciplinary Studies THE—Theatre Studies and General Resources TPA—Theatre Production and Administration TPP—Theatre Performance and Performance Training Undergraduate Courses IDS 2374. Theory and Practice of the Encounter (3). This interdisciplinary course merges performance theory and practice with philosophy and literary theory. It introduces students to the emerging field of performance as research and practice-based research focusing on the phenomenon of the encounter. IDS 3685. Promoting Art Ethically in Social Media: Separating Truth From Fiction (3). This course explores the ethics of modern social media as a vehicle for marketing and promoting people as artificial characters in a type of electronic performance, and the nature of truth in that promotion. THE 2000. Introduction to Theatre (3). This course focuses on the historical development and basic elements for appreciation and evaluation of performances. The course is designed for non-majors. THE 2020. Introduction to Theatre for Majors (3). This course is a survey of the field of theatre, its various divisions, and the School of Theatre. Preparation for independent research and communication about the profession and the school. THE 3061. Introduction to Theatre in London (3). This introductory course is designed to acquaint students with the components of the theatrical experience as they relate specifically to current dramaturgy and stagecraft in London. It is to be offered only at The Florida State University London Study Center. It should be viewed as a companion class to THE 2000 Introduction to Theatre, for majors and non-majors, but may be taken independently. It makes use of the theatrical resources in the city of London, including attendance at leading theatres, backstage tours, and lectures by prominent theatre artists. THE 3213. World Theatre History I (3). Prerequisite: THE 2020. This course explores the staging practices and dramatic literature of classical Greece and Rome, medieval Europe and Japan, Renaissance England, Italy, and France, and 18th-century Western Europe. THE 3214. World Theatre History II (3). This course explores the staging practices and dramatic literature from the 19th century to the present. Specific units include romanticism, melodrama, the rise of realism, avant-garde theatre movements (both American and European), European innovations 1960s–1990s, and contemporary dramatic theory. THE 3931r. Special Topics in Theatre (3). (S/U grade only.) In this course, topics change per semester depending upon instructor. May be repeated to a maximum of six semester hours. THE 4064. Disability and Representation (3). Prerequisite: THE 2020, THE 3213, or THE 3214. This course offers an advanced introduction that surveys the way in which the arts and popular culture (including literature, fine arts, performance, advertising, documentary film, and video) have both reflected and contributed to attitudes and public policy concerning people with disabilities. The course takes a disability-studies approach, which considers the social and cultural aspects of disability. THE 4233. History of African-American Drama (3). This course is a survey of the history of African-Americans in the American theatre from the African Gove Theatre to the present, and of playwrights from William Wells Brown to August Wilson. THE 4236. A Cultural History of the American Theatre and Drama from Beginnings to Present (3). Prerequisite: THE 2100. This course examines American theatre and drama in its cultural and social context. THE 4244. Musical Theatre History I (3). Prerequisite: THE 3214, MUL 2211, DAN 4115, or instructor permission. This course is a survey of the popular musical theatre from the beginnings to the 1940s, including the development of comic opera, operetta, the revue tradition, and musical comedy. THE 4245. Musical Theatre History II (3). Prerequisite: THE 3214, MUL 2211, DAN 4115, or instructor permission. This course is a survey of musical theatre in America since the 1940s, including Rodgers and Hammerstein, Weill, Lerner and Loewe, Loesser, Bernstein, Sondheim, the Black musical, and the rock musical. THE 4260. Historic Costume for the Stage (3). Prerequisite: THE 3214. This course is a survey of history of Western clothing and relationship to stage. THE 4273. Seminar in History of Stage Directing (3). Prerequisite: Instructor permission required. In this seminar students investigate the phenomenon of the stage director in its historical context focusing on key figures and productions. THE 4293. History of Theatre Design & Production (3). This course provides theatre students with an overall understanding of how theatre design and production evolved through the ages. Students are encouraged to actively participate in the objective and critical analysis of the historical conditions that determined and guided our visual and presentational styles over time. Students engage through discussions, creating images that are directly influenced by their discussions, and through their own analytical writing. THE 4301. Contemporary US Theatre (3). Prerequisites: THE 3213 and THE 4303. This course focuses on contemporary US theatre and performance, including traditional theatre and experimental types of performance. Students read, analyze, and research theatre in the canon and outside of it. The course culminates in an original performance. THE 4303. Play Analysis (3). Prerequisite: THE 3214. This course is a line by line script examination, analyzing how playwrights of various periods achieved characterization, structure, and plotting. THE 4433. Gender, Race and Performance (3). This course is an advanced introduction to contemporary theories/practices of performance of race/gender on stage and in everyday life using feminist theories of performance. THE 4438. African Theatre Performance (3). This course examines the cultural and political complexities of selected countries of sub-Saharan Africa through an exploration of pre-colonial performance traditions, written plays, and contemporary popular culture. THE 4481. Dramaturgy (3). Prerequisites: THE 3214, THE 4303, and/or instructor permission. This course is an introduction to production dramaturgy with emphasis on conducting research and preparing written reports. Topics include surveys of the critical literature, cultural background and biography, production history and text preparation. THE 4905r. Directed Individual Study (1–3). May be repeated to a maximum of twelve semester hours. THE 4913r. Theatre Tutorial (1–3). (S/U grade only.) This course explores selected topics in theatre. Upper division theatre majors only. May be repeated to a maximum of six semester hours. THE 4917r. Honors Work (1–6). This course is open only to students in the honors program. The course covers specialized honors coursework culminating in an honors thesis. May be repeated to a maximum of nine semester hours. THE 4923r. Theatre Encounters Workshop (3). Prerequisite: Instructor permission. This course involves a workshop production of a major dramatic work together with extensive study of the social, literary, and cultural contexts. The course includes dramaturgical research and written assignments. May be repeated to a maximum of six semester hours. THE 4935r. Selected Subjects in Theatre Studies (3). This course is an in-depth examination of various topics not covered in the regular course offerings. The course is for seniors and juniors who have completed at least fifty percent of their major requirements. May be repeated to a maximum of fifteen semester hours. THE 4954. Culminations (1). Prerequisite: THE 2020. This course is a capstone course in theatre. Emphasis is placed on reflecting upon skills and competencies developed in the course of study and translating those elements to future activities including work and graduate school. THE 4990r. Theatre Forum (0). (S/U grade only.) This course is required each semester for undergraduate and graduate majors. Attendance may also be required at designated activities scheduled at other times. TPA 2000. Introduction to Theatrical Design (3). This course introduces the fundamental elements of design including spot, line, shape, and color while relating these elements to theatrical production design. TPA 2201. Introduction to Technical Theatre (3). This course is an introduction to the technical elements required to produce a theatrical production. The course discusses elements from scene and costume construction, along with lighting, sound, and stage management. TPA 2248. Stage Makeup (2). This course is an introduction to basic makeup for the stage. Emphasis is on modeling of the face with makeup. TPA 2291–2292. Technical Theatre Laboratory (one hour each). Prerequisite: Instructor permission. This course consists of practical experience in the non-acting areas of theatre production, including running the box office, disseminating publicity materials, constructing scenery and properties, applying basic techniques for costume construction in practical situations, and serving on lighting, running, or maintenance crews. TPA 2322. Technical Theatre Practices I – Costumes, Lighting and Backstage Run-Crews (3). This course offers an introduction to theatre costume and lighting practices. Students participate in at least one run-crew assignment. TPA 2323. Technical Theatre Practices II – Scenery, Scene Painting and Front-of-House (3). This course offers an introduction to theatre scenery and scenery painting practices. Students participate in at least one front-of-house assignment. TPA 3208. Drafting for the Stage (3). Prerequisite: TPA 2201. This course is an introduction to tools and techniques, including preparation of plates showing construction details and perspective. TPA 3230. Costuming I (3). Prerequisite: TPA 2322 or instructor permission. This introductory costume sewing class instructs students in the craft of sewing costumes for theatre, focusing on sewing practices used in costume shops throughout the U.S. Students gain hands-on experience and become familiar with a sewing vocabulary through assigned sewing projects. Students also learn to identify commonly used fabrics by both weave and fiber content. TPA 3298, 3299. Technical Theatre Laboratory (one hour each). Prerequisite: Instructor permission. This course gives students advanced practical experience in the non-acting areas of theatre production, including running the box office, disseminating publicity materials, constructing scenery and properties, applying basic techniques for costume construction in practical situations, and serving on lighting, running, or maintenance crews. TPA 3325r. Intermediate Technical Theatre Practice (3). Prerequisite: TPA 2323. This course refines the skills and techniques necessary for proficiency at the intermediate level of technical production, including the construction of scenery for the stage, rigging, standard technical theatre vocabulary, and safe work habits. Specific assignments depend upon the School of Theatre production season. May be repeated to a maximum of nine semester hours. TPA 3333. Introduction to Costume Craft, Dye and Millinery (3). TPA 3353. Lighting and Sound Technology for the Theatre (3). Prerequisite: TPA 2201. This course provides an in-depth exploration of technology behind the realization of lighting and sound design, including understanding of the intermediate technologies associated with successful design. TPA 4014. Model Making (3). This course acquaints students with current model building techniques and systems. Students gain experience in constructing most of the elements commonly associated with models such as doors, windows, textures, fences, trees, and props. TPA 4020. Lighting Design I (3). Prerequisite: TPA 2201. This course acquaints students with the design process and the various tools by which a lighting designer researches and expresses his/her art. The course includes script analysis, producing light plots, and basic drafting. TPA 4021. Lighting Design II (3). Prerequisites: TPA 3208 and TPA 4020. This course is an overview of the lighting design process for a variety of spaces from concept to finished product. Emphasis is on script analysis. Content includes instruction in the creation and use of paperwork as well as practical aspects of lighting in both the proscenium and non-proscenium venues. TPA 4024. Lighting Design III (3). Prerequisite: TPA 4021. This course encompasses lighting design for a variety of production styles such as musicals, opera, dance, comedy, and tragedy. TPA 4045. Costume Design for the Stage (3). Prerequisite: THE 4260 or instructor permission. This course is an exploration of the elements and principles of design as they relate to stage costuming. Coursework includes design projects. TPA 4060. Principles of Scenic Design (3). Prerequisite: TPA 3208. This course explores beginning design techniques including ground plan, perspective, and model building. TPA 4073. Rendering for the Stage (3). This course focuses on rendering techniques for the set, costume, and lighting designer in various media. For the course professional equipment is required. TPA 4077. Scene Painting (3). This course focuses on traditional scene painting techniques for theatre and film. For the course professional equipment is required. TPA 4078. Advanced Scene Painting (3). This advanced studio course that develops skills introduced in TPA 4077 with non-traditional scenic techniques and non-traditional materials. TPA 4084. Life Drawing for Designers (3). This course explores the problems of figure drawing as they relate specifically to the theatrical designer using live, nude and draped models. TPA 4238. Advanced Costume Construction (3). Prerequisite: TPA 3230 or instructor permission. This course is an advanced practice in constructing specialized costumes for stage use. Students gain practical, hands-on experience in theatrical sewing techniques in creating projects such as period corsets, historically based costumes constructed to reflect period details, and beginning tailoring techniques. TPA 4239. Costume Patterning (3). Prerequisite: TPA 4238 or instructor permission. This course is an introduction to costume patternmaking including drafting, flat pattern, and draping methods. This is a project-oriented course where students gain practice in all three patterning methods on projects for men’s and women’s historically based costumes. TPA 4240. Advanced Costume Draping and Fitting (3). Prerequisites: TPA 4239 and THE 4260 or instructor permission. This course is an advanced study in costume patterning for theatre, with an emphasis on draping and/or drafting historically based garments for women and men. Projects include period garment research and measuring, sizing, and fitting techniques to accommodate actual performers’ measurements as well as stage movement requirements. TPA 4246. Stage Wigs and Specialty Makeup (3). This course examines makeup, hair, and wig styles popular throughout history. Students acquire practical, hands-on experience in constructing and styling wigs for the stage and in designing various period hair and makeup styles. TPA 4250. AutoCAD for the Stage (3). In this course, students learn to apply theatrical drafting standards to AutoCAD. The course also covers basic DOS commands and structure, drafting in 2D AutoCAD, and drafting in 3D AutoCAD (including basic modeling commands). TPA 4283. Technical Production (3). Prerequisites: TPA 2201 and instructor permission. This course examines the production process from play selection through set design, set load in, run of show, load out, and post mortem analysis. The course focuses on the various and linear aspects of the production, including the management and planning of the budgeting, pre-construction, construction, and strike aspects of the production. TPA 4302. Structural Design for the Stage I (3). Prerequisites: TPA 2201 and instructor permission. This course explores the physics and mathematics associated with successful stage structure design. Students study and apply concepts of static engineering, physical science, and material strength in the development of scenic elements. TPA 4354. Lighting Software for Theatre (3). Prerequisites: TPA 3208 and TPA 4020. This course is an overview of primary light design and visualization software programs. No prior knowledge of computer-aided design is necessary. Significant individual work is required. TPA 4400. Theatre Management (3). This course is designed to provide an introduction to the economic and managerial aspects of American theatre especially as they apply to nonprofit and professional theatre. TPA 4601. Stage Management (2). This course focuses on methods and techniques of managing simple dramatic shows to complex multi-scene productions. Must be taken before stage managing a Mainstage production. Consent of instructor required. TPA 4602. Advanced Stage Management (3). Prerequisite: TPA 4601. This course is intended for students who wish to pursue a career in stage management. Advanced study of stage management and development of skills needed to practice in a LORT theatre. TPA 4905r. Directed Individual Study (1–3). May be repeated to a maximum of twelve semester hours. TPA 4940r. Internship in Stage Design, Technical Theatre, and Management (1–12). (S/U grade only.) Prerequisites: Completion of all coursework in theatre and instructor permission. This course is a resident internship in an approved professional theatre, shop, or enrichment center. May be repeated to a maximum of twelve (12) credit hours; repeatable within the same term. TPP 2100. Performance I (2). This course presents an overview of acting as an art and craft. TPP 2110r. Acting Technique I: Basic Process (3). Prerequisite: Instructor permission. This course is an introduction of the basic acting process. Emphasis on living truthfully in imaginary circumstances through honest listening and response. May be repeated to a maximum of nine semester hours. TPP 2111r. Acting Technique II: Contemporary American Realism (3). Prerequisites: TPP 2110r and/or instructor permission. This course focuses on scene study and basic characterization. May be repeated to a maximum of nine semester hours. TPP 2185. Orientation to Acting (3). This course is a general survey of the development of acting and actor training, Stanislavsky to Hagen, with exercises in the basics of the actor’s process and audition technique. TPP 2190L. Theatre Rehearsal and Performance (1–2). (S/U grade only.) Prerequisite: Instructor permission. This course consists of the assignment of a specific role and/or responsibility. Opportunity for students to receive additional supervision and critique, as well as credit, for participation in rehearsal and performance. TPP 2191L, 2192L. Theatre Rehearsal and Performance [two hours each]. (S/U grade only.) Prerequisite: Instructor permission. This course consists of the assignment of a specific role and/or responsibility. Opportunity for students to receive additional supervision and critique, as well as credit, for participation in rehearsal and performance. TPP 2710r. Voice I (3). This course introduces student actors to the basic principles of voice training. Group and individual exercises are designed to stimulate and develop the imagination, physical and sensory awareness, creativity, and the ability to work as part of an ensemble. Focus is on alleviating individual tensions in the vocal musculature that restrict the natural voice. May be repeated to a maximum of nine semester hours. TPP 3103. Performance II (3). Prerequisite: TPP 2100. This course focuses on the exploration and development of a range of fundamental tools of the acting process, with particular emphasis on vocal production and physical expression in the context of creating and rehearsing scenes and monologues drawn from significant modern and contemporary playwrights, ending with an introduction to the performance of classical Shakespearean texts. TPP 3265. Acting for the Camera (3). Prerequisite: TPP 2110. This course offers a preliminary look at developing acting techniques for work in television, film, and video media. It explores how actors prepare, rehearse, and perform differently in front of the camera as compared to an onstage production. TPP 3510r. Movement Techniques for Theatre I (3). Prerequisite: Instructor permission. This course utilizes exercises for self-awareness, physical strength, flexibility, and versatility for the actor. May be repeated to a maximum of six semester hours. TPP 3511r. Movement Techniques for Theatre II (3). Prerequisite: TPP 3510r and/or instructor permission. This course explores styles of movement and dance, creative presentations, and daily warm-ups. May be repeated to a maximum of six semester hours. TPP 3711r. Voice II (3). Prerequisite: TPP 2710r. This course continues the study of the first-year basic skills in speaking for the student actor. All actors who are on a professional track for the Bachelor of Fine Arts degree must have thorough knowledge of their speaking voice for the stage, how to use it in their acting studios and stage performances, and how to be a more effective speaker in their everyday life. May be repeated to a maximum of nine semester hours. TPP 4113r. Acting Techniques III: Acting Problems in Genre and Style (3). Prerequisites: TPP 2110r, TPP 2111r, TPP 3711, and/or instructor permission. This course is an acting workshop oriented to particular problems the actor confronts in dealing with historic periods in dramatic literature or material of post-realistic and contemporary styles and thought. May be repeated to a maximum of nine semester hours. TPP 4126. Creative Improvisation (3). Prerequisite: TPP 2100. This course examines vital interrelationships between the physical, vocal, and psychological potential in creating a complex, expressive artistic performance. TPP 4224. Audition Techniques (3). This course is designed as a workshop for advanced actors who are preparing to enter graduate study programs or seek professional work in theatre with some attention paid to work in film and television. The course examines the audition process from the perspectives of both the aspiring performer and the prospective employer. TPP 4226r. BA Music Theatre Workshop (3). This course provides evaluation, systemization, supervision, and critiques of all performance work undertaken to isolate acting and musical problems that occur in musical theatre and to see their solution in process and performance. The course also examines the audition process and to develop audition packages for professional auditions. May be repeated to a maximum of six semester hours. TPP 4257. Voice for Musical Theatre (3). Prerequisite: Junior standing. The course focuses on releasing the singer’s acting voice, with particular emphasis on increasing breath capacity during movement, deepening and expanding resonance and range, and increasing articulation skills. In the course, students learn to fully embody their voice and speech skills to avoid strain and loss that come from executing sound solely from the throat. TPP 4310. Directing I (3). Corequisite: THE 4303. This course is a basic techniques course with emphasis on script analysis, fundamentals of staging, and work with actors. TPP 4403. Devised Theatre: Performance Creation (3). Prerequisite: TPP 3103 or TPP 4310. This advanced acting and directing course focuses on performance creation in response to major works of world literature. Students learn various approaches to devising an autonomous work of theatre. Students invest much effort in rethinking conventional creative processes and production methods. TPP 4404. Advanced Acting/Directing (3). Prerequisite: TPP 3103 or TPP 4310. This course is a workshop for advanced actors and directors focused on particular problems in contemporary staging of works from selected historic periods. TPP 4512r. Advanced Movement for the Theatre (3). Prerequisites: TPP 3510r, TPP 3511r, and/or instructor permission. This course focuses on advanced movement techniques and exploration of repertory and choreography. May be repeated to a maximum of six semester hours. TPP 4531. Stage Combat (3). Prerequisites: TPP 2100 or TPP 2110 and instructor permission. This course explores the development of physical dialogue through armed (rapier and dagger, broadsword, quarterstaff, or knife) and unarmed stage combat applied to acting. Focus is placed on the processes of safety, technique, rehearsal, and performance. Students have the option to participate in the Society of American Fight Directors Skill Proficiency Test. TPP 4600. Fundamentals of Playwriting (3). This course introduces the craft of playwriting. Functions as a workshop and focuses on the mechanics of structure, form, and marketing. TPP 4712r. Voice III (3). Prerequisites: TPP 2710r and TPP 3711r. This intermediate course in voice focuses on increasing vocal stamina, breath capacity, range, and freedom on the stage. The course introduces speaking Shakespeare and offers practice with the use of complex language in acting classical texts. May be repeated to a maximum of six semester hours. TPP 4713r. Voice VI: Vocal Imaginations (3). Prerequisite: TPP 4712. This course is primarily designed to expand the vocal imagination of the student actor. The International Phonetic Alphabet is introduced in an organic manner as a primary tool in the adoption of different speech sounds from those that are natural to each student actor. This course includes a “Speech Sound Donor Project,” in which the student actor must study and implement a dialect different from their own natural one, and then must teach it to the group at large. May be repeated to a maximum of six semester hours. TPP 4730r. Dialects for Stage (3). Prerequisites: TPP 2110r, TPP 3710r, TPP 3711, and/or instructor permission. This course focuses on the techniques of acquiring a dialect for stage performance. Scene study and monologues performed in dialects. Content may vary from semester to semester. May be repeated to a maximum of six semester hours. TPP 4905r. Directed Individual Study (1–3). May be repeated to a maximum of twelve semester hours. TPP 4922r. Performance Workshop in Acting/Directing (2). Prerequisites: BFA candidates only and instructor permission. This course provides evaluating systemization, supervision, and critiques for performance work required for BFA program. May be repeated to a maximum of ten semester hours. TPP 4923r. Musical Theatre Workshop (2). Prerequisites: BFA candidates only and instructor permission. This course provides evaluation, systemization, supervision, and critiques of all performance work undertaken to isolate acting, dance, and musical problems that occur in musical theatre and to see their solution in performance. May be repeated to a maximum of eight semester hours. TPP 4940r. Internship in Theatre Performance (1–3). (S/U grade only.) Prerequisites: Completion of all coursework in theatre and instructor permission. This course is a resident internship in an approved professional theatre, shop, or enrichment center. May be repeated to a maximum of six (6) credit hours; repeatable within the same term. Graduate Courses THE 5065. Disability and Representation (3). THE 5084r. Theatre Problems (3). THE 5120. Advanced Theatre History I: Classical and Medieval (3). THE 5130. Advanced Theatre History II: Renaissance and 18th Century (3). THE 5160. Advanced Theatre History III: 19th and 20th Centuries (3). THE 5238. History of African-American Drama (3). THE 5246. Musical Theatre History I (3). THE 5247. Musical Theatre History II (3). THE 5265r. Historic Costume II (3). THE 5273r. Seminar: Selected Topics in History of Performance (Acting and Directing) (3). THE 5274. Seminar in History of Stage Directing (3). THE 5302. Contemporary U.S. Theatre (3). THE 5317r. Seminar: Selected Topics in Dramatic Literature and Dramatic Theory (3). THE 5437. Gender, Race, and Performance (3). THE 5439. African Theatre and Performance (3). THE 5486. Graduate Dramaturgy (3). THE 5765. Performance I for Theatre Educators (3). THE 5770. Theatre History and Literature I for Theatre Educators (3). THE 5771. Theatre History and Literature II for Theatre Educators (3). THE 5772. Theatre History and Literature III for Theatre Educators (3). THE 5905r. Directed Individual Study (3). (S/U grade only.) THE 5910. Theatre Bibliography and Research (3). THE 5916r. Supervised Research (1–5). (S/U grade only.) THE 5918r. Theatre Tutorial (1–3). THE 5925r. Writing Workshop (1–3). (S/U grade only.) THE 5940r. Internship in Theatre (2–12). (S/U grade only.) THE 5973r. MFA Creative Final Project (3-6). (S/U grade only.) THE 6531. Methods of Theatre Criticism (3). TPA 5009r. Media Design (3). TPA 5015. Stage Machinery Design and Construction (3). TPA 5016. Model Making (3). TPA 5025. Lighting Design I (3). TPA 5026. Lighting Design II (3). TPA 5027. Lighting Design III (3). TPA 5028. Lighting Design IV (3). TPA 5029. Lighting Design V (3). TPA 5042r. Advanced Costume Design for the Stage (3). TPA 5047. Advanced Costume Rendering (3). TPA 5062. Scene Design: Theory and Practice (3). TPA 5065. Principles of Scene Design (3). TPA 5079. Scene Painting (3). TPA 5080r. MFA Practicum in Design for the Stage (2–15). TPA 5089. Selected Topics in Advanced Technical Theatre (3). TPA 5098. Theatrical Design for Theatre Educators (3). TPA 5207. Technical Directions (3). TPA 5213. Stage Rigging (3). TPA 5235r. Selected Topics in Stage Costuming and Makeup Technology (3). TPA 5236. Advanced Costume Crafts (3). TPA 5237r. Selected Topics in Costume Design for the Stage (3). TPA 5242. Advanced Stage Costume Millinery Techniques (3). TPA 5243. Advanced Period Draping and Fitting Techniques (3). TPA 5245. Fabric Modification for Stage Costumes (3). TPA 5247. Advanced Stage Wigs and Specialty Makeup (3). TPA 5278. Electricity and Electronics for the Stage (3). TPA 5280r. MFA Practicum in Technical Theatre (2–15). TPA 5284. Technical Production (3). TPA 5285. Technical Production and Management (3). TPA 5286r. Selected Topics in Technical Theatre (3). TPA 5287. Advanced Costume Patterning (3). TPA 5306. Structural Design for the Stage II (3). TPA 5310. Structural Design for the Stage I. (3). TPA 5315. Physics of Stage Machinery (3). TPA 5335. Costume Design for Dance (3). TPA 5336. Costume Design for Film and Television (3). TPA 5347. Software for Technical Theatre (3). TPA 5356. Computer Rendering for Costume Designers (3). TPA 5402. Business Communications in the Arts (3–12). TPA 5405. Principles of Theatre Management (3). TPA 5408. Business and Legal Issues in the Arts (3). TPA 5409. Audience Development and Arts Marketing (3). TPA 5410. Strategic Governance in the Arts (3). TPA 5425. Fiscal Management and Economics in the Arts (3). TPA 5470r. MFA Practicum in Management (2–15). TPA 5471. Leadership and Organizational Management in Arts (3). TPA 5905r. Directed Individual Study (3). (S/U grade only.) TPA 5930r. Select Topics in Management (3). TPA 5931r. Selected Topics in Stage Design (3). TPA 5940r. MFA Internship in Technical Theatre, Stage Design, and Management (2–15). TPA 5941r. MFA Practicum in Costume Technology (1–6). TPP 5145r. Acting Techniques I (3). TPP 5146r. Classical Performance Styles (3–6). TPP 5158. Performance II for Theatre Educators (3). TPP 5284r. MFA Practicum in Acting (1–15). TPP 5355. Performance III for Theatre Educators (3). TPP 5380r. MFA Practicum in Directing (2–15). TPP 5381. Problems in Directing (3). TPP 5383. Problems in Directing (3). TPP 5405. Advanced Performance and Devised Theatre: Laboratory in Performance Creation (3). TPP 5515r. Movement I (3). TPP 5516r. Movement II (3). TPP 5651. Advanced Play Analysis (3). TPP 5656r. Advanced Play Analysis for Actors (3). TPP 5715r. Voice I (3). TPP 5716r. Voice II (3). TPP 5906r. Directed Individual Study (3). (S/U grade only.) TPP 5940r. MFA Internship in Theatre Performance (2–15). (S/U grade only.) For listings relating to graduate coursework for thesis, dissertation, and master’s and doctoral examinations and defense, consult the Graduate Bulletin. TRANSPORTATION AND TRAFFIC ENGINEERING: see Civil and Environmental Engineering TRANSPORTATION PLANNING: see Urban and Regional Planning Mailing Address A3900 University Center 282 Champions Way Tallahassee, FL 32306-2480 Email Registrar - registrar@fsu.edu Phone 850.644.1050 Hours Monday - Friday, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Eastern Time Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright