Skip to main content University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Students Staff & Faculty Registration Classrooms Curriculum About OUR (OUR) Menu Students Staff & Faculty Registration Classrooms Curriculum About OUR Home (OUR) Services and Resources for Students Withdrawal, Quarter-Off, and On-Leave Policies Checklist to Withdraw Checklist to Withdraw Close Menu Home Withdrawal, Quarter-Off, and On-Leave Policies Checklist to Withdraw Students who are considering withdrawing from the University, whether currently enrolled or not, should review and complete the following steps in order to facilitate a smooth transition both leaving and returning to the University. Academic Advising Applies to Students: Currently Enrolled Not Currently Enrolled Consult with your academic adviser and discuss your plans to return. Review the Returning Student Reenrollment instructions if you plan to return to UW-Seattle. Reenrollment Instructions Drop & Withdrawal Dates Calendar Applies to Students: Currently Enrolled Review the Adding/Dropping Courses or Complete Withdrawal calendar to understand your options and corresponding deadlines. Dropping Courses/Withdrawal Dates Refund Information Applies to Students: Currently Enrolled Review the Drops, Withdrawals, Forfeitures & Refunds information to understand the financial ramifications or requirements. Forfeiture/Refunds Drop Courses via MyUW Applies to Students: Currently Enrolled Refer to Current Quarter Drop process. Financial Aid Applies to Students: Currently Enrolled Not Currently Enrolled Students receiving financial aid should consult with a Financial Aid counselor to understand the implications of withdrawing; especially if there is no plan to attend the subsequent quarter and have federal loans. Review Withdrawal and Refund information. Financial Aid: Withdrawal and Refund Technology and Communications Applies to Students: Currently Enrolled Not Currently Enrolled Students not planning to return for the subsequent quarter should make arrangements to save any documents stored on any UW Google Suite or U Drive and set up forwarding on their uw.edu email address to a private email address. UWNetID services, Google Apps, and other storage services will expire and be purged 10 days into the second quarter in which they are not registered. IT Connect provides several resources with more information. IT Connect: NetID Service Expiration IT Connect: Change UW Email Forwarding IT Connect: Google G Suite FAQ re: Leaving Campus Housing Applies to Students: Currently Enrolled Not Currently Enrolled Students who reside in University of Washington housing must notify Housing & Food Services of their intention to withdraw per HFS Guides and Handbooks. HFS: Guides and Handbooks International Visas Applies to Students: International students on F-1 or J-1 visas Taking time-off or leaving the University will have an impact on your immigration status. Please contact International Student Services if you are thinking about dropping your classes. International Student Services Disability Resources Applies to Students: Currently Enrolled Not Currently Enrolled Students receiving assistance from Disability Resources must reach out to DRS. Disability Resources for Students Exit Indicator Survey Applies to Students: Currently Enrolled UW-Tacoma and UW-Bothell Students Only: Please fill out the Exit Indicator survey to help UW understand and address the reasons students take time off. If you plan to return, you’ll be offered personalized support when you come back. Refer to Taking Planned or Unexpected Time Off process. Home Withdrawal, Quarter-Off, and On-Leave Policies Checklist to Withdraw Search OUR Search for: Submit a Question Topic of Inquiry, Request, or Comment* Let us know what your question or request is about and we'll make sure it's routed to the appropriate office and generate a ticket. - Choose a Topic -Academic Data ManagementDean's List LetterDegree AuditEnrollment VerificationPayment of ECD/NSEOFGraduation & DiplomasRegistration Process/Issue/ErrorResidencyTime ScheduleTranscriptsUWNetID RequestWebsite Issue: registrar.washington.eduOther/not sure For Residency contact information please visit the Residency Contact Page Your answer may be found by checking out how to ORDER TRANSCRIPTS, reviewing the TRANSCRIPT FAQS, or looking up the TRANSCRIPT LEGEND . Name* Email Address* Inquiry, Request, or Comment* Type your question or comment below. Phone This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Holiday Closures Spring 2022 Mon, May 30 (Memorial Day) University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA