Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today Office of the University Registrar An office in Enrollment Management Search form Search Home Calendar Services Course & Room Scheduling Overview Auditoriums Auditorium Request Auditorium Utilization Report for Spring 2023 Classrooms » Course Catalog » Deadlines Exams Final Exam Policies & Guidelines Special Exam Policies Final Exams for Online and Non-Regular Courses Spring 2022 Final Exam Schedule Fall 2022 Final Exam Schedule Room Scheduling System (25 Live) » Room Reservations Event Room Reservation Request Schedule of Classes » Scheduling Officer Information Short Courses Standard Meeting Times Definitions for Course Components Scheduling Forms & Documents Enrollment Overview Add/Drop a Class Add/Drop/Withdraw Forms Approvals and Deadlines Drop Checklist Continuing Students New Students Readmitted Students Visiting Students and High School Dual Enrollment Late Enrollment Withdraw Considerations Effects of Dropping or Withdrawing on your Transcript Prior to Start of Semester After the Start of the Semester At the End of the Semester Withdrawal Form Medical and Compassionate Withdrawal Enrollment Resources Enrollment Status Maximum Enrollment Hours Enrollment Holds Schedule Builder Schedule of Classes » Records Overview Enrollment Certification Loan Deferments » Delegate Access Student Instructions Delegate Instructions Staff Instructions Grades Grade Definitions Grade Point Averages Parent and Guardian Grade Reports Enroll & Pay How-To's » Graduation Diplomas Statement of Degree Statement of Forthcoming Degree KU 150 Diploma KU ID Number Personal Information & Privacy Making Updates Student Data Request Transcripts Order a Transcript Charges and Delivery Options Transcript FAQ Electronic Transcript FAQ Transcript Key Records Forms University Seal Apostille Residency Overview Residency Definition Frequently Asked Questions Residency Application Appeals Armed Forces Residency Benefit Haskell Residency Tuition & Fees Tuition & Fees Overview Comprehensive Fee Schedule Archive CFS (2020-21) CFS (2019-20) CFS (2018-19) CFS (2017-18) CFS (2016-17) CFS (2015-16) CFS (2014-15) CFS (2013-14) CFS (2012-13) Fee Privileges Brochure Fee Petition Appeals Tuition and Fee Waiver Forms Class Supply Fee Opt-Out Request Loan Deferment Residency People About Overview Hours & Location Accreditation Reports University Reporting Contact us Forms Sitemap Faculty & Staff Resources Menu Home Calendar Services Course & Room Scheduling Overview Auditoriums Auditorium Request Auditorium Utilization Report for Spring 2023 Classrooms » Course Catalog » Deadlines Exams Final Exam Policies & Guidelines Special Exam Policies Final Exams for Online and Non-Regular Courses Spring 2022 Final Exam Schedule Fall 2022 Final Exam Schedule Room Scheduling System (25 Live) » Room Reservations Event Room Reservation Request Schedule of Classes » Scheduling Officer Information Short Courses Standard Meeting Times Definitions for Course Components Scheduling Forms & Documents Enrollment Overview Add/Drop a Class Add/Drop/Withdraw Forms Approvals and Deadlines Drop Checklist Continuing Students New Students Readmitted Students Visiting Students and High School Dual Enrollment Late Enrollment Withdraw Considerations Effects of Dropping or Withdrawing on your Transcript Prior to Start of Semester After the Start of the Semester At the End of the Semester Withdrawal Form Medical and Compassionate Withdrawal Enrollment Resources Enrollment Status Maximum Enrollment Hours Enrollment Holds Schedule Builder Schedule of Classes » Records Overview Enrollment Certification Loan Deferments » Delegate Access Student Instructions Delegate Instructions Staff Instructions Grades Grade Definitions Grade Point Averages Parent and Guardian Grade Reports Enroll & Pay How-To's » Graduation Diplomas Statement of Degree Statement of Forthcoming Degree KU 150 Diploma KU ID Number Personal Information & Privacy Making Updates Student Data Request Transcripts Order a Transcript Charges and Delivery Options Transcript FAQ Electronic Transcript FAQ Transcript Key Records Forms University Seal Apostille Residency Overview Residency Definition Frequently Asked Questions Residency Application Appeals Armed Forces Residency Benefit Haskell Residency Tuition & Fees Tuition & Fees Overview Comprehensive Fee Schedule Archive CFS (2020-21) CFS (2019-20) CFS (2018-19) CFS (2017-18) CFS (2016-17) CFS (2015-16) CFS (2014-15) CFS (2013-14) CFS (2012-13) Fee Privileges Brochure Fee Petition Appeals Tuition and Fee Waiver Forms Class Supply Fee Opt-Out Request Loan Deferment Residency People About Overview Hours & Location Accreditation Reports University Reporting Contact us Forms Sitemap Faculty & Staff Resources Search Search form Search Home Services Records Graduation Diplomas Overview Enrollment Certification Delegate Access Grades Graduation Diplomas Statement of Degree Statement of Forthcoming Degree KU 150 Diploma KU ID Number Personal Information & Privacy Transcripts Records Forms University Seal Diplomas If you have applied for graduation, the Office of the University Registrar will automatically place an order for your original (first) diploma. This order is defaulted to pick up. If you need to modify your order to update your diploma method please do so by following the "Modify a Diploma Delivery Request" on Page 4 of the Diploma Delivery instructions. If you wish to have your original diploma sent to an address outside of the U.S., you may update the mailing address by logging into your Enroll and Pay Student Center and selecting Diploma Delivery Request under My Academics. International mail charges are listed below. Diplomas will not be provided for students with financial and other obligations to the University of Kansas. The Office of the University Registrar will hold diplomas for one year after graduation. Students who do not pick up/update their delivery method for their diploma within one year will need to order and pay for a replacement diploma through Enroll & Pay. Diploma Pickup If you are picking up your diploma, please wait for a response from the Office of the University Registrar before arriving at the KU Visitor Center or Edwards Campus reception desk. We will contact you when your diploma is ready for pick-up. A Photo ID is required. If you would like to authorize another person to pick up your diploma please fill out the Authorization for document pickup by third party form. Diplomas may be picked up at the KU Visitor Center (Lawrence Campus). Authorization for document pickup by third party Replacement Diplomas Replacement diplomas utilize the university's current design and contain the signatures of the current chancellor and chair of the Kansas Board of Regents. We are not able to replicate original diploma styles or signatures. Ordering a Replacement Diploma A KU Online ID is needed to order a replacement diploma. If you need to create a KU Online ID visit the IT accounts site and click on "Create a KU Online ID"; you will need to know your seven-digit KU ID number. Login to Enroll & Pay Click the Degree Progress & Graduation tile Select Diploma Delivery Request (Please select a mailing option at this time, mailing charges have been reduced.) Read the statement in the New Request field, then click the I Agree - Start New Diploma Request button You may check your order status online at the KU Diploma Delivery Request to determine if your replacement diploma has been produced. Diploma Fees (non-refundable) US Mail (USPS) UPS* International Mail* International FedEx Pick Up Original Diploma $10.00 $15.00 $25.00 $96.00 No Charge Additional or Replacement Diploma $20.00 $25.00 $35.00 $106.00 $10.00 Notary Fee $5 per document. Complete the Notary Request Form to request notarization. *UPS does not deliver to PO boxes, APOs, or FPOs, in addition, please ensure if you select this option your town is in the UPS delivery area or additional charges will apply to complete the delivery. For more information visit https://www.ups.com. *Please select International FedEx for delivery to China. *Tracking numbers are not provided by the USPS for parcels mailed internationally. Diploma Distribution Original diplomas will be mailed or available for pick-up according to the schedule below: Term Available (approximate) Spring (Lawrence) Late July Fall Late February Summer Late September Diploma Sizes Diplomas come in two sizes depending on the degree earned: Bachelor's and Masters degrees: 8.5" x 11" Doctorate degrees: 14" x 17" KU 150 Diploma The University of Kansas is proud to present the commemorative sesquicentennial diploma honoring the university's legacy of tradition and academic excellence. Order yours today. KU Academic Calendar Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. University Registrar Updates October 13, 2021 Notification of Rights Under FERPA (2021-2022) October 13, 2020 Notification of Rights Under FERPA (2020-2021) October 2, 2019 Notification of Rights Under FERPA (2019-2020) Read more updates Hawk Help: Ask a Question Enrollment Enroll & Pay is the University of Kansas' online campus solution for enrollment, financial and other services. The Online Schedule of Classes Why KU Apply » One of 34 U.S. public institutions in the prestigious Association of American Universities 44 nationally ranked graduate programs. —U.S. News & World Report Top 50 nationwide for size of library collection. —ALA 5th nationwide for service to veterans —"Best for Vets: Colleges," Military Times KU Today Give to KU » Contact Office of the University Registrar registrar@ku.edu 785-864-4423 785-864-3900 1502 Iowa Street Lawrence, Kansas 66045 Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login