Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today Office of the University Registrar An office in Enrollment Management Search form Search Home Calendar Services Course & Room Scheduling Overview Auditoriums Auditorium Request Auditorium Utilization Report for Spring 2023 Classrooms » Course Catalog » Deadlines Exams Final Exam Policies & Guidelines Special Exam Policies Final Exams for Online and Non-Regular Courses Spring 2022 Final Exam Schedule Fall 2022 Final Exam Schedule Room Scheduling System (25 Live) » Room Reservations Event Room Reservation Request Schedule of Classes » Scheduling Officer Information Short Courses Standard Meeting Times Definitions for Course Components Scheduling Forms & Documents Enrollment Overview Add/Drop a Class Add/Drop/Withdraw Forms Approvals and Deadlines Drop Checklist Continuing Students New Students Readmitted Students Visiting Students and High School Dual Enrollment Late Enrollment Withdraw Considerations Effects of Dropping or Withdrawing on your Transcript Prior to Start of Semester After the Start of the Semester At the End of the Semester Withdrawal Form Medical and Compassionate Withdrawal Enrollment Resources Enrollment Status Maximum Enrollment Hours Enrollment Holds Schedule Builder Schedule of Classes » Records Overview Enrollment Certification Loan Deferments » Delegate Access Student Instructions Delegate Instructions Staff Instructions Grades Grade Definitions Grade Point Averages Parent and Guardian Grade Reports Enroll & Pay How-To's » Graduation Diplomas Statement of Degree Statement of Forthcoming Degree KU 150 Diploma KU ID Number Personal Information & Privacy Making Updates Student Data Request Transcripts Order a Transcript Charges and Delivery Options Transcript FAQ Electronic Transcript FAQ Transcript Key Records Forms University Seal Apostille Residency Overview Residency Definition Frequently Asked Questions Residency Application Appeals Armed Forces Residency Benefit Haskell Residency Tuition & Fees Tuition & Fees Overview Comprehensive Fee Schedule Archive CFS (2020-21) CFS (2019-20) CFS (2018-19) CFS (2017-18) CFS (2016-17) CFS (2015-16) CFS (2014-15) CFS (2013-14) CFS (2012-13) Fee Privileges Brochure Fee Petition Appeals Tuition and Fee Waiver Forms Class Supply Fee Opt-Out Request Loan Deferment Residency People About Overview Hours & Location Accreditation Reports University Reporting Contact us Forms Sitemap Faculty & Staff Resources Menu Home Calendar Services Course & Room Scheduling Overview Auditoriums Auditorium Request Auditorium Utilization Report for Spring 2023 Classrooms » Course Catalog » Deadlines Exams Final Exam Policies & Guidelines Special Exam Policies Final Exams for Online and Non-Regular Courses Spring 2022 Final Exam Schedule Fall 2022 Final Exam Schedule Room Scheduling System (25 Live) » Room Reservations Event Room Reservation Request Schedule of Classes » Scheduling Officer Information Short Courses Standard Meeting Times Definitions for Course Components Scheduling Forms & Documents Enrollment Overview Add/Drop a Class Add/Drop/Withdraw Forms Approvals and Deadlines Drop Checklist Continuing Students New Students Readmitted Students Visiting Students and High School Dual Enrollment Late Enrollment Withdraw Considerations Effects of Dropping or Withdrawing on your Transcript Prior to Start of Semester After the Start of the Semester At the End of the Semester Withdrawal Form Medical and Compassionate Withdrawal Enrollment Resources Enrollment Status Maximum Enrollment Hours Enrollment Holds Schedule Builder Schedule of Classes » Records Overview Enrollment Certification Loan Deferments » Delegate Access Student Instructions Delegate Instructions Staff Instructions Grades Grade Definitions Grade Point Averages Parent and Guardian Grade Reports Enroll & Pay How-To's » Graduation Diplomas Statement of Degree Statement of Forthcoming Degree KU 150 Diploma KU ID Number Personal Information & Privacy Making Updates Student Data Request Transcripts Order a Transcript Charges and Delivery Options Transcript FAQ Electronic Transcript FAQ Transcript Key Records Forms University Seal Apostille Residency Overview Residency Definition Frequently Asked Questions Residency Application Appeals Armed Forces Residency Benefit Haskell Residency Tuition & Fees Tuition & Fees Overview Comprehensive Fee Schedule Archive CFS (2020-21) CFS (2019-20) CFS (2018-19) CFS (2017-18) CFS (2016-17) CFS (2015-16) CFS (2014-15) CFS (2013-14) CFS (2012-13) Fee Privileges Brochure Fee Petition Appeals Tuition and Fee Waiver Forms Class Supply Fee Opt-Out Request Loan Deferment Residency People About Overview Hours & Location Accreditation Reports University Reporting Contact us Forms Sitemap Faculty & Staff Resources Search Search form Search Home Services Records Delegate Access Delegate Instructions Overview Enrollment Certification Delegate Access Student Instructions Delegate Instructions Staff Instructions Grades Graduation KU ID Number Personal Information & Privacy Transcripts Records Forms University Seal Delegate Instructions Getting Started Delegate accounts are granted by the student. Students have options to grant and revoke Delegate Access on their account at any time. Delegate Access can be given for any combination of the following categories: Class Schedule Only - access to view current class schedule. Financial Aid - access to view Financial Aid award information. Grades and Course History - access to view grades and course information. Student Financials - access to view and pay student bills. Student Financials 1098T - access to view 1098T. Students initiate Delegate Access setup by designating delegates following the steps outlined here. This will generate an email to the delegate confirming that this access has been granted. This email will also include a unique security key as well as a link to Create a Delegate Account and Accept Terms and Conditions. If you are a new delegate, click on the Create a Delegate Account and Accept Terms and Conditions link and complete the fields on the left to create a delegate account. If you already have an established username and password and are adding an additional student, log onto the right side of the page with your existing credentials. Visit delegate.ku.edu using your Username and Password. Make sure that you update your profile and PIN by clicking on that tile on your homepage. Click on the My Student’s Information tile. Select the student that you would like to view and click Save. You will still need to select a student even if you only have access to view one student’s information. Use the folders on the left to view information for each student. If you are the delegate for multiple students, click on the KU Select Student to View page at the top to select a different student to view. *Detailed instructions on the process can be found at https://sis.ku.edu/delegate-access. Changing Password or PIN Information Delegate Access provides a password and personal identification (PIN) that can be used to authenticate a Delegate in other situations (such as phone calls). In order to discuss aspects of a student's record with Financial Aid, Student Accounts & Receivables, or the Office of the University Registrar, a student must grant a Delegate access to review that information. Delegates must also confirm their PIN. After logging in, you are able to change both your password and your PIN by clicking on the Update Profile and PIN tile. Forgot Your Password? Visit delegate.ku.edu and then click on "Forgot Your User ID or Password." KU Academic Calendar Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. University Registrar Updates October 13, 2021 Notification of Rights Under FERPA (2021-2022) October 13, 2020 Notification of Rights Under FERPA (2020-2021) October 2, 2019 Notification of Rights Under FERPA (2019-2020) Read more updates Hawk Help: Ask a Question Enrollment Enroll & Pay is the University of Kansas' online campus solution for enrollment, financial and other services. The Online Schedule of Classes Why KU Apply » One of 34 U.S. public institutions in the prestigious Association of American Universities 44 nationally ranked graduate programs. —U.S. News & World Report Top 50 nationwide for size of library collection. —ALA 5th nationwide for service to veterans —"Best for Vets: Colleges," Military Times KU Today Give to KU » Contact Office of the University Registrar registrar@ku.edu 785-864-4423 785-864-3900 1502 Iowa Street Lawrence, Kansas 66045 Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login