Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home Office of the Registrar Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin Office of the Registrar Texas One Stop Contact Search Search Search Search Faculty & Staff Expand Catalogs, Course Inventory, and Credentials (Official Publications) Class Rosters CLIPs Course Schedule Update FERPA and Privacy Final Exams Grade Reporting Prerequisite Check Room Scheduling Standards Student documents online Training Using Waitlists Course Schedules Expand Fall 2022 Summer 2022 Spring 2022 Course Schedule Archive Catalogs Expand General Information Undergraduate Graduate Law School Medical School Calendars Expand 2021-2022 Long Session Upcoming Calendars Academic Calendar Archive Services Expand About Expand How to contact us Administration Athletic Eligibility Course Schedule Production Certification Degree Audit Diploma Services Document Imaging Catalogs, Course Inventory, and Credentials (Official Publications) Records Registration Room & Exam Scheduling Training Transcripts Students, please visit the Texas One Stop website for assistance. For all other Registrar-related questions, please contact us. We're here to help. Connect to Texas One Stop Home Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff Classes Class rosters View rosters of the classes you support. CLIPS: Class Info Pages Manage your classes in this service. Prerequisite Check See prerequisites for a given course and semester. Waitlists Update your waitlists and track activity. Seat Management System Grades Grade reporting Send in final class grades. Grade changes Change existing grades. Scheduling Course schedule updates Submit course updates during post-production. Room scheduling Search for a general purpose classroom. Final exam system Let us know if you are giving a final exam or not. Catalog Production Course Inventory Management (CIM) Catalog production process Fields of study Records & Privacy Student documents online See student record documents we've scanned for your use. FERPA (Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act) Training and Resources Get course details and register with UTLearn The Office of the Registrar provides training services to our campus community for our systems and services: Degree Audit, Registration, Scheduling, Student Records, and Veteran Services. Office of the Registrar Standards These standards include rules, guidelines, and definitions to be used consistently across the areas of course inventory, course scheduling, registration, and degree audit. Registrar User Request Advisory Committee (RURAC) Registrar System Change Request Form Submit requests for changes to Registrar systems. Requests will be reviewed by the Registrar User Request Advisory Committee (RURAC). Current Academic Calendar: 2021-2022 Long Session Current Course Schedules: Fall 2022 | Summer 2022 | Spring 2022 Faculty & Staff Catalogs, Course Inventory, and Credentials (Official Publications) Class Rosters CLIPs Course Schedule Update FERPA and Privacy Final Exams Grade Reporting Prerequisite Check Room Scheduling Standards Student documents online Training Using Waitlists Office of the Registrar Our mission is to create, maintain, certify, and protect University records of courses, degrees, and students. 1616 Guadalupe, 4th Floor Contact us UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022