Skip to main content Florida State University This is your Donation message. Log In This Site FSU Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Submit Submit Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Giving University Registrar Toggle navigation Site Menu Current Records Overview Status & Retention Drop/Add Service Indicators Enrollment Cancellation Grade Services Deans' Directory Publications Overview Bulletin Info Registration Guide Info Campus Map Info Course Descriptions Calendars Graduation Overview Graduation Checklist Ceremony Information Diplomas Degrees of Distinction Update Expected Grad Term FAQ Student Services Overview Graduation Transcripts Certification State Employee Fee Waiver FERPA Course Descriptions Scheduling Overview Curriculum Academic Space Class Search Archive Bulletin Undergraduate Graduate Registration Guide Past Editions 2021-2022 Undergraduate Bulletin Home Bulletin Undergraduate Departments & Programs Human Development & Family Science Helpful Links Graduate Bulletin Policies & Information Colleges Departments & Programs Bulletin PDF Undergraduate Bulletin Policies & Information Colleges Departments & Programs Bulletin PDF Archive of Previous Editions Fall Registration Guide Spring Registration Guide Summer Registration Guide Class Search Snapshots Undergraduate Department of Human Development and Family Science College of Health and Human Sciences Website: https://humansciences.fsu.edu/family-child-sciences Department Chair: Ohannessian; Assistant Department Chair: Greene; Eminent Scholar and Professor: Fincham; Norejane Hendrickson Professor: Grzywacz; Professors: Cui, Krantz, McWey, Ralston; Associate Professors: Gonzales-Backen, Gazelle, Ledermann, Rehm; Assistant Professors: Kimmes, Parker, Rudaz, Wu; Teaching Faculty: Diop, Greene, Harris, Holcomb, Jeter, Scott; Director of the Center for Couples and Family Therapy: Greene; Practicum Coordinator: Jeter; Research Specialists: Marin, Trejo; Cross Appointments: Goldfarb (FSU College of Medicine), Mason (Boys Town), Turner (FSU College of Medicine); Professors Emeriti: Cornille, Darling, Greenwood, Hansen-Gandy, Hicks, Lee, A. Mullis, R. Mullis, Pasley, Pestle, Rapp, Readdick, Zongker The Department of Human Development and Family Science offers one undergraduate degree program in family and child sciences which requires maintaining minimum grades in major courses for graduation. The program provides an understanding of child development and family relationships across the life span. We emphasize the diversity of families and how children and families influence, and are influenced by, the broader environment (e.g., schools, communities, workplace, society at large) and change over time. Students learn to apply this knowledge about children and families in working with them through an extensive practicum experience. These experiences occur in a variety of human service agencies and organizations, educational settings, child care centers, and child and family advocacy organizations. Students also gain skills in developing and implementing programs designed to strengthen individuals and families. There is a series of courses that provides the necessary background to apply for certification from the National Council on Family Relations to become a Certified Family Life Educator (CFLE). It does not lead to teacher certification in Florida. Students must complete the human sciences core requirement (successful completion of at least three semester hours offered by the College of Health and Human Sciences, but outside the department), five prerequisite courses to the major, a minor or an approved area of concentration in an allied field, and a 150-hour practicum experience. Students must achieve at least a “C–” in the human sciences core requirement, and at least a “B–” in the five required prerequisite courses which are: CHD 2220, CHD 3243, FAD 2230, FAD 3343, and STA 2XXX. Additionally, students must have a 2.75 GPA or higher prior to being accepted into upper-division in Human Development and Family Science. Individuals who apply for the major but who have not met the prerequisite requirements are classified as Prerequisite Incomplete (PI) and cannot enroll in upper-division courses required for the major until prerequisite courses are successfully completed. All courses attempted for the Human Development and Family Science major must be taken for a letter grade. No courses taken for Satisfactory or Unsatisfactory (S/U) or for Pass or Fail (P/F) can be counted toward the degree. Students are allowed a maximum of two attempts in two of the five courses to achieve the minimum required final grade (B–). If the “B–” is not made in three or more of the courses in the first attempt or the “B–” is not made in the second attempt, then the student is dismissed from the major. Courses selected for the area of concentration cannot also be used to fulfill liberal studies requirements. Students must obtain at least a “B–” in the practicum course FAD 4805. The minimum grade required in other courses beyond the prerequisite courses and the practicum experience is “C–”. Curriculum guides stating specific degree requirements for the undergraduate majors are available through the Department of Human Development and Family Science and through our Website, https://humansciences.fsu.edu/family-child-sciences/. Minor A minor in child development may be earned by completing twelve semester hours in family and child sciences with a grade of “C–” or better in each of the required courses: CHD 2220, CHD 3243, FAD 2230, and FAD 3343. At least nine credit hours must be completed at Florida State University; no more than one substitution for these courses is permitted. Computer Skills Competency All undergraduates at Florida State University must demonstrate basic computer skills competency prior to graduation. As necessary computer competency skills vary from discipline to discipline, each major determines the courses needed to satisfy this requirement. Undergraduate majors in family and child sciences satisfy this requirement by earning a grade of “C–” or higher in CGS 2060 or CGS 2100. This requirement may also be satisfied through CHM 1045L, BSC 2010L, or another FSU course with an approved computer competency component. State of Florida Common Program Prerequisites The state of Florida has identified common program prerequisites for this University degree program. Specific prerequisites are required for admission into the upper-division program and must be completed by the student at either a community college or a state university prior to being admitted to this program. Students may be admitted into the University without completing the prerequisites but may not be admitted into the program. At the time this document was published, some common program prerequisites were being reviewed by the state of Florida and may have been revised. Please visit https://dlss.flvc.org/admin-tools/common-prerequisites-manuals for a current list of state-approved prerequisites. The following lists the common program prerequisites or their substitutions, necessary for admission into this upper-division degree program: Family and Children Sciences CHD X220 FAD X230 FAD X220 STA X013 or STA X014 or STA X021 or STA X022 or STA X023 Note: Courses are offered in Summer Sessions A, B, and/or C to accommodate transfer students who enroll in the University and our major in the Summer. Thus, when Fall semester begins, these students can enroll in the other required courses for which these courses are prerequisites. Students who enroll in the Fall can take these courses and those required as part of the “area of concentration” during the semester. Following this, there is ample time to complete the remaining 120 credit hours. Honors in the Major The Department of Human Development and Family Science offers a program in honors in the major to encourage talented juniors and seniors to undertake independent and original research as part of the undergraduate experience. For requirements and other information, see the “University Honors Office and Honor Societies” chapter of this General Bulletin. Graduate Study The Department of Human Development and Family Science offers graduate programs leading to the Master of Science (MS) degree in family and child sciences, the Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) degree in human sciences with specialization in human development and family science, and a Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) degree in marriage and family therapy. For further information relating to graduate coursework and thesis, dissertation, and master’s and doctoral examinations and defense, consult the Graduate Bulletin. Definition of Prefixes CHD—Child Development FAD—Family Development HEE—Home Economics Education HOE—Home Economics: General IDS—Interdisciplinary Studies Undergraduate Courses CHD 2220r. Child Growth and Development: The Foundation Years (3). This course is the study of children from birth through middle childhood. CHD 3243. Contexts of Adolescent Development (3). This course examines the developmental process related to cognitive, physical, and psychosocial growth from pre- to late adolescence and the reciprocal influences of various contexts in which these youths are embedded, such as families, peer groups, schools, and communities. It is encouraged that students take CHD 2220 prior to enrollment. CHD 3472. Child Guidance (3). Prerequisite: Major status. This course allows students to learn principles of positive guidance to apply in guiding children during early childhood, middle childhood, and adolescence in a variety of natural contexts, including home and school. CHD 4250. Middle Childhood Contexts (3). Prerequisites: Major status and junior standing. This course has been designed to examine developmental processes of school-age children and adolescents. This course is a prerequisite course for practical experiences with these age groups. Consequently, strategies for working with school-age children and adolescents are also addressed. CHD 4251. Adolescent Contexts (3). Prerequisites: Major status and junior standing. This course provides a basic understanding of adolescent development as it relates to human growth development and learning through a multi-disciplinary perspective. Biological, cognitive, and psychosocial tasks of adolescence within contexts such as family, peer group, school, community, culture, and other learning environments are examined. CHD 4537. Parenting (3). Prerequisites: CHD 2220, FAD 2230, FAD 3343, and CHD 3243. This course is a comprehensive review of the contemporary theory and research in parenting. This course is organized developmentally, focusing on the emerging needs, responsibilities, and skills required by parents at progressive stages of their children’s development. CHD 4615. Public Policy: Child and Family Issues (3). Prerequisite: FAD 2230 and FAD 3220. This course provides an overview of theory and implementation of public policies relating to children and families at the state and federal levels. Students explore ways that families contribute to and are affected by social problems, and how families can be involved in policy solutions. Students learn about roles professionals can play in building and interacting with family policy. CHD 4630. Methods of Studying Families and Children (3). Prerequisite: Admission to the major. This course examines research methods, concepts, principles, and issues in studying families and children. CHD 4905r. Directed Individual Study in Child Development (1–3). May be repeated to a maximum of nine semester hours. CHD 4944r. Internship in Family and Child Sciences (1–12). (S/U grade only.) Prerequisite: FAD 4805 or instructor permission. This course consists of supervised practical experiences in various professional settings serving children, youth, and families, including hospitals, education faculties, human service agencies, and government agencies. May be repeated to a maximum of twelve semester hours. Child development majors only. FAD 2230. Family Relationships: A Life Span Development Approach (3). This course examines the dynamics of contemporary family life and interpersonal relationships in a changing society and over the life course. FAD 3220. Individual and Family Life Span Development (3). This course devotes attention to all stages of human development and the aging process. For students to fully understand human behavior, the development issues of an individual at all ages must be understood, including the influence of various social, cultural, and environmental contexts. Students become familiar with development from the prenatal period through end of life. FAD 3271. Ecological Contexts for Individual and Family Development (3). This course is an introduction to the overarching theoretical frameworks, providing a basis for understanding individual and family development. This course serves as a foundation for all major courses. FAD 3343. Contexts of Adult Development and Aging (3). This course provides students with a critical understanding of both the theoretical and the interdisciplinary nature of aging, the aging process (physical, cognitive, social-emotional), and challenges of adulthood as a period of the lifespan. Further, this course focuses on critical issues in aging while strategically focusing on writing and communicating aging issues for the Human Sciences field. FAD 3432. Stress and Resilience in Individuals and Families (3). Prerequisite: Major status or instructor permission. This course provides undergraduate majors with an introduction to family-based, stress-focused mini-theories. The course provides a framework for understanding the differences between family patterns when families are centered on growth related themes and when they are pre-occupied with a variety of stressor events. FAD 4265. Family Diversity (3). Prerequisite: CHD 2220, FAD 2230, FAD 3343, and CHD 3243. This course is designed to expose students to the diversity of families by race, ethnicity, social class, and structures in an ego-systemic context. FAD 4451. Human Sexuality Education (3). This course examines sexuality through the lifespan regarding relationship issues and health concerns and provides training for professionals and parents in sexuality education. FAD 4455. Family Life Education (3). This course provides information and techniques needed to facilitate and evaluate home, school, and community relations through the lifespan. FAD 4601. Foundations of Counseling (3). Prerequisites: Senior standing and instructor permission. This course discusses basic counseling skills for persons who, by nature of their work, are called upon to provide counseling. May be taken for graduate credit. FAD 4805. Practicum in Family and Child Science (6). Prerequisites: Major status, at least four additional major courses, and FAD 4932 (completed the semester before enrolling in FAD 4805). This course is designed to provide students with experiences in a community setting serving children, youth, and families and the opportunity to apply course material to the work environment. FAD 4905r. Directed Individual Study (1–3). (S/U grade only.) May be repeated to a maximum of nine semester hours. FAD 4910r. Honors Work (3–6). Prerequisites: Upper division students with an overall GPA of 3.5; instructor permission. This course provides upper-division students with an opportunity to undertake an independent and original research project in their particular area of interest. May be repeated to a maximum of six (6) credit hours; repeatable within the same term. FAD 4932. Pre-Professional Development (1). Prerequisites: Major status and senior standing. This course is designed to expose students to career opportunities in FCS and professional/ethical behavior and to prepare them for placement in agencies/organizations serving individuals and families. FAD 4936r. Special Topics: Family or Housing (3–9). Prerequisite: Instructor permission. In this course, each topic may be taken only once. May be repeated to a maximum of nine semester hours. HEE 4912r. Honors Work (3). This course is open to upper-division majors with an overall grade point average of 3.2 and consent of instructor. May be repeated to a maximum of six semester hours. IDS 2341. Relationship Status: It’s Complicated. Understanding and Influencing Intimate Relationships (3). In this course students examine how to build and maintain key relationships through understanding themselves and critical relationship process. These key relationships include intimate relationships (dating/marriage partners, children, parents) and professional relationships (clients, coworkers, supervisors). Course content emphasizes the importance of making purposeful choices in building and maintaining personal and professional relationships. Graduate Courses Child Development Courses CHD 5266. Advanced Child Development (3). CHD 5617. Professional Development in Family and Child Sciences (1). CHD 5618. Policy Development and Analysis in Child and Family Sciences (3). CHD 5906r. Directed Individual Study (1–3). (S/U grade only.) CHD 5915. Methods of Research I (4). CHD 5919. Grant Writing in Family and Child Sciences (3). CHD 5940r. Practicum in Child Development: Varied Ages (infancy, preschool, school-age) (3–9). CHD 6261. Theories of Child Development (3). CHD 6264. Assessment Techniques for Children and Families (3). CHD 6930r. Seminar in Child Development: Topics Vary and/or Ages Vary (prenatal, infancy, preschool, school-age through adolescence) (3–9). Family Development/Relations Courses FAD 5256. Parent and Child Relations (3). FAD 5261. Families in Crisis (3). FAD 5263. Advanced Family Studies (3). FAD 5452. Human Sexuality Education (3). FAD 5481r. College Teaching in Family Sciences (2–3). (S/U grade only.) FAD 5618. Legal, Ethical, and Professional Issues in Marriage and Family Therapy (3). FAD 5619. Professional Issues in Family and Child Sciences (3). FAD 5621. MFT Theories I: Modernist Models (3). FAD 5622. MFT Theories II: Postmodern Models of Family Therapy (3). FAD 5623. Marriage and Family Therapy Theories III: Couples Therapy (3). FAD 5625. Introduction to Systems Theory (3). FAD 5630. Systemic Assessment and Treatment Planning in Marriage and Family Therapy (3). FAD 5661 Group Psychotherapy (3). FAD 5665. Substance Use Theory and Techniques (3). FAD 5667. Psychopathology, Diagnosis, and Systemic Treatment (3). FAD 5680. Marriage and Family Therapy Capstone (3. FAD 5700. Applied Research in Human Sciences (4). FAD 5705. Qualitative Research in Family and Child Science (3). FAD 5900r. Readings in Family and Child Sciences (3). FAD 5906r. Directed Individual Study (1–3). (S/U grade only.) FAD 5934r. Seminar in Family and Child Sciences (1–9). FAD 5944r. Internship-Family/Child (1–12). FAD 5970. Special Project (3). (S/U grade only.) FAD 6436. Theories of Family Sciences (3). FAD 6450. Human Sexuality (3). FAD 6605. Advanced Clinical Marriage and Family Therapy Theory (3). FAD 6606. Supervision in Marriage and Family Therapy (3). FAD 6607. Randomized Clinical Trials (3). FAD 6608. Effectiveness and Translation Research (3). FAD 6916. Outcome Research in Marriage and Family Therapy (3). FAD 6917. Research Methods in Family and Child Sciences (3). FAD 6930r. Special Topics: Marital and Family Therapy–Topics Vary (3–9). FAD 6935r. Special Topics: Family and Child Development–Topics Vary (3–9). FAD 6940r. Practicum in Marital and Family Therapy (1–5). (S/U grade only.) FAD 8944r. Internship in Marriage and Family Therapy (1–12). Other Courses CHD 5912r. Supervised Research (1–3). (S/U grade only.) CHD 5942r. Supervised Teaching (1–3). (S/U grade only.) FAD 5912r. Supervised Research (1–3). (S/U grade only.) FAD 5942r. Supervised Teaching (1–3). (S/U grade only.) HOE 6366. Research Best Practices in Human Sciences (2). Film Studies: see Motion Picture Arts Mailing Address A3900 University Center 282 Champions Way Tallahassee, FL 32306-2480 Email Registrar - registrar@fsu.edu Phone 850.644.1050 Hours Monday - Friday, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Eastern Time Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright