Skip to main content Search Search Search Toggle navigation Cornell University Registrar Classes + Enrollment Class Roster Courses of Study Courses of Study Archive Student Essentials Gateway Courses Prorated Tuition Student Center FAQ Classes and Enrollment FAQ University Registration Calendars + Exams Academic Calendar Final Exam Policies Spring Prelim Schedule Spring Final Exam Schedule Fall Prelim Exam Schedule Fall Final Exam Schedule Grades + Transcripts Grading Median Grades Ordering Transcripts Transcript FAQ Transcript Keys Validating an eTranscript Service + Resources Apostille Certifications University Registrar Directory College Advising Directory College Registrar Directory Diploma Information Disability Accommodations FERPA ID Cards Mental Health at Cornell Names and Name Changes Use of Student Data Veteran Education Benefits Building Codes Faculty + Staff Faculty Center/Advisor Center Advisor Center FAQ Opscan Scanning Service Changing CIP Codes Data Requests Program Registration For Registrar Staff Gateway Courses Gateway courses are a select group of large, popular, introductory classes that prepare students for a variety of different majors or areas of study. They are typically prerequisites for more advanced courses and are taken by first year students from colleges across the university. Several departments offer gateway courses including Applied Economics and Management, Biology, Chemistry, Computer Science, Development Sociology, Economics, Human Development, Mathematics, Physics, Psychology, Sociology, and Statistical Science. Since gateway courses are popular and are required for many majors they tend to fill up quickly during the pre-enrollment period. If students cannot enroll during pre-enrollment they are strongly encouraged to wait until the add/drop period begins. During the first few days of the semester students make changes to their class schedules and frequently seats will open in the lecture, discussion, and lab sections. In many cases students do not need to take gateway courses during their first semester at Cornell. Many gateway classes are offered in the fall and spring semesters and students will have the opportunity to enroll during the upcoming pre-enrollment period. Permission Numbers Some departments manage high demand for courses by using permission numbers. Permission numbers are course-specific and student-specific and are used when enrolling in the courses via Student Center. Departments issue permission numbers and set expiration dates. When a student receives a permission number they need to act quickly. Courses that indicate “department consent” or “instructor consent” require a permission number to enroll. Permission numbers might be required during the pre-enrollment period or during the add/drop period. Waitlists Departments may try to optimize enrollment by using waitlists. Some departments do not allow enrollment during the pre-enrollment period and students must waitlist until the add/drop period begins before they can enroll. Other departments use a waitlist to “hold” seats for certain populations of students (for example, students in a specific college or major) and when those students are enrolled the waitlist is opened. Some courses are set up so a student can add themselves to a waitlist via Student Center. In other cases, departments require students to use a department waitlist website. Be Prepared Don’t panic if you find yourself on a waitlist. Before the beginning of pre-enrollment and add/drop, identify the courses you are interested in and research how the department manages enrollment. Enrollment information for popular gateway courses can be found on the department websites: Applied Economics and Management Biology Chemistry Computer Science Development Sociology Economics Human Development Mathematics Physics Psychology Sociology Statistical Science Many departments also include notes or instructions about enrolling in specific courses in the Class Roster. Be Proactive Do your research and ask questions before the pre-enrollment or add/drop periods begin. Don’t wait until you are trying to enroll in a class to try to figure out the department policies and procedures. Notification Departments will communicate permission numbers or waitlist status via your Cornell email address or via text message to the cell phone you have on file in Student Essentials. Within the first few days of the beginning of the semester departments will clear waitlists. Please be patient. The department will notify you when your waitlist status changes. When notified, follow the instructions provided by the department to enroll and take action quickly. Let the department know immediately if you are no longer interested in the course for which you waitlisted. There might be other students on the waitlist and your seat can go to the next student who wants to enroll. Classes + Enrollment Class Roster Courses of Study Courses of Study Archive Student Essentials Gateway Courses Prorated Tuition Student Center FAQ Classes and Enrollment FAQ University Registration Key Academic Dates 06 Jun 2022 Summer 22 8 Week Session 20 Jun 2022 Juneteenth Observance/Holiday/No Classes 21 Jun 2022 Summer 22 6 Week Session 21 Jun 2022 Summer 22 3 Week 2 Session See More Key Academic Dates Related Links + Files Student Center Student Essentials Class Roster No Related Files Office of the University Registrar Cornell University, 245 Day Hall Ithaca, NY 14853 Office Hours: Monday - Thursday; 9:00 AM - 1:00 PM and 2:00 PM - 4:00PM Get Directions univreg@cornell.edu (607) 255-4232; Phone Hours: Monday - Friday; 10:00 AM - 1:00 PM and 2:00 PM - 4:00 PM EST (607) 255-6262 If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information in this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. © 2017 Cornell University