Skip to Content Office of the Registrar Open Close primary navigation Search Search StudentsExpand Collapse section Degree Works Diplomas Enrollment and Degree Verification FERPA Final Exams Grades Non-attendance or Stopped Attending Registration Student Forms Students affected by U.S. immigration policies Transcripts Faculty and StaffExpand Collapse section Class and Classroom SchedulingExpand Collapse section Class/room Scheduling and Contact Hours Policy Class Scheduling Paradigm Data Retrieval Requests Degree Works Faculty and Staff Forms FERPA Final Exams Grading Instructions Non-attendance or Stopped Attending Training Academic Rules University Senate Contact Us Search Search Home Students Transcripts Transcripts FAQ Transcripts FAQ Q1: I cannot log in A: Alumni and Students without MySlice access: Go to the Parchment Storefront to create a transcript order account. The recommended browser is Chrome. Q2: I forgot my password A: If you forgot your password to access the Parchment Storefront, click the ‘Forgot password’ link in the log-in page. If you are not receiving the email when you click this link, check your Spam folder. Q3: I forgot my SUID A: Please contact ITS at 315-443-2677 for assistance. Q4: I’m getting an error message: email address is already registered A: Please contact registrar@syr.edu for assistance. Q5: Is the transcript official? A: Yes. Both the electronic and paper transcripts are official copies when sent directly to the recipient. Electronic transcripts are certified PDFs that contain a digital signature and other security features. Q6: How long will the recipient have access to my electronic transcript? A: After receipt of the email notification on how to retrieve the secure document from the transcript site, the electronic transcript is available for up to 3 downloads or 14 calendar days from the day the order was placed before it expires and can no longer be retrieved. If an electronic transcript has already been delivered to the recipient, then the email address cannot be updated for that order and a new order will need to be placed. Q7: How do I request a transcript for AMCAS, NYS Licensure, Apostille or other special handling? A: For AMCAS, type AMCAS in the search box when ordering, select the recipient and follow the process through checkout. For NYS Licensure and Apostille, select Pick up when ordering. Make sure to write in the “special instructions” section that a document needs to be attached with the transcript and upload the licensure form with the request for processing. Q8: My transcript is on “HOLD.” A: This is a temporary status while your transcript request is in progress. If additional input is needed, someone from the Registrar’s team will reach out to you. Q9: How do I check my order status? A: Log-in to your account and click Order Status at the top of the order page. Processing means that the order is still in review. Please note that credit transcripts prior to 1984 and non-credit transcripts prior to 2002 may require additional processing time. Available means your order has been processed and the recipient has received an email with a link in it to access your document. If they didn’t get this email, they should check their Spam folder. Delivered (electronic documents) means that either the recipient downloaded the document using the link they received in the email, or, if the document was delivered to a school that is part of the Parchment network, the document is in the school’s Parchment account. Delivered (paper documents) means that your document has been mailed. Please note that standard delivery can take 7-10 days. If you requested FedEx (overnight) delivery, you would have received an email with a tracking number. Go to the FedEx tracking web page and enter your tracking number to track your document. Please note: Syracuse University is not responsible for undelivered transcripts due to an inaccurate address. Canceled means that your order has been canceled. Refer to the email you received for more details. Error means that we encountered an error while processing your order. Refer to the email you received for more details. © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy