Office of the Registrar Off screen: Skip to content Off screen: Skip to search Office of the Registrar Main Menu Menu Student and Alumni Services SubMenu Transcript and Verification Services SubMenu Calculate Your GPA First Year Course Selection Course Selection SubMenu Undergraduate Course Selection Graduate Course Selection Adding or Dropping Courses P/D/F and Grade Option Selection Concentration Declaration Senior Checkout Veterans Diplomas Policies SubMenu Data Privacy Name Preferences Summer Undergraduate Internship Milestone Credit Faculty and Department Resources SubMenu Examinations and Grading SubMenu Examination and Grading Dates Grading Practices Conduct of Courses Secure Resources Course Offerings SubMenu Search New Courses Program for Community-Engaged Scholarship Courses Summer Programs Classrooms Academic Calendar and Deadlines Final Exams SubMenu Final Exam Schedule Policy Reschedule Request TigerHub About Us Contact Us Forms Catalogs Search Search Home Student and Alumni Services Concentration Declaration Section Menu Transcript and Verification Services First Year Course Selection Course Selection Concentration Declaration Senior Checkout Veterans Diplomas Policies Summer Undergraduate Internship Milestone Credit With two years of coursework completed, you normally declare your concentration in late spring of your sophomore year. To ensure a smooth declaration process, meet with your intended department to discuss your plans well in advance of the deadline. You can find complete concentration declaration details at the Office of the Dean of the College. Declaring a Concentration Every student declares a concentration (major) during specific periods in the spring semester: A.B.: March/April of sophomore year B.S.E.: April of your first year Students receive instructions prior to these declaration periods. AB students may Indicate an intended concentration in Tigerhub between March 24 and April 11, 2022. A.B. Concentration Information For more information, please see the “Declaring a Major” page at the Office of the Dean of the College. African American Studies Anthropology Architecture Art and Archaeology Astrophysical Sciences Chemistry Classics Comparative Literature Computer Science East Asian Studies Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Economics English French and Italian Geosciences German History Mathematics Molecular Biology Music Near Eastern Studies Neuroscience Philosophy Physics Politics Psychology Public and International Affairs Religion Slavic Languages and Literatures Sociology Spanish and Portuguese B.S.E. (Engineering) Concentration Process Once you have completed the advising process outlined by the Dean and enrolled in courses for the fall semester, you may declare your concentration in the TigerHub between April 25 and 29, 2022. For more information, please see the “Declaring a Major” page at the Office of the Dean of the College. Footer Office of the Registrar Princeton University 330 Alexander Street, 4th floor Princeton, NJ 08540 Contact Phone: (609) 258-3361 Fax: (609) 258-6328 Email: registrar@princeton.edu Office Hours Academic Year: 8:45 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Summer: 8:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. Quicklinks Registrar Functions (Registrar staff only) Community Auditing University Enrollment Statistics Data Sets © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Accessibility