Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Office of the Registrar Main Menu In this section Academic Calendar Commencement Apply toGraduate CommencementInformation Forms Transcripts Order Transcripts Transcript FAQs Official TranscriptDetails University Catalog University Catalog Catalog Archives Home Degree Works Degree Works Advisor FAQs Degree Works Degree Works Advisor FAQs Degree Works FAQs for Students Degree Works Videos What's New with Degree Works Repeated Courses in Degree Works Contact Degree Works322/324 Student Union, Stillwater OK 74078 (405) 744-3269degreeworks@okstate.edu Degree Works Home Page Degree Works FAQs for Advisors How do I access the Class History tool? What does the “@” symbol mean? What is the Fallthrough section? What is the Insufficient section? What courses are found in the Not Counted block? I'm getting a message that says "Audit Not Available." What's going on? My student isn't showing up in Degree Works. What can I do? How are exceptions (ex: class substitutions or waivers) added to a student's degree? What do I do if a student has a second major or second degree? Can students view their own audit? How current is the data in Degree Works? Substitutions that were previously entered have disappeared. Why is this happening? The audit is behaving unexpectedly. What can I do? How can I print an audit? How do I access the Class History tool? The Class History tool in Degree Works presents all coursework from a student’s transcript (institutional and transfer) in chronological order, including transfer course details. Access Degree Works from the Student Profile or the Advisors tab of the portal. When the student’s information appears, click on the vertical ellipses (three dots) in the upper-right hand corner of the audit and select “Class History”. What does the “@” symbol mean? The “@” symbol in Degree Works is considered a wildcard. Depending on how it is used, it can represent all subjects and/or all course numbers. For example, when the “@” symbol precedes a range of numbers, any course within that number range will fulfill the requirement (@ 1000:4999). Or, when a course subject is followed by the “@” symbol (MKTG @) this means any course number for that subject can be used to fulfill the requirement. What is the Fallthrough section? Fallthrough includes all courses not currently used to fulfill specific degree requirements. However, the grades and credit hours will factor into your overall GPA and total credit hours earned. What is the Insufficient section? Insufficient courses are those with grades that fall below the minimum grade requirements for the currently listed degree/major. These may include courses with a grade of W or F, or repeated, reprieved or renewed courses which are excluded from earned credit hours and grade-point averages. Incomplete courses will also reside in this section until a final or default grade is assigned. What courses are found in the Not Counted block? These courses cannot be used to meet degree requirements per State Regents’ and OSU policy. Courses in this category include performance/activity (leisure) and developmental courses. These courses are not calculated in hours earned and they are not included in GPA calculations for the completion of this degree. Study abroad coursework that is in progress will also reside in this section until the completed coursework is evaluated and added to your transcript. I’m getting a message that says “Audit Not Available.” What’s going on? A degree or minor block will call in the “Audit Not Available” block when a student’s declared degree program or minor is not available for the declared catalog year. Usually, this message will appear when a program or a minor does not exist for a particular year, or if the student’s currently declared degree has expired per the six-year limit for completion. As of Fall 2021, all non-expired undergraduate degree plans and minors are present in Degree Works, but graduate degree programs are not yet available. My student isn't showing up in Degree Works. What can I do? Only students with an “Active” student status are pulled into Degree Works by default. If you need to view the audit of a Withdrawn, Suspended or Inactive student, contact the Degree Certification Specialist within your Academic College. They have the ability to add an attribute to the student that will allow them to get pulled into Degree Works the next day. How are exceptions (ex: class substitutions or waivers) added to a student’s degree audit? Exceptions are added to individual student degree audits by degree certification personnel in each college, and are clearly displayed in the degree audit. College degree certification personnel can reference this PowerPoint presentation for more details on how to add exceptions. What do I do if a student has a second major or second degree? At this time, only primary majors are audited within Degree Works. Second majors should be considered not validated. To get a picture of the student's progress, feel free to run a pair of What-If audits as if the student were just pursuing one major or the other. Second degrees, on the other hand, operate independently of each other, so they are definitely considered validated. Use the "Degree" drop-down menu at the top of the page to view a student's second degree. Can students view their own audit? Yes! Students can see Degree Works the same way an advisor can. They can also run What If audits and use the GPA Estimators. How current is the data in Degree Works? Degree Works is connected with Banner and student data is often viewed in real-time or updated via an overnight process. It is important to always ensure students are accurately declared with the correct degree program/catalog year and substitutions are entered for the audit to remain up to date. Substitutions that were previously entered have disappeared. Why is this happening? Substitutions are aligned with a student's currently declared degree program/catalog year. When a student changes their major or catalog year, these substitutions likely need to be reevaluated and will not automatically transfer to a newly declared program. Your College Degree Certification Specialist can assist in updating the student's record with the appropriately approved substitutions. The audit is behaving unexpectedly. What can I do? It is important to work with the Degree Certification Specialist for your Academic College concerning any oddities you may find. If there is not a known solution at the college level, they will assist in escalating the issue to the Degree Works team. How can I print an audit? If you click on the printer icon in the upper-right hand corner of the audit and then selected “Save to PDF” under Destination you can save an electronic copy of the displayed audit. Alternatively, you may select any available printer under Destination in order to print the displayed audit. Back To Top Back To Top Office of the Registrar 322/324 Student Union Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 (map) (405) 744-6876 | Contact Us Follow US Social Media Directory Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Snapchat Oklahoma State University Campus & Parking MapsAll OSU InstitutionsCareers @ OSUHire OSU Grads© Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks MENUCLOSE ©