Skip to main content Search Search Search Toggle navigation Cornell University Registrar Classes + Enrollment Class Roster Courses of Study Courses of Study Archive Student Essentials Gateway Courses Prorated Tuition Student Center FAQ Classes and Enrollment FAQ University Registration Calendars + Exams Academic Calendar Final Exam Policies Spring Prelim Schedule Spring Final Exam Schedule Fall Prelim Exam Schedule Fall Final Exam Schedule Grades + Transcripts Grading Median Grades Ordering Transcripts Transcript FAQ Transcript Keys Validating an eTranscript Service + Resources Apostille Certifications University Registrar Directory College Advising Directory College Registrar Directory Diploma Information Disability Accommodations FERPA ID Cards Mental Health at Cornell Names and Name Changes Use of Student Data Veteran Education Benefits Building Codes Faculty + Staff Faculty Center/Advisor Center Advisor Center FAQ Opscan Scanning Service Changing CIP Codes Data Requests Program Registration For Registrar Staff Prorated Tuition Proration of Tuition for Undergraduate Students The following conditions must be met in order for undergraduate students to be considered prorated tuition. The student must: Be enrolled in nine or fewer credit hours. Be in the ninth (or equivalent) and final semester of their degree program. Be in good academic standing with their school or college. Clear holds that prevent registration by the end of the third week of classes. Have completed the residency requirements for their degree program. College and department specific conditions, policies, and exceptions may apply. Students who meet these criteria may contact their college registrar regarding the application process. Applications must be submitted no later than the end of the third week of classes in the semester in which proration is requested. Applications received after that time will not be considered. Students cannot exceed the number of credits approved or full-time tuition will be charged. No refund will be allowed if the student takes fewer than the approved number of credits. Approval of the student's advisor and college registrar is required for all requests. Approval is conditional until grades are finalized for the semester immediately preceding the semester for which prorated tuition is requested. If final grades indicate more than the approved number of credits is required for graduation, the application to prorate tuition must be reconsidered. In the case where graduation requirements are not met during the semester of prorated tuition, full tuition will be charged for subsequent study at Cornell during the fall or spring semester. All applicants for prorated tuition should be aware of the possible impact that this enrollment status may have on financial aid, student loans, scholarships, on-campus employment, health insurance, or other considerations. It is the responsibility of the student to resolve these situations prior to submitting this application. For each credit hour taken, the student will be charged one-twelfth of the full tuition for the semester. Students should direct questions about eligibility for proration of tuition to their school or college registrar. Proration of Tuition for Graduate Students in Professional Master's Degree Programs The following conditions must be met in order for graduate students in professional master's degree programs to be considered prorated tuition. The student must: Be enrolled in nine or fewer credit hours. Be in the final semester of their degree program. Be in good academic standing with their graduate field or department. Clear holds that prevent registration by the end of the third week of classes. Have completed the residency requirements for their degree program. College, graduate field, or department specific conditions, policies, and exceptions may apply. Note: Master of Engineering students who were accepted into the early admit program must have completed at least one full-time semester as a Cornell graduate student. All other Master of Engineering students must have been enrolled for at least two full-time semesters at Cornell as a graduate student. Students who meet these criteria may contact their college registrar regarding the application process. Applications must be submitted no later than the end of the third week of classes in the semester in which proration is requested. Applications received after that time will not be considered. Students cannot exceed the number of credits approved or full time tuition will be charged. No refund will be allowed if the student takes fewer than the approved number of credits. Approval of the student's Director of Graduate Studies, Program Director (or designee), and the college registrar is required for all requests. Approval is conditional until grades are finalized for the semester immediately preceding the semester for which prorated tuition is requested. If final grades indicate more than the approved number of credits is required for graduation, the application to prorate tuition must be reconsidered. In the case where graduation requirements are not met during the semester of prorated tuition, full tuition will be charged for subsequent study at Cornell during the fall or spring semesters. All applicants for prorated tuition should be aware of the possible impact that this enrollment status may have on student loans, scholarships, health insurance, or other considerations. It is the responsibility of the student to resolve these situations prior to submitting this application. For each credit hour taken, the student will be charged one-twelfth of the full tuition for the semester. Students in the Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management, Law School, and College of Veterinary Medicine, and graduate students pursuing research degrees are not eligible for proration of tuition. Students should direct questions about eligibility for proration of tuition to their school or college registrar. Classes + Enrollment Class Roster Courses of Study Courses of Study Archive Student Essentials Gateway Courses Prorated Tuition Student Center FAQ Classes and Enrollment FAQ University Registration Key Academic Dates 06 Jun 2022 Summer 22 8 Week Session 20 Jun 2022 Juneteenth Observance/Holiday/No Classes 21 Jun 2022 Summer 22 6 Week Session 21 Jun 2022 Summer 22 3 Week 2 Session See More Key Academic Dates Related Links + Files No Related Links No Related Files Office of the University Registrar Cornell University, 245 Day Hall Ithaca, NY 14853 Office Hours: Monday - Thursday; 9:00 AM - 1:00 PM and 2:00 PM - 4:00PM Get Directions univreg@cornell.edu (607) 255-4232; Phone Hours: Monday - Friday; 10:00 AM - 1:00 PM and 2:00 PM - 4:00 PM EST (607) 255-6262 If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information in this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. © 2017 Cornell University