Skip to main content Search Search Search Toggle navigation Cornell University Registrar Classes + Enrollment Class Roster Courses of Study Courses of Study Archive Student Essentials Gateway Courses Prorated Tuition Student Center FAQ Classes and Enrollment FAQ University Registration Calendars + Exams Academic Calendar Final Exam Policies Spring Prelim Schedule Spring Final Exam Schedule Fall Prelim Exam Schedule Fall Final Exam Schedule Grades + Transcripts Grading Median Grades Ordering Transcripts Transcript FAQ Transcript Keys Validating an eTranscript Service + Resources Apostille Certifications University Registrar Directory College Advising Directory College Registrar Directory Diploma Information Disability Accommodations FERPA ID Cards Mental Health at Cornell Names and Name Changes Use of Student Data Veteran Education Benefits Building Codes Faculty + Staff Faculty Center/Advisor Center Advisor Center FAQ Opscan Scanning Service Changing CIP Codes Data Requests Program Registration For Registrar Staff Ordering Transcripts Notice: On Tuesday, May 24 we moved to a new storefront to upgrade transcript services. What this means for you: An update of your biographical information; such as name, DOB, dates of attendance; will be required and will take a few minutes to complete. You will create a new password, which allows you to access any documents related to your academics that are available in the Parchment system. We expect the new storefront will provide you with an enhanced transcript ordering experience. For questions, please email univreg@cornell.edu or call 607-255-4232 (M-F; 10am-1pm, 2pm-4pm). ----------------------------------------- Transcript services are provided in partnership with Parchment. All requests must be submitted by the current or former student. Requests submitted by parents or any unauthorized parties will not be honored. During peak processing times; May-June, August-mid-October and December-February processing and mail delivery time may take additional time. To Begin Your Order with a Cornell NetID Student Center - login with netID and password Navigate to "Other Academics" Select "Official Transcript" from the drop-down menu Student Essentials - login with netID and password Navigate to "Academics" Select "Order a Transcript" To find your NetID, go to the Cornell Directory and enter your name. The screen that appears should include your NetID. Next, go to NetID Self-Service to activate your NetID. If ordering through Student Center, under Other Academic, select Official Transcript from the drop-down menu, to access the ordering site. If ordering through Student Essentials, under Academic, select Order a Transcript, to access the ordering site. If you cannot access the ordering site, you may need to turn off pop-up blocking on your web browser or allow that site to open pop-up windows in your browser preferences. After you submit your order, you will receive email messages confirming your order and updates to your order processing status. All requests for official electronic transcripts are typically processed within four hours of the order being placed unless you receive an email notification that your order was placed "on-hold". If your order is placed "on-hold" it could take 4-5 business days to be processed. Anyone with Adobe Reader will be able to receive a secure transcript. Paper transcripts are typically processed within 1-2 business days. To Begin Your Order without a Cornell NetID or attendance prior to 1982 Self Registration Ordering Site - create new account and set password After you submit your order, you will receive email messages confirming your order. Your order will be placed "on-hold" while our staff research your record and processes your request. Requests for paper or electronic transcripts prior to 1982 will be processed within 4-5 business days. Including Attachments with Transcripts The transcript ordering site now includes the capability of adding attachments to both paper and electronic copies of your transcript. Accepted file types include .pdf, .jpg, .doc, .docx, .tiff, .txt, and .png. Please note that all attachments are delivered as submitted. If you require any part of the form to be completed by a college official, please work with the appropriate office(s) prior to uploading and submitting your attachments. Electronic Transcript Generation for AMCAS Students and alumni applying to medical schools can submit secure pdf electronic transcripts from our online ordering site directly to AMCAS (American Medical College Application Service). Begin your order as specified above. After selecting Order Now from the welcome page, select the AMCAS eTranscript option. You will be prompted to enter their AAMC ID number thereby ensuring that AMCAS can link the transcript request to the correct account. Ordering Transcripts by Mail or Fax If you cannot process your request with one of the options above please order by mail. Download the Transcript Request Form, complete, print and sign the form, and mail or fax it to the Office of the University Registrar. Your request should be limited to 10 copies per order. Please allow 2-3 days for the order to be completed. Additional time may be necessary during peak busy times. Grades + Transcripts Grading Median Grades Ordering Transcripts Transcript FAQ Transcript Keys Validating an eTranscript Key Academic Dates 06 Jun 2022 Summer 22 8 Week Session 20 Jun 2022 Juneteenth Observance/Holiday/No Classes 21 Jun 2022 Summer 22 6 Week Session 21 Jun 2022 Summer 22 3 Week 2 Session See More Key Academic Dates Related Links + Files Validating an eTranscript Transcript FAQ Notary and Apostille Transcript Request Form Office of the University Registrar Cornell University, 245 Day Hall Ithaca, NY 14853 Office Hours: Monday - Thursday; 9:00 AM - 1:00 PM and 2:00 PM - 4:00PM Get Directions univreg@cornell.edu (607) 255-4232; Phone Hours: Monday - Friday; 10:00 AM - 1:00 PM and 2:00 PM - 4:00 PM EST (607) 255-6262 If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information in this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. © 2017 Cornell University