Skip to Content Office of the Registrar Open Close primary navigation Search Search StudentsExpand Collapse section Degree Works Diplomas Enrollment and Degree Verification FERPA Final Exams Grades Non-attendance or Stopped Attending Registration Student Forms Students affected by U.S. immigration policies Transcripts Faculty and StaffExpand Collapse section Class and Classroom SchedulingExpand Collapse section Class/room Scheduling and Contact Hours Policy Class Scheduling Paradigm Data Retrieval Requests Degree Works Faculty and Staff Forms FERPA Final Exams Grading Instructions Non-attendance or Stopped Attending Training Academic Rules University Senate Contact Us Search Search Home General information Schedule of Classes In this Section Schedule of Classes Real-time online schedule of classes Link The online SC with real-time class scheduling data is called Search for Classes and is accessible through the University portal myslice.syr.edu Use public class search to search for classes without having to login to the portal. One way to search for classes is by Mode of Instruction, which includes classes taught online. Another way to search is by flexible format classes, which have unique meeting dates that do not coincide with SU’s designated meeting patterns. The Spring Schedule of Classes (SC) is published in October. The Fall SC is published in March. Reminder: Students are required to complete the pre-term check in via MySlice prior to being able to register for classes. Once the check in process is completed, access to Enroll in a Class, View My Enrollment Dates, View My Schedule, etc. links will be granted in MySlice Helpful Term and Registration Information Link Academic Calendar Academic Rules, Attendance, and Religious Observance Bursar ID Card Services Final Exam Schedule How to Register Page on Answers (including a Pre-Plan Your Schedule Worksheet) Registration Student Privacy Rights FERPA Schedule of Classes publication Link The SC publication is a point-in-time PDF document, current as of the date specified and available to SU affiliates in the Office of the Registrar – Answers – Schedule of Classes Archive. In this Section Mode of Instruction Flexible Format Classes © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy