Skip to main content Florida State University This is your Donation message. Log In This Site FSU Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Submit Submit Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Giving University Registrar Toggle navigation Site Menu Current Records Overview Status & Retention Drop/Add Service Indicators Enrollment Cancellation Grade Services Deans' Directory Publications Overview Bulletin Info Registration Guide Info Campus Map Info Course Descriptions Calendars Graduation Overview Graduation Checklist Ceremony Information Diplomas Degrees of Distinction Update Expected Grad Term FAQ Student Services Overview Graduation Transcripts Certification State Employee Fee Waiver FERPA Course Descriptions Scheduling Overview Curriculum Academic Space Class Search Archive Bulletin Undergraduate Graduate Registration Guide Past Editions 2021-2022 Undergraduate Bulletin Home Bulletin Undergraduate Departments & Programs Art Helpful Links Graduate Bulletin Policies & Information Colleges Departments & Programs Bulletin PDF Undergraduate Bulletin Policies & Information Colleges Departments & Programs Bulletin PDF Archive of Previous Editions Fall Registration Guide Spring Registration Guide Summer Registration Guide Class Search Snapshots Undergraduate Department of Art College of Fine Arts Website: https://art.fsu.edu/ Chair: Lillian Garcia-Roig; Professors: Baade, Bookwalter, Hanessian, Henne, James, Lindbloom; Associate Professors: Beekman, Duarte, Ingram, Roberson, Rushin; Assistant Professors: Bouscaren, Luedtke, Sleeper, Spence, Stagg, Whyte; Associate Teaching Professor: Curry; Visiting Teaching Faculty: DiDonna; Professors Emeriti: Bell, Blakely, Burggraff, Fichter, Hartwell, Messersmith, Rubini, Rutkovsky, Stewart The Department of Art offers diverse opportunities for creative development and expression, provides instruction in the skills necessary for artistic creation, and guides students to an understanding of contemporary issues in the visual arts in an academically challenging environment. The department is committed to excellence in all programs and strives to combine curricular flexibility and a rigorous mix of experiences with opportunities for serious, focused study in art and digital media. The department benefits from the Museum of Fine Arts (MoFA) for student and faculty exhibitions. Additionally, the department serves as a resource to the rest of the University, providing exhibitions, visiting artist lectures, and foundation courses for related programs. The Department of Art offers an undergraduate degree program leading to the Bachelor of Arts (BA) in studio art and a limited access Bachelor of Fine Arts (BFA) degree program in studio art. In the Master of Fine Arts (MFA) degree program, graduates may pursue studies in either a studio or digital media area. Course selection encompasses history, theory, and practice. Studies may include ceramics, electronic media, drawing, installation, painting, photography, printmaking, and sculpture. Depending upon personal development, students may choose to work in a variety of media or to concentrate in an area of interest. Each degree program mandates specific entry requirements, a certain sequence of courses, and graduation requirements. Information on each program beyond that explained in this General Bulletin is available through the Department of Art academic advisor. Students entering the department should visit the department’s Website at https://art.fsu.edu/ for specific details regarding major requirements. Computer Skills Competency All undergraduates at Florida State University must demonstrate basic computer skills competency prior to graduation. As necessary computer competency skills vary from discipline to discipline, each major determines the courses needed to satisfy this requirement. Undergraduate majors satisfy this requirement by earning a grade of “C–” or higher in ART 1602C. State of Florida Common Program Prerequisites The state of Florida has identified common program prerequisites for this University degree program. Specific prerequisites are required for admission into the upper-division program and must be completed by the student at either a community college or a state university prior to being admitted to this program. Students may be admitted into the University without completing the prerequisites, but may not be admitted into the program. At the time this document was published, some common program prerequisites were being reviewed by the state of Florida and may have been revised. Please visit https://dlss.flvc.org/admin-tools/common-prerequisites-manuals for a current list of state-approved prerequisites. The following lists the common program prerequisites or their substitutions, necessary for admission into this upper-division degree program: Studio/Fine Art ART X201 or ART XXXX (2D) ART X202 or ART X203 or ART XXXX (Design II, 3D) ART X300 ART X301 or ART X330 (Figure drawing) or ART X205 (Color, color composition) or ART X310 (Intermediate drawing) or ART X305 (Observational) ARH X050 ARH X051 ART XXXX: one course for six credit hours Note: All courses except ARH X050 and X051 require a “C” or higher. Undergraduate Programs Admission and Readmission Students desiring to enter the department should visit the department’s website at https://art.fsu.edu/programs-2/undergraduate/ for specific details regarding major requirements. Students who apply for readmission to the department must meet the studio art degree requirements listed in the General Bulletin that is current at the time of readmission. Academic Performance and Retention The Department of Art reserves the right to discontinue enrollment of art major students at any time if satisfactory academic progress is not being made. Students who have accumulated three unsatisfactory grades (U, F, D–, D, D+) in art courses taken for college credit at Florida State University or elsewhere will generally not be permitted to continue, be readmitted, or graduate with a major in studio art. Courses in which a grade below the minimum is received may only be repeated once. Repeated courses designated as non-repeatable (such as foundations courses) will not be counted toward overall credit hours per University requirements. BA students must maintain a minimum GPA per University requirements. BFA students must maintain a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.5 and a GPA of 3.0 in studio art classes. If a BA/BFA student’s GPA falls below the minimum, s/he is placed on probation for the following semester. If the student’s grade or GPA remains below the minimum standards by the end of the probationary semester, s/he is dismissed from the Department of Art. The Department of Art retains the right to refuse admission or terminate enrollment at any time if a student fails to maintain the standards of the program. The Foundations Program The Department of Art requires that students receive a sound foundation in basic visualization and conceptualization skills and in the fundamentals of studio theory and practice. To this end, students are encouraged to complete a foundations program before taking other art courses. The program consists of a sequence of basic drawing, design, art theory, and imaging courses. Students are encouraged to complete their foundations-level courses by the end of the freshman year. Entering students should contact the department for specific details regarding foundations requirements or visit the department’s Website at https://art.fsu.edu/programs-2/foundations/. Mission The Art Foundations Program provides beginning art students with the fundamental skills, knowledge, and experiences essential to their further development as visual arts professionals. Philosophy In the Foundations Program, students are encouraged to expand their technical skills, develop their critical judgment, explore interdisciplinary connections, refine their personal goals, and increase their understanding of contemporary art and design. Inventive concepts are used to fuel development of compelling composition and constructions. The curriculum provides the basis on which the BA and BFA programs are built in the Department of Art. Note: Students are required to complete state of Florida Common Program Prerequisites as listed above. Required Foundations Courses (Foundation for all art majors) The following classes are strongly recommended to complete the required foundations program. ART 1000 Success Strategies (1) ART 1201C Two-Dimensional Foundations (3) ART 1203 Three-Dimensional Foundations (3) ART 1300C Drawing Foundations (3) ART 1602C Digital Foundations (3) ART 2204C Contemporary Art and Design Foundations (3) The Bachelor of Arts (BA) in Studio Art The Bachelor of Arts (BA) in studio art is a fundamental liberal arts program that aims to cross geographical and disciplinary boundaries while cultivating critical, creative, and compassionate thinkers. It seeks to provide students with training in the visual arts and to combine this with other discipline skills that prepare them for the workplace. The Bachelor of Arts (BA) in studio art is a program totaling one hundred twenty semester hours. Requirements include: liberal studies, thirty-six semester hours; completion of the foundations program, sixteen semester hours; art history, nine semester hours; additional studio, twenty-one semester hours; the successful completion of a foreign language course through the intermediate level; and nine semester hours of additional humanities. Within the twenty-one semester hour studio requirement, the BA student is expected to complete one focus area. For specific details, including all focus area templates, please visit https://art.fsu.edu/about/undergraduate/ba/. Bachelor of Fine Arts (BFA) Admission Application Admission to the Bachelor of Fine Arts (BFA) is by portfolio review by the faculty. Applicants may apply to the BFA program as a freshman entry, from the BA in Studio Art, or as a transfer from another college. Admission is dependent on a successful portfolio review. The Bachelor of Fine Arts (BFA) in Studio Art The Bachelor of Fine Arts (BFA) in studio art is a limited access, one hundred twenty semester-hour program. It differs from the BA degree in that it provides the graduate with a more intensive background in professional skills and theoretical knowledge. The BFA degree seeks to develop in students an informed personal vision, a high level of competence in technique, the ability to apply critical and reflective skills to their practice, and the ability to make sound artistic decisions within the appropriate contextual and cultural arena. It is a proficiency-based program characterized by continuous assessment. In addition to the thirty-six semester hours of liberal studies, coursework includes sixteen semester hours of foundations, fifty-two semester hours of studio art courses, and twelve semester hours of art history. An important aspect of the program is that students are taught to make their own decisions regarding media selection or concentration. Within the fifty-two semester-hour studio requirement, the BFA student is expected to complete two focus areas. The BFA student must also complete the Thesis Project and Exhibition Practicum in the final semester. Students admitted to the BFA program are exempt from the language requirement and they must maintain a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.5 and a GPA of 3.0 in art classes. They are required to fulfill the additional requirements and responsibilities of this program including attending and satisfactorily performing in all BFA reviews, culminating in the advancement review and graduation exhibition. The BFA advisor can provide additional guidance regarding entrance and specific degree requirements. For specific details, including all focus templates, please visit https://art.fsu.edu/about/undergraduate/bfa-in-studio-art/. Students in their sophomore year in the BFA program will have the opportunity to request personal studio space in the Carnaghi Arts Building, where they can work and exhibit in a public gallery space. Graduate Program The Master of Fine Arts (MFA) The Master of Fine Arts (MFA) in studio art is a residency program with a minimum requirement of sixty semester hours at the graduate level. In addition to University admission requirements, the department requires that all applicants submit a portfolio of slides or original work for review. The program includes a minimum of forty-two semester hours in studio art, nine semester hours of electives within or outside the department, a minimum of three courses (nine semester hours) in academic study at the graduate level, and a minimum of nine of the forty-two studio art semester hours toward preparation of the graduate exhibition and thesis. For information regarding the MFA degree, please contact the Department of Art academic advisor and refer to the Graduate Bulletin. Student Safety Students in each course will be instructed in safe practice with both tools and materials and will be responsible for following safety regulations. Definition of Prefixes ARE—Art Education ARH—Art History ART—Art DIG—Digital Media IDS—Interdisciplinary Studies PGY—Photography Undergraduate Courses Correlating Courses IDS 3167. Contemporary Art as a Mirror (3). This course identifies the cultural landscape that artists are currently exploring and discusses a variety of artists’ works to explore and critically analyze the ways that art can function as a mirror of contemporary society. IDS 3169. Art and the Environment (3). This course provides an introduction into the theories and creative processes that propel environmental art and design. Students explore a wide range of creative media, methods, and themes used by visual artists and designers that address the environment. By analyzing, discussing and writing about environmental art and design, students develop an enhanced awareness of the complexities faced globally and gather perspectives on the ways artists attempt to affect change. PGY 2100C. Photography for Non-Art Majors (3). This course is an introduction to camera operation and image making, with discussion of contemporary and historical work. Emphasis on 35mm slide projects rather than printing techniques. (This course may be offered as part of FSU International Programs curriculum.) Studio Courses ART 1000. Success Strategies in Art and Design (1). (S/U grade only.) This course provides an orientation designed to increase first-year student success, introduce departmental concentrations, and explore career possibilities. ART 1201C. Two-Dimensional Foundations (3). This course provides experience in conceptualizing, creating, and critiquing two-dimensional compositions using the elements and principles of design. ART 1203. Three-Dimensional Foundations (3). This course provides experience in designing and constructing expressive three-dimensional forms using a variety of materials and methods. ART 1300C. Drawing Foundations (3). This course includes creative expression and communication using a variety of black and white media. ART 1602C. Digital Foundations (3). This course offers an introduction to the theory and practice of digital imaging and the basics of time-based art and design. ART 2204C. Contemporary Art and Design Foundations (3). This course is an investigation of the creative processes and critical thinking that propel contemporary art and design. ART 2205C. Color Theory Foundations (3). This course offers experiments in color perception and in the uses of color in visual communication and expression. ART 2301C. Drawing II (3). Prerequisites: ART 1201C and ART 1300C. This course builds on the technical and conceptual skills learned in Drawing I. Artistic expression and communication through drawing in both black and white and color media. ART 2330Cr. Figure Drawing Foundations (3). Prerequisite: ART 1300C. This course explores the anatomical and conceptual complexities of the human form. ART 2400C. Introduction to Printmaking (3). Prerequisites: ART 1201C (C-or better) and ART 1300C (C-or better); Pre and/or Corequisites: (C- or better): ART 1000 and ART 1203 and ART 1602C and ART 2204C. In this introductory printmaking course, students learn the basics of each printmaking media including relief, etching, screen printing, polyester plate lithography, and bookmaking. ART 2500C. Beginning Painting (3). Prerequisites: ART 1201C (C-or better) and ART 1300C (C-or better). Pre and/or Corequisites: (C- or better): ART 1000 and ART 1203 and ART 1602C and ART 2204C. This course is an introduction to personal expression in painting medium; emphasizes color, composition, and painting techniques through historical examples and technical demonstrations. ART 2701C. Sculpture I (3). Prerequisites: ART 1201C, ART 1203, and ART 1300C. This course is an introduction to basic sculptural processes of fabrication, carving, modeling, and casting. Emphasis on developing ideas through analytical responses to assignments. ART 3173C. Book Structures (3). This course is an initiation into the fundamental techniques, processes and materials used in producing handmade books. In addition to hand skills, students are introduced to the history, theory and context concerning the field of book arts. ART 3212C. BFA Fundamentals (1). Prerequisite: BFA major status. This course enables students to become acquainted with all elements of the BFA Program; its procedures and requirements as outlined in the BFA manual. This course serves as the supervision of the incoming BFA focusing on critiques, working towards the BFA Exhibition, and creation of an extensive research binder. ART 3333C. Figure Drawing II (3). Prerequisites: ART 1300C and ART 2330C. This course explores the anatomical, conceptual, and expressive complexities of the human form. ART 3380C. Experimental Drawing (3). Prerequisites: ART 1300C, ART 2301C and ART 2330C. This course explores a variety of approaches to drawing using a wide range of media, materials, and strategies. ART 3433Cr. Screen Printing (3). Prerequisite: ART 2400. In this course students, expand on the basics of screen printing learned in the Introduction to Printmaking course. New processes include photo based stencils, alternate materials, multiple colors, and advanced concepts and uses of the multiple. May be repeated to a maximum of nine semester hours. ART 3442Cr. Intaglio Printmaking: Etching (3). Prerequisite: ART 2400C. In this course students expand their knowledge of intaglio techniques beyond the basics learned in the fundamentals of printmaking course. Students learn contemporary non-toxic intaglio techniques including color printing, drypoint, chine colle, soft ground etching, line etching, aquatint, photo etching and traditional and experimental printing. May be repeated to a maximum of nine semester hours. ART 3443Cr. Relief Printmaking (3). Prerequisite: ART 2400C. In this course students learn and execute intermediate and advanced levels of the relief print process including color woodcut, registration, reduction woodcut, printing with found materials, laser cut woodcut, chine colle, ink modification, paper selection and image creation. May be repeated to a maximum of nine semester hours. ART 3471Cr. Letterpress (3). Prerequisite: ART 2400C. This course is an introduction to the fundamentals of letterpress printing. Using movable type and other relief surfaces, students design and print several projects. In addition to learning techniques in letterpress printing, students are introduced to the history and context of letterpress printing. May be repeated to a maximum of nine semester hours. ART 3522r. Intermediate Painting (3). Prerequisite: ART 2500C. This intensive studio course offers painting as a means of investigating content and concepts. The emphasis is on developing ideas while refining techniques of handling paint. May be repeated to a maximum of six semester hours. ART 3542Cr. Aqueous Painting (3). This course is an investigation of acrylic, watercolor, gouache, and flash processes and techniques. A very intense study that requires exploration of watercolor to its fullest potential. May be repeated to a maximum of six semester hours. ART 3560r. Figure Painting (3). Prerequisites: ART 2330C, ART 2500C, and ART 3522. This course uses the nude figure as the focus of study. The emphasis shifts towards the development of more personal expressions and personal development in terms of painting style and technique. May be repeated to a maximum of six semester hours. ART 3561. Experimental Painting (3). Prerequisites: ART 1201C and ART 1300C. This course is an investigation of non-traditional painting materials and approaches in the context of “hybridization.” Over the course of the semester, several topics in the use of new technologies of production are covered. ART 3590r. Painting Materials and Techniques (3–6). Prerequisites: ART 2500C and ART 3522. This course explores basic principles of the layered painting techniques that developed and flourished in the 15th through the 20th centuries and examines how varying approaches to illusion, form, color, and content are intrinsic to the expressive aims of painting. May be repeated to a maximum of six semester hours. ART 3651. Art and Electronic Media (3). Prerequisites: ART 1201C, ART 1300C, and ART 1602C. This course explores the relationships between art and electronic media in the 20th and 21st centuries. The course focuses on the shift from industrial to information-driven economies, the curriculum outlines digital arts historical trajectory, from the invention of photography to recent digital tools. Special attention is given to film, gaming, 3D printing, architecture and interdisciplinary art practices. ART 3654C. Web 1: Art, Design, Code (3). Prerequisites: ART 1201, ART 1300, ART 1602, and ART 3651. In this course, students learn to conceptualize, design, and program responsive websites as both an applied and creative practice. Through a combination of technical topics in interface design and development such as usability, coding in HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Jquery, as well as readings and discussions around net-based artworks and historical and cultural concerns surrounding the internet as a communication platform, student execute interactive projects that are both culturally-relevant and technically sophisticated. ART 3710C. Sculpture II (3). Prerequisite: ART 2701C. This course allows continued experience in more complex three-dimensional techniques; emphasis on individual projects and conceptual approach. ART 3764C. Beginning Ceramics (3). Prerequisites: ART 1203 (C- or better) and ART 1300C (C- or better). Pre and/or Corequisites: (C- or better): ART 1000 and ART 1201C and ART 1602C and ART 2204C. This course covers handbuilding processes and fundamental glazing techniques. Emphasis is on the development of a high degree of technical proficiency and a keen sense of form in ceramic mediums. ART 3920C. Intermediate Workshop (3). Prerequisites: ART 1000, ART 1201C, ART 1203, ART 1300C, ART 1602C, and ART 2204C. Corequisite: ART 2204C. This course is an intermediate workshop that builds on skills learned in previous courses in a specific discipline area. This course is an investigation of more advanced techniques, both traditional and digital. New technical and conceptual possibilities not previously covered from the basis for students’ learning. ART 3930r. Special Topics in Art (1–3). (S/U grade only.) This course covers faculty developed topics of importance to students’ interests and needs. May be repeated to a maximum of three semester hours. ART 4122C. Print on Clay (3-6). Prerequisites: ART 3764C or ART 4762C, and all Studio Art Foundations coursework with a grade of C- or better: ART 1000, ART 1201C, ART 1203, ART 1300C, ART 1602C, and ART 2204C. This course covers a variety of print techniques to create surface content on ceramic forms through assigned projects. Each project is accompanied by presentations of historical to contemporary examples and technical demonstrations. ART 4123Cr. Mold-Making and Slip-Casting (3). Prerequisites: ART 1000, ART 1201C, ART 1203, ART 1300C, ART 1602C, ART 2204C, ART 3764C, and ART 4762C. Studio Art students are required to complete all Studio Art Foundations coursework with a grade of C- or better. In this course, students create ceramic forms through assigned projects, using a variety of mold-making and slip-casting techniques. Each project is accompanied by presentations of historical to contemporary examples and technical demonstrations. May be repeated to a maximum of six (6) credit hours. ART 4215Cr. BFA Studio (1). Prerequisite: Must be a BFA Studio Art Major. In this course, students develop their practice and research in the context of the ‘studio’. Students define “studio” in relation to production; how are they using and functioning in their studio space and to contextualize this in regard to historical and contemporary paradigms. May be repeated to a maximum of three (3) credit hours. ART 4520r. Advanced Painting (3). Prerequisites: ART 2500C and ART 3522. This course provides an advanced undergraduate studio experience, where students direct their semester projects. This course is designed for students in the BFA program with a concentration in 2-D art. Each student is provided with opportunities to expand their understanding, production, and quality of their work through critique, group discussion, lectures, and presentations. May be repeated to a maximum of six semester hours. ART 4642C. Digital Fabrication (3). Prerequisites: ART 1203 (C- or better) and ART 1300C (C- or better). Pre and/or Corequisites: (C- or better): ART 1000 and ART 1201C and ART 1602C and ART 2204C and ART 3651. This course serves as an introduction to the modeling, simulation, and physical realization of digital forms, through the use of rapid prototyping techniques and associated software applications. Through readings, screenings, and discussions, students explore the technology, theory, history, and current trends regarding the use of digital forms in contemporary art and culture. Students also design, and realize their own works of art utilizing the appropriate tools and techniques, then evaluate the results and those of their peers in critique sessions. ART 4652C. Interactive Art I: Creative Coding (3). Prerequisites: ART 1201C, ART 1203, ART 1300C, ART 1602C, and ART 2204C. Studio Art students are required to complete all Studio Art Foundations coursework with a grade of C- or higher. This course is an introduction to the possibilities that computational processes hold for visual artists and designers. Students learn the basics and intermediate knowledge of computer programming and discover how this awareness can advance computers beyond their role as simple tools and toward a true artistic medium. ART 4656Cr. Web 2: Art, Design, Code (3). Prerequisite: ART 3654C. This course introduces students to advanced interface design and programming concepts for creating dynamic internet applications for both practical and expressive ends. Students explore themes through reading, discussion and film that address the public, chaotic, and political space that is the Internet. Students also execute culturally-relevant web-based applications using professional tools. May be repeated to a maximum of nine semester hours. ART 4662C. Digital Large Format (3). Prerequisites: ART 1201C, ART 1203, ART 1300C, ART 1602C, ART 2204C, and PGY 2941C. All Studio Art Foundations coursework must be completed with a grade of C- or better. This course is an investigation of advanced photographic techniques, both traditional and digital. By merging these tools, artists can discover new technical and conceptual possibilities not previously available to either singular method. The course also investigates how these techniques have expanded the definition of photography, and how the viewer’s relationship to the image has changed through new exhibition possibilities afforded by these techniques. ART 4686C. Video Art (3). Prerequisites: ART 1201C, ART 1203, ART 1300, ART1602C, ART2204C, and completion of all Studio Art Foundations coursework with a grade of C- or higher. This course emphasizes video as a fine art medium, rather than a vehicle for narrative storytelling. The course is geared toward conflict and resolution, and focuses on creating works primarily concerned with concept and affect, with an interest in the formal aspects of digital video. ART 4762. Ceramics II: Wheel As Tool (3). Prerequisites: ART 1000, ART 1201C, ART 1203, ART 1300C, ART 1602C, ART 2204C, ART 4922. This course includes development of ceramic techniques, concepts, and presentation strategies in support of personal aesthetic development using a potter’s wheel. ART 4766Cr. Clay and Glaze Materials (3). Prerequisites: ART 3764C or ART 4762C; and ART 1201C, ART 1203, ART 1300C, ART 1602C, and ART 2204C. Studio art students are required to complete all Studio Art Foundations coursework with a grade of C- or better. This course is an advanced level ceramic studio course designed to develop an understanding and knowledge of ceramic materials. Information is given on how to individually formulate ceramic clay bodies and glazes through assigned projects. ART 4767Cr. Digital Ceramics (3). Prerequisites: ART 3764C or ART 4762C; and ART 1201C, ART 1203, ART 1300C, ART 1602C, and ART 2204C. Studio art students are required to complete all Studio Art Foundations coursework with a grade of C- or better. This course is a digitally-based ceramic course utilizing a variety of techniques to create ceramic forms through assigned projects. Each project is accompanied by presentations of historical to contemporary examples and technical demonstrations. ART 4780r. Kiln Building: Theory and Practice (3). Prerequisites: ART 1201C, ART 1203, ART 1300C, ART 1602C, ART 2204C, and ART 2764C. All Studio Art students must complete all Studio Art Foundations. Coursework must be completed with a grade of C minus or higher. This course covers the theories and structures of how to build a variety of kilns through hands-on projects and research presentations. The course presents historical and contemporary examples, along with technical information and demonstrations. May be repeated to a maximum of six (6) credit hours. ART 4801r. BFA All-Media Critique (3). Prerequisites: ART 1000, ART 1201C, ART 1203, ART 1300C, ART 1602C, ART 2201C, ART 2204C. This course is structured to provide analysis of the individual student’s artistic progress through critiques of visual and written work. In support of the student’s studio practice, writing assignments develop their descriptive, conceptual, and critical analysis of art. This class assists the BFA art student in preparing for all aspects of their Advancement Review in preparation for the BFA Thesis course. ART 4851. BA: Exploring Opportunities in the Arts (3). Prerequisites: ART 1000, ART 1201C, ART 1203, ART 1300C, ART 1602C, ART 2204C, and junior standing within the BA Program. This course investigates the various ways a BA in studio art can prepare students for future endeavors, operating under the belief that college experience is preparatory. Students gain exposure to a range of future prospects, outline a future direction and develop specific materials in application for personally defined opportunities. ART 4871C. The Photographic Book (3). Prerequisites: ART 1201C, ART 1203, ART 1300C, ART 1602C, ART 2204C, and PGY 2941. All Studio Art Foundations coursework must be complete with a grade of C minus of higher. This course focuses on photographic books as a means of final output, it explores ways to edit, sequence, and reveal photographic content within a given form. In particular, it will focus on image editing, sequencing, material choices, and final outputs to maximize the photographic content. ART 4872C. The Directorial Mode (3). Prerequisites: ART 1201C, ART 1203, ART 1300C, ART 1702C, ART 2204C, AND PYG 2941. All Studio Art Foundations coursework must be completed with a grade of C minus or higher. This course considers the various ways in which the camera has been used to document ideas and images created specifically for the lens. Conceptual ideas explored include photography and performance, the studio as stage, time-based investigations, and the isolation of identity in the portraiture. Significant technical skills are explored such as the proper use of lighting (studio and natural) and advanced Lightroom and Photoshop skills. ART 4905r. Directed Individual Study (3–9). May be repeated to a maximum of nine semester hours. ART 4943r. Internship in Creative Art (1–12). (S/U grade only.) Prerequisites: Sixteen credits completed in Foundations and “B” average in all related courses. This course facilitates internships in a variety of work situations. Must be approved by department chair. Preference given to seniors. May be repeated to a maximum of twelve semester hours. ART 4970. BFA Thesis Project and Exhibition (3). Pre- or corequisites: This course is taken in the student’s final semester; therefore, all degree requirements are pre- or corequisites. Any remaining art courses for the degree must be taken during the semester this course is taken. This course is the capstone course for all BFA students in the Department of Art. Students develop and execute a capstone thesis project to be exhibited publicly. Additionally, the students organize an artist’s talk to be delivered to an audience. ART 4981r. Honors Work (3). May be repeated to a maximum of twelve (12) credit hours; repeatable within the same term. PGY 2401C. Photography I (3). Prerequisites: ART 1201C, ART 1203, ART 1300C, ART 1602C, and ART 2003C or ART 2204C. This course offers a study of photography as a creative means of expression. Topics include 35mm technology and fine black-and-white printmaking. PGY 2941C. Digital and Photographic Imaging (3). Prerequisites: ART 1201C and ART 1602C. This course introduces students to lens-formed image production through both liquid (traditional darkroom) and dry processes (digital). It includes image analysis within both critical and historical frameworks. Media Workshops Note: The media workshops allow students to pursue intensive technical studies in one specific medium under the appropriate instructor. Workshops serve as an extension of intermediate courses in corresponding media. ART 4921Cr. Media Workshop: Painting/Drawing (3). Prerequisite: ART 2500C. This course consists of independent studies under painting instructors; emphasis on competence in medium and development of individual solutions to problems. May be repeated to a maximum of twelve semester hours. ART 4922Cr. Media Workshop: Ceramics (3). Prerequisites: ART 1203 and ART 3764C. This course involves intensive studies in sculpture. May be repeated to a maximum of twelve semester hours. ART 4923Cr. Media Workshop: Printmaking (3). Prerequisite: ART 2400C or ART 2430C. This course covers advanced techniques of silkscreen, relief printing, etching, and lithography, as well as photo-silkscreen, and papermaking, depending on appropriate instructor. May be repeated to a maximum of twelve semester hours. ART 4924Cr. Media Workshop: Photography (3). Prerequisite: PGY 2401C. This course covers various areas of photographic study, including nonsilver and advanced silver printing techniques, offset lithography, and conceptual approaches to image making. May be repeated to a maximum of twelve semester hours. ART 4925Cr. Media Workshop: Digital Media (3). Prerequisites: ART 1000, ART 1201C, ART 1203, ART 1300C, ART 1602C, and ART 2203C or ART 2204C. This course is an intensive study in intermediate graphic design. Course topics may include issues in word and image, typography, or image and production techniques. May be repeated to a maximum of twelve semester hours. ART 4926Cr. Media Workshop: Electronic Media (3). This course covers electronic imaging, video, computer graphics, animation. May be repeated to a maximum of twelve semester hours. Advanced Workshops Note: The advanced workshops continue the intensive level of study of the media workshops while providing students with more flexibility. Under this workshop system, a student may work with any instructor, regardless of media affiliation, in any area of study. Instructors are designated by section number. Each course may be repeated to a maximum of twenty-seven semester hours. Prerequisites for all advanced workshops include the following foundation courses: ART 1000, ART 1201C, ART 1203, ART 1300C, ART 1602C, and ART 2003C or ART 2204C. Students should have completed one or more area-specific intermediate level class prior to taking advanced workshops in that area. ART 4928Cr. Advanced Workshop (3). Prerequisites: All foundations courses. This tutorial course is available only to BFA and BA students. May be repeated to a maximum of twenty-seven semester hours. ART 4928Cr. Advanced Workshop: Ceramics (3). ART 4928Cr. Advanced Workshop: Digital Media (3). ART 4928Cr. Advanced Workshop: Painting (3). ART 4928Cr. Advanced Workshop: Photography (3). ART 4928Cr. Advanced Workshop: Printmaking (3). ART 4928Cr. Advanced Workshop: Sculpture (3). ART 4929Cr. Advanced Workshop (3). Prerequisites: All foundations courses. This tutorial course is available only to BFA and BA students. May be repeated to a maximum of twenty-seven semester hours. ART 4929Cr. Advanced Workshop: Ceramics (3). ART 4929Cr. Advanced Workshop: Digital Media (3) ART 4929Cr. Advanced Workshop: Painting (3). ART 4929Cr. Advanced Workshop: Photography (3). ART 4929Cr. Advanced Workshop: Printmaking (3). ART 4929Cr. Advanced Workshop: Sculpture (3). ART 4930Cr. Advanced Workshop (3). This course explores critical issues in contemporary art. Course varies each semester to cover topics of critical significance in twentieth-century contemporary art. May be repeated for a maximum of twenty-seven semester hours. Art Related Courses Note: Some University courses are designated art related and may be accepted toward the BFA degree with written approval from the director of the BFA program and the chair of the department. Students who wish to take art related courses that significantly contribute to their media focus should contact the department regarding requirements. Requirements are currently being reviewed. Graduate Courses ARE 5557. Interpreting and Using Symbols in Art Therapy (3). ART 5907r. Directed Individual Study (1–4). (S/U grade only.) ART 5927Cr. Graduate Workshop (1–4). ART 5928Cr. Graduate Workshop (1–6). ART 5929Cr. Graduate Workshop (4). ART 5929Cr. Teaching Art at the College Level (1–3). (S/U grade only.) ART 5972r. Graduate Show and Thesis (1–12). (S/U grade only). For listings relating to graduate coursework for thesis, dissertation, and master’s and doctoral examinations and defense, consult the Graduate Bulletin. Mailing Address A3900 University Center 282 Champions Way Tallahassee, FL 32306-2480 Email Registrar - registrar@fsu.edu Phone 850.644.1050 Hours Monday - Friday, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Eastern Time Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright